Ms. Warren (for herself, Mr. Markey, Mr. Menendez, and Mr. Booker) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

A BILL

To end the epidemic of gun violence and build safer communities by strengthening Federal firearms laws and supporting gun violence research, intervention, and prevention initiatives.

1.Short title; table of contents
(a)Short title
This Act may be cited as the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020.

(b)Table of contents
The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

TITLE I—Firearm licensing

Sec. 101. License to own firearms and ammunition.

Sec. 102. State firearms licensing.

TITLE II—Background Check Reform

Sec. 201. Universal background checks.

Sec. 202. Completion of background checks; 7-day waiting period.

Sec. 203. Reporting of background check denials.

TITLE III—Firearm possession

Sec. 301. Protecting victims of domestic violence.

Sec. 302. Fugitives from justice.

Sec. 303. Minimum age for purchasing firearms and ammunition.

Sec. 304. Secure gun storage by owners.

Sec. 305. Secure gun storage or safety device for all firearms.

Sec. 306. Consumer product safety standards for gun locks and gun safes.

Sec. 307. Gun-free school zones.

TITLE IV—Extreme Risk Protection Orders

Sec. 401. Extreme risk protection order grant program.

Sec. 402. Federal extreme risk protection orders.

Sec. 403. Federal firearms prohibition.

Sec. 404. Identification records.

Sec. 405. Conforming amendment.

Sec. 406. Full faith and credit.

TITLE V—Assault weapons and firearms silencers and mufflers ban

Subtitle A—Assault weapons ban

Sec. 511. Definitions.

Sec. 512. Restrictions on assault weapons and large capacity ammunition feeding devices.

Sec. 513. Penalties.

Sec. 514. Use of Byrne grants for buy-back programs for semiautomatic assault weapons and large capacity ammunition feeding devices.

Sec. 515. Ban on untraceable and undetectable firearms.

Sec. 516. Prohibition on possession of certain firearm accessories.

Subtitle B—Firearm silencers and mufflers ban

Sec. 521. Definition.

Sec. 522. Restrictions on firearm silencers and firearm mufflers.

Sec. 523. Penalties.

Sec. 524. Effective date.

TITLE VI—Firearm trafficking

Sec. 601. Prohibition against multiple firearm sales or purchases.

Sec. 602. Increased penalties for making knowingly false statements in connection with firearms.

Sec. 603. Retention of records.

Sec. 604. Revised definition.

Sec. 605. Firearms trafficking.

TITLE VII—Dealer reform

Sec. 701. Gun shop security measures.

Sec. 702. Inspections.

Sec. 703. Employee background checks.

Sec. 704. Gun store thefts.

Sec. 705. Civil enforcement.

Sec. 706. No effect on State laws governing dealing in firearms.

Sec. 707. Lost and stolen reporting requirement.

Sec. 708. Report on implementation.

Sec. 709. Enhanced record keeping requirements.

Sec. 710. Deadline for issuance of final regulations.

Sec. 711. Repeal.

TITLE VIII—Industry reform

Sec. 801. Repeal.

Sec. 802. Repeal of exclusion of pistols, revolvers, and other firearms from consumer product safety laws.

Sec. 803. Increase in excise taxes relating to firearms.

TITLE IX—Research and community violence intervention program

Sec. 901. Community violence intervention grant program.

Sec. 902. Funding for research on firearms safety or gun violence prevention.

TITLE X—Miscellaneous

Sec. 1001. Registration.

Sec. 1002. Severability.

I
Firearm licensing

101.License to own firearms and ammunition
(a)In general
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

932.License to own firearms and ammunition
(a)In general
Except otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any individual who is not licensed under this section to knowingly purchase, acquire, or possess a firearm or ammunition.

(b)Eligibility
An individual shall be eligible to receive a license under this section if the individual—

(1)has attained 21 years of age;
(2)has completed training in firearms safety, including—
(A)a written test, to demonstrate knowledge of applicable firearms laws;
(B)hands-on testing, including firing testing, to demonstrate safe use of a firearm;
(C)as part of the process for applying for such a license—
(i)has submitted to a background investigation and criminal history check of the individual, including a background check using the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, to ensure the individual is not prohibited from possessing a firearm under subsection (g) or (n) of section 922; and
(ii)has submitted a photograph of the individual;
(D)has not been determined by a court, in accordance with subsection (c)(5), to be unsuitable to be issued a Federal firearm owner's license; and
(E)is not otherwise prohibited by Federal, State, Tribal, or local law from possessing a firearm.
(c)Establishment of Federal Firearm Owner's license
(1)In general
The Attorney General shall issue a Federal firearm owner's license to any individual who is eligible under subsection (b).

(2)Issuance of license or notice of denial
Not later than 40 days after the date on which an individual submits an application for a Federal firearm owner's license under this section, the Attorney General shall—

(A)determine whether the individual is eligible to possess a license under this section; and
(B)based on the determination under subparagraph (A)—
(i)issue a Federal firearm owner's license to the individual; or
(ii)provide written notice to the individual of—
(I)the determination that the individual is ineligible to possess such a license based on the requirements described in subsection (b), which shall include an explanation for the determination; or
(II)a petition filed under paragraph (5).
(3)Expiration
A Federal firearm owner's license issued under this section shall expire on the date that is 10 years after the date on which the license was issued.

(4)Renewal of license
(A)In general
A Federal firearm owner's license issued under this section may be renewed at the end of the 10-year period described in paragraph (3).

(B)Requirements
The process for renewal of a Federal firearm owner's license under subparagraph (A) shall include—

(i)an up-to-date background investigation and criminal history check of the individual; and
(ii)a recent photograph of the individual.
(C)Issuance of renewal or notice of denial
Not later than 40 days after the date on which an individual submits an application for a renewal of a Federal firearm owner's license under this paragraph, the Attorney General shall—

(i)issue a renewed Federal firearm owner's license to the individual; or
(ii)provide written notice to the individual of—
(I)the determination that the individual is ineligible to possess such a license based on the requirements described in subsection (b), which shall include an explanation for the determination; or
(II)a petition filed under paragraph (5).
(5)ATF determination of unsuitability
(A)In general
The Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives may file a petition, which shall contain a written statement of the reasons supporting the request required under subparagraph (C), in an appropriate district court of the United States to request that—

(i)an individual who has applied for a Federal firearm owner's license, or renewal thereof, under this section be denied the request for such license; or
(ii)a previously issued Federal firearm owner's license be suspended or revoked.
(B)Notice
Any petition filed under subparagraph (A) shall include written notice to the individual who requested, or is in possession of, the Federal firearm owner's license, as the case may be, describing the facts and circumstances justifying the petition.

(C)Hearing
Not later than 90 days after the date on which a petition is filed under subparagraph (A), the court shall conduct a hearing.

(D)Factors to determine unsuitability
Not later than 15 days after the date on which a hearing is conducted under subparagraph (C), the court shall find that an individual is unsuitable to possess a Federal firearm owner's license if, based on a preponderance of the evidence, there exists—

(i)reliable, articulable, and credible information that the individual has exhibited or engaged in behavior to suggest the individual could potentially create a risk to public safety; or
(ii)other existing factors that suggest that the individual could potentially create a risk to public safety.
(E)Notice of determination
If a court finds an individual is unsuitable to possess a Federal firearm owner's license, the court shall notify the applicant in writing, setting forth the specific reasons for such determination.

(6)Review
A determination of the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives or a district court of the United States under this subparagraph may be appealed to the appropriate court of the United States.

(d)Exceptions
(1)Previously possessed firearms
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the possession of any firearm or ammunition by an individual who otherwise lawfully possessed the firearm or ammunition under Federal law on the date on which the Attorney General begins issuing Federal firearm owner's licenses under this section.

(2)State licenses
(A)In general
Subsection (a) shall not apply to an individual in a State if the Attorney General determines that the State—

(i)has in effect a process for issuing a State firearm owner's license to eligible individuals in the State that is substantially similar to the requirements of subsection (b); and
(ii)provides to the Attorney General real-time validity information relating to firearm owner's licenses issued by the State, for inclusion in the database described in section (f).
(B)Publication of list of qualifying States
(i)In general
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, the Attorney General shall publish a list of States that have in effect a process described in subparagraph (A).

(ii)Updated list
The Attorney General shall update the list described in clause (i) immediately upon determining that a State should be included on or removed from the list.

(3)Licensed dealers, manufacturers, and importers
Subsection (a) shall not apply to an individual who is a licensed dealer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed importer.

(4)Agencies and law enforcement officers
(A)In general
Subsection (a) shall not apply to—

(i)the importation for, manufacture for, sale to, transfer to, or possession by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, or a sale or transfer to or possession by a qualified law enforcement officer employed by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty), or a sale or transfer to or possession by a campus law enforcement officer for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty); or
(ii)the importation for, or sale or transfer to a licensee under title I of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 for purposes of establishing and maintaining an on-site physical protection system and security organization required by Federal law, or possession by an employee or contractor of such licensee on-site for such purposes or off-site for purposes of licensee-authorized training or transportation of nuclear materials.
(B)Definition
For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term campus law enforcement officer means an individual who is—

(i)employed by a private institution of higher education that is eligible for funding under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
(ii)responsible for the prevention or investigation of crime involving injury to persons or property, including apprehension or detention of persons for such crimes;
(iii)authorized by Federal, State, or local law to carry a firearm, execute search warrants, and make arrests; and
(iv)recognized, commissioned, or certified by a government entity as a law enforcement officer.
(e)Prohibition of straw purchasing
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully use a valid Federal or State firearm license to purchase a firearm or ammunition on behalf of another individual, regardless of whether the other individual has a valid Federal or State firearm license.

(f)Penalties
Any person who violates subsection (a) or (e) shall be imprisoned not more than 2 years, fined in accordance with this title, or both.

(g)Database
The Attorney General shall establish an electronic database, which shall be accessible by Federal, State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies and licensed dealers, through which a licensed dealer may verify the validity of a Federal firearm owner's license issued under this section.

(h)Revocation of licenses
(1)In general
The Attorney General shall revoke the Federal firearm owner's license issued to an individual under this section upon the occurrence of any event that would have disqualified the individual from being issued or renewed a Federal firearm owner's license under this section or for a violation of a restriction provided under this section.

(2)Required notice
Upon revocation of a Federal firearm owner's license under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall provide written notice of such revocation to the individual to whom the license was issued.

(3)Appeal of revocation
(A)In general
An individual who has the Federal firearm owner's license of the individual revoked under this subsection may appeal the revocation determination to the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.

(B)Requirement
Not later than 14 days after the date on which an individual appeals a revocation determination under subparagraph (A), the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives shall conduct a hearing on the appeal.

(C)Notice of determination
The Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives shall provide written notice of the determination made after a hearing under subparagraph (B) regarding the appealed revocation to the individual.

(D)Appeal
If the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives determines after a hearing under this paragraph to uphold the revocation, the determination may be appealed to an appropriate district court of the United States.

(i)Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

.

(b)Clerical amendment
The table of sections for such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following:

932. License to own firearms and ammunition..

(c)Effective date
The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

(d)Regulations
(1)In general
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall promulgate regulations to carry out section 932 of title 18, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), including a regulation requiring that any firearm manufactured after the effective date described in subsection (c) of this section be legibly and conspicuously engraved or cast with the date on which the firearm was manufactured.

(2)Requirement
The Attorney General shall conduct, not less frequently than annually, a background investigation of each individual to whom a Federal firearm owner's license is issued under this section to ensure that the individual is not prohibited from possessing a firearm under subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 or under State law.

(e)Annual report
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit a report to Congress on the implementation of section 932 of title 18, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), and recommendations, if any, for improvements of the system required to be established under such section 932.

102.State firearms licensing
(a)In general
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

OO
Firearms licensing

3051.Definitions
(a)In general
In this part—

(1)the term covered license means a—
(A)firearms license; or
(B)firearms dealer license;
(2)the term extreme risk protection order—
(A)means a written order, issued by a State court or signed by a magistrate that, for a period not to exceed a time frame established by the State—
(i)prohibits the individual named in the order from having under the custody or control of the individual, purchasing, possessing, or receiving a firearm or ammunition; and
(ii)requires that any firearm or ammunition under the custody or control of the individual be removed; and
(B)does not include a domestic violence protection order, as defined in section 2266 of title 18, United States Code;
(3)the term prohibited individual means an individual who is categorically ineligible to receive a covered license;
(4)the term suitable means that an individual does not create a risk to public safety; and
(5)the term thorough background check means a Federal and State background check, which may include a fingerprint-based background check.
(b)Prohibited individuals
For purposes of this part, a State—

(1)shall establish standards for categorizing an individual as a prohibited individual for purposes of receiving a covered license; and
(2)in establishing standards with respect to a covered license under paragraph (1), shall take into consideration whether limitations may be warranted based on—
(A)criminal history;
(B)whether an individual has been—
(i)deemed a danger to himself or herself or other individuals by a court or authorized administrative body; or
(ii)committed to a hospital or institution as a danger to himself or herself or other individuals;
(C)age;
(D)legal residency;
(E)military dishonorable discharges;
(F)whether an individual is subject to a permanent or temporary protection order or has ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence;
(G)outstanding arrest warrants;
(H)status as a fugitive;
(I)renunciation of United States citizenship; and
(J)other factors relevant to the suitability of a license holder.
3052.Grants and conditions
(a)Grants authorized
The Assistant Attorney General may make grants to States to implement or maintain firearms and firearms dealer licensing requirements.

(b)Duration of grants
A grant under subsection (a) shall be for a period of 3 fiscal years.

(c)Use of funds for firearms and firearms dealer licensing
(1)Activities
Amounts received under a grant under subsection (a) shall be used for the implementation or maintenance of firearms and firearms dealer licensing requirements, which shall incorporate and implement the elements described in paragraph (2).

(2)Elements
The elements described in this paragraph are those providing that—

(A)an individual shall have a firearms license—
(i)at the time of the purchase, rental, or lease of a firearm or purchase of ammunition; and
(ii)during the entire period of ownership or possession of a firearm or ammunition;
(B)
(i)an individual who (including the owner or operator of a business that) sells, rents, or leases a minimum number of firearms, or sells ammunition, during a calendar year shall obtain a firearms dealer license; and
(ii)the State shall establish the minimum number of firearms for purposes of clause (i), which may not be higher than 10 per calendar year;
(C)the chief of police or the board or officer having control of the police department of a local government, or a designee within the same department, shall function as the licensing authority;
(D)for an application for issuance or renewal of a firearms license, the licensing authority shall—
(i)conduct a thorough background check, which may include—
(I)conducting an interview with the applicant;
(II)requiring the submission of letters of reference stating that the applicant is of sound mind and character; and
(III)any other requirements the State determines relevant; and
(ii)make a determination of suitability;
(E)a first-time firearms license applicant shall complete safety training;
(F)for an application for issuance or renewal of a firearms dealer license, the licensing authority shall conduct an investigation into the criminal history of the applicant, which may include—
(i)an interview with the applicant;
(ii)a thorough background check; and
(iii)any other requirements the State determines relevant;
(G)the State shall establish appropriate application processes for covered licenses consistent with Federal, State, and local law;
(H)the State shall establish standards and processes by which licensing authorities can revoke, suspend, or deny the issuance or renewal of a covered license;
(I)the State shall ensure that a revocation, suspension, or denial cannot be based on race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity;
(J)the State shall establish judicial review processes by which any applicant for or holder of a covered license may, within a reasonable time period, petition to obtain judicial review of a revocation, suspension, or denial of the issuance or renewal of a covered license;
(K)the State shall establish—
(i)standards and a process under which a family member of an individual who the family member fears is a danger to himself, herself, or others may petition for an extreme risk protection order; and
(ii)standards for the termination or extension of an order described in clause (i);
(L)the State shall establish processes under which—
(i)an individual whose covered license is revoked or suspended, or whose application for issuance or renewal of a covered license is denied, shall surrender or transfer all firearms and ammunition that are or would have been covered by the license; and
(ii)an individual who is subject to an extreme risk protection order or a domestic violence protection order, as defined in section 2266 of title 18, United States Code, shall surrender or transfer all firearms and ammunition in the possession of the individual;
(M)the State shall establish requirements with which a firearms dealer licensee must comply, which—
(i)shall include requirements relating to—
(I)the location at which the licensee conducts firearm or ammunition transactions;
(II)the manner in which the licensee records firearm or ammunition transactions;
(III)background checks for employees of the licensee; and
(IV)any other matter that the State determines appropriate; and
(ii)may include requirements that a licensee—
(I)maintain a permanent place of business—
(aa)that is not a residence; and
(bb)at which the licensee conducts all firearms or ammunition transactions;
(II)submit to mandatory record and inventory inspections by a licensing authority;
(III)maintain a sales record book at the permanent place of business described in subclause (I) in accordance with standards established by the State;
(IV)conduct a pre-employment background check on each potential employee to determine the suitability of any potential employee who may have direct and unmonitored contact with a firearm or ammunition; and
(V)take any other action that the State determines appropriate;
(N)the State shall promulgate rules and regulations to ensure the prompt collection, exchange, dissemination, and distribution of information pertaining to the issuance, renewal, expiration, suspension, or revocation of a covered license;
(O)the State shall establish standards that are consistent with Federal and State law—
(i)governing the transfer of a firearm or ammunition; and
(ii)for identifying a prohibited individual, in accordance with section 3051(b);
(P)the State shall promulgate rules and regulations that require a dealer or private seller of firearms or ammunition to verify the validity of a firearms license before the sale, rental, or lease of any firearm or the sale of any ammunition;
(Q)a dealer or private seller of firearms or ammunition shall report all sales, rentals, and leases of firearms, and sales of ammunition, to State authorities;
(R)a dealer of firearms or ammunition shall notify the licensing authority when presented with an invalid or expired firearms license;
(S)any firearms licensee whose firearm or ammunition is lost or stolen shall report the loss or theft to the licensing authority and State authorities within a reasonable time frame and in a manner established by the State;
(T)an individual holding a firearms license or firearms dealer license shall renew the license on a time frame established by the State;
(U)an individual may not use the firearms license of the individual to purchase a firearm or ammunition for—
(i)the unlawful use of the firearm or ammunition by another individual; or
(ii)the resale or other transfer of the firearm or ammunition to an unlicensed individual; and
(V)
(i)it shall be unlawful to store or keep a firearm in any place unless the firearm is secured in a locked container or equipped with a tamper-resistant mechanical lock or other safety device, properly engaged so as to render the firearm inoperable by any individual other than the owner or other lawfully authorized user; and
(ii)for purposes of clause (i), a firearm shall not be considered to be stored or kept if carried by or under the control of the owner or other lawfully authorized user.
(3)Separate ammunition dealer license permitted
A State that requires a license for dealing ammunition that is separate from a license for dealing firearms shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements under paragraph (2) relating to a firearms dealer license, as that license relates to the dealing of ammunition, if the State imposes the same requirements for an ammunition dealer license as are mandated under paragraph (2) for a firearms dealer license, as that license relates to the dealing of ammunition.

(d)Application
To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), a State shall submit to the Assistant Attorney General an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Assistant Attorney General may require, including a description of how the State will use the grant to implement or maintain firearms and firearms dealer licensing requirements that include the elements described in subsection (c)(2).

(e)Annual report
Each State receiving a grant under this section shall submit to the Assistant Attorney General, for each fiscal year during which the State expends amounts received under the grant, a report, at such time and in such manner as the Assistant Attorney General may reasonably require, that contains—

(1)a summary of the activities carried out using amounts made available under the grant;
(2)an assessment of whether the activities are achieving the elements described in subsection (c)(2); and
(3)such other information as the Assistant Attorney General may require.
(f)Limitations on the allocation of funds
Not more than 2 percent of the amount made available to carry out this section in any fiscal year may be used by the Assistant Attorney General for salaries and administrative expenses.

(g)Reallocation of appropriations
A recipient of a grant under subsection (a) shall return to the Assistant Attorney General any amounts received under the grant that are not expended for a purpose described in this section.

.

(b)Authorization of appropriations
Section 1001(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10261(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:

(29)There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out part OO.
.

II
Background Check Reform

201.Universal background checks
(a)In general
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended—

(1)by repealing subsection (s);
(2)by redesignating subsection (t) as subsection (s);
(3)in subsection (s), as redesignated—
(A)in paragraph (1)—
(i)by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), respectively; and
(ii)by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, the following:
(A)beginning on the date that the database is established under section 932(g), before completion of the transfer, the licensee verifies, using such database, that the purchaser has a valid—
(i)Federal firearm owner's license issued under section 932; or
(ii)qualifying State firearm license, as described in section 932(d)(2), for the State in which the transfer will occur;
; and

(B)in paragraph (3)—
(i)by striking subparagraph (A);
(ii)by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
(iii)in subparagraph (B)(ii), as so redesignated, by striking (as defined in subsection (s)(8)); and
(4)by inserting after subsection (s), as so redesignated, the following:
(t)
(1)
(A)Beginning on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, it shall be unlawful for any person who is not a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer to transfer a firearm to any other person who is not so licensed, unless a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer has first taken possession of the firearm for the purpose of complying with subsection (s).
(B)Upon taking possession of a firearm under subparagraph (A), a licensee shall comply with all requirements of this chapter as if the licensee were transferring the firearm from the inventory of the licensee to the unlicensed transferee.
(C)If a transfer of a firearm described in subparagraph (A) will not be completed for any reason after a licensee takes possession of the firearm (including because the transfer of the firearm to, or receipt of the firearm by, the transferee would violate this chapter), the return of the firearm to the transferor by the licensee shall not constitute the transfer of a firearm for purposes of this chapter.
(2)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
(A)a law enforcement agency or any law enforcement officer, armed private security professional, or member of the armed forces, to the extent the officer, professional, or member is acting within the course and scope of employment and official duties;
(B)a transfer that is a loan or bona fide gift between spouses, between domestic partners, between parents and their children, between siblings, between aunts or uncles and their nieces or nephews, or between grandparents and their grandchildren, if the transferor has no reason to believe that the transferee—
(i)will use or intends to use the firearm in a crime or is prohibited from possessing firearms under Federal, State, Tribal, or local law;
(ii)has committed domestic violence (as defined in section 40002 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291) or by the jurisdiction in which the transfer is occurring or in which the transferee resides); or
(iii)is subject to a protection order (as defined in section 2266);
(C)a transfer to an executor, administrator, trustee, or personal representative of an estate or a trust that occurs by operation of law upon the death of another person;
(D)a temporary transfer that is necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm, if the possession by the transferee lasts only as long as immediately necessary to prevent the imminent death or great bodily harm;
(E)a transfer that is approved by the Attorney General under section 5812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
(F)a temporary transfer if the transferor has no reason to believe that the transferee will use or intends to use the firearm in a crime or is prohibited from possessing firearms under State, Federal, Tribal, or local law, and no reason to believe that the transferee has committed domestic violence (as defined in section 40002 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291) or by the jurisdiction in which the transfer is occurring or in which the transferee resides) or is subject to a protection order (as defined in section 2266) and the transfer takes place and the transferee's possession of the firearm is exclusively—
(i)at a shooting range or in a shooting gallery or other area designated for the purpose of target shooting;
(ii)while reasonably necessary for the purposes of hunting, trapping, or fishing, if the transferor—
(I)has no reason to believe that the transferee intends to use the firearm in a place where it is illegal; and
(II)has reason to believe that the transferee will comply with all licensing and permit requirements for such hunting, trapping, or fishing; or
(iii)while in the presence of the transferor.
.

(b)Technical and conforming amendments
(1)Section 922
Section 922(y)(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking , (g)(5)(B), and (s)(3)(B)(v)(II) and inserting and (g)(5)(B).

(2)Section 925a
Section 925A of title 18, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking subsection (s) or (t) of section 922 and inserting section 922(s).

202.Completion of background checks; 7-day waiting period
Section 922(s)(1)(C) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 201 of this Act, is amended—

(1)in clause (i), by striking ; or and inserting ; and; and
(2)in clause (ii)—
(A)by striking 3 business and inserting not less than 7 business; and
(B)by striking , and the and all that follows through this section.
203.Reporting of background check denials
(a)In general
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 925A the following:

925B.Reporting of background check denials to State authorities
(a)In general
If the national instant criminal background check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901) (commonly referred to as NICS) provides a notice pursuant to section 922(s) of this title that the receipt of a firearm by a person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of this title or State law, the Attorney General shall, in accordance with subsection (b) of this section—

(1)report to the law enforcement authorities of the State where the person sought to acquire the firearm and, if different, the law enforcement authorities of the State of residence of the person—
(A)that the notice was provided;
(B)the specific provision of law that would have been violated;
(C)the date and time the notice was provided;
(D)the location where the firearm was sought to be acquired; and
(E)the identity of the person; and
(2)where practicable, report the incident to local law enforcement authorities and State and local prosecutors in the jurisdiction where the firearm was sought and in the jurisdiction where the person resides.
(b)Requirements for report
A report is made in accordance with this section if the report is made within 24 hours after the provision of the notice described in subsection (a), except that the making of the report may be delayed for so long as is necessary to avoid compromising an ongoing investigation.

(c)Amendment of report
If a report is made in accordance with this section and, after such report is made, the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives determines that the receipt of a firearm by a person for whom the report was made would not violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of this title or State law, the Attorney General shall, in accordance with subsection (b), notify any law enforcement authority and any prosecutor to whom the report was made of that determination.

(d)Rule of construction
Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to require a report with respect to a person to be made to the same State authorities that originally issued the notice with respect to the person.

925C.Annual report to Congress
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report detailing the following, broken down by Federal judicial district:

(1)With respect to each category of persons prohibited by subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of this title or State law from receiving or possessing a firearm who are so denied a firearm—
(A)the number of denials;
(B)the number of denials referred to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
(C)the number of denials for which the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives determines that the person denied was not prohibited by subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of this title or State law from receiving or possessing a firearm;
(D)the number of denials overturned through the national instant criminal background check system appeals process and the reasons for overturning the denials;
(E)the number of denials with respect to which an investigation was opened by a field division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
(F)the number of persons charged with a Federal criminal offense in connection with a denial; and
(G)the number of convictions obtained by Federal authorities in connection with a denial.
(2)The number of background check notices reported to State authorities pursuant to section 925B (including the number of the notices that would have been so reported but for section 925B(c)).
.

(b)Clerical amendment
The table of sections for chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 925A the following:

925B. Reporting of background check denials to State authorities.

925C. Annual report to Congress.

.

III
Firearm possession

301.Protecting victims of domestic violence
(a)Definition
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)by striking paragraph (32) and inserting the following:
(32)The term intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person, a dating partner or former dating partner (as defined in section 2266) of the person, and any other person similarly situated to a spouse who is protected by the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction in which the injury occurred or where the victim resides.
;

(2)in paragraph (33)(A)—
(A)in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the term and inserting The term;
(B)in clause (i), by inserting municipal, after State,; and
(C)in clause (ii), by inserting dating partner (as defined in section 2266), after spouse, each place the term appears; and
(3)by adding at the end the following:
(36)
(A)The term misdemeanor crime of stalking means an offense that—
(i)is a misdemeanor crime of stalking under Federal, State, Tribal, or municipal law; and
(ii)is a course of harassment, intimidation, or surveillance of another person that—
(I)places that person in reasonable fear of material harm to the health or safety of—
(aa)that person;
(bb)an immediate family member (as defined in section 115) of that person;
(cc)a household member of that person; or
(dd)a spouse or intimate partner of that person; or
(II)causes, attempts to cause, or would reasonably be expected to cause emotional distress to a person described in item (aa), (bb), (cc), or (dd) of subclause (I).
(B)A person shall not be considered to have been convicted of such an offense for purposes of this chapter, unless—
(i)the person was represented by counsel in the case, or knowingly and intelligently waived the right to counsel in the case; and
(ii)in the case of a prosecution for an offense described in this paragraph for which a person was entitled to a jury trial in the jurisdiction in which the case was tried, either—
(I)the case was tried by a jury; or
(II)the person knowingly and intelligently waived the right to have the case tried by a jury, by guilty plea or otherwise.
(C)A person shall not be considered to have been convicted of such an offense for purposes of this chapter if the conviction has been expunged or set aside, or is an offense for which the person has been pardoned or has had civil rights restored (if the law of the applicable jurisdiction provides for the loss of civil rights under such an offense) unless the pardon, expungement, or restoration of civil rights expressly provides that the person may not ship, transport, possess, or receive firearms.
.

(b)Addition of stalking and those subject to court order
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in subsection (d)—
(A)in paragraph (8)—
(i)in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking that restrains such person and all that follows and inserting described in subsection (g)(8);; and
(ii)by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B);
(B)in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C)by inserting after paragraph (9) the following:
(10)has been convicted in any court of a misdemeanor crime of stalking; or
; and

(2)in subsection (g)—
(A)by amending paragraph (8) to read as follows:
(8)who is subject to a court order—
(A)that was issued—
(i)after a hearing of which such person received actual notice, and at which such person had an opportunity to participate; or
(ii)in the case of an ex parte order, relative to which notice and opportunity to be heard are provided—
(I)within the time required by State, tribal, or territorial law; and
(II)in any event within a reasonable time after the order is issued, sufficient to protect the due process rights of the person;
(B)that restrains such person from—
(i)harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person, or engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; or
(ii)intimidating or dissuading a witness from testifying in court; and
(C)that—
(i)includes a finding that such person represents a credible threat to the physical safety of such individual described in subparagraph (B); or
(ii)by its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against such individual described in subparagraph (B) that would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury;
;

(B)in paragraph (9), by striking the comma at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C)by inserting after paragraph (9) the following:
(10)has been convicted in any court of a misdemeanor crime of stalking; or
.

302.Fugitives from justice
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in section 921(a)(15) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(A)by striking the period at the end and inserting ; or; and
(B)by adding at the end the following:
(B)is subject to an outstanding arrest warrant issued by any court.
; and

(2)in section 922(g)(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting knows that he or she after who.
303.Minimum age for purchasing firearms and ammunition
(a)In general
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in section 922—
(A)in subsection (a)—
(i)in paragraph (2)(A), by striking (b)(3) and inserting (b)(2);
(ii)in paragraph (3), by striking (b)(3) and inserting (b)(2);
(iii)in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
(iv)by adding at the end the following:
(10)for any person to transfer, sell, trade, give, transport, or deliver any firearm or ammunition to any person who the transferor knows or has reasonable cause to believe is less than 21 years of age, except that this paragraph shall not apply to—
(A)a temporary transfer of a firearm or ammunition to a person who is less than 21 years of age or to the possession or use of a firearm or ammunition by a person who is less than 21 years of age if the firearm or ammunition is possessed and used by the person—
(i)in the course of employment, in the course of ranching or farming related to activities at the residence of the person (or on property used for ranching or farming at which the person, with the permission of the property owner or lessee, is performing activities related to the operation of the farm or ranch), target practice, hunting, or a course of instruction in the safe and lawful use of a firearm;
(ii)with the prior written consent of the person’s parent or guardian who is not prohibited by Federal, State, or local law from possessing a firearm, except—
(I)during transportation by the person of an unloaded firearm in a locked container directly from the place of transfer to a place at which an activity described in clause (i) is to take place and transportation by the person of that firearm, unloaded and in a locked container, directly from the place at which such an activity took place to the transferor; or
(II)with respect to ranching or farming activities as described in clause (i), a person who is less than 21 years of age may possess and use a firearm or ammunition with the prior written approval of the person’s parent or legal guardian and at the direction of an adult who is not prohibited by Federal, State or local law from possessing a firearm;
(iii)the person has the prior written consent in the person’s possession at all times when a firearm or ammunition is in the possession of the person; and
(iv)in accordance with State and local law;
(B)a person who is less than 21 years of age who is a member of the Armed Forces of the United States or the National Guard who possesses or is armed with a firearm or ammunition in the line of duty;
(C)a transfer by inheritance of title (but not possession) of a firearm or ammunition to a person who is less than 21 years of age; or
(D)the possession of a firearm or ammunition by a person who is less than 21 years of age for the purpose described in subsection (x)(3)(D).
;

(B)in subsection (b)—
(i)by striking paragraph (1);
(ii)by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), respectively; and
(iii)in the undesignated matter following paragraph (4), as so redesignated—
(I)in the first sentence, by striking Paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) and inserting Subsection (a)(10) and paragraphs (1), (2), and (3); and
(II)in the second sentence, by striking Paragraph (4) and inserting Paragraph (3); and
(C)in subsection (c)(1), by striking , in the case of any firearm other than a shotgun or a rifle, I am twenty-one years or more of age, or that, in the case of a shotgun or a rifle, I am eighteen years or more of age and inserting I am 21 years or more of age; and
(2)in section 924—
(A)in subsection (a)(6), by striking handgun each place the term appears and inserting firearm; and
(B)in subsection (d)(3)(C), by striking 922(b)(3) each place the term appears and inserting 922(b)(2).
(b)Technical and conforming amendments
(1)Section 4182(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 922(b)(5) and inserting 922(b)(4).
(2)Section 161A(b) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2201a(b)) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking (b)(2), (b)(4) and inserting (b)(1), (b)(3).
304.Secure gun storage by owners
Section 922(z) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(4)Secure gun storage by owners
(A)Offense
(i)In general
Except as provided in clause (ii), it shall be unlawful for a person to store or keep any firearm that has moved in, or that has otherwise affected, interstate or foreign commerce on the premises of a residence under the control of the person if the person knows, or reasonably should know, that—

(I)a minor is likely to gain access to the firearm without the permission of the parent or guardian of the minor; or
(II)a resident of the residence is ineligible to possess a firearm under Federal, State, or local law.
(ii)Exception
Clause (i) shall not apply to a person if the person—

(I)keeps the firearm—
(aa)secure using a secure gun storage or safety device; or
(bb)in a location which a reasonable person would believe to be secure; or
(II)carries the firearm on his or her person or within such close proximity thereto that the person can readily retrieve and use the firearm as if the person carried the firearm on his or her person.
(B)Penalty
(i)In general
Any person who violates subparagraph (A) shall be subject to a $500 civil penalty per violation.

(ii)Enhanced penalty
If a person violates subparagraph (A) and a minor or a resident who is ineligible to possess a firearm under Federal, State, or local law obtains the firearm, the person shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.

(iii)Forfeiture of improperly stored firearm
Any firearm stored in violation of subparagraph (A) shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture in accordance with the procedures described in section 924(d).

(C)Minor defined
In this paragraph, the term minor means an individual who is less than 18 years of age.

.

305.Secure gun storage or safety device for all firearms
Section 922(z) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking handgun each place it appears and inserting firearm.

306.Consumer product safety standards for gun locks and gun safes
(a)In general
The Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2051 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

43.Consumer product safety standards for firearm locks and firearm safes
(a)Establishment of standards
(1)Rulemaking required
(A)Rulemaking proceeding
Notwithstanding section 3(a)(5)(E), the Commission shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section to establish—

(i)a consumer product safety standard for firearm locks; and
(ii)a consumer product safety standard for firearm safes.
(B)Final rule
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, the Commission shall promulgate final consumer product safety standards under this paragraph within 12 months after the date on which the Commission initiates the rulemaking proceeding under subparagraph (A).

(C)Effective date
Each final consumer product safety standard promulgated under this paragraph shall take effect 6 months after the date on which such standard is promulgated.

(2)Requirements for firearm lock standard
The standard for firearm locks promulgated under paragraph (1) shall require firearm locks that—

(A)are sufficiently difficult for an unauthorized user to de-activate or remove; and
(B)prevent the discharge of the firearm unless the firearm lock has been de-activated or removed.
(3)Requirements for firearm safe standard
The standard for firearm safes promulgated under paragraph (1) shall require firearm safes that reliably secure firearms from unauthorized users, and include reliable security features, quality, and construction to reliably prevent unauthorized users from gaining access to a firearm by damaging or physically manipulating the safe.

(b)Certain provisions not To apply
(1)Provisions of this Act
Sections 7 and 9 of this Act do not apply to the rulemaking proceeding under paragraph (1) of subsection (a).

(2)Chapter 5 of title 5
Except for section 553, chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, does not apply to this section.

(3)Chapter 6 of title 5
Chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code, does not apply to this section.

(4)National Environmental Policy Act
The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) does not apply to this section.

(c)No effect on State law
Notwithstanding section 26 of this Act, this section does not annul, alter, impair, affect, or exempt any person subject to a consumer product safety standard promulgated under subsection (a)(1) from complying with any provision of the law of any State or any political subdivision thereof, except to the extent that such provision is inconsistent with any such standard, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. A provision of the law of a State or a political subdivision thereof is not inconsistent with a consumer product safety standard promulgated under subsection (a)(1) if such provision affords greater protection to individuals with respect to firearms than is afforded by such standard.

(d)Enforcement
Notwithstanding subsection (b)(1), the consumer product safety standards promulgated by the Commission under subsection (a)(1) shall be enforced under this Act as if such standards were consumer product safety standards described in section 7(a).

(e)Definitions
In this section:

(1)Firearm
The term firearm has the meaning given the term in section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code.

(2)Firearm lock
The term firearm lock means any disabling or locking device that is not built into the firearm at the time of manufacture and that is designed to prevent the firearm from being discharged unless the device has been deactivated or removed.

(3)Firearm safe
The term firearm safe means a container that is advertised to be used to store a firearm and that is designed to be unlocked only by means of a key, a combination, or other similar means.

.

(b)Conforming amendment
Section 1 of the Consumer Product Safety Act is amended by adding at the end of the table of contents the following:

Sec. 43. Consumer product safety standards for firearm locks and firearm safes.

.

(c)Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Consumer Product Safety Commission $2,000,000 to carry out the provisions of section 43 of the Consumer Product Safety Act, as added by subsection (a), such sums to remain available until expended.

307.Gun-free school zones
(a)Extension of Gun-Free School Zones Act to colleges and universities
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in paragraph (25), by striking public, parochial or private each place that term appears; and
(2)in paragraph (26)—
(A)by striking means a school and inserting the following:
means—

(A)a public, parochial, or private school
; and

(B)by striking the period at the end and inserting the following:
; and

(B)an institution of higher education, as defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
.

(b)Elimination of exception for licensed individuals
Section 922(q)(2)(B) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)by striking clause (ii); and
(2)by redesignating clauses (iii) through (vii) as clauses (ii) through (vi), respectively.
IV
Extreme Risk Protection Orders

401.Extreme risk protection order grant program
(a)Definitions
In this section:

(1)Eligible entity
The term eligible entity means—

(A)a State or Indian Tribe—
(i)that enacts legislation described in subsection (c);
(ii)with respect to which the Attorney General determines that the legislation described in subsection (c) complies with the requirements of this section; and
(iii)that certifies to the Attorney General that the State or Indian Tribe shall—
(I)use the grant for the purposes described in this section; and
(II)allocate not less than 25 percent of the amount received under a grant under this section for training for law enforcement; or
(B)a unit of local government or other public or private entity that—
(i)is located in a State or in the territory under the jurisdiction of an Indian Tribe that meets the requirements of subparagraph (A); and
(ii)certifies to the Attorney General that the unit of local government or entity shall—
(I)use the grant for the purposes described in this section; and
(II)allocate not less than 25 percent of the amount received under a grant under this section for training for law enforcement.
(2)Extreme risk protection order
(A)In general
The term extreme risk protection order means a written order or warrant, issued by a State, Tribal, or local court or signed by a magistrate (or other comparable judicial officer), the primary purpose of which is to reduce the risk of firearm-related death or injury by doing 1 or more of the following:

(i)Prohibiting a named individual from having under the custody or control of the individual, owning, purchasing, possessing, or receiving a firearm.
(ii)Having a firearm removed or requiring the surrender of firearms from a named individual.
(B)Exclusion
The term extreme risk protection order does not include a domestic violence protection order, as defined in section 2266 of title 18, United States Code.

(3)Firearm
The term firearm has the meaning given the term in section 921 of title 18, United States Code.

(4)Indian tribe
The term Indian Tribe has the meaning given the term Indian tribe in section 1709 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10389).

(5)Law enforcement officer
The term law enforcement officer means a public servant authorized by State, local, or tribal law or by a State, local, or tribal government agency to—

(A)engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of an offense; or
(B)supervise sentenced criminal offenders.
(6)Petitioner
The term petitioner means an individual authorized under State or tribal law to petition for an extreme risk protection order.

(7)State
The term State means—

(A)any State;
(B)the District of Columbia;
(C)the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and
(D)any other territory or possession of the United States.
(8)Unit of local government
The term unit of local government has the meaning given the term in section 901 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10251).

(b)Grant program established
(1)In general
The Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services of the Department of Justice shall establish a program under which, from amounts made available to carry out this section, the Director may make grants to eligible entities to assist in carrying out the provisions of the legislation described in this section.

(2)Use of funds
Funds awarded under this section may be used by an applicant to—

(A)enhance the capacity of law enforcement agencies and the courts of a State, unit of local government, or Indian Tribe by providing personnel, training, technical assistance, data collection, and other resources to carry out legislation described in this section;
(B)train judges, court personnel, and law enforcement officers to more accurately identify individuals whose access to firearms poses a danger of causing harm to themselves or others by increasing the risk of firearms suicide or interpersonal violence;
(C)develop and implement law enforcement and court protocols, forms, and orders so that law enforcement agencies and the courts may carry out the provisions of the legislation described in this section in a safe and effective manner, including through the removal and storage of firearms pursuant to extreme risk protection orders under the legislation; and
(D)raise public awareness and understanding of the legislation described in this section so that extreme risk protection orders may be issued in appropriate situations to reduce the risk of firearms-related death and injury.
(3)Application
An eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit to the Attorney General an application at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.

(4)Incentives
For each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, the Attorney General shall give affirmative preference in awarding any discretionary grant awarded by the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services to a State or Indian Tribe that has enacted legislation described in this section.

(5)Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

(c)Eligibility for extreme risk protection order grant program
(1)Requirements
Legislation described in this section is legislation that establishes requirements that are substantially similar to the following:

(A)Application for extreme risk protection order
A petitioner, including a law enforcement officer, may submit an application to a State or tribal court, on a form designed by the court, State, or tribal agency, that—

(i)describes the facts and circumstances justifying that an extreme risk protection order be issued against the named individual; and
(ii)is signed by the applicant, under oath.
(B)Notice and due process
The individual named in an application for an extreme risk protection order described in subparagraph (A) shall be given written notice of the application and an opportunity to be heard on the matter in accordance with this section.

(C)Issuance of extreme risk protection orders
(i)Hearing
(I)In general
Upon receipt of an application described in subparagraph (A) or request of an individual named in the application, the court shall order a hearing to be held within a reasonable time, no later than 30 days after the date on which the application or request is made.

(II)Determination
If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence or a higher evidentiary standard established by a State that the respondent poses a danger of causing harm to the respondent or others by having access to a firearm, the court may issue an extreme risk protection order.

(ii)Duration of extreme risk protection order
An extreme risk protection order shall be in effect—

(I)until an order terminating or superseding the order is issued; or
(II)for a set period of time.
(D)Ex parte extreme risk protection orders
(i)In general
Upon receipt of an application described in subparagraph (A), the court may issue an ex parte extreme risk protection order, if—

(I)the application for an extreme risk protection order alleges that the respondent poses a danger of causing harm to the respondent or others by having access to a firearm; and
(II)the court finds there is reasonable cause to believe, or makes a finding under such other, higher evidentiary standard as a State may establish, that the respondent poses a danger of causing harm to the respondent or others by having access to a firearm.
(ii)Duration of ex parte extreme risk protection order
An ex parte extreme risk protection order shall remain in effect only until the hearing required under this section.

(E)Storage of removed firearms
(i)In general
All firearms removed or surrendered pursuant to an extreme risk protection order shall be retained by a law enforcement officer or a law enforcement agency until the named individual regains eligibility to possess firearms.

(ii)Authority of law enforcement
A law enforcement agency may—

(I)contract with a manufacturer, dealer, or importer licensed under chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, for the secure storage of firearms retained as described in clause (i); and
(II)transfer a firearm described in clause (i) upon proof that the named individual will no longer have access to the firearm.
(F)Notification
(i)In general
A State or tribal court that issues an extreme risk protection order shall notify the Attorney General or the comparable State or tribal agency, as applicable, of the order as soon as practicable or within a designated period of time.

(ii)Electronic format
A notice required under clause (i) shall be submitted in an electronic format, in a manner prescribed by the Attorney General or the comparable State or tribal agency.

(iii)Update of databases
As soon as is practicable or within a designated period of time after receiving a notification under clause (i), the Attorney General or the comparable State or tribal agency shall ensure the extreme risk protection order is reflected in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.

(G)Confidentiality protections
All personally identifiable information provided to the court, the Department of Justice, and comparable State or tribal agencies shall be kept confidential, as required by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction, except as necessary to carry out this Act.

(2)Additional provisions
Legislation described in this subsection may—

(A)provide procedures for the termination of an extreme risk protection order;
(B)provide procedures for the renewal of an extreme risk protection order;
(C)establish burdens and standards of proof for issuance of orders described in this subsection that are substantially similar or higher than the burdens and standards of proof set forth in this subsection;
(D)limit the individuals who may submit an application described in this subsection; and
(E)include other authorizations or requirements the State or tribal authorities deem appropriate.
402.Federal extreme risk protection orders
(a)In general
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 101 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

933.Extreme risk protection orders
(a)Definitions
In this section:

(1)Court
The term court means a district court of the United States.

(2)Designated law enforcement officer
The term designated law enforcement officer means a law enforcement officer, designated by a United States marshal, who agrees to receive firearms, ammunition, and permit, as applicable, surrendered under subsection (f).

(3)Director
The term Director means the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.

(4)Ex parte extreme risk protection order; ex parte order
The term ex parte extreme risk protection order or ex parte order means an extreme risk protection order issued under subsection (c).

(5)Extreme risk protection order
The term extreme risk protection order—

(A)means an order issued by a Federal court under this section, the primary purpose of which is to reduce the risk of firearm-related death or injury by enjoining an individual from purchasing, possessing, or receiving, in or affecting interstate and foreign commerce, a firearm or ammunition; and
(B)does not include a domestic violence protection order, as defined in section 2266.
(6)Family or household member
The term family or household member, with respect to a respondent, means any—

(A)parent, spouse, sibling, or child related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the respondent;
(B)dating partner of the respondent;
(C)individual who has a child in common with the respondent, regardless of whether the individual has—
(i)been married to the respondent; or
(ii)lived together with the respondent at any time;
(D)individual who resides or has resided with the respondent during the past year;
(E)domestic partner of the respondent;
(F)individual who has a legal parent-child relationship with the respondent, including a stepparent-stepchild and grandparent-grandchild relationship; or
(G)individual who is acting or has acted as the legal guardian of the respondent.
(7)Law enforcement officer
The term law enforcement officer means any officer, agent, or employee of the Federal Government or a State government, unit of local government, or Indian tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)) authorized—

(A)by law or by a government agency to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, or investigation of any violation of criminal law; or
(B)by law to supervise sentenced criminal offenders.
(8)Long-term extreme risk protection order; long-term order
The term long-term extreme risk protection order or long-term order means an extreme risk protection order issued under subsection (d).

(9)Mental health agency
The term mental health agency means an agency of a State, tribal, or local government or its contracted agency that is responsible for mental health services or co-occurring mental health and substance abuse services.

(10)National instant criminal background check system
The term national instant criminal background check system means the national instant criminal background check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901).

(b)Petition
(1)In general
A family or household member of the applicable individual, or a law enforcement officer, may submit to an appropriate district court of the United States a petition requesting that the court issue an ex parte extreme risk protection order or long-term extreme risk protection order with respect to an individual.

(2)No fees
A court may not charge a petitioner any fee for filing a petition under paragraph (1).

(3)Confidentiality
A petitioner who is a law enforcement officer may provide the identity of the sources of the petitioner, and any identifying information, to the court under seal.

(c)Ex parte orders
(1)Timing
(A)In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a court that receives a petition for an ex parte order under subsection (b) shall grant or deny the petition on the date on which the petition is submitted.

(B)Late petitions
If a court receives a petition for an ex parte order submitted under subsection (b) too late in the day to permit effective review, the court shall grant or deny the petition on the next day of judicial business at a time early enough to permit the court to file an order with the clerk of the court during that day.

(2)Evidence required
Before issuing an ex parte order, a court shall require that the petitioner submit a signed affidavit, sworn to before the court, that—

(A)explains why the petitioner believes that the respondent poses a risk of imminent personal injury to the respondent or another individual, by purchasing, possessing, or receiving a firearm or ammunition; and
(B)describes the interactions and conversations of the petitioner with—
(i)the respondent; or
(ii)another individual, if the petitioner believes that information obtained from that individual is credible and reliable.
(3)Standard for issuance of order
A court may issue an ex parte order only upon a finding of probable cause to believe that—

(A)the respondent poses a risk of imminent personal injury to the respondent or another individual, by purchasing, possessing, or receiving a firearm or ammunition; and
(B)the order is necessary to prevent the injury described in subparagraph (A).
(4)Duration
An ex parte order shall expire on the earlier of—

(A)the date that is 14 days after the date of issuance; or
(B)the date on which the court determines whether to issue a long-term order with respect to the respondent.
(d)Long-Term orders
(1)Hearing required
If a court receives a petition for an extreme risk protection order for a respondent under subsection (b), the court shall hold a hearing to determine whether to issue a long-term order with respect to the respondent either—

(A)
(i)except as provided in clause (ii), not later than 72 hours after the court issues an ex parte order with respect to the respondent; or
(ii)if the court issues an ex parte order with respect to the respondent but the order is not served on the respondent within 72 hours of the issuance, not later than 72 hours after the order is served on the respondent; or
(B)if the respondent waives the right to a hearing under subparagraph (A) or the court does not issue an ex parte order, not later than 14 days after the date on which the court receives the petition.
(2)Notice and opportunity to be heard
(A)In general
The court shall provide the respondent with notice and the opportunity to be heard at a hearing under this subsection, sufficient to protect the due process rights of the respondent.

(B)Right to counsel
(i)In general
At a hearing under this subsection, the respondent may be represented by counsel who is—

(I)chosen by the respondent; and
(II)authorized to practice at such a hearing.
(ii)Court-provided counsel
(I)In general
If the respondent is financially unable to obtain representation by counsel, the court, at the request of the respondent, may appoint counsel to represent the respondent in proceedings under this subsection.

(II)Reasonable compensation
An attorney appointed pursuant to this subparagraph shall be provided reasonable attorney's fees and expenses.

(3)Burden of proof; standard
At a hearing under this subsection, the petitioner—

(A)shall have the burden of proving all material facts; and
(B)shall be required to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that—
(i)the respondent poses a risk of personal injury to the respondent or another individual, during the period to be covered by the proposed extreme risk protection order, by purchasing, possessing, or receiving a firearm or ammunition; and
(ii)the order is necessary to prevent the injury described in clause (i).
(4)Issuance
Upon a showing of clear and convincing evidence under paragraph (3), the court shall issue a long-term order with respect to the respondent that shall be in effect for a period of not more than 180 days.

(5)Denial
If the court finds that there is not clear and convincing evidence to support the issuance of a long-term order, the court shall dissolve any ex parte order then in effect with respect to the respondent.

(6)Renewal
(A)Notice of scheduled expiration
Thirty days before the date on which a long-term order is scheduled to expire, the court that issued the order shall—

(i)notify the petitioner and the respondent that the order is scheduled to expire; and
(ii)advise the petitioner and the respondent of the procedures for seeking a renewal of the order under this paragraph.
(B)Petition
If a family or household member of the respondent, or a law enforcement officer, believes that the conditions under paragraph (3)(B) continue to apply with respect to a respondent who is subject to a long-term order, the family or household member or law enforcement officer may submit to the court that issued the order a petition for a renewal of the order.

(C)Hearing
A court that receives a petition submitted under subparagraph (B) shall hold a hearing to determine whether to issue a renewed long-term order with respect to the respondent.

(D)Applicable procedures
The requirements under paragraphs (2) through (5) shall apply to the consideration of a petition for a renewed long-term order submitted under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.

(E)Issuance
Upon a showing by clear and convincing evidence that the conditions under paragraph (3)(B) continue to apply with respect to the respondent, the court shall issue a renewed long-term order with respect to the respondent.

(e)Factors To consider
In determining whether to issue an extreme risk protection order, a court—

(1)shall consider factors including—
(A)recent threats, by any medium, or acts of violence by the respondent directed toward other individuals;
(B)recent threats, by any medium, or acts of violence by the respondent directed toward the respondent;
(C)recent acts of cruelty to animals by the respondent;
(D)evidence of ongoing abuse of controlled substances or alcohol by the respondent that has led to threats or acts of violence directed toward the respondent or other individuals; and
(E)evidence of danger to self or others transmitted by electronic communications or publications through social media or networking; and
(2)may consider other factors, including—
(A)the reckless use, display, or brandishing of a firearm by the respondent;
(B)a history of violence or attempted violence by the respondent against other individuals; and
(C)evidence of explicit or implicit threats made by the person through any medium that demonstrate that the person poses a risk of personal injury to the person or others.
(f)Relinquishment of firearms and ammunition
(1)Order of surrender
Upon issuance of an ex parte order or long-term order, the court shall order the respondent to surrender all firearms and ammunition that the respondent possesses or owns, in or affecting interstate commerce, as well as any permit authorizing the respondent to purchase or possess firearms (including a concealed carry permit), to—

(A)the United States Marshals Service; or
(B)a designated law enforcement officer.
(2)Surrender and removal
(A)Manner of service
(i)Personal service
Except as provided in clause (ii), a United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer shall serve an extreme risk protection order on a respondent by handing the order to the respondent.

(ii)Alternative service
If the respondent cannot reasonably be located for service as described in clause (i), an extreme risk protection order may be served on the respondent in any manner authorized under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

(B)Removal
Except as provided in subparagraph (C), a United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer serving an extreme risk protection order personally on the respondent shall—

(i)request that all firearms and ammunition, in or affecting interstate commerce, as well as any permit authorizing the respondent to purchase or possess firearms (including a concealed carry permit), that the respondent possesses or owns—
(I)be immediately surrendered to the United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer; or
(II)at the option of the respondent, be immediately surrendered and sold to a federally licensed firearms dealer; and
(ii)take possession of all firearms and ammunition described in clause (i) that are not sold under subclause (II) of that clause, as well as any permit described in that clause, that are—
(I)surrendered;
(II)in plain sight; or
(III)discovered pursuant to a lawful search.
(C)Alternative surrender
If a United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer is not able to personally serve an extreme risk protection order under subparagraph (A)(i), or is not reasonably able to take custody of the firearms, ammunition, and permits under subparagraph (B), the respondent shall surrender the firearms, ammunition, and permits in a safe manner to the control of a United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer not later than 48 hours after being served with the order.

(3)Receipt
(A)Issuance
At the time of surrender or removal under paragraph (2), a United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer taking possession of a firearm, ammunition, or a permit pursuant to an extreme risk protection order shall—

(i)issue a receipt identifying all firearms, ammunition, and permits that have been surrendered or removed; and
(ii)provide a copy of the receipt issued under clause (i) to the respondent.
(B)Filing
Not later than 72 hours after service of an order under paragraph (2)(A), the United States marshal who served the order or designated another law enforcement officer to do so shall—

(i)file the original receipt issued under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph with the court that issued the extreme risk protection order; and
(ii)ensure that the United States Marshals Service retains a copy of the receipt.
(C)Designated law enforcement officer
If a designated law enforcement officer issues a receipt under subparagraph (A), the officer shall submit the original receipt and a copy of the receipt to the appropriate United States marshal to enable the United States marshal to comply with subparagraph (B).

(4)Forfeiture
If a respondent knowingly attempts, in violation of an extreme risk protection order, to access a firearm, ammunition, or a permit that was surrendered or removed under this subsection, the firearm, ammunition, or permit shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture under section 924(d).

(g)Return of firearms and ammunition
(1)Notice
If an extreme risk protection order is dissolved, or expires and is not renewed, the court that issued the order shall order the United States Marshals Service to—

(A)confirm, through the national instant criminal background check system and any other relevant law enforcement databases, that the respondent may lawfully own and possess firearms and ammunition; and
(B)
(i)if the respondent may lawfully own and possess firearms and ammunition, notify the respondent that the respondent may retrieve each firearm, ammunition, or permit surrendered by or removed from the respondent under subsection (f); or
(ii)if the respondent may not lawfully own or possess firearms and ammunition, notify the respondent that each firearm, ammunition, or permit surrendered by or removed from the respondent under subsection (f) will be returned only when the respondent demonstrates to the United States Marshals Service that the respondent may lawfully own and possess firearms and ammunition.
(2)Return
If an extreme risk protection order is dissolved, or expires and is not renewed, and the United States Marshals Service confirms under paragraph (1)(A) that the respondent may lawfully own and possess firearms and ammunition, the court that issued the order shall order the entity that possesses each firearm, ammunition, or permit surrendered by or removed from the respondent under subsection (f) to return those items to the respondent.

(h)Return of firearms and ammunition improperly received
If a court, in a hearing under subsection (d), determines that a firearm or ammunition surrendered by or removed from a respondent under subsection (f) is owned by an individual other than the respondent, the court may order the United States marshal or designated law enforcement officer in possession of the firearm or ammunition to transfer the firearm or ammunition to that individual if—

(1)the individual may lawfully own and possess firearms and ammunition; and
(2)the individual will not provide the respondent with access to the firearm or ammunition.
(i)Penalty for false reporting or frivolous petitions
An individual who knowingly submits materially false information to the court in a petition for an extreme risk protection order under this section, or who knowingly files such a petition that is frivolous, unreasonable, or without foundation, shall be fined not less than $1,000, in addition to any other penalty authorized by law, as the court deems necessary to deter such abuse of process.

(j)Model policy
(1)In general
The Director shall draft a model policy to maximize the accessibility of extreme risk protection orders.

(2)Contents
In drafting the model policy under paragraph (1), the Director shall—

(A)ensure that State and local law enforcement officers and members of the public without legal training are able to easily file petitions for extreme risk protection orders;
(B)prescribe outreach efforts by employees of the district courts of the United States to familiarize relevant law enforcement officers and the public with the procedures for filing petitions, either—
(i)through direct outreach; or
(ii)in coordination with—
(I)relevant officials in the executive or legislative branch of the Federal Government; or
(II)with State and local officials;
(C)prescribe policies for allowing the filing of petitions and prompt adjudication of petitions on weekends and outside of normal court hours;
(D)prescribe policies for coordinating with law enforcement agencies to ensure the safe, timely, and effective service of extreme risk protection orders and relinquishment of firearms, ammunition, and permits, as applicable; and
(E)identify governmental and non-governmental resources and partners to help officials of the district courts of the United States coordinate with civil society organizations to ensure the safe and effective implementation of this section.
(k)Reporting
(1)Individual reports
(A)In general
Not later than 2 court days after the date on which a court issues or dissolves an extreme risk protection order under this section or an extreme risk protection order expires without being renewed, the court shall notify—

(i)the Attorney General;
(ii)each relevant mental health agency in the State in which the order is issued; and
(iii)State and local law enforcement officials in the jurisdiction in which the order is issued, including the national instant criminal background check system single point of contact for the State of residence of the respondent, where applicable.
(B)Format
A court shall submit a notice under subparagraph (A) in an electronic format, in a manner prescribed by the Attorney General.

(C)Update of databases
As soon as practicable and not later than 5 days after receiving a notice under subparagraph (A), the Attorney General shall update the background check databases of the Attorney General to reflect the prohibitions articulated in the applicable extreme risk protection order.

(2)Annual reports
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, and annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report that includes, with respect to the preceding year—

(A)the number of petitions for ex parte orders filed, as well as the number of such orders issued and the number denied;
(B)the number of petitions for long-term orders filed, as well as the number of such orders issued and the number denied;
(C)the number of petitions for renewals of long-term orders filed, as well as the number of such orders issued and the number denied; and
(D)the number of cases in which a court has issued a penalty for false reporting or frivolous petitions.
(l)Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

(m)Rule of construction
Nothing in this section may be construed to alter the requirements of subsections (d)(8) or (g)(8) of section 922, relating to domestic violence protective orders.

.

(b)Technical and conforming amendments
(1)Table of sections
The table of sections for chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 101 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

933. Extreme risk protection orders.

.

(2)Forfeiture
Section 924(d)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(A)in subparagraph (E), by striking and at the end;
(B)in subparagraph (F), by striking the period and inserting ; and; and
(C)by adding at the end the following:
(G)any attempt to violate an extreme risk protection order issued under section 933.
.

403.Federal firearms prohibition
(a)Definition
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(53)The term extreme risk protection order has the meaning given the term in section 401 of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020.
.

(b)Prohibitions
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in subsection (d), as amended by section 301 of this Act, by adding at the end the following:
(11)is subject to an extreme risk protection order.
; and

(2)in subsection (g), as amended by section 301 of this Act, by adding at the end the following:
(11)is subject to an extreme risk protection order,
.

404.Identification records
Section 534 of title 28, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in subsection (a)—
(A)in paragraph (3), by striking and at the end;
(B)by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
(C)by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
(4)acquire, collect, classify, and preserve records from Federal, tribal, and State courts and other agencies identifying individuals subject to extreme risk protection orders, as defined in section 401 of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, provided that such records shall be destroyed if the orders expire or are terminated or dissolved; and
;

(2)in subsection (b), by striking (a)(4) and inserting (a)(5); and
(3)by adding at the end the following:
(g)Federal, tribal, and State criminal justice agencies and criminal and civil courts may—
(1)include extreme risk protection orders, as defined in section 401 of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, in national crime information databases, as defined in subsection (f)(3) of this section; and
(2)have access to information regarding extreme risk protection orders through the national crime information databases, as defined in subsection (f)(3) of this section.
.

405.Conforming amendment
Section 3(1) of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C. 40903(1)) is amended by striking section 922(g)(8) and inserting paragraph (8) or (11) of section 922(g).

406.Full faith and credit
Any extreme risk protection order issued under a State or Tribal law enacted in accordance with this title shall be accorded the same full faith and credit by the court of another State, Indian Tribe, or unit of local government (the enforcing State, Indian Tribe, or unit of local government) and enforced by the court and law enforcement personnel of the other State, Tribal, or local government as if it were the order of the enforcing State, Indian Tribe, or unit of local government.

V
Assault weapons and firearms silencers and mufflers ban

A
Assault weapons ban

511.Definitions
(a)In general
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)by inserting after paragraph (29) the following:
(30)The term semiautomatic pistol means any repeating pistol that—
(A)utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round; and
(B)requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.
(31)The term semiautomatic shotgun means any repeating shotgun that—
(A)utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round; and
(B)requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.
; and

(2)by adding at the end the following:
(37)The term semiautomatic assault weapon means any of the following, regardless of country of manufacture or caliber of ammunition accepted:
(A)A semiautomatic rifle that has the capacity to accept a detachable magazine and any 1 of the following:
(i)A pistol grip.
(ii)A forward grip.
(iii)A folding, telescoping, or detachable stock, or is otherwise foldable or adjustable in a manner that operates to reduce the length, size, or any other dimension, or otherwise enhances the concealability, of the weapon.
(iv)A grenade launcher.
(v)A barrel shroud.
(vi)A threaded barrel.
(B)A semiautomatic rifle that has a fixed magazine with the capacity to accept more than 10 rounds, except for an attached tubular device designed to accept, and capable of operating only with, .22 caliber rimfire ammunition.
(C)Any part, combination of parts, component, device, attachment, or accessory that is designed or functions to accelerate the rate of fire of a semiautomatic rifle but not convert the semiautomatic rifle into a machinegun.
(D)A semiautomatic pistol that has the capacity to accept a detachable magazine and any 1 of the following:
(i)A threaded barrel.
(ii)A second pistol grip.
(iii)A barrel shroud.
(iv)The capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some location outside of the pistol grip.
(v)A semiautomatic version of an automatic firearm.
(vi)A manufactured weight of 50 ounces or more when unloaded.
(vii)A stabilizing brace or similar component.
(E)A semiautomatic pistol with a fixed magazine that has the capacity to accept more than 10 rounds.
(F)A semiautomatic shotgun that has any 1 of the following:
(i)A folding, telescoping, or detachable stock.
(ii)A pistol grip.
(iii)A fixed magazine with the capacity to accept more than 5 rounds.
(iv)The ability to accept a detachable magazine.
(v)A forward grip.
(vi)A grenade launcher.
(G)Any shotgun with a revolving cylinder.
(H)All of the following rifles, copies, duplicates, variants, or altered facsimiles with the capability of any such weapon thereof:
(i)All AK types, including the following:
(I)AK, AK47, AK47S, AK–74, AKM, AKS, ARM, MAK90, MISR, NHM90, NHM91, Rock River Arms LAR–47, SA85, SA93, Vector Arms AK–47, VEPR, WASR–10, and WUM.
(II)IZHMASH Saiga AK.
(III)MAADI AK47 and ARM.
(IV)Norinco 56S, 56S2, 84S, and 86S.
(V)Poly Technologies AK47 and AKS.
(ii)All AR types, including the following:
(I)AR–10.
(II)AR–15.
(III)Alexander Arms Overmatch Plus 16.
(IV)Armalite M15 22LR Carbine.
(V)Armalite M15–T.
(VI)Barrett REC7.
(VII)Beretta AR–70.
(VIII)Black Rain Ordnance Recon Scout.
(IX)Bushmaster ACR.
(X)Bushmaster Carbon 15.
(XI)Bushmaster MOE series.
(XII)Bushmaster XM15.
(XIII)Chiappa Firearms MFour rifles.
(XIV)Colt Match Target rifles.
(XV)CORE Rifle Systems CORE15 rifles.
(XVI)Daniel Defense M4A1 rifles.
(XVII)Devil Dog Arms 15 Series rifles.
(XVIII)Diamondback DB15 rifles.
(XIX)DoubleStar AR rifles.
(XX)DPMS Tactical rifles.
(XXI)DSA Inc. ZM–4 Carbine.
(XXII)Heckler & Koch MR556.
(XXIII)High Standard HSA–15 rifles.
(XXIV)Jesse James Nomad AR–15 rifle.
(XXV)Knight’s Armament SR–15.
(XXVI)Lancer L15 rifles.
(XXVII)MGI Hydra Series rifles.
(XXVIII)Mossberg MMR Tactical rifles.
(XXIX)Noreen Firearms BN 36 rifle.
(XXX)Olympic Arms.
(XXXI)POF USA P415.
(XXXII)Precision Firearms AR rifles.
(XXXIII)Remington R–15 rifles.
(XXXIV)Rhino Arms AR rifles.
(XXXV)Rock River Arms LAR–15.
(XXXVI)Sig Sauer SIG516 rifles and MCX rifles.
(XXXVII)SKS with a detachable magazine.
(XXXVIII)Smith & Wesson M&P15 rifles.
(XXXIX)Stag Arms AR rifles.
(XL)Sturm, Ruger & Co. SR556 and AR–556 rifles.
(XLI)Uselton Arms Air-Lite M–4 rifles.
(XLII)Windham Weaponry AR rifles.
(XLIII)WMD Guns Big Beast.
(XLIV)Yankee Hill Machine Company, Inc. YHM–15 rifles.
(iii)Barrett M107A1.
(iv)Barrett M82A1.
(v)Beretta CX4 Storm.
(vi)Calico Liberty Series.
(vii)CETME Sporter.
(viii)Daewoo K–1, K–2, Max 1, Max 2, AR 100, and AR 110C.
(ix)Fabrique Nationale/FN Herstal FAL, LAR, 22 FNC, 308 Match, L1A1 Sporter, PS90, SCAR, and FS2000.
(x)Feather Industries AT–9.
(xi)Galil Model AR and Model ARM.
(xii)Hi-Point Carbine.
(xiii)HK–91, HK–93, HK–94, HK–PSG–1, and HK USC.
(xiv)IWI TAVOR, Galil ACE rifle.
(xv)Kel-Tec Sub-2000, SU–16, and RFB.
(xvi)SIG AMT, SIG PE–57, Sig Sauer SG 550, Sig Sauer SG 551, and SIG MCX.
(xvii)Springfield Armory SAR–48.
(xviii)Steyr AUG.
(xix)Sturm, Ruger & Co. Mini-14 Tactical Rifle M–14/20CF.
(xx)All Thompson rifles, including the following:
(I)Thompson M1SB.
(II)Thompson T1100D.
(III)Thompson T150D.
(IV)Thompson T1B.
(V)Thompson T1B100D.
(VI)Thompson T1B50D.
(VII)Thompson T1BSB.
(VIII)Thompson T1C.
(IX)Thompson T1D.
(X)Thompson T1SB.
(XI)Thompson T5.
(XII)Thompson T5100D.
(XIII)Thompson TM1.
(XIV)Thompson TM1C.
(xxi)UMAREX UZI rifle.
(xxii)UZI Mini Carbine, UZI Model A Carbine, and UZI Model B Carbine.
(xxiii)Valmet M62S, M71S, and M78.
(xxiv)Vector Arms UZI Type.
(xxv)Weaver Arms Nighthawk.
(xxvi)Wilkinson Arms Linda Carbine.
(I)All of the following pistols, copies, duplicates, variants, or altered facsimiles with the capability of any such weapon thereof:
(i)All AK–47 types, including the following:
(I)Centurion 39 AK pistol.
(II)CZ Scorpion pistol.
(III)Draco AK–47 pistol.
(IV)HCR AK–47 pistol.
(V)IO Inc. Hellpup AK–47 pistol.
(VI)Krinkov pistol.
(VII)Mini Draco AK–47 pistol.
(VIII)PAP M92 pistol.
(IX)Yugo Krebs Krink pistol.
(ii)All AR–15 types, including the following:
(I)American Spirit AR–15 pistol.
(II)Bushmaster Carbon 15 pistol.
(III)Chiappa Firearms M4 Pistol GEN II.
(IV)CORE Rifle Systems CORE15 Roscoe pistol.
(V)Daniel Defense MK18 pistol.
(VI)DoubleStar Corporation AR pistol.
(VII)DPMS AR–15 pistol.
(VIII)Jesse James Nomad AR–15 pistol.
(IX)Olympic Arms AR–15 pistol.
(X)Osprey Armament MK–18 pistol.
(XI)POF USA AR pistols.
(XII)Rock River Arms LAR 15 pistol.
(XIII)Uselton Arms Air-Lite M–4 pistol.
(iii)Calico Liberty pistols.
(iv)DSA SA58 PKP FAL pistol.
(v)Encom MP–9 and MP–45.
(vi)Heckler & Koch model SP–89 pistol.
(vii)Intratec AB–10, TEC–22 Scorpion, TEC–9, and TEC–DC9.
(viii)IWI Galil Ace pistol, UZI PRO pistol.
(ix)Kel-Tec PLR 16 pistol.
(x)The following MAC types:
(I)MAC–10.
(II)MAC–11.
(III)Masterpiece Arms MPA A930 Mini Pistol, MPA460 Pistol, MPA Tactical Pistol, and MPA Mini Tactical Pistol.
(IV)Military Armament Corp. Ingram M–11.
(V)Velocity Arms VMAC.
(xi)Sig Sauer P556 pistol.
(xii)Sites Spectre.
(xiii)All Thompson types, including the following:
(I)Thompson TA510D.
(II)Thompson TA5.
(xiv)All UZI types, including Micro-UZI.
(J)All of the following shotguns, copies, duplicates, variants, or altered facsimiles with the capability of any such weapon thereof:
(i)DERYA Anakon MC–1980, Anakon SD12.
(ii)Doruk Lethal shotguns.
(iii)Franchi LAW–12 and SPAS 12.
(iv)All IZHMASH Saiga 12 types, including the following:
(I)IZHMASH Saiga 12.
(II)IZHMASH Saiga 12S.
(III)IZHMASH Saiga 12S EXP–01.
(IV)IZHMASH Saiga 12K.
(V)IZHMASH Saiga 12K–030.
(VI)IZHMASH Saiga 12K–040 Taktika.
(v)Streetsweeper.
(vi)Striker 12.
(K)All belt-fed semiautomatic firearms, including TNW M2HB and FN M2495.
(L)Any combination of parts from which a firearm described in subparagraphs (A) through (K) can be assembled.
(M)The frame or receiver of a rifle or shotgun described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (F), (G), (H), (J), or (K).
(38)The term large capacity ammunition feeding device—
(A)means a magazine, belt, drum, feed strip, or similar device, including any such device joined or coupled with another in any manner, that has an overall capacity of, or that can be readily restored, changed, or converted to accept, more than 10 rounds of ammunition; and
(B)does not include an attached tubular device designed to accept, and capable of operating only with, .22 caliber rimfire ammunition.
.

(b)Related definitions
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(39)The term barrel shroud—
(A)means a shroud that is attached to, or partially or completely encircles, the barrel of a firearm so that the shroud protects the user of the firearm from heat generated by the barrel; and
(B)does not include—
(i)a slide that partially or completely encloses the barrel; or
(ii)an extension of the stock along the bottom of the barrel which does not encircle or substantially encircle the barrel.
(40)The term detachable magazine means an ammunition feeding device that can be removed from a firearm without disassembly of the firearm action.
(41)The term fixed magazine means an ammunition feeding device that is permanently fixed to the firearm in such a manner that it cannot be removed without disassembly of the firearm.
(42)The term folding, telescoping, or detachable stock means a stock that folds, telescopes, detaches or otherwise operates to reduce the length, size, or any other dimension, or otherwise enhances the concealability, of a firearm.
(43)The term forward grip means a grip located forward of the trigger that functions as a pistol grip.
(44)The term grenade launcher means an attachment for use on a firearm that is designed to propel a grenade or other similar destructive device.
(45)The term permanently inoperable means a firearm which is incapable of discharging a shot by means of an explosive and incapable of being readily restored to a firing condition.
(46)The term pistol grip means a grip, a thumbhole stock or Thordsen-type grip or stock, or any other characteristic that can function as a grip.
(47)The term threaded barrel means a feature or characteristic that is designed in such a manner to allow for the attachment of a device such as a firearm silencer or a flash suppressor.
(48)The term qualified law enforcement officer has the meaning given the term in section 926B.
(49)The term grandfathered semiautomatic assault weapon means any semiautomatic assault weapon the importation, possession, sale, or transfer of which would be unlawful under section 922(v) but for the exception under paragraph (2) of such section.
(50)The term belt-fed semiautomatic firearm means any repeating firearm that—
(A)utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round;
(B)requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge; and
(C)has the capacity to accept a belt ammunition feeding device.
.

512.Restrictions on assault weapons and large capacity ammunition feeding devices
(a)In general
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)by inserting after subsection (u) the following:
(v)
(1)It shall be unlawful for a person to import, sell, manufacture, transfer, or possess, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, a semiautomatic assault weapon.
(2)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the possession, sale, or transfer of any semiautomatic assault weapon otherwise lawfully possessed under Federal law on the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020.
(3)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any firearm that—
(A)is manually operated by bolt, pump, lever, or slide action;
(B)has been rendered permanently inoperable; or
(C)is an antique firearm, as defined in section 921 of this title.
(4)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
(A)the importation for, manufacture for, sale to, transfer to, or possession by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, or a sale or transfer to or possession by a qualified law enforcement officer employed by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty), or a sale or transfer to or possession by a campus law enforcement officer for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty);
(B)the importation for, or sale or transfer to a licensee under title I of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 for purposes of establishing and maintaining an on-site physical protection system and security organization required by Federal law, or possession by an employee or contractor of such licensee on-site for such purposes or off-site for purposes of licensee-authorized training or transportation of nuclear materials;
(C)the possession, by an individual who is retired in good standing from service with a law enforcement agency and is not otherwise prohibited from receiving a firearm, of a semiautomatic assault weapon—
(i)sold or transferred to the individual by the agency upon such retirement; or
(ii)that the individual purchased, or otherwise obtained, for official use before such retirement;
(D)the importation, sale, manufacture, transfer, or possession of a semiautomatic assault weapon by a licensed manufacturer or licensed importer for the purposes of testing or experimentation authorized by the Attorney General; or
(E)the importation, sale, manufacture, transfer, or possession of a firearm specified in Appendix A to this section, as such firearm was manufactured on the date of introduction of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020.
(5)For purposes of paragraph (4)(A), the term campus law enforcement officer means an individual who is—
(A)employed by a private institution of higher education that is eligible for funding under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
(B)responsible for the prevention or investigation of crime involving injury to persons or property, including apprehension or detention of persons for such crimes;
(C)authorized by Federal, State, or local law to carry a firearm, execute search warrants, and make arrests; and
(D)recognized, commissioned, or certified by a government entity as a law enforcement officer.
(6)The Attorney General shall establish and maintain, in a timely manner, a record of the make, model, and, if available, date of manufacture of any semiautomatic assault weapon which the Attorney General is made aware has been used in relation to a crime under Federal or State law, and the nature and circumstances of the crime involved, including the outcome of relevant criminal investigations and proceedings. The Attorney General shall annually submit a copy of the record established under this paragraph to the Congress and make the record available to the general public.
(w)
(1)It shall be unlawful for a person to import, sell, manufacture, transfer, or possess, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, a large capacity ammunition feeding device.
(2)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the possession of any large capacity ammunition feeding device otherwise lawfully possessed on or before the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020.
(3)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
(A)the importation for, manufacture for, sale to, transfer to, or possession by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, or a sale or transfer to or possession by a qualified law enforcement officer employed by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty), or a sale or transfer to or possession by a campus law enforcement officer for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty);
(B)the importation for, or sale or transfer to a licensee under title I of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 for purposes of establishing and maintaining an on-site physical protection system and security organization required by Federal law, or possession by an employee or contractor of such licensee on-site for such purposes or off-site for purposes of licensee-authorized training or transportation of nuclear materials;
(C)the possession, by an individual who is retired in good standing from service with a law enforcement agency and is not otherwise prohibited from receiving ammunition, of a large capacity ammunition feeding device—
(i)sold or transferred to the individual by the agency upon such retirement; or
(ii)that the individual purchased, or otherwise obtained, for official use before such retirement; or
(D)the importation, sale, manufacture, transfer, or possession of any large capacity ammunition feeding device by a licensed manufacturer or licensed importer for the purposes of testing or experimentation authorized by the Attorney General.
(4)For purposes of paragraph (3)(A), the term campus law enforcement officer means an individual who is—
(A)employed by a private institution of higher education that is eligible for funding under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
(B)responsible for the prevention or investigation of crime involving injury to persons or property, including apprehension or detention of persons for such crimes;
(C)authorized by Federal, State, or local law to carry a firearm, execute search warrants, and make arrests; and
(D)recognized, commissioned, or certified by a government entity as a law enforcement officer.
; and

(2)by adding at the end the following:
(aa)Secure storage or safety device requirement for grandfathered semiautomatic assault weapons
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer, to store or keep under the dominion or control of that person any grandfathered semiautomatic assault weapon that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, will be accessible to an individual prohibited from receiving or possessing a firearm under subsection (g), (n), or (x), or any provision of State law, unless the grandfathered semiautomatic assault weapon is—

(1)carried on the person, or within such close proximity that the person can readily retrieve and use the grandfathered semiautomatic assault weapon as if the grandfathered semiautomatic assault weapon were carried on the person; or
(2)locked by a secure gun storage or safety device that the prohibited individual has no ability to access.
.

(b)Identification markings for semiautomatic assault weapons
Section 923(i) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: The serial number of any semiautomatic assault weapon manufactured after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020 shall clearly show the date on which the weapon was manufactured or made, legibly and conspicuously engraved or cast on the weapon, and such other identification as the Attorney General shall by regulations prescribe. .

(c)Identification markings for large capacity ammunition feeding devices
Section 923(i) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: A large capacity ammunition feeding device manufactured after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020 shall be identified by a serial number and the date on which the device was manufactured or made, legibly and conspicuously engraved or cast on the device, and such other identification as the Attorney General shall by regulations prescribe. .

(d)Seizure and forfeiture of large capacity ammunition feeding devices
Subsection (d) of section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in paragraph (1)—
(A)by inserting or large capacity ammunition feeding device after firearm or ammunition each time it appears;
(B)by inserting or large capacity ammunition feeding device after firearms or ammunition each time it appears; and
(C)by striking or (k) and inserting (k), (r), (v), or (w);
(2)in paragraph (2)—
(A)in subparagraph (C), by inserting or large capacity ammunition feeding devices after firearms or quantities of ammunition; and
(3)in paragraph (3)—
(A)in subparagraph (E), by inserting 922(r), 922(v), 922(w), after 922(n),.
(e)Appendix A
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

Appendix A—Firearms exempted by the Assault Weapons Ban of 2017

Centerfire Rifles—Autoloaders

Benelli R1 Rifle
Browning BAR Mark II Safari Magnum Rifle
Browning BAR Mark II Safari Semi-Auto Rifle
Browning BAR Stalker Rifles
Browning High-Power Rifle
Browning Longtrac Rifle
Browning Shorttrac Rifle
Heckler & Koch HK630
Heckler & Koch HK770
Heckler & Koch HK940
Heckler & Koch Model 300 Rifle
Heckler & Koch SL7 Rifle
Iver Johnson 50th Anniversary M–1 Carbine (w/o folding stock)
Iver Johnson M–1 Carbine (w/o folding stock)
M–1 Carbines with standard fixed stock
M–1 Garand with fixed 8 round capacity and standard stock
Marlin Model 9 Camp Carbine
Marlin Model 45 Carbine
Remington Model 74
Remington Model 81
Remington Model 740
Remington Model 742
Remington Model 750 Synthetic
Remington Model 750 Woodmaster
Remington Model 7400 Rifle
Remington Model 7400 Special Purpose Auto Rifle
Remington Nylon 66 Auto-Loading Rifle
Ruger Mini 30
Ruger Mini-14 (w/o folding or telescoping stock or pistol grip)
Ruger PC4
Ruger PC9
SKS type rifles with fixed 10 round magazine and standard fixed stock
Winchester Model SXR
Centerfire Rifles—Lever & Slide

Action Arms Timber Wolf Pump Action
Beretta 1873 Renegade Lever Action
Beretta Gold Rush Slide Action
Big Horn Armory Model 89
Browning BLR Model 181 Lever Action, All Models
Browning BPR Pump Rifle
Browning Model 53 Lever Action
Browning Model 65 Grade 1 Lever Action Rifle
Browning Model 71 Rifle and Carbine
Browning Model 81 BLR
Browning Model 81 BLR Lever-Action Rifle
Browning Model 81 Long Action BLR
Browning Model 1886 High Grade Carbine
Browning Model 1886 Lever-Action Carbine
Browning Model B–92 Carbine
Charles Daly Model 1892 Lever Action, All Models
Chiappa 1886 Lever Action Rifles
Cimarron 1860 Henry Replica
Cimarron 1866 Winchester Replicas
Cimarron 1873 30″ Express Rifle
Cimarron 1873 Short Rifle
Cimarron 1873 Sporting Rifle
Cimarron 1873 Winchester Replicas
Dixie Engraved 1873 Rifle
Dixie Lightning Rifle and Carbines
E.M.F. 1860 Henry Rifle
E.M.F. 1866 Yellowboy Lever Actions
E.M.F. Model 73 Lever-Action Rifle
E.M.F. Model 1873 Lever Actions
Henry .30/30 Lever Action Carbine
Henry Big Boy .357 Magnum
Henry Big Boy .44 Magnum
Henry Big Boy .45 Colt
Henry Big Boy Deluxe Engraved .44 Magnum
Henry Big Boy Deluxe Engraved .45 Colt
Marlin Model 30AS Lever-Action Carbine
Marlin Model 62 Lever Action
Marlin Model 93 Lever Action
Marlin Model 308MX
Marlin Model 308MXLR
Marlin Model 336 Deluxe
Marlin Model 336C
Marlin Model 336CS Lever-Action Carbine
Marlin Model 336DL Lever Action
Marlin Model 336SS
Marlin Model 336W
Marlin Model 336XLR
Marlin Model 338MX
Marlin Model 338MXLR
Marlin Model 444
Marlin Model 444 Lever-Action
Marlin Model 444XLR
Marlin Model 1894 Marlin Model 1894 Cowboy
Marlin Model 1894 Lever Action, All Models
Marlin Model 1894C
Marlin Model 1894CL Classic
Marlin Model 1894CS Carbine
Marlin Model 1894S Lever-Action Carbine
Marlin Model 1894SS
Marlin Model 1895
Marlin Model 1895 Cowboy
Marlin Model 1895 Lever Action, All Models
Marlin Model 1895G
Marlin Model 1895GS
Marlin Model 1895M
Marlin Model 1895MXLR
Marlin Model 1895SBL
Marlin Model 1895SS Lever-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 1895XLR
Marlin XLR Lever Action Rifles
Mitchell 1858 Henry Replica
Mitchell 1866 Winchester Replica
Mitchell 1873 Winchester Replica
Mossberg 464 Lever Action Rifle
Mossberg Model 472 Lever Action
Mossberg Model 479 Lever Action
Navy Arms 1866 Yellowboy Rifle
Navy Arms 1873 Sporting Rifle
Navy Arms 1873 Winchester-Style Rifle
Navy Arms 1892 Short Rifle
Navy Arms Henry Carbine
Navy Arms Henry Trapper
Navy Arms Iron Frame Henry
Navy Arms Military Henry Rifle
Puma Bounty Hunter Rifle
Puma Model 92 Rifles & Carbines
Remington 7600 Slide Action
Remington Model 6 Pump Action
Remington Model 14, 141/2 Pump Actions
Remington Model 141 Pump Action
Remington Model 760 Slide Actions
Remington Model 7600 Special Purpose Slide Action
Remington Model 7600 Synthetic
Remington Model 7615 Camo Hunter
Remington Model 7615 Ranch Carbine
Remington Model 7615 SPS
Rossi M92 SRC Saddle-Ring Carbine
Rossi M92 SRS Short Carbine
Rossi R92 Lever Action Carbines
Ruger Model 96/44 Lever Action
Savage 99C Lever-Action Rifle
Savage Model 170 Pump Action
Taurus Thunderbolt Pump Action
Taylor’s & CO., Inc. 1865 Spencer Carbine/Rifle
Taylor’s & CO., Inc. 1892 Carbine/Rifle
U.S. Fire Arms Standard Lightning Magazine Rifle
Uberti 1866 Sporting Rifle Uberti 1873 Sporting Rifle
Uberti 1876 Rifle
Uberti 1883 Burgess Lever Action Rifle/Carbine
Uberti Henry Rifle
Uberti Lightning Rifle/Carbine
Winchester Lever Actions, All Other Center Fire Models
Winchester Model 94 Big Bore Side Eject
Winchester Model 94 Ranger Side Eject Lever-Action Rifle
Winchester Model 94 Side Eject Lever-Action Rifle
Winchester Model 94 Trapper Side Eject
Winchester Model 94 Wrangler Side Eject
Winchester Model 1895 Safari Centennial
Centerfire Rifles—Bolt Action

Accurate Arms Raptor & Backpack Bolt Action Rifles
Alpine Bolt-Action Rifle
Anschutz 1700D Bavarian Bolt-Action Rifle
Anschutz 1700D Classic Rifles
Anschutz 1700D Custom Rifles
Anschutz 1733D Mannlicher Rifle
Arnold Arms African Safari & Alaskan Trophy Rifles
A-Square Caesar Bolt-Action Rifle
A-Square Genghis Khan Bolt Action Rifle
A-Square Hamilcar Bolt Action Rifle
A-Square Hannibal Bolt-Action Rifle
Auguste Francotte Bolt-Action Rifles
Bansners Ultimate Bolt Action Rifles
Beeman/HW 60J Bolt-Action Rifle
Benton & Brown Firearms, Inc. Model 93 Bolt Action Rifle
Blackheart International BBG Hunter Bolt Action
Blackheart International LLC BBG Light Sniper Bolt Action
Blaser R8 Professional
Blaser R84 Bolt-Action Rifle
Blaser R93 Bolt Action Rifle
BRNO 537 Sporter Bolt-Action Rifle
BRNO ZKB 527 Fox Bolt-Action Rifle
BRNO ZKK 600, 601, 602 Bolt-Action Rifles
Brown Precision Company Bolt Action Sporter
Browning A-Bolt Gold Medallion
Browning A-Bolt Left Hand
Browning A-Bolt Micro Medallion
Browning A-Bolt Rifle
Browning A-Bolt Short Action
Browning A-Bolt Stainless Stalker
Browning Euro-Bolt Rifle
Browning High-Power Bolt Action Rifle
Browning X-Bolt Bolt Action Rifle
Carbon One Bolt Action Rifle
Carl Gustaf 2000 Bolt-Action Rifle Century
Centurion 14 Sporter
Century Enfield Sporter #4
Century M70 Sporter
Century Mauser 98 Sporter
Century Swedish Sporter #38
Cheytac M–200
Cheytac M70 Sporter
Cooper Model 21 Bolt Action Rifle
Cooper Model 22 Bolt Action Rifle
Cooper Model 38 Centerfire Sporter
Cooper Model 56 Bolt Action Rifle
CZ 527 Bolt Action Rifles
CZ 550 Bolt Action Rifles
CZ 750 Sniper Rifle
Dakota 22 Sporter Bolt-Action Rifle
Dakota 76 Classic Bolt-Action Rifle
Dakota 76 Safari Bolt-Action Rifle
Dakota 76 Short Action Rifles
Dakota 97 Bolt Action Rifle
Dakota 416 Rigby African
Dakota Predator Rifle
DSA DS–MP1 Bolt Action Rifle
E.A.A./Sabatti Rover 870 Bolt-Action Rifle
EAA/Zastava M–93 Black Arrow Rifle
Ed Brown Hunting and Model 704 Bolt Action Rifles
Heym Bolt Action Rifles
Heym Magnum Express Series Rifle
Howa Bolt Action Rifles
Howa Lightning Bolt-Action Rifle
Howa Realtree Camo Rifle
H–S Precision Bolt Action Rifles
Interarms Mark X Bolt Action Rifles
Interarms Mark X Viscount Bolt-Action Rifle
Interarms Mark X Whitworth Bolt-Action Rifle
Interarms Mini-Mark X Rifle
Interarms Whitworth Express Rifle
Iver Johnson Model 5100A1 Long-Range Rifle
KDF K15 American Bolt-Action Rifle
Kenny Jarrett Bolt Action Rifle
Kimber Bolt Action Rifles
Krico Model 600 Bolt-Action Rifle
Krico Model 700 Bolt-Action Rifles
Magnum Research Mount Eagle Rifles
Marlin Model XL7
Marlin Model XL7C
Marlin Model XL7L
Marlin Model XL7W
Marlin Model XS7
Marlin Model XS7C
Marlin Model XS7Y
Marlin XL–7/XS7 Bolt Action Rifles
Mauser Model 66 Bolt-Action Rifle
Mauser Model 99 Bolt-Action Rifle
McMillan Classic Stainless Sporter
McMillan Signature Alaskan
McMillan Signature Classic Sporter
McMillan Signature Super Varminter
McMillan Signature Titanium Mountain Rifle
McMillan Talon Safari Rifle
McMillan Talon Sporter Rifle
Merkel KR1 Bolt Action Rifle
Midland 1500S Survivor Rifle
Mossberg Model 100 ATR (All-Terrain Rifle)
Navy Arms TU–33/40 Carbine
Nosler Model 48 Varmint Rifle
Parker Hale Bolt Action Rifles
Parker-Hale Model 81 Classic African Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 81 Classic Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 1000 Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 1100 Lightweight Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 1100M African Magnum
Parker-Hale Model 1200 Super Clip Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 1200 Super Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 1300C Scout Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 2100 Midland Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 2700 Lightweight Rifle
Parker-Hale Model 2800 Midland Rifle
Remington 700 ADL Bolt-Action Rifle
Remington 700 BDL Bolt-Action Rifle
Remington 700 BDL European Bolt-Action Rifle
Remington 700 BDL Left Hand
Remington 700 BDL SS Rifle
Remington 700 BDL Varmint Special
Remington 700 Camo Synthetic Rifle
Remington 700 Classic Rifle
Remington 700 Custom KS Mountain Rifle
Remington 700 Mountain Rifle
Remington 700 MTRSS Rifle
Remington 700 Safari
Remington 700 Stainless Synthetic Rifle
Remington 700 Varmint Synthetic Rifle
Remington Model 40–X Bolt Action Rifles
Remington Model 700 Alaskan Ti
Remington Model 700 Bolt Action Rifles
Remington Model 700 CDL
Remington Model 700 CDL Boone and Crockett
Remington Model 700 CDL Left-Hand
Remington Model 700 CDL SF Limited Edition
Remington Model 700 LSS
Remington Model 700 Mountain LSS
Remington Model 700 Sendero SF II
Remington Model 700 SPS
Remington Model 700 SPS Buckmasters Edition
Remington Model 700 SPS Buckmasters Edition ‘Young Bucks’ Youth
Remington Model 700 SPS Stainless
Remington Model 700 SPS Tactical Rifle
Remington Model 700 SPS Varmint
Remington Model 700 SPS Varmint (Left-Hand)
Remington Model 700 SPS Youth Synthetic Left-Hand
Remington Model 700 VL SS Thumbhole
Remington Model 700 VLS
Remington Model 700 VS SF II
Remington Model 700 VTR
Remington Model 700 XCR
Remington Model 700 XCR Camo
Remington Model 700 XCR Compact Tactical Rifle
Remington Model 700 XCR Left-Hand
Remington Model 700 XCR Tactical Long Range Rifle
Remington Model 715
Remington Model 770
Remington Model 770 Bolt Action Rifles
Remington Model 770 Stainless Camo
Remington Model 770 Youth
Remington Model 798
Remington Model 798 Safari
Remington Model 798 SPS
Remington Model 799
Remington Model Seven 25th Anniversary
Remington Model Seven Bolt Action Rifles
Remington Model Seven CDL
Remington Model Seven Custom KS
Remington Model Seven Custom MS Rifle
Remington Model Seven Predator
Remington Model Seven Youth Rifle
Ruger M77 Hawkeye African
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Alaskan
Ruger M77 Hawkeye All-Weather
Ruger M77 Hawkeye All-Weather Ultra Light
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Compact
Ruger M77 Hawkeye International
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Laminate Compact
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Laminate Left-Handed
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Predator
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Sporter
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Standard
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Standard Left-Handed
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Tactical
Ruger M77 Hawkeye Ultra Light
Ruger M77 Mark II All-Weather Stainless Rifle
Ruger M77 Mark II Express Rifle
Ruger M77 Mark II Magnum Rifle
Ruger M77 Mark II Rifle
Ruger M77 Mark II Target Rifle
Ruger M77 RSI International Carbine
Ruger M77
Ruger Compact Magnum
Ruger M77RL Ultra Light
Ruger M77VT Target Rifle
Ruger Model 77 Bolt Action Rifles
Sako Bolt Action Rifles
Sako Classic Bolt Action
Sako Deluxe Lightweight
Sako FiberClass Sporter
Sako Hunter Left-Hand Rifle
Sako Hunter LS Rifle Sako Hunter Rifle
Sako Mannlicher-Style Carbine
Sako Safari Grade Bolt Action
Sako Super Deluxe Sporter
Sako TRG–S Bolt-Action Rifle
Sako Varmint Heavy Barrel
Sauer 90 Bolt-Action Rifle
Savage 16/116 Rifles
Savage 110 Bolt Action Rifles
Savage 110CY Youth/Ladies Rifle
Savage 110F Bolt-Action Rifle
Savage 110FP Police Rifle
Savage 110FXP3 Bolt-Action Rifle
Savage 110G Bolt-Action Rifle
Savage 110GV Varmint Rifle
Savage 110GXP3 Bolt-Action Rifle
Savage 110WLE One of One Thousand Limited Edition Rifle
Savage 112 Bolt Action Rifles
Savage 112FV Varmint Rifle
Savage 116 Bolt Action Rifles
Savage 116FSS Bolt-Action Rifle
Savage Axis Series Bolt Action Rifles
Savage Model 10 Bolt Action Rifles
Savage Model 10GXP Package Guns
Savage Model 11/111 Series Bolt Action Rifles
Savage Model 12 Series Rifles
Savage Model 14/114 Rifles
Savage Model 25 Bolt Action Rifles
Savage Model 110GXP3 Package Guns
Savage Model 112BV Heavy Barrel Varmint Rifle
Savage Model 112FVS Varmint Rifle
Savage Model 116FSK Kodiak Rifle
Shilen Rifles Inc. DGA Bolt Action Rifles
Smith & Wesson i-Bolt Rifle
Steyr Scout Bolt Action Rifle
Steyr SSG 69 PII Bolt Action Rifle
Steyr SSG08 Bolt Action Rifle
Steyr-Mannlicher Luxus Model L, M, S
Steyr-Mannlicher Model M Professional Rifle
Steyr-Mannlicher Sporter Models SL, L, M, S, S/T
Thompson/Center ICON Bolt Action Rifles
Thompson/Center Icon Classic Long Action Rifle
Thompson/Center Icon Medium Action Rifle
Thompson/Center Icon Precision Hunter
Thompson/Center Icon Weather Shield Long Action Rifle
Thompson/Center Icon Weather Shield Medium Action Rifle
Thompson/Center Venture
Tikka Bolt-Action Rifle
Tikka Premium Grade Rifles
Tikka T3 Bolt Action Rifles
Tikka Varmint/Continental Rifle
Tikka Whitetail/Battue Rifle
Ultra Light Arms Model 20 Rifle
Ultra Light Arms Model 24
Ultra Light Arms Model 28, Model 40 Rifles
Voere Model 2155, 2150 Bolt-Action Rifles
Voere Model 2165 Bolt-Action Rifle
Voere VEC 91 Lightning Bolt-Action Rifle
Weatherby Classicmark No. 1 Rifle
Weatherby Lasermark V Rifle
Weatherby Mark V Crown Custom Rifles
Weatherby Mark V Deluxe Bolt-Action Rifle
Weatherby Mark V Rifles
Weatherby Mark V Safari Grade Custom Rifles
Weatherby Mark V Sporter Rifle
Weatherby Vanguard Bolt Action Rifles
Weatherby Vanguard Classic No. 1 Rifle
Weatherby Vanguard Classic Rifle
Weatherby Vanguard VGX Deluxe Rifle
Weatherby Vanguard Weatherguard Rifle
Weatherby Weatherguard Alaskan Rifle
Weatherby Weathermark Alaskan Rifle
Weatherby Weathermark Rifle
Weatherby Weathermark Rifles
Wichita Classic Rifle
Wichita Varmint Rifle
Winchester Model 70 Bolt Action Rifles
Winchester Model 70 Custom Sharpshooter
Winchester Model 70 Custom Sporting Sharpshooter Rifle
Winchester Model 70 DBM Rifle
Winchester Model 70 DBM–S Rifle
Winchester Model 70 Featherweight
Winchester Model 70 Featherweight Classic
Winchester Model 70 Featherweight WinTuff
Winchester Model 70 Lightweight Rifle
Winchester Model 70 SM Sporter
Winchester Model 70 Sporter
Winchester Model 70 Sporter WinTuff
Winchester Model 70 Stainless Rifle
Winchester Model 70 Super Express Magnum
Winchester Model 70 Super Grade
Winchester Model 70 Synthetic Heavy Varmint Rifle
Winchester Model 70 Varmint
Winchester Ranger Rifle
Centerfire Rifles—Single Shot

Armsport 1866 Sharps Rifle, Carbine
Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #3 Gallery Single Shot Rifle
Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #4 Perfection Rifle
Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #7 Long Range Rifle
Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #8 Union Hill rifle
Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 11/2 Hunter Rifle
Ballard Arms Inc. 1885 High Wall Sporting Rifle
Ballard Arms Inc. 1885 Low Wall Single Shot
Brown Model 97D Single Shot Rifle
Brown Model One Single Shot Rifle
Browning Model 1885 Single Shot Rifle
C. Sharps Arms 1875 Target & Sporting Rifle
C. Sharps Arms Custom New Model 1877
C. Sharps Arms New Model 1885 High Wall Rifle
C. Sharps Arms 1874 Bridgeport Sporting Rifle
C. Sharps Arms 1875 Classic Sharps
C. Sharps Arms New Model 1874 Old Reliable
C. Sharps Arms New Model 1875 Rifle
C. Sharps Arms New Model 1875 Target & Long Range
Cabela's 1874 Sharps Sporting
Cimarron Billy Dixon 1874 Sharps
Cimarron Model 1885 High Wall
Cimarron Quigley Model 1874 Sharps
Cimarron Silhouette Model 1874 Sharps
Dakota Model 10 Single Shot Rifle
Dakota Single Shot Rifle
Desert Industries G–90 Single Shot Rifle
Dixie Gun Works 1873 Trapdoor Rifle/Carbine
Dixie Gun Works 1874 Sharps Rifles
Dixie Gun Works Remington Rolling Block Rifles
EMF Premier 1874 Sharps
Harrington & Richardson Buffalo Classic Rifle (CR–1871)
Harrington & Richardson CR 45–LC
Harrington & Richardson Handi-Mag Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Handi-Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Handi-Rifle Compact
Harrington & Richardson New England Hand-Rifle/Slug Gun Combos
Harrington & Richardson Stainless Handi-Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Stainless Ultra Hunter Thumbhole Stock
Harrington & Richardson Superlight Handi-Rifle Compact
Harrington & Richardson Survivor Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Synthetic Handi-Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Hunter Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Varmint Fluted
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Varmint Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Varmint Thumbhole Stock
Krieghoff Hubertus Single Shot
Meacham High Wall
Merkel K1 Lightweight Stalking Rifle
Merkel K2 Custom Stalking Rifle
Model 1885 High Wall Rifle
Navy Arms #2 Creedmoor Rifle
Navy Arms 1873 John Bodine Rolling Black Rifle
Navy Arms 1873 Springfield Cavalry Carbine
Navy Arms 1874 Sharps Rifles
Navy Arms 1874 1885 High Wall Rifles
Navy Arms Rolling Block Buffalo Rifle
Navy Arms Sharps “Quigley” Rifle
Navy Arms Sharps Cavalry Carbine
Navy Arms Sharps Plains Rifle
New England Firearms Handi-Rifle
New England Firearms Sportster/Versa Pack Rifle
New England Firearms Survivor Rifle
Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 1.5 Hunting Rifle
Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 4.5 Target Rifle
Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 5 Pacific
Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 8 Union Hill Rifle
Red Willow Armory Ballard Rifles
Remington Model Rolling Block Rifles
Remington Model SPR18 Blued
Remington Model SPR18 Nickel
Remington Model SPR18 Single Shot Rifle
Remington-Style Rolling Block Carbine
Rossi Match Pairs Rifles
Rossi Single Shot Rifles
Rossi Wizard
Ruger No. 1 RSI International
Ruger No. 1 Stainless Sporter
Ruger No. 1 Stainless Standard
Ruger No. 1A Light Sporter
Ruger No. 1B Single Shot
Ruger No. 1H Tropical Rifle
Ruger No. 1S Medium Sporter
Ruger No. 1V Special Varminter
Sharps 1874 Old Reliable
Shiloh 1875 Rifles
Shiloh Sharps 1874 Business Rifle
Shiloh Sharps 1874 Long Range Express
Shiloh Sharps 1874 Military Carbine
Shiloh Sharps 1874 Military Rifle
Shiloh Sharps 1874 Montana Roughrider
Shiloh Sharps Creedmoor Target
Thompson/Center Contender Carbine
Thompson/Center Contender Carbine Survival System
Thompson/Center Contender Carbine Youth Model
Thompson/Center Encore
Thompson/Center Stainless Contender Carbine
Thompson/Center TCR ’87 Single Shot Rifle
Thompson/Encore Rifles
Traditions 1874 Sharps Deluxe Rifle
Traditions 1874 Sharps Standard Rifle
Traditions Rolling Block Sporting Rifle
Uberti (Stoeger Industries) Sharps Rifles
Uberti 1871 Rolling Block Rifle/Carbine
Uberti 1874 Sharps Sporting Rifle
Uberti 1885 High Wall Rifles
Uberti Rolling Block Baby Carbine
Uberti Springfield Trapdoor Carbine/Rifle
Drillings, Combination Guns, Double Rifles

A. Zoli Rifle-Shotgun O/U Combo
Auguste Francotte Boxlock Double Rifle
Auguste Francotte Sidelock Double Rifles
Baikal IZH–94 Express
Baikal MP94 (IZH–94) O/U
Beretta Express SSO O/U Double Rifles
Beretta Model 455 SxS Express Rifle
Chapuis RGExpress Double Rifle
CZ 584 SOLO Combination Gun
CZ 589 Stopper O/U Gun
Dakota Double Rifle
Garbi Express Double Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Survivor
Harrington & Richardson Synthetic Handi-Rifle/Slug Gun Combo
Heym Model 55B O/U Double Rifle
Heym Model 55FW O/U Combo Gun
Heym Model 88b Side-by-Side Double Rifle
Hoenig Rotary Round Action Combination Rifle
Hoenig Rotary Round Action Double Rifle
Kodiak Mk. IV Double Rifle
Kreighoff Teck O/U Combination Gun
Kreighoff Trumpf Drilling
Krieghoff Drillings
Lebeau-Courally Express Rifle 5X5
Merkel Boxlock Double Rifles
Merkel Drillings
Merkel Model 160 Side-by-Side Double Rifles
Merkel Over/Under Combination Guns
Merkel Over/Under Double Rifles
Remington Model SPR94 .410/Rimfire
Remington Model SPR94 12 Gauge/Centerfire
Rizzini Express 90L Double Rifle
Savage 24F O/U Combination Gun
Savage 24F–12T Turkey Gun
Springfield Inc. M6 Scout Rifle/Shotgun
Tikka Model 412s Combination Gun
Tikka Model 412S Double Fire
Rimfire Rifles—Autoloaders

AMT Lightning 25/22 Rifle
AMT Lightning Small-Game Hunting Rifle II
AMT Magnum Hunter Auto Rifle
Anschutz 525 Deluxe Auto
Armscor Model 20P Auto Rifle
Browning Auto .22 Rifles
Browning Auto-22 Rifle
Browning Auto-22 Grade VI
Browning BAR .22 Auto Rifle
Browning SA–22 Semi-Auto 22 Rifle
Henry U.S. Survival .22
Henry U.S. Survival Rifle AR–7
Krico Model 260 Auto Rifle
Lakefield Arms Model 64B Auto Rifle
Marlin Model 60 Self Loading Rifles
Marlin Model 60C
Marlin Model 60SB
Marlin Model 60S–CF
Marlin Model 60SN
Marlin Model 60ss Self-Loading Rifle
Marlin Model 70 Auto-loading Rifles
Marlin Model 70 HC Auto
Marlin Model 70P Papoose
Marlin Model 70PSS
Marlin Model 795
Marlin Model 795SS
Marlin Model 922 Magnum Self-Loading Rifle
Marlin Model 990l Self-Loading Rifle
Marlin Model 995 Self-Loading Rifle
Mossberg 702 Plinkster
Norinco Model 22 ATD Rifle
Remington 552BDL Speedmaster Rifle
Remington Model 522 Viper Autoloading Rifle
Remington Model 597 Blaze Camo
Remington Model 597 Pink Camo
Remington Model 597 Synthetic Scope Combo
Ruger 10/22 Autoloading Carbine (w/o folding stock)
Ruger 10/22 Compact
Ruger 10/22 Sporter
Ruger 10/22 Target
Survival Arms AR–7 Explorer Rifle
Texas Remington Revolving Carbine
Thompson/Center R–55 All-Weather
Thompson/Center R–55 Benchmark
Thompson/Center R–55 Classic
Thompson/Center R–55 Rifles
Thompson/Center R–55 Sporter
Voere Model 2115 Auto Rifle
Rimfire Rifles—Lever & Slide Action

Browning BL–22 Lever-Action Rifle
Henry .22 Lever Action Rifles, All Models
Henry Golden Boy .17 HMR
Henry Golden Boy .22
Henry Golden Boy .22 Magnum
Henry Golden Boy Deluxe
Henry Lever .22 Magnum
Henry Lever Action .22
Henry Lever Carbine .22
Henry Lever Octagon .22
Henry Lever Octagon .22 Magnum
Henry Lever Youth Model .22
Henry Pump Action Octagon .22
Henry Pump Action Octagon .22 Magnum
Henry Varmint Express .17 HMR
Marlin 39TDS Carbine
Marlin Model 39A Golden Lever Action
Marlin Model 39AS Golden Lever-Action Rifle
Mossberg Model 464 Rimfire Lever Action Rifle
Norinco EM–321 Pump Rifle
Remington 572BDL Fieldmaster Pump Rifle
Rossi Model 62 SA Pump Rifle
Rossi Model 62 SAC Carbine
Rossi Model G2 Gallery Rifle
Ruger Model 96 Lever-Action Rifle
Taurus Model 62-Pump
Taurus Model 72 Pump Rifle
Winchester Model 9422 Lever-Action Rifle
Winchester Model 9422 Magnum Lever-Action Rifle
Rimfire Rifles—Bolt Actions & Single Shots

Anschutz 1416D/1516D Classic Rifles
Anschutz 1418D/1518D Mannlicher Rifles
Anschutz 1700 FWT Bolt-Action Rifle
Anschutz 1700D Bavarian Bolt-Action Rifle
Anschutz 1700D Classic Rifles
Anschutz 1700D Custom Rifles
Anschutz 1700D Graphite Custom Rifle
Anschutz 1702 D H B Classic
Anschutz 1713 Silhouette
Anschutz Achiever
Anschutz Achiever Bolt-Action Rifle
Anschutz All other Bolt Action Rimfire Models
Anschutz Kadett
Anschutz Model 1502 D Classic
Anschutz Model 1517 D Classic
Anschutz Model 1517 MPR Multi Purpose
Anschutz Model 1517 S–BR
Anschutz Model 1710 D KL
Anschutz Model 1717 Classic
Anschutz Model 1717 Silhouette Sporter
Anschutz Model G4 MPB
Anschutz Model Woodchucker
Armscor Model 14P Bolt-Action Rifle
Armscor Model 1500 Rifle
Beeman/HW 60–J–ST Bolt-Action Rifle
BRNO ZKM 452 Deluxe
BRNO ZKM–456 Lux Sporter
BRNO ZKM–452 Deluxe Bolt-Action Rifle
Browning A-Bolt 22 Bolt-Action Rifle
Browning A-Bolt Gold Medallion
Browning T-Bolt Rimfire Rifles
Cabanas Espronceda IV Bolt-Action Rifle
Cabanas Leyre Bolt-Action Rifle
Cabanas Master Bolt-Action Rifle
Cabanas Phaser Rifle
Chipmunk Single Shot Rifle
Cooper Arms Model 36S Sporter Rifle
Cooper Model 57–M Bolt Action Rifle
CZ 452 Bolt Action Rifles
Dakota 22 Sporter Bolt-Action Rifle
Davey Crickett Single Shot Rifle
Harrington & Richardson Sportster
Harrington & Richardson Sportster 17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire
Harrington & Richardson Sportster Compact
Henry Mini Bolt Action Rifle
Henry Acu-Bolt .22
Henry Mini Bolt Youth .22
Kimber Bolt Action .22 Rifles
Krico Model 300 Bolt-Action Rifles
Lakefield Arms Mark I Bolt-Action Rifle
Lakefield Arms Mark II Bolt-Action Rifle
Magtech Model MT Bolt Action Rifle
Magtech Model MT–22C Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 15YN Little Buckaroo
Marlin Model 25MN Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 25N Bolt-Action Repeater
Marlin Model 880 Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 881 Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 882 Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 883 Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 883SS Bolt-Action Rifle
Marlin Model 915 YN Little Buckaroo
Marlin Model 915Y (Compact)
Marlin Model 915YS (Compact)
Marlin Model 917
Marlin Model 917S
Marlin Model 917V
Marlin Model 917VR
Marlin Model 917VS
Marlin Model 917VS–CF
Marlin Model 917VSF
Marlin Model 917VST
Marlin Model 917VT
Marlin Model 925
Marlin Model 925C
Marlin Model 925M
Marlin Model 925R
Marlin Model 925RM
Marlin Model 980S
Marlin Model 980S–CF
Marlin Model 981T
Marlin Model 982 Bolt Action Rifle
Marlin Model 982VS
Marlin Model 982VS–CF
Marlin Model 983
Marlin Model 983S
Marlin Model 983T
Marlin Model XT–17 Series Bolt Action Rifles
Marlin Model XT–22 Series Bolt Action Rifles
Mauser Model 107 Bolt-Action Rifle
Mauser Model 201 Bolt-Action Rifle
Meacham Low-Wall Rifle
Mossberg Model 801/802 Bolt Rifles
Mossberg Model 817 Varmint Bolt Action Rifle
Navy Arms TU–33/40 Carbine
Navy Arms TU–KKW Sniper Trainer
Navy Arms TU–KKW Training Rifle
New England Firearms Sportster Single Shot Rifles
Norinco JW–15 Bolt-Action Rifle
Norinco JW–27 Bolt-Action Rifle
Remington 40–XR Rimfire Custom Sporter
Remington 541–T
Remington 541–T HB Bolt-Action
Rifle Remington 581–S Sportsman Rifle
Remington Model Five
Remington Model Five Youth
Rossi Matched Pair Single Shot Rifle
Ruger 77/17
Ruger 77/22
Ruger 77/22 Rimfire Bolt-Action Rifle
Ruger 77/44
Ruger K77/22 Varmint Rifle
Savage CUB T Mini Youth
Savage Mark I–G Bolt Action
Savage Mark II Bolt Action Rifles
Savage Model 30 G Stevens Favorite
Savage Model 93 Rifles
Thompson/Center Hotshot Youth Rifle
Ultra Light Arms Model 20 RF Bolt-Action Rifle
Winchester Model 52B Sporting Rifle
Winchester Wildcat Bolt Action Rifle 22
Competition Rifles—Centerfire & Rimfire

Anschutz 1803D Intermediate Match
Anschutz 1808D RT Super Match 54 Target
Anschutz 1827B Biathlon Rifle
Anschutz 1827BT Fortner Biathlon Rifle
Anschutz 1903 Rifles
Anschutz 1903D Match Rifle
Anschutz 1907 Match Rifle
Anschutz 1910 Super Match II
Anschutz 1911 Match Rifle
Anschutz 1912 Rifles
Anschutz 1913 Super Match Rifle
Anschutz 54.18MS REP Deluxe Silhouette Rifle
Anschutz 54.18MS Silhouette Rifle
Anschutz 64 MP R Silhouette Rifle
Anschutz 64–MS Left Silhouette
Anschutz Super Match 54 Target Model 2007
Anschutz Super Match 54 Target Model 2013
Beeman/Feinwerkbau 2600 Target Rifle
Cooper Arms Model TRP–1 ISU Standard Rifle
E.A.A./HW 60 Target Rifle
E.A.A./HW 660 Match Rifle
E.A.A./Weihrauch HW 60 Target Rifle
Ed Brown Model 704, M40A2 Marine Sniper
Finnish Lion Standard Target Rifle
Krico Model 360 S2 Biathlon Rifle
Krico Model 360S Biathlon Rifle
Krico Model 400 Match Rifle
Krico Model 500 Kricotronic Match Rifle
Krico Model 600 Match Rifle
Krico Model 600 Sniper Rifle
Lakefield Arms Model 90B Target Rifle
Lakefield Arms Model 91T Target Rifle
Lakefield Arms Model 92S Silhouette Rifle
Marlin Model 2000 Target Rifle
Mauser Model 86–SR Specialty Rifle
McMillan 300 Phoenix Long Range Rifle
McMillan Long Range Rifle
McMillan M–86 Sniper Rifle
McMillan M–89 Sniper Rifle
McMillan National Match Rifle
Parker-Hale M–85 Sniper Rifle
Parker-Hale M–87 Target Rifle
Remington 40–X Bolt Action Rifles
Remington 40–XB Rangemaster Target Centerfire
Remington 40–XBBR KS
Remington 40–XC KS National Match Course Rifle
Remington 40–XR KS Rimfire Position Rifle
Sako TRG–21 Bolt-Action Rifle
Sako TRG–22 Bolt Action Rifle
Springfield Armory M–1 Garand
Steyr-Mannlicher SSG Rifles
Steyr-Mannlicher Match SPG–UIT Rifle
Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–I Rifle
Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–II Rifle
Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–III Rifle
Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–IV Rifle
Tanner 300 Meter Free Rifle
Tanner 50 Meter Free Rifle
Tanner Standard UIT Rifle
Time Precision 22RF Bench Rifle
Wichita Silhouette Rifle
Shotguns—Autoloaders

American Arms
American Arms/Franchi Black Magic 48/AL
Benelli Bimillionaire
Benelli Black Eagle Competition Auto Shotgun
Benelli Cordoba
Benelli Executive Series
Benelli Legacy Model
Benelli M1
Benelli M1 Defense
Benelli M1 Tactical
Benelli M1014 Limited Edition
Benelli M2
Benelli M2 Field Steady Grip
Benelli M2 Practical
Benelli M2 Tactical
Benelli M2 American Series
Benelli M3 Convertible
Benelli M4 Models Vinci Steady Grip
Benelli Montefeltro Super 90 20-Gauge Shotgun
Benelli Montefeltro Super 90 Shotgun
Benelli Raffaello Series Shotguns
Benelli Sport Model
Benelli Super 90 M1 Field Model
Benelli Super Black Eagle II Models
Benelli Super Black Eagle II Steady Grip
Benelli Super Black Eagle Models
Benelli Super Black Eagle Shotgun
Benelli Super Black Eagle Slug Gun
Benelli Super Vinci
Benelli Supersport
Benelli Two-Gun Sets
Benelli Ultralight
Benelli Vinci
Beretta 390 Field Auto Shotgun
Beretta 390 Super Trap, Super Skeet Shotguns
Beretta 3901 Citizen
Beretta 3901 Rifled Slug Gun
Beretta 3901 Statesman
Beretta A–303 Auto Shotgun
Beretta A400 Series
Beretta AL–2 Models
Beretta AL–3 Deluxe Trap
Beretta AL390 Series
Beretta AL391 Teknys Gold
Beretta AL391 Teknys Gold Sporting
Beretta AL391 Teknys Gold Target
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Camo AP
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Camo Max-4
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Classic
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Gold
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Gold Sporting
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Parallel Target SL
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Sporting
Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Synthetic
Beretta ES100 Pintail Series
Beretta Model 1200 Field
Beretta Model 1201F Auto Shotgun
Beretta Model 300
Beretta Model 301 Series
Beretta Model 302 Series
Beretta Model 60
Beretta Model 61
Beretta Model A304 Lark
Beretta Model AL391 Series
Beretta Model TX4 Storm
Beretta Silver Lark
Beretta UGB25 Xcel
Beretta Vittoria Auto Shotgun
Beretta Xtrema2
Breda Altair
Breda Altair Special
Breda Aries 2
Breda Astro
Breda Astrolux
Breda Echo
Breda Ermes Series
Breda Gold Series
Breda Grizzly
Breda Mira
Breda Standard Series
Breda Xanthos
Brolin BL–12
Brolin SAS–12
Browning A–500G Auto Shotgun
Browning A–500G Sporting Clays
Browning A–500R Auto Shotgun
Browning Auto-5 Light 12 and 20
Browning Auto-5 Magnum 12
Browning Auto-5 Magnum 20
Browning Auto-5 Stalker
Browning B2000 Series
Browning BSA 10 Auto Shotgun
Browning BSA 10 Stalker Auto Shotgun
Browning Gold Series
Browning Maxus Series
Charles Daly Field Grade Series
Charles Daly Novamatic Series
Charles Daly Tactical
Churchill Regent
Churchill Standard Model
Churchill Turkey Automatic Shotgun
Churchill Windsor
Cosmi Automatic Shotgun
CZ 712
CZ 720
CZ 912
Escort Escort Series
European American Armory (EAA) Bundra Series
Fabarms Ellegi Series
Fabarms Lion Series
Fabarms Tactical
FNH USA Model SLP
Franchi 610VS
Franchi 612 Series
Franchi 620
Franchi 712
Franchi 720
Franchi 912
Franchi AL 48
Franchi AL 48 Series
Franchi Elite
Franchi I–12 Inertia Series
Franchi Prestige
H&K Model 512
H&R Manufrance
H&R Model 403
Hi-Standard 10A
Hi-Standard 10B
Hi-Standard Semi Automatic Model
Hi-Standard Supermatic Series
Ithaca Mag-10
Ithaca Model 51 Series
LaSalle Semi-automatic
Ljutic Bi-matic Autoloader
Luger Ultra-light Model
Marlin SI 12 Series
Maverick Model 60 Auto Shotgun
Model AL–1
Mossberg 1000
Mossberg Model 600 Auto Shotgun
Mossberg Model 930 All-Purpose Field
Mossberg Model 930 Slugster
Mossberg Model 930 Turkey
Mossberg Model 930 Waterfowl
Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Combos
Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Flyway Series Waterfowl
Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Grand Slam Series Turkey
Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Turkey
Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Waterfowl
New England Firearms Excell Auto Combo
New England Firearms Excell Auto Synthetic
New England Firearms Excell Auto Turkey
New England Firearms Excell Auto Walnut
New England Firearms Excell Auto Waterfowl
Nighthawk Tactical Semi-auto
Ottomanguns Sultan Series
Remington 105Ti Series
Remington 1100 20-Gauge Deer Gun
Remington 1100 LT–20 Auto
Remington 1100 LT–20 Tournament Skeet
Remington 1100 Special Field
Remington 11–48 Series
Remington 11–96 Series
Remington Model 105 Cti
Remington Model 11 Series
Remington Model 1100 Classic Trap
Remington Model 1100 Competition
Remington Model 1100 G3
Remington Model 1100 G3
Remington Model 1100 Series
Remington Model 1100 Shotgun
Remington Model 1100 Sporting Series
Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Camo
Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Super Mag Synthetic
Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Super Mag Waterfowl
Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Synthetic
Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Youth
Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Youth Synthetic
Remington Model 48 Series
Remington Model 58 Series
Remington Model 870 Classic Trap
Remington Model 878A Automaster
Remington Model SP–10 Magnum Satin
Remington Model SP–10 Waterfowl
Remington Model SPR453
Remington Versa-Max Series
Savage Model 720
Savage Model 726
Savage Model 740C Skeet Gun
Savage Model 745
Savage Model 755 Series
Savage Model 775 Series
Scattergun Technologies K–9
Scattergun Technologies SWAT
Scattergun Technologies Urban Sniper Model
SKB 1300 Upland
SKB 1900
SKB 300 Series
SKB 900 Series
SKS 3000
Smith & Wesson Model 1000
Smith & Wesson Model 1012 Series
Spartan Gun Works SPR453
TOZ Model H–170
Tri-Star Diana Series
Tri-Star Phantom Series
Tri-Star Viper Series
Tula Arms Plant TOZ 87
Verona 401 Series
Verona 405 Series
Verona 406 Series
Verona SX801 Series
Weatherby Centurion Series
Weatherby Field Grade
Weatherby Model 82
Weatherby SA–08 Series
Weatherby SA–459 TR
Weatherby SAS Series
Winchester 1500
Winchester Model 50
Winchester Model 59
Winchester Super X1 Series
Winchester Super X2 Series
Winchester Super X3 Series
Shotguns—Slide Actions

ADCO Diamond Grade
ADCO Diamond Series Shotguns
ADCO Mariner Model
ADCO Sales Inc. Gold Elite Series
Armscor M–30 Series
Armscor M–5
Baikal IZH–81
Baikal MP133
Benelli Nova Series
Benelli Supernova Series
Beretta Ariete Standard
Beretta Gold Pigeon Pump
Beretta Model SL–12
Beretta Ruby Pigeon Pump
Beretta Silver Pigeon Pump
Brolin Field Series
Brolin Lawman Model
Brolin Slug Special
Brolin Slugmaster
Brolin Turkey Master
Browning BPS Game Gun Deer Special
Browning BPS Game Gun Turkey Special
Browning BPS Pigeon Grade Pump Shotgun
Browning BPS Pump Shotgun
Browning BPS Pump Shotgun (Ladies and Youth Model)
Browning BPS Series Pump Shotgun
Browning BPS Stalker Pump Shotgun
Browning Model 12 Limited Edition Series
Browning Model 42 Pump Shotgun
Century IJ12 Slide Action
Century Ultra 87 Slide Action
Charles Daly Field Hunter
Ducks Unlimited Dinner Guns
EAA Model PM2
Escort Field Series
Fort Worth Firearms GL18
H&R Pardner Pump
Hi-Standard Flite-King Series
Hi-Standard Model 200
Interstate Arms Model 981
Interstate Arms Model 982T
Ithaca Deerslayer II Rifled Shotgun
Ithaca Model 87 Deerslayer Shotgun
Ithaca Model 87 Deluxe Pump Shotgun
Ithaca Model 87 Series Shotguns
Ithaca Model 87 Supreme Pump Shotgun
Ithaca Model 87 Turkey Gun
Magtech Model 586–VR Pump Shotgun
Maverick Models 88, 91 Pump Shotguns
Mossberg 200 Series Shotgun
Mossberg 3000 Pump shotgun
Mossberg 535 ATS Series Pump Shotguns
Mossberg Field Grade Model 835 Pump Shotgun
Mossberg Model 500 All Purpose Field
Mossberg Model 500 Bantam
Mossberg Model 500 Bantam Combo
Mossberg Model 500 Bantam Pump
Mossberg Model 500 Camo Pump
Mossberg Model 500 Combos
Mossberg Model 500 Flyway Series Waterfowl
Mossberg Model 500 Grand Slam Series Turkey
Mossberg Model 500 Muzzleloader
Mossberg Model 500 Muzzleloader Combo
Mossberg Model 500 Series Pump Shotguns
Mossberg Model 500 Slugster
Mossberg Model 500 Sporting Pump
Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam All Purpose Field
Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam Combo
Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam Slug
Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam Turkey
Mossberg Model 500 Trophy Slugster
Mossberg Model 500 Turkey
Mossberg Model 500 Waterfowl
Mossberg Model 505 Series Pump Shotguns
Mossberg Model 505 Youth All Purpose Field
Mossberg Model 535 ATS All Purpose Field
Mossberg Model 535 ATS Combos
Mossberg Model 535 ATS Slugster
Mossberg Model 535 ATS Turkey
Mossberg Model 535 ATS Waterfowl
Mossberg Model 835 Regal Ulti-Mag Pump
Mossberg Model 835 Series Pump Shotguns
Mossberg Model 835 Ulti-Mag
Mossberg Turkey Model 500 Pump
National Wild Turkey Federation (NWTF) Banquet/Guns of the Year
New England Firearms Pardner Pump Combo
New England Firearms Pardner Pump Field
New England Firearms Pardner Pump Slug Gun
New England Firearms Pardner Pump Synthetic
New England Firearms Pardner Pump Turkey Gun
New England Firearms Pardner Pump Walnut
New England Firearms Pardner Pump-Compact Field
New England Firearms Pardner Pump-Compact Synthetic
New England Firearms Pardner Pump-Compact Walnut
Norinco Model 98 Field Series
Norinco Model 983
Norinco Model 984
Norinco Model 985
Norinco Model 987
Orvis Grand Vazir Series
Quail Unlimited Limited Edition Pump Shotguns
Remington 870 Express
Remington 870 Express Rifle Sighted Deer Gun
Remington 870 Express Series Pump Shotguns
Remington 870 Express Turkey
Remington 870 High Grade Series
Remington 870 High Grades
Remington 870 Marine Magnum
Remington 870 Special Field
Remington 870 Special Purpose Deer Gun
Remington 870 Special Purpose Synthetic Camo
Remington 870 SPS Special Purpose Magnum
Remington 870 SPS–BG–Camo Deer/Turkey Shotgun
Remington 870 SPS–Deer Shotgun
Remington 870 SPS–T Camo Pump Shotgun
Remington 870 TC Trap
Remington 870 Wingmaster
Remington 870 Wingmaster Series
Remington 870 Wingmaster Small Gauges
Remington Model 11–87 XCS Super Magnum Waterfowl
Remington Model 870 Ducks Unlimited Series Dinner Pump Shotguns
Remington Model 870 Express
Remington Model 870 Express JR.
Remington Model 870 Express Shurshot Synthetic Cantilever
Remington Model 870 Express Super Magnum
Remington Model 870 Express Synthetic
Remington Model 870 Express Youth Gun
Remington Model 870 Express Youth Synthetic
Remington Model 870 SPS Shurshot Synthetic Cantilever
Remington Model 870 SPS Shurshot Synthetic Turkey
Remington Model 870 SPS Special Purpose Magnum Series Pump Shotguns
Remington Model 870 SPS Super Mag Max Gobbler
Remington Model 870 XCS Marine Magnum
Remington Model 870 XCS Super Magnum
Winchester 12 Commercial Riot Gun
Winchester 97 Commercial Riot Gun
Winchester Model 12 Pump Shotgun
Winchester Model 120 Ranger
Winchester Model 1200 Series Shotgun
Winchester Model 1300 Ranger Pump Gun
Winchester Model 1300 Ranger Pump Gun Combo & Deer Gun
Winchester Model 1300 Series Shotgun
Winchester Model 1300 Slug Hunter Deer Gun
Winchester Model 1300 Turkey Gun
Winchester Model 1300 Walnut Pump
Winchester Model 42 High Grade Shotgun
Winchester Speed Pump Defender
Winchester SXP Series Pump Shotgun
Zoli Pump Action Shotgun
Shotguns—Over/Unders

ADCO Sales Diamond Series Shotguns
American Arms/Franchi Falconet 2000 O/U
American Arms Lince
American Arms Silver I O/U
American Arms Silver II Shotgun
American Arms Silver Skeet O/U
American Arms Silver Sporting O/U
American Arms Silver Trap O/U
American Arms WS/OU 12, TS/OU 12 Shotguns
American Arms WT/OU 10 Shotgun
American Arms/Franchi Sporting 2000 O/U
Armsport 2700 O/U Goose Gun
Armsport 2700 Series O/U
Armsport 2900 Tri-Barrel Shotgun
AYA Augusta
AYA Coral A
AYA Coral B
AYA Excelsior
AYA Model 37 Super
AYA Model 77
AYA Model 79 Series
Baby Bretton Over/Under Shotgun
Baikal IZH27
Baikal MP310
Baikal MP333
Baikal MP94
Beretta 90 DE LUXE
Beretta 682 Gold E Skeet
Beretta 682 Gold E Trap
Beretta 682 Gold E Trap Bottom Single
Beretta 682 Series
Beretta 682 Super Sporting O/U
Beretta 685 Series
Beretta 686 Series
Beretta 686 White Onyx
Beretta 686 White Onyx Sporting
Beretta 687 EELL Classic
Beretta 687 EELL Diamond Pigeon
Beretta 687 EELL Diamond Pigeon Sporting
Beretta 687 series
Beretta 687EL Sporting O/U
Beretta Alpha Series
Beretta America Standard
Beretta AS
Beretta ASE 90 Competition O/U Shotgun
Beretta ASE 90 Gold Skeet
Beretta ASE Gold
Beretta ASE Series
Beretta ASEL
Beretta BL Sereis
Beretta DT10 Series
Beretta DT10 Trident EELL
Beretta DT10 Trident L Sporting
Beretta DT10 Trident Skeet
Beretta DT10 Trident Sporting
Beretta DT10 Trident Trap Combo
Beretta Europa
Beretta Field Shotguns
Beretta Gamma Series
Beretta Giubileo
Beretta Grade Four
Beretta Grade One
Beretta Grade Three
Beretta Grade Two
Beretta Milano
Beretta Model 686 Ultralight O/U
Beretta Model SO5, SO6, SO9 Shotguns
Beretta Onyx Hunter Sport O/U Shotgun
Beretta Over/Under Field Shotguns
Beretta Royal Pigeon
Beretta S56 Series
Beretta S58 Series
Beretta Series 682 Competition Over/Unders
Beretta Silver Pigeon II
Beretta Silver Pigeon II Sporting
Beretta Silver Pigeon III
Beretta Silver Pigeon III Sporting
Beretta Silver Pigeon IV
Beretta Silver Pigeon S
Beretta Silver Pigeon V
Beretta Silver Snipe
Beretta Skeet Set
Beretta SO–1
Beretta SO–2
Beretta SO–3
Beretta SO–4
Beretta SO5
Beretta SO6 EELL
Beretta SO–10
Beretta SO10 EELL
Beretta Sporting Clay Shotguns
Beretta SV10 Perennia
Beretta Ultralight
Beretta Ultralight Deluxe
Bertuzzi Zeus
Bertuzzi Zeus Series
Beschi Boxlock Model
Big Bear Arms IJ–39
Big Bear Arms Sterling Series
Big Bear IJ–27
Blaser F3 Series
Bosis Challenger Titanium
Bosis Laura
Bosis Michaelangelo
Bosis Wild Series
Boss Custom Over/Under Shotguns
Boss Merlin
Boss Pendragon
Breda Pegaso Series
Breda Sirio Standard
Breda Vega Series
Bretton Baby Standard
Bretton Sprint Deluxe
BRNO 500/501
BRNO 502
BRNO 801 Series
BRNO 802 Series
BRNO BS–571
BRNO BS–572
BRNO ZH–300
BRNO ZH–301
BRNO ZH–302
BRNO ZH–303
Browning 325 Sporting Clays
Browning 625 Series
Browning 725 Series
Browning B–25 Series
Browning B–26 Series
Browning B–27 Series
Browning B–125 Custom Shop Series
Browning Citori 525 Series
Browning Citori GTI Sporting Clays
Browning Citori Lightning Series
Browning Citori O/U Shotgun
Browning Citori O/U Skeet Models
Browning Citori O/U Trap Models
Browning Citori Plus Trap Combo
Browning Citori Plus Trap Gun
Browning Cynergy Series
Browning Diana Grade
Browning Lightning Sporting Clays
Browning Micro Citori Lightning
Browning Midas Grade
Browning Special Sporting Clays
Browning Sporter Model
Browning ST–100
Browning Superlight Citori Over/Under
Browning Superlight Citori Series
Browning Superlight Feather
Browning Superposed Pigeon Grade
Browning Superposed Standard
BSA Falcon
BSA O/U
BSA Silver Eagle
Cabela’s Volo
Caprinus Sweden Model
Centurion Over/Under Shotgun
Century Arms Arthemis
Chapuis Over/Under Shotgun
Charles Daly Country Squire Model
Charles Daly Deluxe Model
Charles Daly Diamond Series
Charles Daly Empire Series
Charles Daly Field Grade O/U
Charles Daly Lux Over/Under
Charles Daly Maxi-Mag
Charles Daly Model 105
Charles Daly Model 106
Charles Daly Model 206
Charles Daly Over/Under Shotguns, Japanese Manufactured
Charles Daly Over/Under Shotguns, Prussian Manufactured
Charles Daly Presentation Model
Charles Daly Sporting Clays Model
Charles Daly Superior Model
Charles Daly UL
Churchill Imperial Model
Churchill Monarch
Churchill Premiere Model
Churchill Regent Trap and Skeet
Churchill Regent V
Churchill Sporting Clays
Churchill Windsor III
Churchill Windsor IV
Classic Doubles Model 101 Series
Cogswell & Harrison Woodward Type
Connecticut Shotgun Company A. Galazan Model
Connecticut Shotgun Company A–10 American
Connecticut Valley Classics Classic Field Waterfowler
Connecticut Valley Classics Classic Sporter O/U
Continental Arms Centaure Series
Cortona Over/Under Shotguns
CZ 581 Solo
CZ Canvasback 103D
CZ Limited Edition
CZ Mallard 104A
CZ Redhead Deluxe 103FE
CZ Sporting
CZ Super Scroll Limited Edition
CZ Upland Ultralight
CZ Wingshooter
Dakin Arms Model 170
Darne SB1
Darne SB2
Darne SB3
Depar ATAK
Doumoulin Superposed Express
Ducks Unlimited Dinner Guns/Guns of the Year, Over/Under Models
Dumoulin Boss Royal Superposed
E.A.A. Falcon
E.A.A. Scirocco Series
E.A.A./Sabatti Falcon-Mon Over/Under
E.A.A./Sabatti Sporting Clays Pro-Gold O/U
ERA Over/Under
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Aries
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Castrone
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Dove Gun
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Excaliber Series
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Jorema
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Leonardo
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Pegasus
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Posiden
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Quail Gun
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Royal
Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Royale
Fausti Boutique Series
Fausti Caledon Series
Fausti Class Series
Ferlib Boss Model
Finnclassic 512 Series
Franchi 2004 Trap
Franchi 2005 Combination Trap
Franchi Alcione Series
Franchi Aristocrat Series
Franchi Black Majic
Franchi Falconet Series
Franchi Instict Series
Franchi Model 2003 Trap
Franchi Renaissance Series
Franchi Sporting 2000
Franchi Undergun Model 3000
Franchi Veloce Series
Galef Golden Snipe
Galef Silver Snipe
Golden Eagle Model 5000 Series
Griffon & Howe Black Ram
Griffon & Howe Broadway
Griffon & Howe Claremont
Griffon & Howe Madison
Griffon & Howe Silver Ram
Griffon & Howe Superbrite
Guerini Apex Series
Guerini Challenger Sporting
Guerini Ellipse Evo
Guerini Ellipse Evolution Sporting
Guerini Ellipse Limited
Guerini Essex Field
Guerini Flyaway
Guerini Forum Series
Guerini Magnus Series
Guerini Maxum Series
Guerini Summit Series
Guerini Tempio
Guerini Woodlander
H&R Harrich #1
H&R Model 1212
H&R Model 1212WF
H&R Pinnacle
Hatfields Hatfield Model 1 of 100
Heym Model 55 F
Heym Model 55 SS
Heym Model 200
Holland & Holland Royal Series
Holland & Holland Sporting Model
IGA 2000 Series
IGA Hunter Series
IGA Trap Series
IGA Turkey Series
IGA Waterfowl Series
K.F.C. E–2 Trap/Skeet
K.F.C. Field Gun
Kassnar Grade I O/U Shotgun
KDF Condor Khan Arthemis Field/Deluxe
Kimber Augusta Series
Kimber Marias Series
Krieghoff K–80 Four-Barrel Skeet Set
Krieghoff K–80 International Skeet
Krieghoff K–80 O/U Trap Shotgun
Krieghoff K–80 Skeet Shotgun
Krieghoff K–80 Sporting Clays O/U
Krieghoff K–80/RT Shotguns
Krieghoff Model 20 Sporting/Field
Krieghoff Model 32 Series
Lames Field Model
Lames Skeet Model
Lames Standard Model
Lames California Model
Laurona Model 67
Laurona Model 82 Series
Laurona Model 83 Series
Laurona Model 84 Series
Laurona Model 85 Series
Laurona Model 300 Series
Laurona Silhouette 300 Sporting Clays
Laurona Silhouette 300 Trap
Laurona Super Model Over/Unders
Lebeau Baron Series
Lebeau Boss Verres
Lebeau Boxlock with sideplates
Lebeau Sidelock
Lebeau Versailles
Lippard Custom Over/Under Shotguns
Ljutic LM–6 Deluxe O/U Shotgun
Longthorne Hesketh Game Gun
Longthorne Sporter
Marlin Model 90
Marocchi Avanza O/U Shotgun
Marocchi Conquista Over/Under Shotgun
Marocchi Conquista Series
Marocchi Model 100
Marocchi Model 99
Maverick HS–12 Tactical
Maverick Hunter Field Model
McMillan Over/Under Sidelock
Merkel 201 Series
Merkel 2016 Series
Merkel 2116 EL Sidelock
Merkel 303EL Luxus
Merkel Model 100
Merkel Model 101
Merkel Model 101E
Merkel Model 200E O/U Shotgun
Merkel Model 200E Skeet, Trap Over/Unders
Merkel Model 200SC Sporting Clays
Merkel Model 203E, 303E Over/Under Shotguns
Merkel Model 204E
Merkel Model 210
Merkel Model 301
Merkel Model 302
Merkel Model 304E
Merkel Model 310E
Merkel Model 400
Merkel Model 400E
Merkel Model 2000 Series
Mossberg Onyx Reserve Field
Mossberg Onyx Reserve Sporting
Mossberg Silver Reserve Field
Mossberg Silver Reserve Series
Mossberg Silver Reserve Sporting
Norinco Type HL12–203
Omega Standard Over/Under Model
Orvis Field
Orvis Knockabout
Orvis Premier Grade
Orvis SKB Green Mountain Uplander
Orvis Sporting Clays
Orvis Super Field
Orvis Uplander
Orvis Waterfowler
Pederson Model 1000 Series
Pederson Model 1500 Series
Perazzi Boxlock Action Hunting
Perazzi Competition Series
Perazzi Electrocibles
Perazzi Granditalia
Perazzi Mirage Special Four-Gauge Skeet
Perazzi Mirage Special Skeet Over/Under
Perazzi Mirage Special Sporting O/U
Perazzi MS80
Perazzi MT–6
Perazzi MX1/MX2
Perazzi MX3
Perazzi MX4
Perazzi MX5
Perazzi MX6
Perazzi MX7 Over/Under Shotguns
Perazzi MX8/20 Over/Under Shotgun
Perazzi MX8/MX8 Special Trap, Skeet
Perazzi MX9 Single Over/Under Shotguns
Perazzi MX10
Perazzi MX11
Perazzi MX12 Hunting Over/Under
Perazzi MX14
Perazzi MX16
Perazzi MX20 Hunting Over/Under
Perazzi MX28, MX410 Game O/U Shotguns
Perazzi MX2000
Perazzi MX2005
Perazzi MX2008
Perazzi Sidelock Action Hunting
Perazzi Sporting Classic O/U
Perugini Maestro Series
Perugini Michelangelo
Perugini Nova Boss
Pietro Zanoletti Model 2000 Field O/U
Piotti Boss Over/Under Shotgun
Pointer Italian Model
Pointer Turkish Model
Remington 396 Series
Remington 3200 Series
Remington Model 32 Series
Remington Model 300 Ideal
Remington Model 332 Series
Remington Model SPR310
Remington Model SPR310N
Remington Model SPR310S
Remington Peerless Over/Under Shotgun
Remington Premier Field
Remington Premier Ruffed Grouse
Remington Premier Series
Remington Premier STS Competition
Remington Premier Upland
Richland Arms Model 41
Richland Arms Model 747
Richland Arms Model 757
Richland Arms Model 787
Richland Arms Model 808
Richland Arms Model 810
Richland Arms Model 828
Rigby 401 Sidelock
Rota Model 650
Rota Model 72 Series
Royal American Model 100
Ruger Red Label O/U Shotgun
Ruger Sporting Clays O/U Shotgun
Ruger Woodside Shotgun
Rutten Model RM 100
Rutten Model RM285
S.I.A.C.E. Evolution
S.I.A.C.E. Model 66C
S.I.A.C.E. 600T Lusso EL
San Marco 10-Ga. O/U Shotgun
San Marco 12-Ga. Wildflower Shotgun
San Marco Field Special O/U Shotgun
Sauer Model 66 Series
Savage Model 242
Savage Model 420/430
Sig Sauer Aurora Series
Sig Sauer SA–3
Sig Sauer SA–5
Silma Model 70 Series
SKB Model 85 Series
SKB Model 500 Series
SKB Model 505 Deluxe Over/Under Shotgun
SKB Model 505 Series
SKB Model 600 Series
SKB Model 605 Series
SKB Model 680 Series
SKB Model 685 Over/Under Shotgun
SKB Model 685 Series
SKB Model 700 Series
SKB Model 785 Series
SKB Model 800 Series
SKB Model 880 Series
SKB Model 885 Over/Under Trap, Skeet, Sporting Clays
SKB Model 885 Series
SKB Model 5600 Series
SKB Model 5700 Series
SKB Model 5800 Series
SKB Model GC–7 Series
Spartan SPR310/320
Stevens Model 240
Stevens Model 512
Stoeger/IGA Condor I O/U Shotgun
Stoeger/IGA ERA 2000 Over/Under Shotgun
Techni-Mec Model 610 Over/Under
Tikka Model 412S Field Grade Over/Under
Traditions 350 Series Traditions Classic Field Series
Traditions Classic Upland Series
Traditions Gold Wing Series
Traditions Real 16 Series
Tri Star Model 330 Series
Tri-Star Hunter EX
Tri-Star Model 300
Tri-Star Model 333 Series
Tri-Star Setter Model
Tri-Star Silver Series
Tri-Star Sporting Model
TULA 120
TULA 200
TULA TOZ34
Universal 7112
Universal 7312
Universal 7412
Universal 7712
Universal 7812
Universal 7912
Verona 501 Series
Verona 680 Series
Verona 702 Series
Verona LX692 Series
Verona LX980 Series
Weatherby Athena Grade IV O/U Shotguns
Weatherby Athena Grade V Classic Field O/U
Weatherby Athena Series
Weatherby Classic Field Models
Weatherby II, III Classic Field O/Us
Weatherby Orion II Classic Sporting Clays O/U
Weatherby Orion II series
Weatherby Orion II Sporting Clays O/U
Weatherby Orion III Series
Weatherby Orion O/U Shotguns
Winchester Model 91
Winchester Model 96
Winchester Model 99
Winchester Model 101 All Models and Grades
Winchester Model 1001 O/U Shotgun
Winchester Model 1001 Series
Winchester Model 1001 Sporting Clays O/U
Winchester Model G5500
Winchester Model G6500
Winchester Select Series
Zoli Condor
Zoli Deluxe Model
Zoli Dove
Zoli Field Special
Zoli Pigeon Model
Zoli Silver Snipe
Zoli Snipe
Zoli Special Model
Zoli Target Series
Zoli Texas
Zoli Z Series
Zoli Z–90 Series
Zoli Z-Sport Series
Shotguns—Side By Sides

Armas Azor Sidelock Model
ADCO Sales Diamond Series Shotguns
American Arms Brittany Shotgun
American Arms Derby Side-by-Side
American Arms Gentry Double Shotgun
American Arms Grulla #2 Double Shotgun
American Arms TS/SS 10 Double Shotgun
American Arms TS/SS 12 Side-by-Side
American Arms WS/SS 10
Arizaga Model 31 Double Shotgun
Armes de Chasse Sidelock and Boxlock Shotguns
Armsport 1050 Series Double Shotguns
Arrieta Sidelock Double Shotguns
Auguste Francotte Boxlock Shotgun
Auguste Francotte Sidelock Shotgun
AYA Boxlock Shotguns
AYA Sidelock Double Shotguns
Baikal IZH–43 Series Shotguns
Baikal MP210 Series Shotguns
Baikal MP213 Series Shotguns
Baikal MP220 Series Shotguns
Baker Gun Sidelock Models
Baltimore Arms Co. Style 1
Baltimore Arms Co. Style 2
Bayard Boxlock and Sidelock Model Shotguns
Beretta 450 series Shotguns
Beretta 451 Series Shotguns
Beretta 452 Series Shotguns
Beretta 470 Series Shotguns
Beretta Custom Grade Shotguns
Beretta Francia Standard
Beretta Imperiale Montecarlo
Beretta Model 452 Sidelock Shotgun
Beretta Omega Standard
Beretta Side-by-Side Field Shotguns
Beretta Verona/Bergamo
Bertuzzi Ariete Hammer Gun
Bertuzzi Model Orione
Bertuzzi Venere Series Shotguns
Beschi Sidelock and Boxlock Models
Bill Hanus Birdgun Doubles
Bosis Country SxS
Bosis Hammer Gun
Bosis Queen Sidelock
Boss Robertson SxS
Boss SxS
Boswell Boxlock Model
Boswell Feartherweight Monarch Grade
Boswell Merlin Sidelock
Boswell Sidelock Model
Breda Andromeda Special
BRNO ZP Series Shotguns
Brown SxS Shotgun
Browning B–SS
Browning B–SS Belgian/Japanese Prototype
Browning B–SS Sidelock
Browning B–SS Sporter
Bruchet Model A
Bruchet Model B
BSA Classic
BSA Royal
Cabela’s ATA Grade II Custom
Cabela’s Hemingway Model
Casartelli Sidelock Model
Century Coach SxS
Chapuis RGP Series Shotguns
Chapuis RP Series Shotguns
Chapuis Side-by-Side Shotgun
Chapuis UGP Round Design SxS
Charles Daly 1974 Wildlife Commemorative
Charles Daly Classic Coach Gun
Charles Daly Diamond SxS
Charles Daly Empire SxS
Charles Daly Model 306
Charles Daly Model 500
Charles Daly Model Dss Double
Charles Daly Superior SxS
Churchill Continental Series Shotguns
Churchill Crown Model
Churchill Field Model
Churchill Hercules Model
Churchill Imperial Model
Churchill Premiere Series Shotguns
Churchill Regal Model
Churchill Royal Model
Churchill Windsor Series Shotguns
Cimarron Coach Guns
Classic Doubles Model 201
Classic Clot 1878 Hammer Shotgun
Cogswell & Harrison Sidelock and Boxlock Shotguns
Colt 1883 Hammerless
Colt SxS Shotgun
Connecticut Shotgun Co. Model 21
Connecticut Shotgun Co. RBL Series
Continental Arms Centaure
Crescent SxS Model
Crucelegui Hermanos Model 150 Double
CZ Amarillo
CZ Bobwhite
CZ Competition
CZ Deluxe
CZ Durango
CZ Grouse
CZ Hammer Models
CZ Partridge
CZ Ringneck
CZ Ringneck Target
Dakin Model 100
Dakin Model 147
Dakin Model 160
Dakin Model 215
Dakota American Legend
Dakota Classic Grade
Dakota Classic Grade II
Dakota Classic Grade III
Dakota Premier Grade
Dan Arms Deluxe Field Model
Dan Arms Field Model
Darne Sliding Breech Series Shotguns
Davidson Arms Model 63B
Davidson Arms Model 69SL
Davidson Arms Model 73 Stagecoach
Dumoulin Continental Model
Dumoulin Etendard Model
Dumoulin Europa Model
Dumoulin Liege Model
E.A.A. SABA
E.A.A./Sabatti Saba-Mon Double Shotgun
E.M.F. Model 1878 SxS
E.M.F. Stagecoach SxS Model
ERA Quail SxS
ERA Riot SxS
ERA SxS
Famars Boxlock Models
Famars Castore
Famars Sidelock Models
Fausti Caledon
Fausti Class
Fausti Class Round Body
Fausti DEA Series Shotguns
Ferlib Mignon Hammer Model
Ferlib Model F VII Double Shotgun
FN Anson SxS Standard Grade
FN New Anson SxS Standard Grade
FN Sidelock Standard Grade
Fox Higher Grade Models (A–F)
Fox Sterlingworth Series
Franchi Airone
Franchi Astore Series
Franchi Destino
Franchi Highlander
Franchi Sidelock Double Barrel
Francotte Boxlock Shotgun
Francotte Jubilee Model
Francotte Sidelock Shotgun
Galef Silver Hawk SxS
Galef Zabala SxS
Garbi Model 100
Garbi Model 101 Side-by-Side
Garbi Model 103A, B Side-by-Side
Garbi Model 200 Side-by-Side
Gastinne Model 105
Gastinne Model 202
Gastinne Model 353
Gastinne Model 98
Gib 10 Gauge Magnum
Gil Alhambra
Gil Diamond
Gil Laga
Gil Olimpia
Greener Sidelock SxS Shotguns
Griffin & Howe Britte
Griffin & Howe Continental Sidelock
Griffin & Howe Round Body Game Gun
Griffin & Howe Traditional Game Gun
Grulla 217 Series
Grulla 219 Series
Grulla Consort
Grulla Model 209 Holland
Grulla Model 215
Grulla Model 216 Series
Grulla Number 1
Grulla Royal
Grulla Super MH
Grulla Supreme
Grulla Windsor
H&R Anson & Deeley SxS
H&R Model 404
H&R Small Bore SxS Hammer Gun
Hatfield Uplander Shotgun
Henry Atkin Boxlock Model
Henry Atkin Sidelock Model
Holland & Holland Cavalier Boxlock
Holland & Holland Dominion Game Gun
Holland & Holland Northwood Boxlock
Holland & Holland Round Action Sidelock
Holland & Holland Round Action Sidelock Paradox
Holland & Holland Royal Hammerless Ejector Sidelock
Holland & Holland Sidelock Shotguns
Holloway premier Sidelock SxS Model
Hopkins & Allen Boxlock and Sidelock Models
Huglu SxS Shotguns
Husqvarna SxS Shotguns
IGA Deluxe Model
IGA Turkey Series Model
Interstate Arms Model 99 Coach Gun
Ithaca Classic Doubles Series Shotguns
Ithaca Hammerless Series
Iver Johnson Hammerless Model Shotguns
Jeffery Boxlock Shotguns
Jeffery Sidelock Shotguns
K.B.I. Grade II SxS
Khan Coach Gun
Kimber Valier Series
Krieghoff Essencia Boxlock
Krieghoff Essencia Sidelock
Lanber Imperial Sidelock
Laurona Boxlock Models
Laurona Sidelock Models
Lefever Grade A Field Model
Lefever Grade A Skeet Model
Lefever New
Lefever Model
Lefever Nitro Special
Lefever Sideplate Models
Leforgeron Boxlock Ejector
Leforgeron Sidelock Ejector
Liberty Coach Gun Series
MacNaughton Sidelock Model
Malin Boxlock Model
Malin Sidelock Model
Masquelier Boxlock Model
Masquelier Sidelock Model
Medwell SxS Sidelock
Merkel Model 8, 47E Side-by-Side Shotguns
Merkel Model 47LSC Sporting Clays Double
Merkel Model 47S, 147S Side-by-Sides
Merkel Model 76E
Merkel Model 122E
Merkel Model 126E
Merkel Model 280 Series
Merkel Model 360 Series
Merkel Model 447SL
Merkel Model 1620 Series
Merkel Model 1622 Series
Mossberg Onyx Reserve Sporting
Mossberg Silver Reserve Field
Navy Arms Model 100
Navy Arms Model 150
Orvis Custom Uplander
Orvis Field Grade
Orvis Fine Grade
Orvis Rounded Action
Orvis Waterfowler
Parker Fluid Steel Barrel Models (All Grades)
Parker Reproductions Side-by-Side
Pederson Model 200
Pederson Model 2500
Perazzi DHO Models
Perugini Ausonia
Perugini Classic Model
Perugini Liberty
Perugini Regina Model
Perugini Romagna Gun
Piotti Hammer Gun
Piotti King Extra Side-by-Side
Piotti King No. 1 Side-by-Side Piotti Lunik Side-by-Side
Piotti Monaco Series
Piotti Monte Carlo
Piotti Piuma Side-by-Side
Piotti Westlake
Precision Sports Model 600 Series Doubles
Premier Italian made SxS Shotguns
Premier Spanish made SxS Shotguns
Purdy Best Quality Game Gun
Remington Model 1900 Hammerless
Remington Model SPR210
Remington Model SPR220
Remington Model SPR220 Cowboy
Remington Premier SxS
Richland Arms Co. Italian made SxS Models
Richland Arms Co. Spanish made SxS Models
Rigby Boxlock Shotgun
Rigby Hammer Shotgun
Rizzini Boxlock Side-by-Side
Rizzini Sidelock Side-by-Side
Rossi Overlund
Rossi Squire
Rota Model 105
Rota Model 106
Rota Model 411 Series
Royal American Model 600 Boxlock
Royal American Model 800 Sidelock
Ruger Gold Label
SAE Model 209E
SAE Model 210S
SAE Model 340X
Sarasqueta Mammerless Sidelock
Sarasqueta Model 3 Boxlock
Sauer Boxlock Model Shotguns
Sauer Sidelock Model Shotguns
Savage Fox Model FA–1
Savage Model 550
Scott Blenheim
Scott Bowood
Scott Chatsworth
Scott Kinmount
SIACE Italian made SxS Shotguns
SKB Model 100
SKB Model 150
SKB Model 200
SKB Model 280
SKB Model 300
SKB Model 385
SKB Model 400
SKB Model 480
SKB Model 485
Smith & Wesson Elite Gold Series Grade I
Smith & Wesson Elite Silver Grade I
Smith, L.C. Boxlock Hammerless Shotguns
Smith, L.C. Sidelock Hammerless Shotguns
Spartan SPR Series Shotguns
Stevens Model 311/315 Series
Stoeger/IGA Uplander Side-by-Side Shotgun
Taylor’s SxS Model
Tri-Star Model 311
Tri-Star Model 411 Series
Ugartechea 10-Ga. Magnum Shotgun
Universal Double Wing SxS
Vouzelaud Model 315 Series
Walther Model WSF
Walther Model WSFD
Weatherby Atheana
Weatherby D’Italia Series
Weatherby Orion
Westley Richards Best Quality Sidelock
Westley Richards Boxlock Shotguns
Westley Richards Connaught Model
Westley Richards Hand Detachable Lock Model
William Douglas Boxlock
Winchester Model 21
Winchester Model 24
Zoli Alley Cleaner
Zoli Classic
Zoli Falcon II
Zoli Model Quail Special
Zoli Pheasant
Zoli Silver Hawk
Zoli Silver Snipe
Shotguns—Bolt Actions & Single Shots

ADCC Diamond Folding Model
American Arms Single-Shot
ARMSCOR 301A
Armsport Single Barrel Shotgun
Baikal MP18
Beretta 471 EL Silver Hawk
Beretta 471 Silver Hawk
Beretta Beta Single Barrel
Beretta MKII Trap
Beretta Model 412
Beretta Model FS
Beretta TR–1
Beretta TR–1 Trap
Beretta Vandalia Special Trap
Browning BT–99 Competition Trap Special
Browning BT–99 Plus Micro
Browning BT–99 Plus Trap Gun
Browning Micro Recoilless Trap Shotgun
Browning Recoilless Trap Shotgun
Crescent Single Shot Models
CZ Cottontail
Desert Industries Big Twenty Shotgun
Fefever Long Range Field
Frigon FS–4
Frigon FT–1
Frigon FT–C
Gibbs Midland Stalker
Greener General Purpose GP MKI/MKII
H&R Survivor
H&R Tracker Slug Model
Harrington & Richardson N.W.T.F. Turkey Mag
Harrington & Richardson Pardner
Harrington & Richardson Pardner Compact
Harrington & Richardson Pardner Compact Turkey Gun
Harrington & Richardson Pardner Screw-In Choke
Harrington & Richardson Pardner Turkey Gun
Harrington & Richardson Pardner Turkey Gun Camo
Harrington & Richardson Pardner Waterfowl
Harrington & Richardson Tamer
Harrington & Richardson Tamer 20
Harrington & Richardson Topper Classic Youth Shotgun
Harrington & Richardson Topper Deluxe Classic
Harrington & Richardson Topper Deluxe Model 098
Harrington & Richardson Topper Junior
Harrington & Richardson Topper Model 098
Harrington & Richardson Topper Trap Gun
Harrington & Richardson Tracker II Slug Gun
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hunter
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hunter Compact
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hunter Deluxe
Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hunter Thumbhole Stock
Harrington & Richardson Ultra-Lite Slug Hunter
Hi-Standard 514 Model
Holland & Holland Single Barrel Trap
IGA Reuna Model
IGA Single Barrel Classic
Ithaca Model 66
Ithaca Single Barrel Trap
Iver Johnson Champion Series
Iver Johnson Commemorative Series Single Shot Shotgun
Iver Johnson Excel
Krieghoff K–80 Single Barrel Trap Gun
Krieghoff KS–5 Special
Krieghoff KS–5 Trap Gun
Lefever Trap Gun
Ljutic LTX Super Deluxe Mono Gun
Ljutic Mono Gun Single Barrel
Ljutic Recoilless Space Gun Shotgun
Marlin Model 55 Goose Gun Bolt Action
Marlin Model 60 Single Shot
Marocchi Model 2000
Mossberg Models G–4, 70, 73, 73B
Mossberg Models 75 Series
Mossberg Models 80, 83, 83B, 83D
Mossberg 173 Series
Mossberg Model 183 Series
Mossberg Model 185 Series
Mossberg Model 190 Series
Mossberg Model 195 Series
Mossberg Model 385 Series
Mossberg Model 390 Series
Mossberg Model 395 Series
Mossberg Model 595 Series
Mossberg Model 695 Series
New England Firearms N.W.T.F. Shotgun
New England Firearms Standard Pardner
New England Firearms Survival Gun
New England Firearms Tracker Slug Gun
New England Firearms Turkey and Goose Gun
Parker Single Barrel Trap Models
Perazzi TM1 Special Single Trap
Remington 90–T Super Single Shotgun
Remington Model No. 9
Remington Model 310 Skeet
Remington Model No. 3
Rossi Circuit Judge Lever Action Shotgun
Rossi Circuit Judge Shotgun
Ruger Single Barrel Trap
S.W.D. Terminator
Savage Kimel Kamper Single Shot
Savage Model 210F Slug Warrior
Savage Model 212 Slug Gun
Savage Model 220 Series
Savage Model 220 Slug Gun
SEITZ Single Barrel Trap
SKB Century II Trap
SKB Century Trap
SKB Model 505 Trap
SKB Model 605 Trap
Smith, L.C. Single Barrel Trap Models
Snake Charmer II Shotgun
Stoeger/IGA Reuna Single Barrel Shotgun
Tangfolio Model RSG–16
Tangfolio Blockcard Model
Tangfolio Model DSG
Tangfolio Model RSG–12 Series
Tangfolio Model RSG–20
Tangfolio RSG-Tactical
Taurus Circuit Judge Shotgun
Thompson/Center Encore Shotgun
Thompson/Center Pro Hunter Turkey Shotgun
Thompson/Center TCR ’87 Hunter Shotgun
Universal Firearms Model 7212 Single Barrel Trap
Winchester Model 36 Single Shot
Winchester Model 37 Single Shot
Winchester Model 41 Bolt Action
Winchester Model 9410 Series
Zoli Apache Model
Zoli Diano Series
Zoli Loner Series
.

513.Penalties
Section 924(a)(1)(B) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking or (q) of section 922 and inserting (q), (r), (v), (w), or (aa) of section 922.

514.Use of Byrne grants for buy-back programs for semiautomatic assault weapons and large capacity ammunition feeding devices
Section 501(a)(1) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3751(a)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following:

(H)Compensation for surrendered semiautomatic assault weapons and large capacity ammunition feeding devices, as those terms are defined in section 921 of title 18, United States Code, under buy-back programs for semiautomatic assault weapons and large capacity ammunition feeding devices.
.

515.Ban on untraceable and undetectable firearms
(a)Requirement that all firearms be traceable
(1)Definitions
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended—

(A)in paragraph (3)—
(i)by inserting , including an unfinished frame or receiver after such weapon; and
(ii)by striking or (D) any destructive device and inserting ; (D) any destructive device; or (E) any combination of parts designed or intended for use in converting any device into a firearm and from which a firearm may be readily assembled;
(B)in paragraph (10), by adding at the end the following: The term manufacturing firearms includes assembling a functional firearm from a frame or receiver or molding, machining, or 3D printing a frame or receiver, and does not include making or fitting special barrels, stocks, or trigger mechanisms to firearms.; and
(C)by inserting after paragraph (50) the following:
(51)The term frame or receiver—
(A)means the part of a firearm that can provide the action or housing for the hammer, bolt, or breechblock and firing mechanism;
(B)includes a frame or lower receiver blank, casting, or machined body that requires further machining or molding to be used as part of a functional firearm, and which is designed and intended to be used in the assembly of a functional firearm; and
(C)does not include a piece of material that has had—
(i)its size or external shape altered solely to facilitate transportation or storage; or
(ii)solely its chemical composition altered.
(52)The term ghost gun—
(A)means a firearm, including a frame or receiver, that lacks a unique serial number engraved or cast in metal or metal alloy on the frame or receiver by a licensed manufacturer or importer in accordance with this chapter; and
(B)does not include a firearm that has been rendered permanently inoperable.
.

(2)Prohibition; requirements
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(aa)Untraceable firearms
(1)Manufacture, sale, offer to sell, transfer, purchase, or receipt of ghost guns
(A)In general
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), it shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell, offer to sell, transfer, purchase, or receive a ghost gun in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce.

(B)Exceptions
Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to—

(i)the manufacture of a firearm by a licensed manufacturer if the licensed manufacturer complies with section 923(i) before selling or transferring the firearm to another person;
(ii)the offer to sell, sale, or transfer of a firearm to, or purchase or receipt of a firearm by, a licensed manufacturer or importer before the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection; or
(iii)a transaction between a licensed manufacturer and a licensed importer on any date.
(2)Serial numbers
It shall be unlawful for a person other than a licensed manufacturer or importer to engrave or cast a serial number on a firearm in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce.

(3)Possession of ghost gun with intent to sell, transfer, or manufacture
Beginning on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, it shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed manufacturer or importer to possess a ghost gun in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce with the intent to—

(A)sell or transfer the ghost gun with or without further manufacturing; or
(B)manufacture a firearm with the ghost gun.
.

(3)Requirements
Section 923(i) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: The serial number shall be engraved or cast in metal or metal alloy and sufficient to identify the firearm and the manufacturer or importer that put the serial number on the firearm..

(4)Penalties
Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended—

(A)in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking or (w) and inserting (w), or (aa); and
(B)in subsection (d)(1), by striking or (k) and inserting (k), or (aa).
(b)Modernization of the prohibition on undetectable firearms
Section 922(p) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking any firearm;
(2)in paragraph (1)—
(A)by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
(A)an undetectable firearm; or
; and

(B)in subparagraph (B), by striking any major component of which, when subjected to inspection by the types of x-ray machines commonly used at airports, does not generate and inserting the following: a major component of a firearm which, if subjected to inspection by the types of detection devices commonly used at airports for security screening, would not generate;
(3)by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
(2)For purposes of this subsection—
(A)the term detectable material means any material that creates a magnetic field equivalent to or more than 3.7 ounces of 17–4 pH stainless steel;
(B)the term major component, with respect to a firearm—
(i)means the slide or cylinder or the frame or receiver of the firearm; and
(ii)in the case of a rifle or shotgun, includes the barrel of the firearm; and
(C)the term undetectable firearm means a firearm, as defined in section 921(a)(3)(A), of which no major component is wholly made of detectable material;
;

(4)in paragraph (3)—
(A)in the first sentence, by inserting , including a prototype, after of a firearm; and
(B)by striking the second sentence; and
(5)in paragraph (5), by striking shall not apply to any firearm which and all that follows and inserting the following: “shall not apply to—
(A)any firearm received by, in the possession of, or under the control of the United States; or
(B)the manufacture, importation, possession, transfer, receipt, shipment, or delivery of a firearm by a licensed manufacturer or licensed importer pursuant to a contract with the United States.
.

516.Prohibition on possession of certain firearm accessories
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in section 922, as amended by section 515 of this Act, by adding at the end the following:
(bb)
(1)Except as provided in paragraph (2), on and after the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, it shall be unlawful for any person to import, sell, manufacture, transfer, or possess, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, a trigger crank, a bump-fire device, or any part, combination of parts, component, device, attachment, or accessory that is designed or functions to materially accelerate the rate of fire of a semiautomatic rifle but not convert the semiautomatic rifle into a machinegun.
(2)This subsection does not apply with respect to the importation for, manufacture for, sale to, transfer to, or possession by or under the authority of, the United States or any department or agency thereof or a State, or a department, agency, or political subdivision thereof.
; and

(2)in section 924(a)(2), by striking , or (o) and inserting (o), or (bb).
B
Firearm silencers and mufflers ban

521.Definition
Section 921(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking (C) any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or (D) and inserting or (C).

522.Restrictions on firearm silencers and firearm mufflers
(a)In general
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 516 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(cc)
(1)Except as provided in paragraph (2), it shall be unlawful for a person to import, sell, manufacture, transfer, or possess, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, a firearm silencer or firearm muffler.
(2)Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
(A)the importation for, manufacture for, sale to, transfer to, or possession by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, or a sale or transfer to or possession by a qualified law enforcement officer employed by the United States or a department or agency of the United States or a State or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty), or a sale or transfer to or possession by a campus law enforcement officer for purposes of law enforcement (whether on or off duty);
(B)the importation for, or sale or transfer to a licensee under title I of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) for purposes of establishing and maintaining an on-site physical protection system and security organization required by Federal law, or possession by an employee or contractor of such licensee on site for such purposes or off site for purposes of licensee-authorized training or transportation of nuclear materials; or
(C)the importation for, manufacture for, sale to, transfer to, or possession by a licensed manufacturer or licensed importer for the purposes of testing or experimentation authorized by the Attorney General.
(3)For purposes of paragraph (2)(A), the term campus law enforcement officer means an individual who is—
(A)employed by a private institution of higher education that is eligible for funding under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
(B)responsible for the prevention or investigation of crime involving injury to persons or property, including apprehension or detention of persons for such crimes;
(C)authorized by Federal, State, or local law to carry a firearm, execute search warrants, and make arrests; and
(D)recognized, commissioned, or certified by a government entity as a law enforcement officer.
.

(b)Seizure and forfeiture of firearm silencers and firearm mufflers
Section 924(d) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 512(d) of this Act, is amended—

(1)in paragraph (1), by striking or (w) and inserting (w), or (cc); and
(2)in paragraph (3)(E), by inserting 922(cc), after 922(w),.
523.Penalties
Section 924(a)(1)(B) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 513 of this Act, is amended by striking or (w) and inserting (w), or (cc).

524.Effective date
The amendments made by this subtitle shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

VI
Firearm trafficking

601.Prohibition against multiple firearm sales or purchases
(a)Prohibition
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(dd)Prohibition against multiple firearm sales or purchases
(1)Sale
It shall be unlawful to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of a firearm, in of affecting interstate or foreign commerce, to any person who is not licensed under section 923 knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that such person purchased a firearm during the 30-day period ending on the date of such sale or disposition.

(2)Purchase
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not licensed under section 923 to purchase more than 1 firearm that has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce during any 30-day period.

(3)Exceptions
Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply to—

(A)a lawful exchange of 1 firearm for 1 firearm;
(B)the transfer to or purchase by the United States, a department or agency of the United States, a State, or a department, agency, or political subdivision of a State, of a firearm;
(C)the transfer to or purchase by a law enforcement officer employed by an entity referred to in subparagraph (B) of a firearm for law enforcement purposes (whether on or off duty);
(D)the transfer to or purchase by a rail police officer employed by a rail carrier and certified or commissioned as a police officer under the laws of a State of a firearm for law enforcement purposes (whether on or off duty); or
(E)the transfer or purchase of a firearm listed as a curio or relic by the Attorney General pursuant to section 921(a)(13).
.

(b)Penalties
Section 924(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is amended by striking or (cc) and inserting (cc), or (dd).

(c)Conforming amendments
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)in section 922(s), as so redesignated by section 201 of this Act—
(A)in paragraph (1)(B)(ii), by striking (g) or (n) and inserting (g), (n), or (dd)(2);
(B)in paragraph (2), by striking (g) or (n) and inserting (g), (n), or (dd)(2);
(C)in paragraph (4), by striking (g) or (n) and inserting (g), (n), or (dd)(2); and
(D)in paragraph (5), by striking (g) or (n) and inserting (g), (n), or (dd)(2); and
(2)in section 925A, by striking (g) or (n) and inserting (g), (n), or (dd)(2).
(d)Eliminate multiple sales reporting requirement
Section 923(g) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (3).

(e)Authority To issue rules and regulations
The Attorney General shall prescribe any rules and regulations as are necessary to ensure that the national instant criminal background check system is able to identify whether receipt of a firearm by a prospective transferee would violate section 922(dd) of title 18, United States Code, as added by this Act.

602.Increased penalties for making knowingly false statements in connection with firearms
Section 924(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended in the matter following subparagraph (B) by striking one year and inserting 5 years.

603.Retention of records
Section 922(s)(2) of title 18, United States Code, as so redesignated by section 201 of this Act, is amended—

(1)in subparagraph (B), by striking ; and and inserting a period; and
(2)by striking subparagraph (C).
604.Revised definition
Section 921(a)(21)(C) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting , except that such term shall include any person who transfers more than 1 firearm in any 30-day period to a person who is not a licensed dealer before the semicolon.

605.Firearms trafficking
(a)In general
Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 402 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

934.Trafficking in firearms
(a)Offenses
It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of whether anything of value is exchanged—

(1)to ship, transport, transfer, or otherwise dispose to a person, 2 or more firearms in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, if the transferor knows or has reasonable cause to believe that such shipping, transportation, transfer, or disposition of the firearm would be in violation of, or would result in a violation of any Federal, State, or local law punishable by a term of imprisonment exceeding 1 year;
(2)to receive from a person, 2 or more firearms in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, if the recipient knows or has reasonable cause to believe that such receipt would be in violation of, or would result in a violation of any Federal, State, or local law punishable by a term of imprisonment exceeding 1 year;
(3)to make a statement to a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer relating to the purchase, receipt, or acquisition from a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer of 2 or more firearms that have moved in or affected interstate or foreign commerce that—
(A)is material to—
(i)the identity of the actual buyer of the firearms; or
(ii)the intended trafficking of the firearms; and
(B)the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe is false; or
(4)to direct, promote, or facilitate conduct specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
(b)Penalties
(1)In general
Any person who violates, or conspires to violate, subsection (a) shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 15 years, or both.

(2)Organizer enhancement
If a violation of subsection (a) is committed by a person in concert with 5 or more other persons with respect to whom such person occupies a position of organizer, a supervisory position, or any other position of management, such person may be sentenced to an additional term of imprisonment of not more than 5 consecutive years.

(c)Definitions
In this section—

(1)the term actual buyer means the individual for whom a firearm is being purchased, received, or acquired; and
(2)the term term of imprisonment exceeding 1 year does not include any offense classified by the applicable jurisdiction as a misdemeanor and punishable by a term of imprisonment of 2 years or less.
.

(b)Technical and conforming amendment
The table of sections for chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 402 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

934. Trafficking in firearms.

.

VII
Dealer reform

701.Gun shop security measures
(a)Regulations
(1)In general
Section 926 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(d)Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Attorney General shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary to ensure that any premises at which a licensed dealer deals in firearms are secure from theft, which shall include requiring—
(1)compliance with the security plan submitted by the licensed dealer pursuant to section 923(d)(1)(G);
(2)the use of locked metal cabinets and fireproof safes;
(3)security systems, video monitoring, and anti-theft alarms;
(4)security gates, strong locks, and site hardening; and
(5)concrete bollards and other access controls, if necessary.
.

(2)Transition rule
The regulations prescribed under section 926(d)(1) of title 18, United States Code, shall not apply to a person who, on the date of enactment of this Act, is a licensed dealer, as defined in section 921(a)(11) of title 18, United States Code, until the earlier of—

(A)the date the person complies with subsection (b)(2) of this section; or
(B)the end of the 1-year period that begins with the date regulations are prescribed under section 926(d) of title 18, United States Code.
(b)Security plan submission requirement and other requirements
(1)In general
Section 923(d)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking subparagraph (G) and inserting the following:

(G)in the case of an application to be licensed as a dealer, the applicant certifies that—
(i)the applicant has a permanent place of business;
(ii)the applicant only hires individuals 21 years of age or older as employees; and
(iii)secure gun storage or safety devices will be available at any place in which firearms are sold under the license to persons who are not licensees (subject to the exception that in any case in which a secure gun storage or safety device is temporarily unavailable because of theft, casualty loss, consumer sales, backorders from a manufacturer, or any other similar reason beyond the control of the licensee, the dealer shall not be considered to be in violation of the requirement under this subparagraph to make available such a device) and include with the certification—
(I)a description of how the applicant will secure, in accordance with the regulations issued under section 926(d), the premises from which the applicant will conduct business under the license (including in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency); and
(II)a certification that the applicant, if issued such a license, the applicant will comply with the certification made under this subparagraph.
.

(2)Transition rule
A person who, on the date of enactment of this Act, is a licensed dealer (as defined in section 921(a)(11) of title 18, United States Code) and whose license to deal in firearms, issued under chapter 44 of title 18, will not expire before the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date on which regulations are prescribed under section 926(d) of title 18, United States Code, shall submit to the Attorney General a plan of the type described in section 923(d)(1)(G) of title 18, United States Code, not later than the end of that 1-year period. Any plan so submitted shall be considered to be submitted pursuant to section 923(d)(1)(G) of title 18, United States Code, for purposes of sections 923(g)(6)(B) and 926(d) of title 18, United States Code.

(c)Annual security plan compliance certification requirement
(1)In general
Section 923 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(m)
(1)Each licensed dealer shall annually certify to the Attorney General that each premises from which the licensed dealer conducts business subject to license under this chapter is in compliance with the regulations prescribed under section 926(d), and include with the certification the results of a reconciliation of the firearms inventory of the licensed dealer with the firearms inventory at the time of the most recent prior certification (if any) under this paragraph, including a report of any missing firearms.
(2)With respect to a violation of paragraph (1), the Attorney General may, after notice and opportunity for a hearing—
(A)suspend, until the violation is corrected, the license issued to the licensee under this chapter that was used to conduct the firearms transfer; and
(B)impose a civil money penalty of not more than $5,000 on a licensed dealer who fails to comply with paragraph (1).
.

(2)Transition rule
The amendment made by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to a person who, on the date of enactment of this Act, is a licensed dealer (as defined in section 921(a)(11) of title 18, United States Code), until the end of the 1-year period that begins with the date person complies with subsection (b)(2) of this section.

(d)Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall take effect 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

702.Inspections
(a)Elimination of limit on annual inspections of licensees
Section 923(g)(1)(B)(ii) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)by striking the em dash and all that follows through (II); and
(2)by striking licensee. and inserting licensee.
(b)Mandated annual inspections of high risk licensed dealers, triennial inspections of other licensed dealers
Section 923(g)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(E)
(i)The Attorney General shall, without such reasonable cause or warrant—
(I)annually inspect or examine the inventory, records, and business premises of each licensed dealer whom the Attorney General determines is a high-risk dealer (based on the considerations used to do so as of the date of the enactment of this sentence); and
(II)triennially inspect or examine the inventory, records, and business premises of any other licensed dealer that the Attorney General determines is not a high-risk dealer.
(ii)Not later than 180 days after the date of an inspection under this subparagraph reveals a violation of this section or any regulation prescribed under this chapter, the Attorney General shall conduct an inspection to determine whether such violation has been cured.
.

(c)Authority To hire additional Industry Operation Investigators for ATF
(1)In general
The Attorney General may hire 650 industry operation investigators for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, in addition to any personnel needed to carry out this title and the amendments made by this title.

(2)Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General such sums as are necessary to carry out paragraph (1).

703.Employee background checks
(a)Requirements
(1)Background check required before firearm possession by dealer employee
Section 923(g) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 709 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(10)A licensed dealer may not allow an employee of the licensed dealer to possess a firearm at a premises from which the licensed dealer conducts business subject to license under this chapter unless—
(A)the licensed dealer has contacted the national instant criminal background check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act for information about whether it would be unlawful for the individual to receive a firearm; and
(B)the system has notified the licensee that the information available to the system does not demonstrate that the receipt of a firearm by the individual would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 or State law.
.

(2)Background checks required before issuance or renewal of dealer license
Section 923(c) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 1st sentence the following: Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Attorney General may not issue or renew a license to deal in firearms unless the Attorney General has contacted the national instant criminal background check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act for information about whether it would be unlawful for any employee of the applicant for the license or renewal, identified by the applicant as having the responsibility to receive a firearm, for information about whether it would be unlawful for the employee to receive a firearm, and the system has notified the Attorney General that the information available to the system does not demonstrate that the receipt of a firearm by the employee would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 or the law of the State in which the business premises of the applicant subject to the license is located..

(3)Effective date
The amendments made by this subsection shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.

(b)Authority of NICS system To respond to licensed dealer request for criminal background check of employee or prospective employee
Section 103(b) of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: The Attorney General shall ensure that the system responds to any request received by the system from a licensed dealer for information on whether receipt of a firearm by an employee or prospective employee of the licensed dealer would violate such section 922 or State law..

704.Gun store thefts
Section 923(g)(6) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—

(1)by inserting (A) after (6); and
(2)by adding at the end the following:
(B)
(i)Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Attorney General receives a report from a licensed dealer pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph of the theft of a firearm, the Attorney General shall conduct an independent inspection of the security of the premises at which the theft occurred, which may include an inspection of the measures taken to implement the security plan submitted by the licensed dealer pursuant to subsection (d)(1)(G).
(ii)On completion of the security inspection, the Attorney General shall provide the licensed dealer with—
(I)a notice of any violation by the licensed dealer of any security requirements prescribed under section 926(d); and
(II)recommendations for improving security of the premises involved.
(iii)Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Attorney General conducts an investigation under this subparagraph that reveals a violation of any security requirement prescribed under section 926(d), the Attorney General shall conduct another investigation to determine whether the violation has been cured.
.

705.Civil enforcement
Section 923 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 701(c)(1) of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(n)In the case of a licensed dealer who the Attorney General has found to be in violation of a regulation prescribed under this chapter, to not have implemented a corrective action required by the Attorney General at the completion of a security inspection conducted under subsection (g)(6)(B)(i) of this section within 30 days after the date of the inspection, or to be in violation of subsection (g)(8) of this section—
(1)the Attorney General shall—
(A)if the violation is not a result of gross negligence by the licensed dealer—
(i)in the case of the 1st such violation of the law or regulation by the licensed dealer, if not preceded by a violation to which subparagraph (B) applies, transmit to the licensed dealer a written notice specifying the violation, which shall include a copy of the provision of law or regulation violated and a plan for how to cure the violation;
(ii)in the case of the 2nd such violation by the licensed dealer, if not preceded by a violation to which subparagraph (B) applies, impose a civil money penalty in an amount that is not less than $2,500 and not more than $20,000;
(iii)in the case of the 3rd such violation by the licensed dealer, if not preceded by a violation to which subparagraph (B) applies, suspend the license to deal in firearms issued to the licensed dealer under this chapter until the violation ceases;
(iv)in the case of the 4th such violation by the licensed dealer, whether or not preceded by a violation to which subparagraph (B) applies, revoke that license; or
(v)in the case of any such violation by the licensed dealer, if preceded by a violation to which subparagraph (B) applies, apply the penalty authorized under this subsection that is 1 level greater in severity than the level of severity of the penalty most recently applied to the licensed dealer under this subsection; or
(B)if the violation is a result of such gross negligence—
(i)in the case of the 1st such violation by the licensed dealer, impose a civil money penalty in an amount that is not less than $2,500 and not more than $20,000;
(ii)in the case of the 2nd such violation by the licensed dealer—
(I)impose a civil money penalty in an amount equal to $20,000;
(II)suspend the license to deal in firearms issued to the licensed dealer under this chapter until the violation ceases; or
(III)revoke that license; or
(iii)in the case of the 3rd or subsequent such violation by the licensed dealer, apply the penalty authorized under this subsection that is 1 or 2 levels greater in severity than the level of severity of the penalty most recently applied to the licensed dealer under this subsection; and
(2)in the case of any such violation, if the Attorney General finds that the nature of the violation indicates that the continued operation of a firearms business by the licensed dealer presents an imminent risk to public safety, the Attorney General shall, notwithstanding paragraph (1), immediately suspend the license to deal in firearm issued to the licensed dealer under this chapter and secure the firearms inventory of the licensed dealer, until the violation ceases.
.

706.No effect on State laws governing dealing in firearms
Nothing in this title shall be interpreted to preclude a State from imposing or enforcing any requirement relating to dealing in firearms (as defined in section 921(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code).

707.Lost and stolen reporting requirement
(a)In general
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 601 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(ee)The owner of a firearm shall report the theft or loss of the firearm, not later than 48 hours after the owner becomes aware of the theft or loss, to the Attorney General and to the appropriate local authorities.
.

(b)Civil penalty
Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(q)Whoever violates section 922(ee) shall be fined not more than $1,000 in a civil proceeding.
.

708.Report on implementation
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to the Congress a written report on the implementation of this Act and the amendments made by this title, including any remaining steps that are necessary to complete the implementation, which shall also identify any additional resources that are required to conduct regular inspections and to ensure that this title and the amendments made by this title are enforced against noncompliant firearm dealers in a timely manner.

709.Enhanced record keeping requirements
Section 923(g) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

(8)
(A)Each licensed dealer, manufacturer, and importer shall maintain a record of each sale or other transfer of a firearm or ammunition.
(B)The record required to be maintained under subparagraph (A) shall include—
(i)the full name, gender, residence, and occupation of the transferee;
(ii)a complete description of the firearm, including the make, serial number, and type, if applicable;
(iii)the type of transfer, such as whether the firearm was sold, rented, or leased;
(iv)the date of transfer; and
(v)the firearm license number of the transferee issued in accordance with section 932.
(C)Each record required to be maintained under subparagraph (A) shall be maintained indefinitely and shall, not later than 5 business days after the sale or other transfer, be submitted to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
(9)Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, shall establish and maintain an electronic database for the receipt and storing of all records created by licensed dealers under paragraph (8).
.

710.Deadline for issuance of final regulations
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall prescribe, in final form, all regulations required to carry out this title and the amendments made by this title.

711.Repeal
(a)Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003
Section 644 of title VI of division J of the Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003 (5 U.S.C. 552 note) is amended by striking or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year.

(b)Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005
Title I of division B of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 2859) is amended in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice in the 6th proviso by striking with respect to any fiscal year.

(c)Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006
Title I of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109–108; 119 Stat. 2295) is amended in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice in the sixth proviso by striking with respecting to any fiscal year.

(d)Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008
Title II of division B of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–161; 121 Stat. 1903) is amended in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice in the sixth proviso by striking beginning in fiscal year 2008 and thereafter and inserting in fiscal year 2008.

(e)Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009
Title II of division B of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–8; 123 Stat. 574) is amended in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice in the sixth proviso by striking beginning in fiscal year 2009 and thereafter and inserting in fiscal year 2009.

(f)Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010
Title II of division B of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–117; 123 Stat. 3128) is amended in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice in the sixth proviso, by striking beginning in fiscal year 2010 and thereafter and inserting in fiscal year 2010.

(g)Consolidated and furthering continuing appropriations act, 2012
Division B of the Consolidated and Furthering Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112–55; 125 Stat. 552) is amended—

(1)in title II, in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice by striking—
(A)the first proviso;
(B)the sixth proviso; and
(C)the eighth proviso; and
(2)in title V, by striking section 511(2).
(h)Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013
The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013 (Division B of Public Law 113–6; 127 Stat. 198) is amended in title II, in the matter under the heading Salaries and expenses under the heading Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the heading Department of Justice by striking—

(1)the first proviso;
(2)the fifth proviso; and
(3)the sixth proviso.
(i)Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019
The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019 (Division C of Public Law 116–6; 133 Stat. 91) is amended in title V by striking—

(1)section 517; and
(2)section 531.
VIII
Industry reform

801.Repeal
Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (15 U.S.C. 7901, 7902, and 7903) are repealed.

802.Repeal of exclusion of pistols, revolvers, and other firearms from consumer product safety laws
(a)Amending the definition of consumer product
Section 3(a)(5) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052(a)(5)) is amended—

(1)by striking subparagraph (E);
(2)by redesignating subparagraphs (F) through (I) as subparagraphs (E) through (H), respectively; and
(3)in the matter following subparagraph (H) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), by striking described in subparagraph (E) of this paragraph or.
(b)Removing prohibition of rulemaking authority
Subsection (e) of section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Commission Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 2080 note) is repealed.

803.Increase in excise taxes relating to firearms
(a)In general
Section 4181 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:

4181.Imposition of tax
There is hereby imposed upon the sale by the manufacturer, producer, or importer of the following articles a tax equivalent to the specified percent of the price for which so sold:

(1)Articles taxable at 30 percent:
(A)Pistols.
(B)Revolvers.
(C)Firearms (other than pistols and revolvers).
(D)Any lower frame or receiver for a firearm, whether for a semiautomatic pistol, rifle, or shotgun that is designed to accommodate interchangeable upper receivers.
(2)Articles taxable at 50 percent: Shells and cartridges.
.

(b)Exemption for United States
Subsection (b) of section 4182 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:

(b)Sales to United States
No firearms, pistols, revolvers, lower frame or receiver for a firearm, shells, and cartridges purchased with funds appropriated for any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States shall be subject to any tax imposed on the sale or transfer of such articles.

.

(c)Effective date
The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to sales after September 30, 2020.

(d)Use of increased taxes
(1)Use for gun violence prevention and research
An amount equal to 39 percent of revenues accruing from any tax imposed on shells and cartridges by section 4181 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, shall, subject to the exemptions in section 4182 of such title, be covered into the Community Violence Intervention Fund in the Treasury (hereinafter referred to as the Fund) and is authorized to be appropriated and made available until expended to carry out the purposes of paragraph (2).

(2)Programs for gun violence prevention and research
Amounts in the Fund established under paragraph (1) shall be used by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry out the program established under section 399V–7 of the Public Health Service Act (as added by section 901 of this Act).

(3)Conforming amendment
(A)In general
Section 3(a)(1) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669b(a)(1)) is amended by inserting (other than 39 percent of the revenues accruing from the taxes imposed on shells and cartridges by section 4181 of such Code) after Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

(B)Effective date
The amendment made by this paragraph shall apply with respect to sales after September 30, 2020.

IX
Research and community violence intervention program

901.Community violence intervention grant program
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

399V–7.Community violence intervention grant program
(a)In general
The Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to support community violence intervention programs, with an emphasis on evidence-informed intervention strategies to reduce homicides, shootings, and group-related violence.

(b)Eligible entities
(1)In general
To be eligible for a grant under this section, an entity—

(A)shall be a local governmental, hospital, or nonprofit, community-based organization; and
(B)submit an application at such time, but not more frequently than biennially, in such manner, and containing—
(i)clearly defined and measurable objectives for the grant;
(ii)a statement describing how the applicant proposes to use the grant to implement an evidence-informed violence reduction initiative in accordance with this section;
(iii)evidence indicating that the proposed violence reduction initiative would likely reduce the incidence of homicides, shootings, and group-related violence; and
(iv)any other information the Secretary may require.
(2)Required distribution
Each local government that receives a grant shall distribute no less than 50 percent of the grant funds to one or more of any of the following types of entities:

(A)A community-based organization.
(B)A nonprofit organization.
(C)A public agency or department, other than a law enforcement agency or department, that is primarily dedicated to community safety or violence prevention.
(c)Program activities
A program supported by a grant under this section—

(1)shall focus on interrupting cycles of violence by focusing intervention resources on the individuals identified as being at highest risk for being victims or perpetrators of community violence in the near future; and
(2)shall be used to support, expand, and replicate evidence-informed violence reduction initiatives, including—
(A)hospital-based violence intervention programs;
(B)evidence-informed street outreach programs;
(C)focused deterrence strategies;
(D)conflict mediation;
(E)delivery of needs-based support services for high-risk individuals and their family members; and
(F)providing intensive case management, counseling or peer support services that reduce individuals’ risk of being victimized by, or perpetrating, violence and that seek to interrupt cycles of violence and retaliation in order to reduce the incidence of homicides, shootings, and group-related violence.
(d)Priority
In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to programs operating in—

(1)the 127 municipalities that have had the highest annual per capita homicide rates as measured over the most recent 5 years (among municipalities meeting certain population thresholds, as specified by the Secretary); and
(2)other municipalities with substantial recent increases in homicide rates, based on homicide data reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or as otherwise specified by the Secretary.
(e)Grant recipient reports
Each recipient of a grant under this section shall submit a biennial performance report to the Secretary detailing how such grant funds were used and the progress made towards addressing violence in the community during the applicable funding period under the grant.

(f)Reports to Congress
Not later than 2 years after the date on which the program under this section commences, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress detailing how funds appropriated for the grant program under this section were used and recommendations for improvement of the program.

(g)Authorization of appropriations
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each fiscal year.

.

902.Funding for research on firearms safety or gun violence prevention
(a)Department of Justice
(1)In general
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General $50,000,000 for each fiscal year for the purpose of conducting or supporting research on firearms safety or gun violence prevention. The amount authorized to be appropriated by the preceding sentence is in addition to any other amounts authorized to be appropriated for such purpose.

(2)Reports to Congress
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit a report to Congress detailing how the funds authorized to be appropriated under this section were used.

(b)Department of Health and Human Services
(1)In general
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Health and Human Services $50,000,000 for each fiscal year for the purpose of conducting or supporting research on firearms safety or gun violence prevention, including conducting evaluations of the community violence intervention grant program authorized under section 399V–7 of the Public Health Service Act (as added by section 901 of this Act). The amount authorized to be appropriated by the preceding sentence is in addition to any other amounts authorized to be appropriated for such purpose.

(2)Reports to Congress
Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit a report to Congress detailing how the funds authorized to be appropriated under this section were used.

X
Miscellaneous

1001.Registration
(a)In general
Section 922(v)(2) of title 18, United States Code, as added by section 512 of this Act, is amended—

(1)by striking weapon otherwise lawfully and inserting the following: “weapon—
(A)otherwise lawfully
;

(2)by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
(3)by adding at the end the following:
(B)registered under the National Firearms Act.
.

(b)Amendments
(1)In general
Part I of subchapter B of chapter 53 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 5841 the following:

5841A.Registration of semiautomatic assault weapons
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Gun Violence Prevention and Community Safety Act of 2020, the Attorney General shall promulgate regulations to carry out the registration of semiautomatic assault weapons (as defined in section 921(a) of title 18) required under section 922(v)(2)(B) of such title 18.

.

(2)Table of sections
The table of sections in part I of subchapter B of chapter 53 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 5841 the following:

5841A. Registration of semiautomatic assault weapons.

.

1002.Severability
If any provision of this Act or any amendment made by this Act, or any application of such provision or amendment to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of the provisions of this Act and the amendments made by this Act and the application of the provision or amendment to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected.