
	With consideration to annotation, the summarizer that our group is implementing seems to run into one main kind of issue, which is that the summarizer has difficulty in creating comprehensible summaries for large portions of text.  When presented with a text document containing more information than can be contained withing a page or two, the results that are returned consist of large samples of incoherent text.  This is further exacerbated by documents which contain more than one type of topic, which the summarizer tries to make up for by returning important bits from each section, which in turn makes the problem even worse.  The group as a whole plans to combat this with a couple of different strategies.  The first is a detailed split of each Congressional document into it's respective parts, which should be helped by the fact that each part of the document in question is already split up into informal sections.  The second strategy that our group will use is to take each one of these individual sections discussed in the first strategy, and further split them up paragraph by paragraph, and make an individual call on the summarize function for each paragraph created in this fashion.  These two strategies should help the summarizer to create relevant piecs of information for each section, while still remaining, on the whole, readable to the average user.

	The first strategy in place - splitting each Congressional document into separate, distinguishable sections - creates a few more issues that have to be independently solved.  Even though each section is split up into definable sections for each document, a good portion of these sections do not show up every day, and some sections are named things that will only appear once, and are largely variable in size!  Our plan then, is to, using regex, do a scan of each document that will harvest sections that occur frequently, and will also contain a large portion of data that the group things will be relevant to the reader.  The section we have picked to represent this step in our project is the Public Bills and Resolutions segment contained within the House portion of the Congressional document.  This section highlights data that is both massively important and which occurs in the Record on an almost daily basis, making this the perfect bit of info to summarize for our project.  Our work for the section is not completed  with just snipping relevant sections out, however, information contained within this section is also comprised of several smaller chunks of data which each have completely separate "topics" making this still a difficult task for our summarizer to properly quantify.

	This leads us into our third strategy - cutting up each chosen section into even smaller pieces of one topic information.  The difficulty in this stage is making sure that each smaller slice of data for the section contains only information on one piece of data at a time.  This is made fairly easy with the Public Bills and Resolutions section discussed in the previous paragraph.  Each bill is preceded by an all caps H.R. (which stands for House Resolution), making it simple to implement a regex method to split all the proposed bills into separate parts, after which the summarizer can operate on each section, and return it's result, perhaps with a printout of the first line or so to provide context on the part of Public Bills it is referencing.

	Overall, those are our projected problems with annotation, and our current strategies to those problems.  Our group hopes to include more information from the Congressional Record besides just sections that appear each day, as there is some interesting data to summarize from the pieces that only occur once, but our current goal is to summarize the low-hanging fruit, so to speak, and get the harder to parse data after we have completed our initial objective.

	
