1.Short title
This Act may be cited as the All-American Flag Act.

2.Requirement for agencies to buy domestically made United States flags
(a)Requirement for agencies To buy domestically made United States flags
(1)In general
Chapter 63 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

6310.Requirement for agencies to buy domestically made United States flags
(a)Requirement
Except as provided in subsections (b) through (d), funds appropriated or otherwise available to an agency may not be used for the procurement of any flag of the United States, unless such flag has been 100 percent manufactured in the United States from articles, materials, or supplies that have been grown or 100 percent produced or manufactured in the United States.

(b)Availability exception
Subsection (a) does not apply to the extent that the head of the agency concerned determines that satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity of a flag described in such subsection cannot be procured as and when needed at United States market prices.

(c)Exception for certain procurements
Subsection (a) does not apply to the following:

(1)Procurements by vessels in foreign waters.
(2)Procurements for resale purposes in any military commissary, military exchange, or nonappropriated fund instrumentality operated by an agency.
(3)Procurements for amounts less than the simplified acquisition threshold.
(d)Presidential waiver
(1)In general
The President may waive the requirement in subsection (a) if the President determines a waiver is necessary to comply with any trade agreement to which the United States is a party.

(2)Notice of waiver
Not later than 30 days after granting a waiver under paragraph (1), the President shall publish a notice of the waiver in the Federal Register.

(e)Definitions
In this section:

(1)Agency
The term agency has the meaning given the term executive agency in section 102 of title 40.

(2)Simplified acquisition threshold
The term simplified acquisition threshold has the meaning given that term in section 134.

.

(2)Clerical amendment
The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

6310. Requirement for agencies to buy domestically made United States flags.