UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.15 10:12:02 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 106th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 146 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2000 No. 1 

House of Representatives 

This being the date fixed by the 20th 
amendment of the Constitution of the 
United States by Public Law 106–127, 
the Members of the second session of 
the 106th Congress met in their Hall 
and, at noon, were called to order by 
the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. UPTON). 

f 


DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

January 24, 2000. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable FRED 
UPTON to act as Speaker pro tempore on this 
day. 

J. DENNIS HASTERT, 
Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 


PRAYER 

The Chaplain, the Reverend James 
David Ford, D.D., offered the following 
prayer: 

On this new day, our hearts and 
minds, our thoughts and feelings are 
open to Your good spirit, O God, and to 
the abundance of Your gifts and blessings. 
We recall the words of understanding 
and peace and tolerance; we 
remember the words of joy and wonder 
and thanksgiving and we are thrilled 
by words of unity and hope and love. 
On this special day, we pray that these 
good words will find a place in our 
hearts and that we will show forth in 
our lives the beauty and marvel of 
Your gifts to us and to all people. This 
is our earnest prayer. Amen. 

f 


PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the 
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
BALLENGER) come forward and lead the 
House in the Pledge of Allegiance. 

Mr. BALLENGER led the Pledge of 
Allegiance as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to Section 2 of House Concurrent 
Resolution 235, 106th Congress, the 
House shall conduct no organizational 
or legislative business on this day. The 
House will follow the practice announced 
by the Speaker at the convening 
of the second session of the 102d 
Congress under a similar order. 

Bills and resolutions introduced 
today will be numbered today but will 
not be noted in the RECORD or referred 
by the Speaker until January 27, 2000. 
Executive communications, petitions, 
and memorials will not be numbered or 
referred until January 27, 2000. 

f 


WHEN WILL THE PEOPLE’S WORK 
BE DONE? 

(Mr. DOGGETT asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, the reports 
that the House is returning to 
work today are inaccurate. This House 
will complete month one of the new 
millennium with no action either on 
this floor or in committee on any of 
the major issues that this country 
faces. Nothing on education, nothing 
on Social Security, nothing on the environment, 
nothing on tax reform, 
nothing on health care or prescription 
drugs for seniors. There is some question 
as to whether this House will even 
vote on the trivial matters that usually 
occupy its time any time during 
the month of January. 

With an abbreviated year and the opportunity 
for meaningful action largely 
ending in July, I think this is unfortunate. 


This Thursday we will hear from the 
President on the State of the Union. 
We already know the state of this 
House: Lost in inaction. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED 
By unanimous consent, permission to 
address the House, following the legislative 
program and any special orders 
heretofore entered, was granted to: 
(The following Member (at the request 
of Mr. KILDEE) to revise and extend 
her remarks and include extraneous 
material:) 
Ms. NORTON, for 5 minutes, today. 

f 


EXTENSION OF REMARKS 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. KILDEE) to revise and extend 
their remarks and include extraneous 
material:) 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. 

Mr. CRAMER. 

Mr. ANDREWS. 

Mr. KUCINICH. 

Mr. PALLONE. 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. BALLENGER), to revise and 
extend their remarks and include extraneous 
material:) 

Mr. OXLEY. 

Mr. REGULA. 

f 


BILLS PRESENTED TO THE PRESI


DENT SUBSEQUENT TO SINE DIE 

ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. THOMAS, from the Committee 
on House Administration, reported 
that that committee did on the following 
dates present to the President, 
for his approval, bills of the House of 
following titles: 

On December 2, 1999: 

H.R. 3443. To amend part E of title IV of 
the Social Security Act to provide States 
with more funding and greater flexibility in 
carrying out programs designed to help children 
make the transition from foster care to 
self-sufficiency, and for other purposes. 
bThis symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H1 


H2 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE January 24, 2000 

H.R. 3419. To amend title 49, United States 
Code, to establish the Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration, and for other purposes. 
On December 6, 1999: 

H.R. 1180. To amend the Social Security 
Act to expand the availability of health care 
coverage for working individuals with disabilities, 
to establish a Ticket to Work and 
Self-Sufficiency Program in the Social Security 
Administration to provide such individuals 
with meaningful opportunities to work, 
and for other purposes. 
f 


BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
APPROVED BY THE PRESIDENT 
SUBSEQUENT TO SINE DIE ADJOURNMENT 


December 3, 1999: 

H.R. 20. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to construct and operate a 
visitor center for the Upper Delaware Scenic 
and Recreational River on land owned by the 
State of New York. 
H.R. 322. An act for the relief of Suchada 
Kwong. 
H.R. 1555. An act to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2000 for intelligence and 
intelligence-related activities of the United 
States Government, the Community Management 
Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability 
System, and for other purposes. 
December 6, 1999: 

H.J. Res. 85. Joint resolution appointing 
the day for the convening of the second session 
of the One Hundred Sixth Congress. 
H.R. 459. An act to extend the deadline 
under the Federal Power Act for FERC 
Project No. 9401, the Mt. Hope Waterpower 
Project. 
H.R. 1094. An act to amend the Federal Reserve 
Act to broaden the range of discount 
window loans which may be used as collateral 
for Federal reserve notes. 
H.R. 1191. An act to designate certain facilities 
of the United States Postal Service 
in Chicago, Illinois. 
H.R. 1251. An act to designate certain facilities 
of the United States Postal Service 
building located at 8850 South 700 East, 
Sandy, Utah, as the ‘‘Noal Cushing Bateman 
Post Office Building.’’ 
H.R. 1327. An act to designate the United 
States Postal Service building located at 
34480 Highway 101 South in Cloverdale, Oregon, 
as the ‘‘Maurine B. Neuberger United 
States Post Office.’’ 
H.R. 3373. An act to require the Secretary 
of the Treasury to mint coins in conjunction 
with the minting of coins by the Republic of 
Iceland in commemoration of the millennium 
of the discovery of the New World by 
Leif Ericsson. 
December 7, 1999: 

H.J. Res. 65. Joint resolution commending 
the World War II veterans who fought in the 
Battle of the Bulge, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 449. An act to authorize the Gateway 
Visitor Center at Independence National Historical 
Park, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 592. An act to designate a portion of 
Gateway National Recreation Area as 
‘‘World War Veterans Park at Miller Field.’’ 
H.R. 747. An act to protect the permanent 
trust funds of the State of Arizona from erosion 
due to inflation and modify the basis on 
which distributions are made from those 
funds. 
H.R. 748. An act to amend the Act that established 
the Keweenaw National Historical 
Park to require the Secretary of the Interior 
to consider nominees of various local interests 
in appointing members of the Keweenaw 
National Historical Park Advisory Commission. 
H.R. 791. An act to amend the National 
Trails System Act to designate the route of 
the War of 1812 British invasion of Maryland 
and Washington, District of Columbia, and 
the route of the American defense, for study 
for potential additional to the national trails 
system. 
H.R. 970. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to provide assistance to the 
Perkins County Rural Water System, Inc., 
for the construction of water supply facilities 
in Perkins County, South Dakota. 
H.R. 1794. An act concerning the participation 
of Taiwan in the World Health Organization 
(WHO). 
H.R. 2079. An act to provide for the conveyance 
of certain National Forest System 
lands in the State of South Dakota. 
H.R. 2886. An act to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to provide that an 
adopted alien who is less than 18 years of age 
may be considered a child under such Act if 
adopted with or after a sibling who is a child 
under such Act. 
H.R. 2889. An act to amend the Central 
Utah Project Completion Act to provide for 
acquisition of water and water rights for 
Central Utah Project Purposes, completion 
of Central Utah project facilities, and implementation 
of water conservation measures. 
H.R. 3257. An act to amend the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 to assist the Congressional 
Budget Office with the scoring of 
State and local mandates. 
December 9, 1999: 

H.J. Res. 46. Joint resolution conferring 
status as an honorary veteran of the United 
States Armed Forces on Zachary Fisher. 
H.R. 15. An act to designate a portion of 
the Otay Mountain region of California as 
wilderness. 
H.R. 658. An act to establish the Thomas 
Cole National Historic Site in the State of 
New York as an affiliated area of the National 
Park System. 
H.R. 1104. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to transfer administrative 
jurisdiction over land within the boundaries 
of the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt 
National Historic Site to the Archivist of the 
United States for the construction of a visitor 
center. 
H.R. 1528. An act to reauthorize and amend 
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992. 
H.R. 1619. An act to amend the Quinebaug 
and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1994 to expand the boundaries 
of the Corridor. 
H.R. 1665. An act to allow the National 
Park Service to acquire certain land for addition 
to Wilderness Battlefield in Virginia, 
as previously authorized by law, by purchase 
or exchange as well as by donation. 
H.R. 1693. An act to amend the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 to clarify the overtime 
exemption for employees engaged in fire protection 
activities. 
H.R. 1887. An act to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to punish the depiction of animal 
cruelty. 
H.R. 1932. An act to authorize the President 
to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
Congress to Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
in recognition of his outstanding and enduring 
contributions to civil rights, higher education, 
the Catholic Church, the Nation, and 
the global community. 
H.R. 2140. An act to improve protection and 
management of the Chattahoochee River National 
Recreation Area in the State of Georgia. 
H.R. 2401. An act to amend the U.S. Holocaust 
Assets Commission Act of 1998 to extend 
the period by which the final report is 
due and to authorize additional funding. 
H.R. 2632. An act to designate certain Federal 
lands in the Talladega National Forest 
in the State of Alabama as the Dugger 
Mountain Wilderness. 
H.R. 2737. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to convey to the State 
of Illinois certain Federal land associated 
with the Lewis and Clark National Historic 
Trail to be used as an historic and interpretive 
site along the Trail. 
H.R. 3381. An act to reauthorize the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation and the 
Trade and Development Agency, and for 
other purposes. 
H.R. 3419. An act to amend title 49, United 
States Code, to establish the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration, and for other 
purposes. 
H.R. 3456. An act to amend statutory damages 
provisions of title 17, United States 
Code. 
December 14, 1999: 

H.R. 3443. An act to amend part E of title 
IV of the Social Security Act to provide 
States with more funding and greater flexibility 
in carrying out programs designed to 
help children make the transition from foster 
care to self-sufficiency, and for other purposes. 
December 17, 1999: 

H.R. 1180. An act to amend the Social Security 
Act to expand the availability to 
health care coverage for working individuals 
with disabilities, to establish a Ticket to 
Work and Self-Sufficiency Program in the 
Social Security Administration to provide 
such individuals with meaningful opportunities 
to work, and for other purposes. 
f 


SENATE BILLS APPROVED BY THE 
PRESIDENT SUBSEQUENT TO 
SINE DIE ADJOURNMENT 

December 6, 1999: 

S. 574. An act to direct the Secretary of the 
Interior to make corrections to a map relating 
to the Coastal Barrier Resources System. 
S. 580. An act to amend IX of the Public 
Health Service Act to revise and extend the 
Agency for Healthcare Policy and Research. 
S. 1418. An act to provide for the holding of 
court at Natchez, Mississippi, in the same 
manner as court is held at Vicksburg, Mississippi, 
and for other purposes. 
December 7, 1999: 

S. 28. An act to authorize an interpretive 
center and related visitor facilities within 
the Four Corners Monument Tribal Park, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 416. An act to direct the Secretary of 
Agriculture to convey to the city of Sisters, 
Oregon, a certain parcel of land for use in 
connection with a sewage treatment facility. 
December 9, 1999: 

S. 67. An act to designate the headquarters 
building of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development in Washington, District 
of Columbia, as the ‘‘Robert C. Weaver Federal 
Building.’’ 
S. 438. An act to provide for the settlement 
of the water rights claims of the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 548. An act to establish the Fallen Timbers 
Battlefield and Fort Miamis National 
Historical Site in the State of Ohio. 
S. 791. An act to amend the Small Business 
Act with respect to the women’s business 
center program. 
S. 1595. An act to designate the United 
States courthouse at 401 West Washington 
Street in Phoenix, Arizona, as the ‘‘Sandra 
Day O’Connor United States Courthouse.’’ 
S. 1866. An act to redesignate the Coastal 
Barrier Resources System as the ‘‘John H. 
Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.’’ 
December 12, 1999: 

S. 335. An act to amend chapter 30 of title 
39, United States Code, to provide for the 
Nonmailability of certain deceptive matter 

January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3 

relating to sweepstakes, skill contests, facsimile 
checks, administrative procedures, orders, 
and civil penalties relating to such 
matter, and for other purposes. 

f 


ADJOURNMENT 
Mr. BALLENGER. Mr. Speaker, I 
move that the House do now adjourn. 
The motion was agreed to. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the provisions of House Concurrent 
Resolution 235, 106th Congress, the 
House stands adjourned until noon on 
Thursday, January 27, 2000. 
Thereupon, (at 12 o’clock and 5 minutes 
p.m.), pursuant to House Concur


rent Resolution 235, the House adjourned 
until Thursday, January 27, 
2000, at noon. 

f 


REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

[Pursuant to the order of the House on November 
18, 1999 the following report was filed on 
December 10, 1999] 

Mr. BURTON: Committee on Government 
Reform. The FALN and Macheteros Clem


ency: Misleading Explanations, a Reckless 
Decision, a Dangerous Message (Rept. 106– 
488). Referred to the Committee of the Whole 
House on the State of the Union. 

f 


TIME LIMITATION OF REFERRED 
BILL 

Pursuant to clause 5 of rule X the following 
action was taken by the Speaker: 


[Omitted from the Record of November 22, 1999] 

H.R. 3081. Referral to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce extended for a 
period ending not later than January 28, 2000. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 106th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 146 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2000 No. 1 

The 24th day of January being the 
day prescribed by H. Con. Res. 235 for 
the meeting of the second session of 
the 106th Congress, the Senate assembled 
in its Chamber at the Capitol at 

12:03 p.m. and was called to order by 
the President pro tempore (Mr. THURMOND). 
PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Lloyd John 
Ogilvie, offered the following prayer: 

Eternal God, before whom generations 
rise and pass away, to whom a 
thousand years are as yesterday, You 
have given us a new year, a new beginning, 
and a new opportunity to serve 
You. As we begin this year’s work in 
the Senate, give us new hearts filled 
with the passion of ignited patriotism, 
minds filled with Your vision for America, 
and wills filled with desire to follow 
Your guidance. 

We pray for the women and men of 
this Senate. Help them to claim Your 
promise through Jeremiah; ‘‘Call on 
me and I will show you great and 
mighty things which you do not 
know’’.—Jeremiah 33:3. Enable the 
Senators to humble themselves and 
confess their need for Your inspiration. 
Endow them with wisdom to see clearly 
Your solutions to the perplexities we 
face. The bigger the problems, the 
more of Your power is available. Make 
the Senators positive, courageous problem 
solvers. Give them an unprecedented 
sense of oneness and unity to 
lead this great Nation together. You 
are our Lord and Saviour. Amen. 

f 


PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The Honorable JIM BUNNING, a Senator 
from the State of Kentucky, led 
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

Senate 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
able majority leader is recognized. 

Mr. LOTT. I thank the Chair. 

f 


APPRECIATION TO THE PRESI


DENT PRO TEMPORE AND THE 

CHAPLAIN 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I thank 
you for your presence today and for 
being ready to go at the appointed 
hour. 

Also, I express appreciation on behalf 
of the Senate for our Chaplain and for 
his wonderfully beautiful opening prayer. 
It is an inspiration to us. 

f 


WELCOME TO SENATORS AND 
STAFF 

Mr. LOTT. I welcome back staff 
members and our colleagues in the 
Senate. I hope you have all had a period 
of time with your families and rest 
and health and recuperation, and regeneration, 
and that you are ready to 
go. 

I see the Senator from California is 
ready and that other Senators are in 
the Chamber. I welcome you. We have 
several housekeeping matters to consider, 
but I do want to say again that 
we are glad to have you all back. 

f 


SCHEDULE 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, if Senators 
have statements they would like to 
make or legislation they would like to 
introduce, we will have a time for 
doing that today. I have talked to a 
number of Senators this morning, including 
my counterpart on the Democratic 
side, Senator DASCHLE, and everybody 
seems to be in good spirits and 
ready to go to work. We do have a lot 
of legislation that is pending, that has 
been reported out of committees and 
we hope to move to very quickly. We 

have a number of bills in conference 
that we hope to have started right 
away to move toward getting a conference 
report. I believe the Federal 
Aviation Administration conferees will 
meet, in fact, on Thursday to begin to 
do some work there. This week we have 
scheduled action on the bankruptcy reform 
bill. We spent a lot of time at the 
end of the session last year on that 
bill—in fact, I think it was over a 
week. We went through over 100 
amendments. We have narrowed the 
list down to a relatively small number. 
I visited with Senator DASCHLE about 
this legislation, and we will have some 
decision, some announcements we will 
make later on today about exactly how 
to proceed on bankruptcy reform. 

In addition to that, we will have legislation 
that will be pending after 
today under rule XIV with regard to 
the situation of Elian Gonzalez, the 
young boy from Cuba. The legislation 
advocated by Senator MACK, Senator 
TORRICELLI, Senator GRAHAM, and others 
would grant citizenship to this 
young boy and therefore have the matter 
of his situation determined by a 
custody court proceeding rather than 
Immigration. When that would come 
up will depend on a number of other 
things, but it could be available as 
early as Wednesday or it could be acted 
on instead next week. 

I remind my colleagues that there 
will be no rollcall votes during today’s 
session. I am sure many Senators will 
be in the Chamber to make statements 
and introduce bills. We will be taking 
legislative action on Tuesday and 
Wednesday, with the potential of a 
number of votes occurring Tuesday 
afternoon and/or Wednesday. On Thursday, 
we will have a conference retreat 
for Republicans at the Library of Congress 
so we will not be in session during 
the day. As a reminder, the State 
of the Union Address will be that 
night, Thursday, January 27, at 9 p.m., 
and therefore the Senate will convene 
at 8:40 p.m. in order to proceed to the 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S1 


S2 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

House of Representatives for that Address. 


Finally, for the remainder of this 
week, I hope we will look at exactly 
when we will take up the nuclear waste 
legislation. I presume that some action 
will be taken either late this week or 
early next week which will guarantee a 
vote. 

I appreciate my colleagues’ attention 

Hagel Mack Snowe 
Hollings McConnell Specter 
Hutchinson Moynihan Stevens 
Jeffords Murkowski Thomas 
Kennedy Nickles Thompson 
Kyl Reed Thurmond 
Landrieu Reid Voinovich 
Lautenberg Robb Warner 
Levin Roberts Wyden 
Lott Santorum 
Lugar Sessions 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unan-

MORNING BUSINESS 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent there be a period for the 
transaction of morning business until 6 
p.m., with Members permitted to speak 
for up to 10 minutes each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


and say again I look forward to work-imous consent that the quorum call be ORDER OF BUSINESS 

ing with Senators on both sides of the 
aisle. 

In order to confirm that the Senate 
is prepared to begin business in the second 
session of the 106th Congress, I now 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BUNNING). The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


WELCOME TO SENATORS AND 
STAFF 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I join 
the majority leader in welcoming back 
our colleagues, the President pro tempore, 
our Chaplain, and our staff. I 
think we all had a wonderful break. It 
is good to be back and see so many 
friendly faces. 

The majority leader and I had a good 
conversation earlier today and discussed 
a number of matters to be addressed 
in the early days of this session 
of Congress. I look forward to working 
with him and with our colleagues as we 
begin this second session of the 106th 
Congress. 

I might inquire, has the majority 
leader finished? I didn’t want to interrupt. 


Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, if I could 
respond to the distinguished Democratic 
leader, if he wishes to make a 
statement at this time that would be 
fine, but we need to establish a quorum 
so we can notify the President that the 
Senate is ready to work. 

The Senator can make his statement 
now or we can establish a quorum. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Why don’t we establish 
the quorum and I will comment 
later. 

QUORUM CALL 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
KYL). The clerk will call the roll to ascertain 
the presence of a quorum. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll and the following Senators 
entered the Chamber and answered to 
their names: 

[Quorum No. 1] 

Ashcroft Campbell Domenici 
Baucus Cochran Dorgan 
Bennett Collins Enzi 
Bingaman Craig Feinstein 
Bryan Daschle Fitzgerald 
Bunning DeWine Frist 
Byrd Dodd Grams 

dispensed with. I believe we have established 
a quorum and can proceed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. A quorum is 
present. 

f 


NOTIFYING THE PRESIDENT THE 

SENATE IS READY TO PROCEED 

TO BUSINESS 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I send a 
resolution to the desk notifying the 
President of the United States that the 
Senate is now ready to proceed to business, 
and I ask for its immediate 
consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will state the resolution by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 242) notifying the 
President the Senate is ready to proceed to 
business. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent the resolution be agreed 
to and the motion to reconsider be laid 
upon the table. 

There being no objection, the resolution 
(S. Res. 242) was agreed to, as 
follows: 

S. RES. 242 
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate 
inform the President of the United States 
that a quorum of the Senate is assembled 
and that the Senate is ready to proceed to 
business. 

f 


NOTIFYING THE HOUSE THAT THE 

SENATE IS READY TO PROCEED 

TO BUSINESS 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I send a 
resolution to the desk notifying the 
House that the Senate is now ready to 
proceed to business, and I ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will state the resolution by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 243) notifying the 
House the Senate is ready to proceed to 
business. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent the resolution be agreed 
to and the motion to reconsider be laid 
upon the table. 

There being no objection, the resolution 
(S. Res. 243) was agreed to, as 
follows: 

S. RES. 243 
Resolved, That the Secretary inform the 
House of Representatives that a quorum of 
the Senate is assembled and that the Senate 
is ready to proceed to business. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I believe 
the Democratic leader will be here momentarily. 
Senator DASCHLE had started 
to make a speech earlier when we 
first started the quorum call. I believe 
he will be here momentarily to deliver 
his remarks. I call on other Senators 
who have been prepared to make remarks. 
I believe Senator MACK and perhaps 
several others would like to make 
remarks before the Senate concludes 
business today. I am glad we have established 
a quorum and are now ready 
to proceed. 

I again remind Senators we will be in 
session on Tuesday and Wednesday of 
this week. They should expect votes 
possibly during the day on Tuesday and 
possibly several votes on Wednesday. 

It is our hope at this time that we 
can reach an agreement on how to proceed 
on the bankruptcy bill and we will 
be able to get an agreement on that 
and complete that bill which was carried 
over from the first session of this 
106th Congress, and hopefully we could 
finish it by Wednesday night. There 
has been an indication, I believe on 
both sides of the aisle, we hope we 
could do that. So that would be our 
desire. 

With regard to the matter of the 
young boy from Cuba, Elian Gonzalez, 
again what happens there will depend 
on events. Senator MACK will surely 
speak to that when he arrives in the 
Chamber. 

Then at some point next week we 
will initiate proceedings on the nuclear 
waste bill also. 

Those would be the first three issues 
we have pending before us. We will confer 
with the Democratic leadership and 
work on the bills that will be considered 
after that. 

Mr. President, since Senator 
DASCHLE has not arrived just yet, I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. MACK. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


MEASURE READ THE FIRST 
TIME—S. 1999 

Mr. MACK. Mr. President, I send a 
bill to the desk and ask for its first 
reading. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S. 1999) for the private relief of 
Elian Gonzalez Brotons. 

Mr. MACK. Mr. President, I now ask 
for its second reading. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

Mr. MACK. Mr. President, I then ask 
unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senate 
is in morning business. 

f 


ELIAN GONZALEZ 
Mr. MACK. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce a bill granting 
Elian Gonzalez American citizenship. 
What it means is that the most important 
decision in this young boy’s 
life will not be made by a political bureaucracy—
but by a family court. 
Mr. President, neither the President 
of the United States, his Attorney General, 
nor the dictator ruling Cuba is 
qualified to decide the fate of this little 
boy. The United States is a country 
of laws, and we zealously believe in the 
rule of law. Elian deserves access to 
the legal protections of our family 
courts. These courts are in the business 
of considering family cases day after 
day. And they would consider ‘‘what is 
in the boy’s best interest.’’ Today, the 
only concern of the INS is ‘‘who speaks 
for the boy,’’ not about his future. 
The primary purpose of this legislation 
is to ensure Elian has access to 
America’s family courts: a court that 
will consider the choice that his mother 
made when she gave her life for 
freedom. 
Mr. President, we will continue this 
debate sometime later in the week and 
make no mistake, I believe that Elian 
should remain here in the United 
States where he can live in freedom. 
But it is not my purpose to make that 
decision; that is the function of a family 
court. 
This bill is intended to allow a family 
court to settle this dispute based upon 
the best interests of Elian Gonzalez. 
I yield the floor. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
seeks time? The minority leader. 

f 


SECOND SESSION OF THE 106TH 
CONGRESS 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, let me 
again welcome our colleagues back. I 
had the opportunity this morning to 
discuss the schedule and the many mutual 
matters of concern with the majority 
leader. Let me again welcome 
back our staff and express heartfelt appreciation 
for the great job that so 
many of our people have done over the 
last couple of months while we have 
been gone. I welcome our colleagues 
back not only to a new session but a 
new year, a new century, and a new 
millennium. 

As we begin this new year, Americans 
have every reason to be proud and 

optimistic. In the last decade of the 
last century, we saw freedom and democracy 
triumph around the globe. We 
saw Eastern Europe abandon communism 
and the Soviet Union disintegrate. 
We saw Nelson Mandela walk 
out of prison and into history as the 
first democratically elected President 
of the new South Africa. 

Here at home we restored strength to 
America’s economy. We started the 
last decade with the biggest budget 
deficits in our Nation’s history, and we 
ended it with the biggest budget surplus. 
We have seen more than 20 million 
new jobs created in the last 7 
years. Today we have the lowest unemployment 
in 40 years, and the lowest 
unemployment ever among African 
Americans and Hispanics. Americans 
are working again. 

Finally, after 20 years, real wages for 
America’s families are growing again. 
Family incomes are up, and inflation is 
virtually nonexistent. 

We also made progress in the last 
decade on the many social problems 
that some people thought were intractable. 
Since 1993, we have seen a 48-percent 
decrease in the welfare rolls, the 
largest decline in our Nation’s history. 
We put 100,000 new police officers on 
the street, and today the violent crime 
rate is the lowest it has been in a generation. 
We enacted the single largest 
investment in children’s health since 
1965 and the largest increases in higher 
education since the GI bill. Today our 
Nation is prospering, and we are at 
peace. 

The question facing us as we begin 
this new session of Congress, this first 
session of the 21st century, is: How do 
we keep America moving in the right 
direction? How do we provide the leadership 
that will help continue the global 
march toward freedom and democracy? 


Here at home, how do we keep our 
economy growing? How do we help ordinary 
Americans provide for their 
families and prepare for their future? 
How do we widen the circle of opportunity 
to include those who have been 
left out up until now? 

There are many, frankly, who believe 
we will not answer those questions this 
year. They look at how little we accomplished 
last year and the fact that 
this is a Presidential year and conclude 
that little or nothing will happen between 
now and November. It does not 
have to be that way. 

A month ago, a lot of people thought 
the Y2K bug might cause all kinds of 
chaos. Instead, almost nothing happened. 
When it comes to us, when it 
comes to this Congress, people expect 
nothing to happen this year. Why not 
surprise them? We have extraordinary 
opportunities to do significant work 
this year, and we should work together 
to seize those opportunities. 

Let’s not worry about who gets the 
credit. Let’s worry about getting the 
job done. 

If the best minds in this country 
could work together to kill the Y2K 

bug, surely the best minds in the Senate 
can work together this year to protect 
Social Security, to modernize 
Medicare, and to pass a real Patients’ 
Bill of Rights. We can work together to 
improve our children’s schools. Working 
together, surely we can find new 
ways to help ordinary working families 
earn more and keep more of what they 
earn. 

There are all kinds of reasons for inaction, 
but there is not one good excuse. 
Henry Ford once said, ‘‘You can’t 
build a reputation on what you are 
going to do.’’ 

You cannot construct much of an argument 
for governing either just talking 
about what you are going to do. 
Eventually, one has to act. 

I believe there are essentially three 
challenges facing us this year. If we 
meet these challenges, I believe, frankly, 
that it will be good for both of our 
parties next November. Good policy, as 
they say, is good politics. 

More importantly, if we meet these 
challenges, it will be good for America, 
for our economy, for our families, and 
certainly for our future. 

Our first challenge is to maintain our 
fiscal discipline. Later this week, we 
expect new estimates from CBO and 
OMB about how large the surplus 
might be in the year 2010. We do not 
know today what their predictions will 
be, but we do know today that the best 
first use of whatever surplus we have is 
to protect Social Security and 
strengthen Medicare. 

Now—when our economy is strong, 
when we have a surplus, when we still 
have time on our side—is the time to 
prepare for the baby boomers’ retirement 
by extending the life of the Social 
Security trust fund. Now is the 
time to modernize Medicare and add 
the prescription drug benefit so people 
do not have to choose between filling 
prescriptions and paying utility bills. 
That is an essential part of maintaining 
fiscal discipline. 

Maintaining fiscal discipline also 
means paying down our $5 trillion national 
debt. Mr. President, $2,200 is how 
much our national debt will cost every 
family in America this year. Think 
what a family could do with that much 
money. 

My colleagues and I support tax cuts 
that help working families with real, 
pressing needs such as child care and 
paying for college and caring for sick 
and aging relatives. We support eliminating 
the marriage penalty tax for 
couples who pay a marriage penalty. 
We support tax cuts that help small 
businesses grow and make it easier to 
keep family businesses in families. 

We want to work with our friends on 
the other side of the aisle to pass responsible, 
targeted tax cuts this year, 
but we all know what the best tax cut 
is. The best tax cut for America’s families 
and America’s businesses is to pay 
down the Federal debt. 

This year, because of the progress we 
have made since 1993 in eliminating the 
deficit and reducing the debt, the average 
American family will save $2,000 on 


S4 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

their mortgage, $200 on their car loan, 
and $200 more on student loans. 

The American people made it clear 
last year they do not want a tax cut 
that is so big it wrecks the economy. 
They do not want a tax cut that is 
going to explode in a few years and add 
to our debt. They do not want a tax cut 
that disproportionately rewards the 
people at the very top at the expense of 
everyone else. What they want is for us 
to maintain our commitment to fiscal 
discipline and to Social Security and 
Medicare. 

Our second challenge is to expand our 
economic recovery, not just sustain it, 
but to broaden and deepen it to include 
more families and more communities. 

These are extraordinarily good times 
for many Americans, but too many 
families in this country are still struggling 
to afford even the basics. Too 
many children go to bed hungry. Too 
many Americans still live on the outskirts 
of hope. The people who have 
been left out of this recovery include 
some of the hardest working, most decent 
people you would ever want to 
meet. 

They include working mothers who 
get up before it is light and take three 
buses to get to their jobs at nursing 
homes. They include former factory 
workers who lost their economic footing 
when the plant closed, who work 
now at jobs that pay one-third as 
much, with no benefits. 

They include farmers and ranchers in 
South Dakota and across the country 
who work 12 hours a day, 7 days a 
week, who are out there right now in 
the bitter cold and snow, not even 
making back their production costs, 
earning less than their parents and 
grandparents earned in the Great Depression. 


Throughout our history, from our 
earliest days as a nation, Americans 
have always strived to do better. We 
did not stop when we cured polio. We 
said: Now let’s cure cancer. 

Next week, we will become the first 
Americans ever to achieve 107 consecutive 
months of economic expansion. 
Surely we will not be the first Americans 
to say: This is all we can do. We 
have reached the end of our possibilities. 


Let us together expand this recovery. 

Our third challenge this year is to 
finish what we left unfinished last 
year. We need to pass a real Patients’ 
Bill of Rights that lets medical professionals, 
not HMO bureaucrats, make 
medical decisions. Senator LOTT and I 
discussed that just this morning. I do 
hope there is a real possibility for compromise 
and ultimately for the successful 
completion of our work on a Patients’ 
Bill of Rights. 

We need to increase the number of 
Americans with private health coverage. 
We need to help communities repair 
schools that are falling down and 
expand schools that are filled beyond 
capacity. 

We also need to help communities 
hire qualified teachers and keep the 

good teachers who are already in the 
classroom. It is the only way we can 
fill the 2.2 million teacher vacancies we 
know will exist within the next 10 
years. 

We need to keep the crime rates moving 
in the right direction by making it 
harder for kids and criminals to get 
guns, keeping our commitment to put 
another 50,000 new police officers on 
the beat by the year 2005, and giving 
law enforcement the resources they 
need to combat hate crimes. 

We need to keep crime rates moving 
in the right direction by cracking down 
on scam artists who target the elderly 
and by filling the vacancies on the Federal 
bench this year—no more excuses, 
no more delays. 

Also this year, we need to make it 
easier for parents who work full time 
to raise their families out of poverty 
by raising the minimum wage $1 an 
hour and expanding the earned-income 
tax credit. 

We need to pass meaningful, comprehensive 
campaign finance reform. 

Finally, we need to continue opening 
up new markets for American goods 
and services by passing the Africa 
trade/Caribbean Basin free trade initiative 
this year. 

So those three challenges ought to be 
ones we all share: 

No. 1, maintain our fiscal discipline, 
protect Social Security and Medicare, 
and pay down the debt; 

No. 2, expand the recovery to families 
and communities that have not yet 
benefited from it; and 

No. 3, finish what we left unfinished 
last year. 

In the weeks since we were together, 
I was fortunate to be able to spend a 
wonderful holiday with my family. I 
got to spend a lot of time in South Dakota. 
I talked with some remarkable 
people—from business and education 
leaders who are working together in 
Sioux Falls to try to keep up with the 
demand for high-tech workers, to family 
farmers and ranchers who are working 
practically around the clock to 
scratch out a living. 

I talked to a farm wife who gets up at 

4:30 in the morning and drives over 90 
miles to get to Howard, SD, to work at 
the PMB plant there, as they wrap 
every Pokemon card that is distributed 
in the United States—right there in 
Howard, SD—only to drive another 90 
miles back getting home, sometime 
after 7:30 at night, to do it all over 
again the next day. 
That work ethic is representative of 
the work ethic all across South Dakota 
and the upper Midwest. 

I had the privilege of traveling with 
Senators AKAKA, DODD, and HARRY 
REID to one of the most amazing, and 
troubled, regions of the world: India 
and Pakistan. We went to promote 
trade and understanding, but we also 
went to encourage both India and Pakistan 
to defuse the tensions between 
their nations and to step back from 
their increasingly tense nuclear arms 
race. I am hopeful we made some 
progress on both matters. 

Being in those two nations reminded 
me again of how fortunate we Americans 
are. We talked to Tibetan refugees 
who fled Tibet over the 19,000-foot Himalayan 
Mountains, suffering the 
worst maladies in health, recognizing 
that 40 percent of them might have to 
deal with serious frostbite on their feet 
and hands by the time they arrived in 
Nepal—only to do it because they 
wanted to be free, only to do it because 
they, too, wanted to experience at least 
some element of democracy. 

There is so much we as beneficiaries 
of democracy take for granted. I do not 
mean simply our material wealth and 
consumer comforts; I mean our most 
precious possession of all, our freedom. 
You recognize that every time you 
travel abroad, whether it is Pakistan, 
Nepal, India, or any other country. 

India, the world’s largest democracy, 
is now celebrating the 53rd anniversary 
of its independence this year and the 
50th anniversary of its Constitution. 
Perhaps because democracy is still relatively 
young in India, perhaps because 
of the high price they paid for their liberty, 
the people I spoke with in India 
seemed very much aware of how rare 
and how fragile democracy is. 

In Pakistan, we visited a country 
where a democratically elected government 
had only a few months before 
been toppled and replaced by a military 
ruler—another reminder of how 
privileged we are to live in the world’s 
oldest and most secure democracy. 

I am encouraged by my discussions 
with General Musharraf and very hopeful 
they can restore economic progress, 
restore democratic institutions, and 
can find a way with which to begin resolving 
the regional conflict that is so 
prevalent in all the conversations we 
had with leaders in both countries, 
India and Pakistan. 

Democracies are not perpetual motion 
machines. As the great poet laureate 
Archibald MacLeish wrote: 

America is never finished. America is always 
becoming. 

Every American has a responsibility 
to make our democracy work. But we 
who have been granted the privilege of 
serving in this body have a unique responsibility. 
The Congress is no ordinary 
institution. This is where Americans 
come to solve our common problems 
and shape our national destiny. 
This is also where younger democracies 
of the world turn for guidance and 
where people and nations not yet free 
look for hope. That was so evident in 
our conversations with people in all 
the countries we visited on this too 
brief a visit to the subcontinent a couple 
of weeks ago. 

Are we going to live up to our responsibility 
to make this institution work, 
as we know it can? Are we going to 
meet the challenges before us and pass 
measures that will make a real difference 
in people’s lives or are we simply 
going to pass time until the next 
election? 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5 

As we begin this new session of Congress, 
let us resolve together to surprise 
everyone and do what needs to be 
done. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Mississippi. 

f 


NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE 
SYSTEM TESTING 

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, last 
week the Department of Defense conducted 
its most recent flight test of 
our National Missile Defense system. A 
great deal has been said and written 
about this test in the last few days— 
much of it erroneous—and I think it is 
important that we draw the correct 
conclusions about what this test does 
and does not mean. 

The test conducted last week was one 
of a series of 18 scheduled flight tests of 
the National Missile Defense system, 
and only the second to actually attempt 
to intercept a strategic ballistic 
missile by colliding with it in space. 
The first test this past October was primarily 
a test of the vehicle that actually 
hits the target missile. Last 
week’s test was significantly more 
complicated and involved additional, 
newly developed elements of the National 
Missile Defense system, such as 
the ground-based radar and the Battle 
Management Command, Control and 
Communications system. In fact, a senior 
Defense Department official told reporters 
before the test that the battle 
management system is: ‘‘the most difficult 
and sophisticated part of this entire 
program.’’ 

The latest test began with the launch 
of an intercontinental ballistic missile 
from Vandenberg Air Force Base in 
California. After its rocket engine 
burned out, the target missile deployed 
both a mock warhead and a balloon 
decoy intended to try to fool the interceptor 
missile. The missile was tracked 
by satellites and by the National Missile 
Defense system’s ground-based 
radar at Kwajalein Atoll in the South 
Pacific, and the interceptor missile 
was launched to meet the target. It 
sighted the target missile and then 
closed on it. 

While the interceptor did not hit the 
target warhead, it appeared that all of 
the systems tested functioned properly 
until the final six seconds of these, 
when the infrared sensors on the interceptor 
vehicle did not operate correctly—
as they had in the October test. 

While the failure to hit the target is 
disappointing, it is hardly justification 
for all the negative comments I have 
heard about last week’s test. It’s important 
to remember that a test program 
involves the testing of weapon 
systems to see if they perform as they 
were designed. The purpose of this test 
program is to uncover problems and 
correct them. If it were possible to 
take a design straight from the drawing 
board to the field, we wouldn’t need 
testing programs. We test because we 
expect to find problems and try to 
solve them. 

What’s remarkable about the National 
Missile Defense testing is not 
that the intercept vehicle missed on 
the second test but that it succeeded 
on the first one. Many newly introduced 
elements had to work right on 
this most recent test even to achieve a 
near miss, and the really significant 
news on this test is that all of the new 
elements which added complexity to 
the challenge seemed to have performed 
very well; the only thing that 
apparently didn’t work properly was 
the one element which was already 
proven to work in the October flight. 

Some of the critics of missile defense 
have said this test was a major setback 
for the program. It was not. In fact, it 
demonstrated significant progress in 
the development of a workable and reliable 
National Missile Defense capability. 


The October flight was primarily a 
test of the intercept vehicle and its 
ability to identify a target in space, 
discriminate between the warhead and 
a decoy, and collide with the warhead. 
It did exactly what it was designed to 
do, but critics of the program claimed 
that had the decoy not attracted the 
intercept vehicle’s attention, it never 
would have detected the warhead. They 
argued that the system can not work 
when there are decoys, and only did 
work because there was a decoy. 

As ridiculous as that sounds, it has 
been echoed by those who have long opposed 
missile defense in any form. An 
editorial in the New York Times 
claimed that the October success was 
‘‘lucky’’ and occurred ‘‘almost by accident.’’ 
Now wait a minute and think 
about this. When two objects—each 
about the size of a chair, launched 4300 
miles apart and traveling at a combined 
speed of 15,000 miles an hour— 
collide in the vastness of space 140 
miles above the Earth’s surface, that’s 
not an accident. That’s a demonstration 
of some very capable technology 
and engineering. 

Clearly, for some, no amount of evidence 
will be convincing. But repeating 
something that’s wrong doesn’t make 
it right. 

Predictably, some are urging the National 
Missile Defense program be 
slowed down or even shelved in the 
wake of last week’s test. For some critics, 
delay or cancellation is always the 
right course of action when it comes to 
missile defense. Others suggest abandoning 
this program for another approach 
using different basing modes, 
but that will only delay the National 
Missile Defense deployment we need 
now. Still others believe the administration’s 
assessment of technological 
readiness should be delayed in order to 
remove the decision from presidential 
politics. This, too, would be a mistake. 

We have a National Missile Defense 
program because we have a growing 
vulnerability to the threat of ballistic 
missile attack. That threat will not 
wait for us to conduct a test program 
with perfect results, something that 
has never happened with any weapon 

system. Delay in deploying a defense 
against these missiles only serves the 
interests of our adversaries. 

This threat is growing. We must all 
remember that this program is not just 
an academic exercise. The Senate 
passed the National Missile Defense 
Act last spring; in September the Intelligence 
Community released a new National 
Intelligence Estimate of the ballistic 
missile threat which, according 
to its unclassified summary, judges 
that some rogue states may have 
ICBMs much sooner than previously 
thought, and that those missiles will 
be more sophisticated than previously 
estimated. In just the past few weeks, 
British authorities intercepted components 
bound for Libya for missiles with 
three times the range of Tripoli’s current 
arsenal. According to news reports 
from last week, the Director of Central 
Intelligence cannot rule out that Iran 
may already be able to build a nuclear 
weapon. And this past weekend, North 
Korea said it was reconsidering its declaration 
to refrain from any more long-
range missile tests, though of course a 
moratorium on flight testing, however 
long, does not mean that North Korea 
isn’t making progress on its missile development 
programs. 

While the threat continues to intensify, 
we’ve already had too much delay 
in deploying a missile defense system. 
In fact, we are behind today precisely 
because those who counsel delay have 
long had their way, not because of any 
inherent problems with the technology. 
What’s required now is that we stay 
the course we set for ourselves when we 
passed the National Missile Defense 
Act of 1999. That act makes it the policy 
of the United States to deploy a 
National Missile Defense system as 
soon as technologically possible. With 
the successful test in October and last 
week’s test incorporating additional 
elements of the National Missile Defense 
system, the talented men and 
women of our armed forces and industry 
have demonstrated that this system 
is technologically possible. The 
test program is in its early stages and 
much can and will be done to refine the 
system between now and the start of 
missile production. But there is no 
question that this technology is not 
just within our reach but is actually in 
our grasp now. 

I congratulate the Defense Department 
for the extraordinary technical 
accomplishments it has achieved so 
far, and urge it to continue to work to 
improve this important program. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

f 


PAYING DOWN THE DEBT 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
before I start my principal subject, I 
will take a couple minutes to commend 
the Democratic leader for his earlier 
comments. 

We are all ready to go to work, and 
tomorrow we start with the Budget 


S6 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Committee. We are to hear from Chairman 
Greenspan from the Federal Reserve, 
and we are going to be talking 
about where we go from here in terms 
of the economy. 

Based on what I hear in the various 
Presidential campaigns, it looks as 
though we are going to be discussing 
paying down the debt to some degree. 
The question is, to what degree? Where 
is it that we ought to be focusing the 
use of the significant balances, the surpluses 
we are going to see? I hope, consistent 
with Senator DASCHLE’s comments, 
we will not be looking at tax 
cuts as a principal direction. To paraphrase 
Will Rogers, I never met anyone 
who didn’t want to pay less taxes. But 
the fact is, our economy is moving at 
the pace it is for very specific reasons— 
encouraging investment, curbing our 
spending, and in many cases curbing it 
where it hurts but is necessary to get 
through this transitory period where 
we went from a debit balance to a credit 
balance. Looking at our surpluses 
and wondering about the debates, I 
contemplate where we are going to be 
spending these surpluses. I think the 
way to continue this prosperity, the 
way to make sure that America goes 
into this new century with as much energy 
as it can have, is to be looking at 
paying down the debt, paying it down 
as fully as we can, taking care of the 
essential programs that we know are 
needed by our constituents across the 
country. 

The last thing I think people want to 
see is random tax cuts that benefit the 
wealthy to an unusually high degree, 
while those struggling to make a living 
are concerned about interest costs for 
mortgages, their schooling, and various 
other things that are an important 
part of basic life. 

f 


EXPRESSING SYMPATHY FOR THE 

VICTIMS OF THE TRAGIC FIRE 

AT SETON HALL UNIVERSITY 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Senate Resolution 244, which I 
introduced earlier today with Senator 
TORRICELLI. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 244) expressing sympathy 
for the victims of the tragic fire at 
Seton Hall University in South Orange, New 
Jersey, on January 19, 2000. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
tragedy struck in New Jersey last 
week. It was obviously of enough significant 
interest that it was portrayed 
across the country. Three students who 
were 18 years old lost their lives in a 
dormitory fire, and several others were 
seriously injured. We are still waiting, 

home. I know Seton Hall University 
well. I know the president and the 
archbishop of the diocese; we are very 
good friends. 

Everybody wanted to reach out and 
do something. The first of the three funerals 
was held today. It is a sad day. 
It raises a question about what we 
should expect in a dormitory. Hindsight 
won’t do us much good in this instance. 
The building they were in was 
built a long time ago. The tragic fire 
took place last Wednesday. The fire 
started inside a six-story residence 
hall. It took the lives of 3 students and 
injured 62 others, including at least 58 
students, 2 police officers, and 2 firefighters. 


Mr. President, we don’t have to tell 
anybody that nothing is as painful as a 
senseless accident—which perhaps we 
can avoid seeing in the future—that 
takes the lives of young people. Anyone 
who is a parent or relative of an 18year-
old would be seriously grieved by 
what happened. 

I know I speak for all of us in the 
Senate in extending our sympathies to 
the families of the three students who 
died in the fire. They are Frank 
Caltabilota of West Long Branch, NJ; 
John Giunta of Vineland, NJ; and 
Aaron Karol of Green Brook, NJ, whose 
funeral was the first one this morning. 

We also extend our support and prayers 
to the families of the students and 
the others who were injured. We are 
tremendously grateful to the firefighters 
and the other people who 
worked so hard to prevent the loss of 
more lives. 

It is still too early to know what 
caused this fire, but we must make 
sure, once the cause is known, that 
Federal, State, and local jurisdictions 
take whatever steps are necessary to 
prevent this from happening again. 
Students have a fundamental right to 
pursue an education in a safe, secure 
environment. Parents have a right to 
know their children are protected from 
harm while on school property. 

Seton Hall University is holding a 
memorial service tomorrow for the victims 
of the fire. The enormity of this 
tragedy, however, extends far beyond 
the confines of Seton Hall University’s 
campus. At the very least, the investigation 
of this catastrophe should 
sharpen our focus on fire prevention at 
campuses across the country and 
should mark this fire, Lord willing, as 
the last one of its kind. 

I have introduced this resolution, 
which should pass the Senate today, 
expressing the sympathy of the entire 
Senate to the families of the victims 
and the Seton Hall community. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the resolution. 


The resolution (S. Res. 244) was 

agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution, with its preamble, 

reads as follows: 

mons area on the third floor of Boland Hall, 
a six story residence hall housing 600 students 
at Seton Hall University, and this fire 
took the lives of three students—Frank S. 
Caltabilota of West Long Branch, New Jersey, 
John N. Giunta of Vineland, New Jersey 
and Aaron C. Karol of Green Brook, New Jersey, 
and, in addition, 58 persons were injured, 
including 54 students, two South Orange firefighters 
and two South Orange police officers; 


Whereas numerous Seton Hall students 
risked their own lives as the fire broke out 
to save the lives of their fellow dormitory 
residents; 

Whereas firefighters, paramedics, police officers 
and other emergency personnel from 
the surrounding communities worked bravely 
into the early morning darkness to reduce 
casualties and extinguish the fire; 

Whereas the entire Seton Hall University 
community has banded together in grief to 
remember the fallen students, and numerous 
people outside the university recognize the 
enormity of this tragedy and the need to do 
everything possible to keep it from happening 
again since every student should be 
able to pursue an education in a safe, secure 
environment: 

Now, therefore be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) expresses its sympathy to the families 
and friends of Frank S. Caltabilota, John N. 
Giunta and Aaron C. Karol on the occasion of 
the funeral service on January 25, 2000; 
(2) expresses its hope for a speedy recovery 
to those students, firefighters and police officers 
injured in the fire; 
(3) expresses its support for all of the students, 
faculty and staff at Seton Hall University 
as they heal from this tragedy; 
(4) expresses its support and thanks to the 
brave firefighters, paramedics, police and 
other emergency workers who saved numerous 
lives; 
(5) pledges to ensure that Federal, State 
and local government entities work together 
to prevent a tragedy like this from occurring 
again, so that our nation’s college students 
can live, work and study in the safest possible 
environment. 
Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider the vote and to lay 
that motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Rhode Island is recognized. 

f 


THE TRAGIC FIRE AT SETON HALL 
UNIVERSITY 

Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me associate 
myself with the remarks of the 
Senator from New Jersey. I agree with 
him on the seriousness of the tragedy 
that befell his constituents in New Jersey. 
Several years ago, in Rhode Island, 
we had a similar tragic experience at 
another Dominican college, Providence 
College, where many students were injured 
and several were practically 
killed. All of us in America extend our 
sympathy to these families in New Jersey 
and to the Seton Hall University 
academic community. 

f 


THE NIXON V. SHRINK MISSOURI 
GOVERNMENT PAC DECISION 

with hope and prayer, to hear that they S. RES. 244 Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to 
are going to be able to recover. This is Whereas at approximately 4:30 a.m. on Jan-take a moment to inform the Senate 
virtually in my neighborhood back uary 19, 2000, a fire broke out in the com-that today the U.S. Supreme Court, in 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7 

the case of Nixon v. Shrink Missouri 
Government PAC, upheld contribution 
limits in the campaign finance system 
of the United States. 

This was a victory for our democracy. 
It was a victory for the voters because, 
essentially, what the Court said 
is that elections in the United States 
are about votes, not about money. 
They affirmed the core holding of 
Buckley v. Valeo that reasonable contribution 
limits in Federal campaigns—
and today, by extension, in 
State elections—are constitutionally 
permissible. I was very pleased with 
this decision. 

Several months ago, I organized an 
amicus curiae brief, which was submitted 
to the Supreme Court in this 
case, and advocated the position the 
Court adopted today—that contribution 
limits are, in fact, permissible 
under the Constitution of the United 
States. 

Again, this is a victory for those who 
would like to see elections be contests 
of ideas rather than clashes of special 
interests, amplified by huge amounts 
of money. Today is a victory for voters 
who, by their decreasing numbers, 
show their disenchantment with the 
political system. They feel the system 
is not about ideas or candidates’ positions, 
but really about the candidates’ 
treasure chests. This feeling is a corrosive 
force that undermines democracy 
in this country. Well, today, the Supreme 
Court held the line and declared 
that we can impose reasonable limits 
on campaign contributions. 

As Justice Souter said in his opinion, 
this is a situation in which the perception 
of corruption is as powerful as the 
reality of corruption. If voters perceive 
that the system is not benefiting them, 
but benefitting a special few who contribute, 
they will lose faith in the system. 
That loss of faith will ultimately 
disrupt our ability to conduct a democratic 
government here in the United 
States. 

The decision today also indicates 
that we have both the opportunity and, 
I argue, the obligation to move forward 
on broader campaign finance reform. 
Today, the court said that, in fact, we 
can limit direct contributions of hard 
dollars to campaigns. By extension, 
they give us, I hope, the impetus to go 
ahead and extend these limits to soft 
money, because we all recognize that 
soft money is dominating the political 
scene today. As we speak, an avalanche 
of soft money is entering into our political 
system as part of the Presidential 
campaign and various federal 
and state campaigns for office. Soft 
money contributions were 75 percent 
higher in 1999 than in the same period 
in 1997. We can do something about 
this. The Supreme Court has confirmed 
our ability to legislate, and we should 
move very quickly and very forcefully 
to adopt, I believe, a total ban on soft 
money—but at the minimum to impose 
limits on soft money. 

If we don’t do that, again we will undermine 
the faith and the trust of the 

people of this country in our electoral 
system. They trust and have faith that 
we are a nation ruled by votes and not 
by the size of political contributions. 

We have lots of work to do, and we 
should begin immediately. I sense, as 
many do, that one of the reasons we 
have been stalling on campaign finance 
reform in this body is because some 
people were able to offer up an easy excuse, 
that we should wait to see if contribution 
limits are going to be upheld 
by the Court as constitutional. 

The Supreme Court has now decided. 
They have spoken in a very strong 
voice today, by a vote of 6 to 3, and declared 
that reasonable limits on contributions 
are constitutionally appropriate. 
As a result, I believe we should 
take their decision Nixon v. Shrink 
Missouri Government PAC case and 
build on it by limiting soft money and 
other forms of indirect contributions. 

Let me quote from Justice Souter: 

. . . there is little reason to doubt that 
sometimes large contributions will work actual 
corruption of our political system, and 
no reason to question the existence of a corresponding 
suspicion among voters. 

Today’s decision is an anecdote to 
that suspicion, but the real cure will 
come when we adopt comprehensive 
campaign finance reform by outlawing 
soft money and placing other reasonable 
restrictions on the electoral process. 


Today the Court discharged their responsibility. 
Now it is time to take up 
ours. The Supreme Court declared that 
we can act. We should act. I hope this 
decision will be a source of energy for 
us this Congress, so that we can work 
together on a bipartisan basis for adoption 
of reasonable and sensible campaign 
finance reform. 

I thank the President. I yield the 
floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oregon is recognized. 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, before 
Senator REED leaves the floor, I wish 
to commend my colleague from Rhode 
Island for all of his leadership on this 
issue. I was proud to join him as one 
Member of this body on the brief. He 
has consistently talked about the need 
to drain the swamp that has become 
America’s system of financing campaigns. 
I share his view. 

I note also Senator HOLLINGS is here 
as well. Senator HOLLINGS I think is 
absolutely right as well in saying that 
we probably ought to have a constitutional 
amendment to ensure we have 
comprehensive campaign finance reform. 
But the good news is that the Supreme 
Court today opened a window for 
meaningful reform opportunities and 
meaningful reform legislation. 

I commend my colleague from Rhode 
Island for all of his leadership. 

f 


PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE 
FOR SENIOR CITIZENS 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I will be 
brief this afternoon. I note Senator 
HOLLINGS is here and also Senator 
GRAMS. 

I come to the floor because last fall I 
indicated that I would come to the 
floor of the Senate again and again 
until this body passed bipartisan legislation 
to make sure the Nation’s older 
people secure prescription drug coverage 
under Medicare. We have had 
some very exciting developments on 
this issue in recent days. I think all 
the work that has been put in by so 
many parties is beginning to pay off. 

I think the reason there is such intense 
interest in this issue is that 
while Medicare provides important 
health insurance coverage for older 
people, its coverage still today has 
many gaps. In particular, it doesn’t 
cover prescription medicine. 

There is not anyone I know today— 
Democrat or Republican—who would 
argue that if we are going to redesign 
Medicare now, we would leave prescription 
drugs out. Quite the contrary. Virtually 
everyone who has studied this 
issue believes prescription drug coverage 
is absolutely critical because today’s 
medicines are key to keeping 
older people well. The drugs of the future 
are going to help lower blood pressure 
and cholesterol. 

I cited on the floor of the Senate the 
important anticoagulant medicines. If 
you spend perhaps $1,000 or $1,500 in a 
year, you can prevent stroke. If an 
older person suffers a stroke as a result 
of not having access to those medicines, 
they could incur expenses of 
$100,000 or more. So the need is intense. 

This is an issue that must be addressed 
in a bipartisan way. For many 
months now, there has been a bipartisan 
effort in the Senate. Senator 
SNOWE and I have teamed up on legislation 
which we believe, using marketplace 
principles, addresses many of the 
concerns Senators on both sides of the 
aisle have had. It doesn’t contain price 
controls or a sort of one-size-fits-all 
approach. 

We would allow for a tobacco tax to 
finance the program. We don’t require 
one. We say that it would be possible to 
finance the program using the general 
fund. But 54 Members of the Senate, a 
majority of the Senate, voted for the 
SNOWE-WYDEN funding plan for prescription 
drug coverage for older people. 
We now have a majority of the 
Senate in a recorded vote saying they 
would be willing to pay the dollars 
needed for a good prescription drug 
benefit for older people. 

Our approach in the Snowe-Wyden 
legislation focuses on making these 
drugs accessible and affordable. Right 
now Medicare, of course, doesn’t cover 
prescriptions. But just as importantly, 
older people, when they can afford 
their medicine, and go to a drugstore 
are, in effect, having to subsidize the 
big buyers—the HMOs and the health 
plans that can negotiate discounts. 

In effect, the older people are getting 
shellacked twice when it comes to this 
issue of prescription drugs. They get no 
coverage. They have to subsidize the 
benefits, in effect, of those who have 
real bargaining power—those who are 
on the health plans. 


S8 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

I would like to wrap up with a couple sive medical services that are available tion to considerable medical expenses for 
of minutes on an issue that I know is under what is called Part A of the 

eyeglasses, hearing aids and other health 

important to South Carolina and in 
Minnesota, as well as my home State 
of Oregon. That is the plight of rural 
older people. There has been some discussion 
of this prescription drug issue, 
of course, on the floor of the Senate, 
but never before has there been a focus 
on the special needs of older people in 
rural communities. 

In my State—and I know in the 
States of Senator HOLLINGS and Senator 
GRAMS as well—if you live in a 
rural community, you have fewer physicians 
available to write medications. 
You have fewer pharmacies so that 
medication is not accessible. You have 
to drive longer distances in order to 
get your medicine. 

We found, according to the Oregon 
Health Sciences University’s Office of 
Rural Health, that a conservative number 
of seniors in rural Oregon who live 
in poverty is 16,500. I can tell you, having 
gone through many of those rural 
communities during the break, that 
there is a special need for coverage for 
prescription drugs for older people in 
rural communities. 

I will wrap up by reading a few of the 
accounts older people from rural Oregon 
have sent me about the problems 
they are having in affording their medicine. 
An elderly couple, for example, 
in Baker City depending solely on Social 
Security takes prescription drugs 
for chronic back ailments. After they 
purchase their monthly medication, 
they have only $200 for that month left 
over to pay for their necessities. 

They wrote me, and I am going to 
quote: ‘‘. . . that is not living, that is 
existing.’’ 

I think all of us know you cannot 
live on $200 a month. Yet that is what 
an older couple in Baker City, OR, are 
faced with after they finish paying for 
their prescription medicine. 

In Clatsop County, after an older 
couple paid for their supplemental coverage, 
they had to spent $450 a month 
on their prescription medicine. They 
fear their supplemental insurance premium 
is going to go up again this year. 
That is always the case. They are then 
going to have to stop taking their 
medication altogether. 

In Coos County, a 75-year-old female 
resident is getting by on a fixed income 
of about $800 a month. Every single 
month she is spending more than 25 
percent of her monthly income on prescription 
medicine. 

One older woman in that county lives 
on Social Security and doesn’t have 
any prescription drug coverage at all. 
She is now at the point where she cannot 
afford spending the necessary $200 
a month for her medications. 

Before I came to Congress, I tried to 
specialize in the gerontology field. As 
sure as night follows day, when we 
have a vulnerable older woman who 
cannot, in a cold Oregon winter, afford 
to take her medications, she is going to 
get much sicker. Very often she will 
end up in the hospital needing exten-

Medicare program, the institutional 
program. 

We ask: Can we afford to cover prescription 
drug medicine? That example 
I just gave of the older woman in Coos 
County makes it very clear this country 
cannot afford not to cover prescription 
drugs for older people under Medicare. 
If older folks do not get these 
medications, they are going to get sick 
and the medical bills will be far higher. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD many other 
cases from rural Oregon. 

There being no objection, the material 
ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

RURAL CASE STUDIES 
A 75-year-old hearing impaired woman 
from Coquille living on Social Security does 
not have any prescription drug coverage. She 
cannot afford spending the necessary $200 a 
month for her medications. 
Deschutes County: An 83-year-old woman 
from Sisters and her 79-year-old husband are 
currently taking 12 prescription drugs to 
treat diabetes, osteoarthritis and hypertension. 
Their sole source of income is Social 
Security, and they incur a cost of $400 a 
month for these medications, which represents 
25% of their income. 
Lincoln County: An 81-year-old widow from 
Toledo currently takes eight prescription 
drugs daily for glaucoma, angina and high 
blood pressure. Social Security is her only 
income, and her Medicare supplemental insurance 
policy does not cover the medication. 
If she doesn’t use her eye drops she will 
go blind, and if she cuts down the dosage on 
her other medication, due to expense, she is 
in danger of having a stroke or a heart attack. 
Linn County: A 78-year-old woman living in 
Lebanon suffers from hypertension. She is 
presently taking six prescription drugs: 
Atenolol, Ziac, Zestril, Cimetidine, Quinidine 
and Xanax. She spends an average of 
$236.92 a month on these drugs. This figure 
does not count her considerable expense on 
over-the-counter medication and vitamins. 
A retired couple from Lebanon live on a 
combined Social Security income of $990 a 
month. They suffer from arthritis, high 
blood pressure and osteoporosis. Because of 
the increasing financial strain, they can no 
longer afford their medications. 
Umatilla County: An elderly couple from 
Pendleton lives on a combined fixed income 
of $1,269 a month from Social Security and 
relies solely on Medicare for their health insurance. 
The 76-year-old husband has Parkinson’s 
disease and glaucoma, while his 73year-
old wife, who suffers from heart problems, 
has skipped her medication at times 
when she couldn’t afford it. Without any 
drug coverage, they collectively spend $800 a 
month—63% of their income—on their 14 prescriptions. 
A 74-year-old man who takes six prescription 
drugs a month cannot survive on his Social 
Security and Medicare benefits. His 
niece must help him pay the $500 month for 
his prescriptions. 
A retired teacher from Pendleton is taking 
eight medications for chronic back pain. She 
spends $200 a month on her prescription 
drugs. 
Wasco County: An elderly couple from The 
Dalles depends on their combined monthly 
Social Security income of $1,263 and profits 
from the sale of their family farm to survive. 
Even though they have supplemental insurance, 
health care costs are still high. In addi


care needs, they spend over $250 a month on 
prescription drugs to treat asthma and high 
blood pressure. 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I will 
come to the floor of this Senate again 
and again and again these next few 
months to urge bipartisan action on 
this issue. The Snowe-Wyden legislation 
is one approach. Certainly, our 
colleagues will have other good ideas. 
There are a variety of ways this issue 
can be addressed in a bipartisan way. I 
am pleased our approach garnered 54 
votes when it came to actually paying 
for it. 

I intend, with Senator SNOWE, to continue 
to urge older people to send in 
copies of their prescription drug bills 
to each Member in the Senate in Washington, 
DC, so we can read their personal 
accounts into the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. FITZ


GERALD). The Senator from South 
Carolina. 
f 
SEATTLE 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, the 
World Trade Conference in Seattle was 
violence run amok. But it was a good 
reminder of the trauma that brought 
about our nation’s high standard of living. 
Labor rights were obtained only 
after the murder of workers at Hay 
Market Square in Chicago. Environmental 
protection was obtained only 
after poisoned deaths at Love Canal. 
Safety laws were obtained only after 
poisoned food, poisoned drugs, and babies 
burned in their cribs. It took the 
trauma of class actions to make America 
aware of tobacco’s injury, and it 
took President Teddy Roosevelt to hem 
in the robber barons with antitrust 
laws. The excesses of the free market— 
of free trade—can only be controlled by 
government. The peaceful demonstrators 
in Seattle were demonstrating 
against government’s failure to control. 


The threat of ‘‘free trade’’ was America’s 
first lesson. The fledgling colony 
had just won its freedom when the 
mother country counselled ‘‘free 
trade’’. It was Riccardo’s famous doctrine 
of ‘‘comparative advantage’’. 
Britain would trade with us what it 
produced best—the United States 
would trade back what it produced 
best. Alexander Hamilton, in his famous 
booklet ‘‘Reports on Manufacturers,’’ 
told the Brits to ‘‘bug off.’’ ‘‘We 
are not going to remain your colony, 
exporting our timber, iron, and agriculture—
and importing the finished 
products from England.’’ The second 
bill (the first was for the U.S. Seal) to 
pass the national Congress on July 4, 
1789 was ‘‘protectionist’’—a tariff bill 
of 50 percent over sixty-some articles. 
Later, when it was suggested that we 
import the steel for the transcontinental 
railroad, Abraham Lincoln 
said, ‘‘No’’, and a high tariff was imposed 
on steel. In the Depression, Roosevelt 
saved the family farm with subsidies 
and protective quotas. And it 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S9 

was President Eisenhower who placed 
quotas on oil. World War II was won in 
the main by the United States’ industrial 
and agricultural might—might 
built with protectionism. 

After World War II the United States 
had the world’s only industry. The task 
was to build a free market—to defeat 
communism with capitalism. The government—
not the free market—instituted 
the Marshall Plan; sent money, 
equipment and expertise abroad for Europe 
and the Pacific Rim to rebuild. 
Today, our problem is that the Marshall 
Plan worked. The vanquished of 
World War II have become victors in 
production, in market share, in the 
global competition. Today, Japan produces 
more than the United States— 
and has the largest balance of trade; 
the United States the largest deficit in 
trade. We have tried and tried to open 
markets by setting the example, pleading 
‘‘free trade,’’ giving away market 
share, giving away our technology, giving 
away our production. But nations, 
like the United States in the early 
days, are determined to build their industrial 
strength, and today controlled 
capitalism governs trade. Technology 
is obtained; market share is seized; 
production is transferred with controlled 
capitalism. Trade is not free, 
not controlled. 

The fall of the Wall has presented us 
with a new threat. Four billion workers 
have been liberated from communism 
and oppression. They are 
ready to work regardless of pay, safety 
or the environment. It’s a given in 
manufacture that labor costs represent 
30 percent of volume and you can save 
as much as 20 percent of volume by 
moving your production to a low wage 
country. Technology now can be transferred 
on a computer chip to any place 
in the world—and finance it by satellite. 
A corporation with $500 million 
in sales can retain its executive office 
and sales force in-country, but move 
its production to a low wage country 
and make $100 million before taxes. Or 
it can continue to work its own employees 
and go bankrupt. The rush is 
for production offshore—downsize onshore—
and keep crying ‘‘free trade.’’ 

These corporations and our competitors 
have been spoiled. At all the trade 
conferences they have come to expect 
the Special Trade Representative to arrive 
bearing gifts. They know the 
United States doesn’t enforce its trade 
laws. They know the President and the 
Congress are controlled by corporate 
money. They have come to expect the 
United States to come crying ‘‘fair 
trade’’, but giving away the store. 
President Clinton’s invitation to Seattle 
was like an invite to a birthday 
party. But rather than bearing gifts, 
the demonstrators caused the President 
to call for labor rights and environmental 
protection. The competition 
was so spoiled they took the United 
States’ position at Seattle as an invasion 
of their sovereignty. 

The security of the United States is 
like a three legged stool. The one leg of 

the Nation’s values is admired the 
world around. The second leg of military 
power is unquestioned. But the 
third leg of economic strength has been 
fractured. For 50 years we have been 
losing production, technology and market 
share. Today, this threatens a loss 
of the middle class, the weakening of 
our democracy—the loss of our security 
as a nation. When Henry Ford 
started the assembly line he wanted to 
be sure that his workers could make 
enough to buy the car they were producing. 
thus began the strong middle 
class in America. The labor movement 
brought health care and other benefits 
so that the worker could buy a home, 
pay for health care, send their kids to 
college and afford a vacation trip. The 
WTO puts this social contract in jeopardy. 
It’s one-size-fits-all capitalism 
only dumbs down America’s standard 
of living. 

For years the United States has had 
and continues to have the most productive 
industrial worker in the world. 
But we have less and less of them each 
year. The cold war policy of free trade 
sacrificed our electronics, textiles, 
shoes, steel, hand tools, shipbuilding, 
etc. Jack Welch of General Electric has 
just instituted an affirmative action 
plan to export GE’s jobs to Mexico. 
Now, with NAFTA, the rest of our manufacturing 
is headed South. Worse, the 
internet doesn’t provide enough jobs to 
build a nation—and it doesn’t export. 
Microsoft, rated the No. 1 industry in 
America, has only 22,000 jobs in the 
United States compared to General Motors 
with 250,000. As Akio Morita cautioned 
years ago, ‘‘That world power 
that loses its manufacturing capacity 
will cease to be a world power.’’ The 
United States becomes weaker each 
day. 

The time has come to break with the 
failed trade policies of the past and instead 
pursue a policy that zealously 
promotes the national interest while at 
the same time remains true to our core 
values of promoting both economic 
growth and social justice. This will 
only be accomplished by recognizing 
that the WTO system is a relic of a bygone 
era. The WTO system was an instrument 
of the cold war. It served as 
an adjunct in the much larger strategic 
struggle between East and West. It required 
the U.S. to sustain concessions 
necessary to maintain the cohesion of 
the Western alliance. For all the talk 
about opening markets, WTO and its 
predecessor, the GATT, have proven to 
be abysmal failures. In 1979, Ambassador 
Robert Strauss proclaimed that 
the Tokyo round will open new markets 
for U.S. companies, yet from the 
Tokyo round to the Uruguay round, the 

U.S. racked up over a trillion dollars 
worth of trade deficits. In 1994, President 
Clinton proclaimed that the Uruguay 
round would crack open markets. 
Since that time the U.S. continued 
with record trade deficits and last year 
recorded its first $300 billion deficit. In 
each successive round, the U.S. agreed 
to asymmetrical market opening commitments. 
Each time we concluded a 
round, the trade deficit widened. Perhaps 
the WTO system’s biggest failure 
is its claim that it is raising living 
standards. The argument made in Seattle 
was that market forces alone 
would raise living standards—an argument 
we rejected in our own country at 
the turn of the century. 

The reality is that unfettered free 
trade has unleashed a race to the bottom 
as nations in the developing world 
engage in a vicious competition to attract 
foreign investment. For example, 
in his book ‘‘One World Ready or Not, 
Bill Greider vividly describes this race 
to the bottom, ‘‘The toy industry— 
much like textiles and garments, 
shoes, electronics assembly and other 
low-wage sectors—existed (and thrived) 
by exploiting a crude ladder of desperate 
competition among the poorest 
nations. Its factories regularly hopped 
to new locations where wages were 
even lower, where the governments 
would be even more tolerant of abusive 
practices.’’ 

We must rebuild. Get real! No more 
of this ‘‘setting the example.’’ No more 
crying, ‘‘free trade,’’ ‘‘fair trade,’’ 
‘‘level the playing field.’’ No more of 
this harassing others to be like us. Our 
job is to compete; to protect labor, protect 
our environment, protect our production—
to protect the United States’ 
standard of living. The free market 
won’t do this. Only government will. 
Protection is the fundamental of government. 
We have the Army to protect 
us from without, the FBI to protect us 
from within. We have Social Security 
to protect us from the ravages of old 
age, Medicare and Medicaid to protect 
us from ill health. We have EPA to protect 
the environment, FDA to protect 
our food and drugs, the FCC to protect 
communications, the FAA to protect 
air travel, the Consumer Protection 
Agency to provide safe products, and 
the Federal Trade Commission to protect 
us from the restraint of trade. 
Don’t be misled by the cry of 
‘‘globalization.’’ This is the chant of 
our corporate fifth column. Silicon 
Valley is not the answer. This is the 
crowd that government gave the Internet; 
that government trained at Illinois 
and Stanford; that government 
subsidized with sematech; and now the 
billionaires all want to eliminate the 
estate tax, eliminate capital gains, 
eliminate state tort laws, eliminate 
the immigration laws, eliminate taxes 
on the Internet, eliminate the antitrust 
laws—just eliminate the government. 
Let’s stop running against government. 
We are the government. Our 
task is to make government work. Our 
responsibility, is to keep America 
strong. 

We must organize to do battle. The 
first order of business is to eliminate 
the Special Trade Representative who 
looks to desert and represent some 
country against us. Next, merge and 
downsize the 28 departments and agencies 
that now deal with trade into a 
Department of Trade and Commerce. 


S10 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Then organize Congress’ handling of 
trade issues. Our competition presents 
a solid front. Any trade measure to 
protect America’s jobs is immediately 
opposed by Japan’s 100 consultants and 
law firms, by America’s big banks, the 
Trilateral Commission, the Business 
Roundtable, the National Manufacturers 
Association, the United States 
Chamber of Commerce, the National 
Federation of Independent Business, 
the consultants and campuses financed 
by corporate America, the retailers, 
the newspaper editorialists financed by 
the retailers, the business lobbyists, 
and most of the 60,000 lawyers in Washington. 
Trade bills today are passed in 
Congress by multinational corporations 
joining with the foreigners and, 
thereupon, the President garners the 
votes with local pork. The common 
good is ignored. 

Once organized, we must repeal the 
tax laws that subsidize the export of 
American jobs. Then abolish the International 
Trade Commission that habitually 
cancels the findings of injury by 
the International Trade Administration. 
Remove the Executive veto of 
trade findings so that an industry 
fighting for relief can count on it when 
upheld by the courts. In short, enforce 
our trade laws now on the books. This 
will stabilize domestic production. 
This will restore trust in government. 

The symbol of the Seattle ministerial 
was not the black hooded hoodlums 
intent on causing mayhem. Instead, 
they were Boeing machinists 
who led the large labor marches that 
snaked through the streets of Seattle. 
Boeing, an export powerhouse, was supposed 
to stand out as a shining example 
of the open trading system. But 
Boeing is experiencing the loss of jobs 
to government-financed Airbus; to 
China where the price of admission 
into the Chinese market is an agreement 
to shift production from the 
United States to factories in mainland 
China. The machinists did not join the 
mayhem. They trust the government 
to act in their interest—to act in the 
United States’ interest. For this to 
happen, as Lincoln said, ‘‘The dogmas 
of the quiet past, are inadequate to the 
stormy present. The occasion is piled 
high with difficulty, and we must rise 
with the occasion. As our case is new, 
so we must think anew and act anew. 
We must disenthrall ourselves, and 
then we shall save our country.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Minnesota. 

f 


PROTECT THE SOCIAL SECURITY 
AND MEDICARE SURPLUS 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, tonight 
at the very beginning of the second session 
of the 106th Congress, I rise to 
talk about legislation that I introduced 
earlier today—on a vitally important 
issue: protection of the Social Security 
and Medicare surplus. 

My legislation reassures the American 
people that Congress and the Administration 
will not spend a penny of 

their Social Security and Medicare 
money and it creates a mechanism to 
enforce our commitment to protecting 
these surpluses. 

This ‘‘look-back’’ enforcement mechanism 
is simple and straightforward. It 
basically says if Congress and the Administration 
indeed spend any of the 
Social Security and Medicare surplus 
in the previous fiscal year, an automatic 
reduction in Government discretionary 
spending, including congressional 
Members’ pay, will be triggered. 
The money will be returned to the Social 
Security and Medicare trust funds. 
It would work similarly to the sequester 
of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, but 
applies to spending of Social Security 
and Medicare surplus funds. I stress the 
sequester could not cut any Medicare 
or other entitlement programs. 

Unlike similar legislation I introduced 
last year, this bill adds the Medicare 
surplus into the protection. The 
Medicare part A surplus will be about 
$20 billion this year. This surplus 
should also be preserved for senior’s 
medical expenses only, not for any general 
Government spending. 

My legislation would in effect prevent 
anyone, whether it is the Congress 
or the administration, from raiding the 
Social Security and Medicare surplus. 

I believe this is a crucial step to 
truly protect the Social Security and 
Medicare surplus and save it exclusively 
for Americans’ retirement and 
medical needs, not for tax relief, and 
not for government spending. 

Let me explain why we need this legislation. 


First and foremost, the American 
people do not understand why budget 
rules do not protect the Social Security 
and Medicare surplus. I have traveled 
intensively throughout Minnesota 
during this congressional recess. Everywhere 
I went, Minnesotans told me 
that the Federal Government’s practice 
of so-called ‘‘borrowing’’ from the 
Social Security and Medicare trust 
funds must be stopped, and Americans’ 
retirement funds must be secured. 

They are very worried that the retirement 
funds will not be there for 
them, and they are concerned that the 
Government will not be able to return 
the over $750 billion already ‘‘borrowed’’ 
and spent by the Government. 
They want me to take every measure 
possible to protect their retirement security 
and their future health care 
needs. 

Last December, the Congressional 
Budget Office’s end of the session summary 
estimated that Congress spent 
$17 billion of the Social Security surplus 
and exceeded the spending caps by 
$7 billion in budget authority and $17 
billion in outlays. 

In addition, Congress spent every 
penny of the $14 billion non-Social Security 
surplus which we promised to 
return to working Americans as tax relief. 


The Congressional Budget Office also 
reported that increased revenue would 
present a more favorable picture. On 

Wednesday, the CBO is expected to 
issue its new estimates and it appears 
likely that Americans’ tax overpayments 
will enable us to avoid spending 
any of the Social Security surplus. 

However, my concerns are, first, the 
CBO December estimate gives the general 
public the impression that we 
failed to keep our promise to protect 
the Social Security surplus and that 
we are now covering it up with budgetary 
smoke and mirrors. 

Second, as a result, we have to use 
additional tax overpayments to fund 
the increased government spending, 
even if the new CBO estimate shows we 
did not spend the Social Security surplus. 


Already, lawmakers are talking 
about how to spend the rest of the non-
Social Security surplus in an Supplemental 
emergency early this year. 

Because of this propensity to spend, I 
believe the look-back proposal is essential 
to protect us now and in the future 
from the temptation to spend ‘‘just a 
little’’ the Social Security and Medicare 
surpluses. 

Further, I have argued repeatedly before 
the Senate that economic forecasting 
is more of an art than a 
science. Many uncertainties, risks, and 
factors are involved. We have a budget 
of over $1.8 trillion based on a variety 
of assumptions, estimates, forecasts 
and projections, with people using both 
Congressional Budget Office numbers 
and Office of Management and Budget. 
It is highly likely that there are errors 
in this budget. If the error occurs in 
Social Security spending, we must 
have a mechanism to correct it. 

Another compelling reason for this 
legislation is that we are facing even 
more severe budget constraints and 
spending pressures this year because 
according to the CBO, the discretionary 
budget authority for fiscal 
year 2001 is about $542 billion, which is 
$18 billion less than the amount appropriated 
for 2000. 

What’s worse, $23 billion out of the 
$542 billion cap has already been appropriated 
as advance funding in the 2000 
appropriations bills. President Clinton 
has already talked about breaking the 
caps which he agreed to, by the way, in 
1997. 

Although we may have more on-
budget surplus this year, which is supposed 
to be returned to the taxpayers 
in the form of tax relief and debt reduction, 
there is no guarantee Congress 
and the administration will not touch 
the Social Security and Medicare surplus. 


Since we all have agreed that saving 
Social Security should be our top priority 
and have committed to not 
spending the Social Security surplus 
for Government programs, we must do 
everything we can to prevent the Government 
from spending the Social Security 
and Medicare surpluses. We need 
to find a better way to keep our promise 
to the American people. 

Senators on my side of the aisle have 
made a number of attempts to create a 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S11 

lockbox to lock in every penny of the 
Social Security surplus exclusively for 
Americans’ retirement. Unfortunately, 
opposition by the other side has 
blocked the establishment of this safe 
lockbox. Some opposed because Medicare 
was not included. My proposal 
does protect Medicare. 

The ‘‘look-back’’ mechanism in my 
legislation is our best option. It will 
force the Government to live up to our 
pledge that not a penny of the Social 
Security and Medicare surpluses will 
be spent to fund either last year’s or 
this year’s appropriations. 

If our spending plans do pass and we 
would again, unintentionally wind up 
spending Social Security, we must be 
able to keep our commitment to the 
American people, by scaling back other 
spending to save Social Security. Without 
this mechanism Congress and the 
President may spend some of the Social 
Security surplus by using inaccurate 
estimates. 

The remedy in my bill is a simple one 
and it should be passed early before we 
face a problem, so we cannot play the 
blame game if a re-estimate shows 
spending of Social Security or Medicare 
surpluses. 

In an era of budget surplus, extra 
prudence and effort is needed to keep 
ourselves from spending more than we 
can afford. On principle, we must do everything 
we can to ensure Washington 
will not touch any Social Security 
money. 

Protecting the Social Security and 
Medicare surpluses from funding government 
operations is the last defense 
of fiscal discipline. I cannot emphasize 
how vitally important this line of defense 
is for both political parties because 
if we lose this defense, our credibility 
and accountability with the 
American people will be gone. 

I strongly believe we should continue 
to stress our promise to the American 
people. We must make protection of 
the Social Security and Medicare surpluses 
our top priority and ensure that 
not a penny of Americans’ retirement 
needs is used for Government spending. 

Again, I believe this can be easily 
achieved by passing my ‘‘look-back’’ 
legislation which will allow us to enforce 
that commitment. 

I thank the Chair and I yield the 
floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Nevada. 

f 


BANKRUPTCY REFORM 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, we have 
worked this afternoon to try to come 
up with something that is fair and reasonable. 
I think we have done that. 
With this agreement, we should be able 
to complete the bankruptcy legislation 
that has been pending for some time 
now. 
Mr. GRAMS. I thank the Senator. 

vote with respect to S. 625 be vitiated 
and, further, that order No. 109 be 
modified by the following: 

I ask unanimous consent that when 
the Senate resumes consideration of S. 
625, the following be the only amendments 
in order and they be considered 
under the limitations as stated, with 
any debate times equally divided in the 
usual form, and the ability to withdraw 
any of the amendments be in order for 
the author of the amendment without 
further consent: 

Wellstone amendment No. 2537, lifeline 
accounts; Wellstone amendment 
No. 2538, debt collection; Craig amendment 
No. 2651, pawnshops, 15 minutes; 
Levin amendment No. 2658, gun manufacturers, 
120 minutes; Feingold 
amendment No. 2747, arbitration, 60 
minutes; Feingold amendment No. 2748, 
evictions, be modified to reflect the 
text of 2779, and there be 30 minutes for 
debate on amendment number 2748; 
Feingold amendment No. 2667, East 
Timor, as modified to reflect the sense 
of the Senate, 60 minutes; Reed-Sessions 
correction of amendment No. 
2650, 10 minutes; Schumer amendment 
No. 2762, safe harbor, 15 minutes; Schumer 
amendment No. 2763, clinic violence, 
40 minutes; an amendment by 
the majority leader or his designee regarding 
debts incurred by violence, 40 
minutes; Harkin amendment No. 2770, 
household liens, 20 minutes; Sarbanes 
amendment No. 2517, as modified, consumer 
credit disclosure; and one 
amendment to be agreed to by both 
managers. 

I also ask consent that any other 
pending amendment not mentioned 
above be withdrawn, and further that 
no motions to commit or recommit be 
in order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. GRAMS. Finally, I ask consent 
that following the disposition of the 
above amendments, the bill be read a 
third time, the Senate then proceed to 
the House companion measure, H.R. 
833, all after the enacting clause be 
stricken, and the text of S. 625 be inserted 
in lieu thereof, the bill be read a 
third time, and the Senate proceed to a 
vote on passage of H.R. 833, as amended. 
I further ask consent that following 
the vote the Senate insist on its 
amendment, request a conference with 
the House, and the bill, S. 625, be 
placed back on the calendar. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


NOMINATIONS RETURNED TO THE 
PRESIDENT 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, as in executive 
session, I ask unanimous consent 
that the following nominations be 
returned to the President. I now send 
that list of nominations to the desk. 

Air National Guard Colonel Van P. Williams, 
PN–389 

Air Force Reserve Colonel Jerry D. 
Willoughby, PN–526 

Army Major General Charles Mahan, PN– 
292 

Army Reserve Brigadier General Bruce B. 
Bingham, PN–655 

Navy Lieutenant Junior Grade Craig 
Leaphart, PN–280–2 

Navy Lieutenant Commander Bradley S. 
Russell, PN–350–2 

f 


APPOINTMENTS 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair announces the following appointment 
made by the President pro tempore 
during the sine die adjournment: 
Pursuant to provisions of Public Law 
106–79, on behalf of the President pro 
tempore, after consultation with the 
majority and minority leaders, the appointment 
of the following Senators to 
the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
Commission: the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. STEVENS), and the Senator from 
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS). 
The Chair announces the following 
appointment made by the Democratic 
leader, the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. DASCHLE), during the sine die 
adjournment: 
Pursuant to provisions of Public Law 
105–277, on behalf of the Democratic 
leader, who consulted with the minority 
leader of the House, the appointment 
of the following individual to 
serve as a member of the International 
Financial Institution Advisory Commission: 
C. Fred Bergsten, of Virginia, 
vice Paul A. Volcker, of New York, 
resigned. 

f 


MEASURE READ THE FIRST 
TIME—H.J. RES. 84 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, there is a 
joint resolution at the desk which was 
received earlier from the House of Representatives. 
I ask for its first reading. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A joint resolution (H.J. Res. 84) making 
further continuing appropriations for the fiscal 
year 2000, and for other purposes. 

Mr. GRAMS. I now ask for its second 
reading and object to my own request. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the rule, the bill will be read on the 
next legislative day. 

f 


UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
AGREEMENT—S. 376 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
withdraw its request of November 19, 
1999, for a conference on S. 376, and 
agree to the conference, with the same 
conferees previously appointed by the 

Senate, requested by the House of Rep-
of nominations is received. 

f 
f
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The list 

resentatives on November 10, 1999,

UNANIMOUS CONSENT 

Without objection, it is so ordered. which message was transmitted to the

AGREEMENT—S. 625 

The list is as follows: Senate on January 24, 2000. 
Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, I ask Air National Guard Colonel James V. The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
unanimous consent that the cloture Dugar, PN–203 objection, it is so ordered. 


S12 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

TRIBUTE TO PATRICK E. 
SCHEUERMANN 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I am reminded 
each time I look to the sky of 
the reach Americans have made to the 
heavens. I am extremely proud that 
every manned spaceflight since the 
Apollo program has been powered by 
engines tested at a facility in my home 
State of Mississippi, the John C. Stennis 
Space Center. There, a dedicated 
group of professionals labors largely 
unheralded to ensure the performance 
and safety of the engines that propel 
our astronauts into space. Although I 
have known many of these outstanding 
Mississippians in my years in Congress, 
I only recently had the opportunity to 
work closely with one of these professionals. 
The leadership at NASA decided 
to offer a legislative fellowship to 
Congress to one of NASA Stennis’ rising 
stars, Mr. Patrick Scheuermann. 

Patrick arrived on Capitol Hill in 
January, 1999, at the beginning of a 
very busy opening session of the 106th 
Congress. Although many thought 
other proceedings that opened the 
106th would supercede a legislative 
agenda, the Senate professional and 
personal staffs ensured that, in the 
background, the business of Congress 
stayed in motion. Patrick cut his teeth 
in the difficult staff preparations for 
the legislative cycle that would take 
place around the issues that dominated 
the Senate floor. An effort was underway 
at NASA to reinvigorate manned 
space flight and to reduce the cost of 
getting to space. Patrick was assigned 
to research and report on these initiatives 
and to keep my legislative staff 
briefed on their status through the Authorization 
and Appropriations process. 


Patrick approached his assignment 
with the interest of someone who not 
only enjoys what he does, but with the 
infectious enthusiasm that brings others 
onboard as well. My staff quickly 
became knowledgeable of the many 
NASA programs that together form our 
Nation’s efforts to reach space. I found 
more and more space related meetings 
on the calendar. As the Session progressed, 
the Senate led the charge to 
complete the first NASA Authorization 
Bill in many years. One hundred million 
dollars was added to the NASA 
budget to develop third generation reusable 
launch vehicle technology, a 
program known as Spaceliner 100. Patrick’s 
ability to explain the facets of 
NASA’s programs to legislative staffers 
and his vigilance as changes developed 
ensured the ultimate success of these 
endeavors. His detailed understanding 
of Stennis Space Center’s capabilities 
and assets also proved to be of great 
value in assessing the facility’s potential 
for commercial activities. 

Patrick has a long history with the 
Space Program. After earning his 
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering 
from the University of New 
Orleans, he made his first foray into 
the world of Rocket Science as a contract 
test engineer, testing Space 

Shuttle Main Engines at the Stennis 
Space Center. This brought him across 
the ‘‘Great Divide’’ that is the Pearl 
River and firmly onto Mississippi soil 
where the NASA hierarchy recognized 
and recruited the talented young engineer. 
Although our neighbors across 
the Pearl claim Patrick as a native 
son, Mississippians have adopted him 
for his hard work and strength of character. 
He also made the grade through 
his success in attracting one of Greater 
Picayune’s finest, Miss Sarah Melissa 
Lee to be his bride. Together they have 
added to Mississippi’s fame through 
their beautiful children, Chandler and 
Christina. Although I am sorry to lose 
the talent and expertise that Patrick 
brought to my staff, I am pleased that 
his return to the Stennis Space Center 
foretells many more years of innovation 
and success at this vital national 
treasure. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COM


MANDER JOHN DI MENTO, U.S. 

NAVY 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I take this 
opportunity to recognize and say farewell 
to an outstanding Naval Officer, 
Lieutenant Commander John Di 
Mento, upon his departure from my 
staff. Lieutenant Commander Di Mento 
was selected as a Navy Fellow to work 
in my office because of his professional 
reputation and his knowledge of the 
Navy Oceanography program and the 
military presence in my home state. 
Not a Mississippian by birth, he earned 
the respect of Mississippians during his 
long service in the state from 1990 
through 1996, and through his impressive 
display of good judgement when he 
married the former Chenaey Bourgeois 
of Bay Saint Louis. Together they have 
added to Mississippi’s fame through 
their beautiful daughter, Colby. 

Lieutenant Commander Di Mento entered 
the United States Naval Academy 
in 1983 and was commissioned as 
an Ensign upon graduation in 1987. He 
earned a Master’s Degree in Oceanography 
and began his career as a Naval 
Oceanographer as the Executive Officer 
of Oceanographic Unit Three, surveying 
over 100,000 miles of the ocean 
floor in a year deployed. He returned 
from sea and reported to the Naval 
Oceanographic Office in Bay Saint 
Louis, Mississippi. He worked extensively 
in ocean modeling and remote 
sensing, and flew aerial oceanographic 
surveys with Oceanographic Development 
Squadron Eight, in the process 
earning his Naval Aviation Observer 
wings. Later assigned as Oceanographer 
on USS Kearsarge, Lieutenant 
Commander Di Mento qualified as a 
Surface Warfare Officer. He was commended 
for his performance during Operation 
Noble Obelisk, where he was responsible 
for the processing, care, and 
movement of over 2,500 refugees rescued 
by Kearsarge from the civil war in 
Sierra Leone from embarkation 
through debarkation. 

Ashore, Lieutenant Commander Di 
Mento served briefly on the staff of the 

Oceanographer of the Navy at the U.S. 
Naval Observatory. He later served two 
years as Flag Aide and Executive Assistant 
for Rear Admiral Paul Gaffney, 
II, Commander, Naval Meteorology and 
Oceanography Command following a 
year as Flag Aide to his predecessor, 
Rear Admiral John Chubb. His only 
other tour ashore found him navigating 
the sometimes treacherous waters here 
on Capitol Hill. 

Lieutenant Commander Di Mento 
quickly became a valued member of my 
staff where he led several legislative 
initiatives that enormously benefitted 
the Department of Defense, the Navy, 
and the State of Mississippi. He provided 
a great deal of research and analysis 
while the Senate initiated broad 
reform of military pay and benefits. 
His work led to the most significant 
piece of legislation for service members 
since 1981. The leadership, integrity, 
and limitless energy that defined his 
naval career served him well in his 
term as a Legislative Fellow. 

Lieutenant Commander Di Mento’s 
many awards and decorations include 
the Meritorious Service Medal, Navy 
Commendation Medal, Navy Achievement 
Medal, and various unit and service 
awards. Lieutenant Commander Di 
Mento will be missed on the staff, but 
his return to the Naval Service is a 
benefit to our great Nation. He has 
great things ahead of him. On behalf of 
my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle, I wish Lieutenant Commander Di 
Mento, ‘‘Fair Winds and Following 
Seas.’’ 

f 


JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH AD


DRESS AT THE LYNDON BAINES 

JOHNSON LIBRARY 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, last 
spring I joined my colleagues in honoring 
President Lyndon Baines Johnson 
when we hung a portrait of our 
former president on the one blank wall 
left in the President’s Room in our nation’s 
capitol. As I noted at that time, 
I could think of no other president or 
American who was as deserving of this 
honor as LBJ. 

As the Senate Majority Leader and 
President, LBJ was a man of immense 
skill, dedication and compassion. He is 
remembered by most Americans as a 
great leader whose strength of personality 
helped him preside over an extremely 
productive Senate that expanded 
Social Security, created the 
Interstate Highway system, and passed 
one of the most important civil rights 
laws of the 20th Century. Less well 
known, however, is LBJ’s tremendous 
ability to compromise. He truly believed 
in the message of his favorite 
Bible verse: ‘‘Come, let us reason together.’’ 
Our nation and our government 
needs more men and women who 
share this powerful belief. 

Today, I want to bring to the attention 
of my colleagues and all Americans 
another aspect of LBJ’s legacy 
that too often has been overlooked—his 
work to bring justice to disen



January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S13 

franchised ethnic minorities and to improve 
the lot of the large number of 
Americans suffering in unimaginable 
poverty. John Kenneth Galbraith, the 
noted economist and former presidential 
aide, recently highlighted 
LBJ’s accomplishments in this area in 
an important speech at the LBJ library 
in Austin, Texas. 

As Professor Galbraith noted, historians 
often view LBJ’s administration 
in terms of its involvement in the Vietnam 
War. While we should never underestimate 
the impact that war had on 
our country, historians are remiss to 
view LBJ through this narrow prism. 
Those who do fail to acknowledge his 
meaningful and lasting accomplishments 
in expanding civil rights, protecting 
voting rights, and fighting poverty. 
These victories have forever 
changed the face of America for the 
better. 

Professor Galbraith’s speech is based 
on his personal and professional relationship 
with LBJ. It is a testament to 
LBJ’s leadership and a tribute to the 
sometimes overlooked legacy of the 
Great Society. This speech is an important 
step towards setting the historical 
record straight and establishing a legacy 
of LBJ’s Administration that is 
historically accurate as well as comprehensive. 


I ask unanimous consent that Professor 
Galbraith’s speech be printed in 
the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the speech 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

LYNDON JOHNSON: HISTORY RECONSIDERED 
(By John Kenneth Galbraith) 
The task of the historian is never finished. 
As first written, history responds to the dramatic, 
tragic or otherwise seemingly dominant 
events of the time. Only in later, more 
careful, more detached and, one trusts, professionally 
more competent view does the 
deeper truth emerge. Were it otherwise, historians 
would not be needed; history would 
not have to be reconsidered and rewritten. It 
is with such reconsideration I am here concerned—
with an historical view in need of 
substantial modification. I am seeking the 
needed historical reappraisal of Lyndon 
Baines Johnson, a revision and correction of 
a history with which I was myself associated, 
had a modest role, and one to which I 
have contributed. I here offer a more 
thoughtful, I trust more informed, view of 
Lyndon Johnson, and notably as President of 
the United States. First, a word of personal 
history. 
Lyndon Johnson was my age, or I his—he 
was born August 27, 1908, I a month and a 
half later. We were both of an amply celebrated 
rural origin, and both had our early 
education in country schools, rural-oriented 
colleges. Johnson arrived in Washington as a 
congressional aide in 1931, I for a markedly 
less impressive sojourn in 1934. We were both 
interested in agriculture; I had a minor role 
with the Agricultural Adjustment Administration—
the Triple A—which continued as I 
went on that year to Harvard. Johnson a 
year later became the Texas director of the 
National Youth Administration. Two years 
after that he was elected to the House of 
Representatives. 
At some time during these years we became 
acquainted; we were brought more 
closely together by the two great human 

rights advocates from Alabama, Virginia and 
Clifford Durr, to whom we were both devoted, 
Johnson and I were proudly New Dealers, 
fully committed to FDR who had our 
unstinting support. Our friendship, if not 
close, lasted for nearly a lifetime, to be 
ended by an unforgiving event central in the 
appraisal of Lyndon Johnson and the correction 
of which I here seek. That correction 
places him next only to Franklin D. Roosevelt 
as a force for a civilized and civilizing 
social policy essential for human well-being 
and for the peaceful co-existence between 
the economically favored (or financially fortunate) 
and the poor. History has settled on 
the great contribution of the New Deal. 
Much needs yet to be said of the achievements 
of the Johnson years, still sadly blotted 
from memory by foreign and military 
policy and action. Next only to Roosevelt, 
and in some respects more so, Lyndon Johnson 
was the most effective advocate of 
human social change in the United States in 
this century. 

This was not a matter on which he left one 
in any doubt. On the day after John F. Kennedy’s 
assassination, I was in Washington at 
the White House working on the sudden and 
compelling array of funeral tasks. I was 
called by L.B.J. to his vice-presidential, now 
his presidential, offices in the Old State Department 
building. (I offer this revision of 
the history on the 36th anniversary of 
L.B.J.’s first full day in office.) We discussed 
a range of domestic problems and the needed 
action. He spoke in Johnson language and 
emphasis of his strong commitment. Knowing 
perhaps that nothing would more assure 
my belief, he asked me to do a draft of the 
speech he would shortly make to the Congress. 
The eventual speech, which relied 
rather more heavily on Theodore Sorensen 
and on L.B.J. himself, made clear his intention. 


For Roosevelt it was the New Deal. Kennedy 
had given currency to the phrase the 
New Frontier. For Johnson it would be the 
Great Society—possibly a less compelling 
title. Nonetheless, the action so taken has 
become part of our everyday life and acceptance. 
But not in the history. The New Deal 
is large in public memory; so, if somewhat 
less, is the New Frontier. Much less is made 
of the Good Society and the years of Lyndon 
Johnson. What was then greatly needed, 
even urgent and wonderfully accomplished, 
lies in the historical backwater. That we 
must recognize and retrieve. 

The first and most important step taken 
by Lyndon Johnson was simply to make all 
Americans full citizens and full participants 
in the democratic process. This, in the Kennedy 
years, had become an issue of major importance. 
In June of 1963, a few months before 
his death, Kennedy had called for enabling 
legislation. His position, and especially 
that of his immediate and strongly committed 
subordinates, was not in doubt. But 
the decisive civil rights legislative action remained 
for Lyndon Johnson. A further and 
major step was the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 
this at the beginning of Johnson’s own new 
term and more than one hundred years after 
emancipation. 

In the New Deal years ethnic equality was 
only on the public conscience; in the Kennedy 
presidency it was strongly urged by 
Martin Luther King and many others. From 
buses to lunch counters to restrooms to public 
accommodations, agitation had focused 
attention on the issue and brought some action. 
It was with Lyndon Johnson, however, 
that citizenship for all Americans in all its 
aspects became a reality. Not only were 
black citizens (as I choose to say) rewarded; 
distracting agitation and conflict came 
largely to an end. Not alone civil rights but 
civility in behavior to the peace and benefit 

of all. All were rewarded by the new peace. 
This we owe to the Johnson presidency. 
There was much more. 

Related to ethnic difference but going far 
beyond was the continued existence of a 
mass poverty—of life at or below the margin 
of survival. This also, a neglected point, 
means denial not alone of the basic enjoyments 
of life but also the denial of liberty. 
Nothing so limits the freedom of the individual 
as the total absence of money. This, 
as too often with the commonplace, we take 
for granted, ignore. This too Lyndon Johnson 
recognized and addressed. 

The problem of massive urban poverty and 
the more diverse affliction in rural America, 
especially in the mountain valleys down 
from New England to the Deep South, was a 
continuing fact. There were (as there are 
still) two lines of thought on how this should 
be addressed. One was to insure everyone a 
basic income by public action. This a rich 
country could afford; to this all the industrially 
advanced countries are in some measure 
committed. The other course is to counter 
poverty by specific remedial action designed 
to minimize its more specific adverse effects 
and, most importantly, to provide the mental 
and physical means for escape. The main 
effort of the Johnson years was of the second 
order; the basic steps in this effort continue 
to this day—money for deprived educational 
communities, for education in general. Head 
Start, food for needful children at the beginning 
of the school day, food stamps for the 
old and hungry, the Jobs Corps and major 
initiatives in education . . . including the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
sending funds to local school districts along 
with support to higher education and those 
pursuing it. And major help for those previously 
denied health care and life itself 
from lack of money. This list of humane accomplishments 
could be extended. The emphasis 
was not alone on what the Federal 
government should do but also on helping individuals 
and communities to help themselves. 


The New Deal initiatives were more centralized, 
more visible and more dramatic; 
those of the Johnson years were less visible 
but not less important for aiding human survival. 
What Johnson initiated is now accepted 
even by the wonderfully adverse orators 
of our present age. 

The work for civilized well-being is not 
complete. I have long believed that we 
should accept, as we do only reluctantly and 
partially now, a minimum income for all 
Americans. This, to repeat, a rich country 
can afford. It requires that we eliminate the 
welfare stigma and other adverse attitudes. 
Some who are favored by a basic income will 
not work; so with many who are now favored 
by a higher income. Leisure is an evil thing 
for the poor; it is rewarding for the affluent, 
sometimes even for professors. Accordingly, 
our social effort must continue. But let there 
be no doubt; in the years of Lyndon Johnson 
both ethnic minorities and the poor became 
citizens of the republic, the first by legal action, 
the second by still imperfect but highly 
relevant remedial legislation. 

Nor did this happen because of newly recognized 
need. It happened because Lyndon 
Johnson was the most effective political activist 
of our time. It is easy to advocate the 
right action; it is something else and much 
more to obtain it. Lyndon Johnson was not 
content with citing the need, recommending 
the legislation. He was content only as he 
obtained (and on occasion forced) the requisite 
action. No President in our time has 
had such a commanding role as regards the 
Congress, the result of both solid experience 
and strong personality. Johnson’s authority 
was based on knowledge—he had a clear and 
comprehensive view of what he urged. But 


S14 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

there was more. Individuals at all levels in ican community and its polity were ad-the Senate by Mr. Thomas, one of his 
Congress and in the Executive knew him. He dressed. What was called the American de


secretaries. 

was a good friend, had an engaging person-mocracy became in reality a democracy. All 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED

ality and a compelling range of speech. No Americans became citizens. There was a long 
one went to see him without returning to step toward peaceful coexistence between As in executive session the Presiding 
tell of some prescient observation by Lyndon ethnic groups. And for the first time we had Officer laid before the Senate messages 
Johnson, some amusing or slightly off-color a clear recognition of the presence of deep, from the President of the United 

metaphor. 

Liking Johnson, politicians and other leaders 
aligned with him. All wanted the association 
preserved, so they did as Johnson commanded. 
We speak much of the power of personality; 
in Lyndon Johnson it was evident, 
effective and had its own distinctive style. 
Long before he became President, this was 
well recognized in the Congress. Asked after 
the 1960 Convention why he had chosen Lyndon 
Johnson as Vice-President, John F. Kennedy 
gave several reasons. The last and perhaps 
the decisive reason: ‘‘It wouldn’t be 
worthwhile being President if Lyndon were 
Majority Leader.’’ When President, Lyndon 
Johnson was effectively both. Kennedy, as 
I’ve said on other occasions, used less power 
than he had as President; Johnson used 
more. 

I summarize: on civil rights and on poverty, 
the two truly urgent issues of the time, 
we had with Johnson one of the greatest 
changes of our time. I turn now to the historical 
correction which, along with others 
of my political faith, I need to make. 

My association, even friendship, with Lyndon 
Johnson came to an end with the Vietnam 
war. We had intensely discussed it: 
Johnson’s case was not unpersuasive. ‘‘Ken, 
you have no idea what the generals would be 
doing were I not here.’’ And this, I must add, 
I did not know. Next year the Harvard University 
Press will publish ‘‘American Tragedy: 
Kennedy, Johnson and the Origins of the 
Vietnam War’’ by David Kaiser. It makes 
full, intelligent, even exhaustive use of 
newly declassified documents—all are now 
available except for some continuing and 
perhaps well-considered reticence by the 
CIA. Kaiser tells in extensive and, to this 
day, alarming detail of the military pressure 
on Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. The 
generals and their civilian acolytes took 
over, were even eager for a war. Nuclear 
weapons were freely proposed. One reads 
with relief and gratitude of the Presidential 
resistance, that of Kennedy in particular but 
also that of L.B.J. The widening military 
intervention was relentlessly pressed. And so 
the war and the deaths. 

Knowing that part of the world from presence 
and experience, I knew that Communism 
was irrelevant in a primitive village 
and jungle economy—as Marx would have 
been the first to agree. There was also the irrelevance 
of our military establishment in 
the densely covered countryside that characterized 
much of Vietnam. The military 
forces of the Viet Cong would have been 
swept aside in a few days in Normandy. Here 
they could retreat conveniently and safely to 
the jungle, or even to the water-laden 
reaches of the Delta. Accordingly, I joined 
with others in opposition to this cruel and 
hopeless effort and to sending our youth, 
still under draft, to serve and die. In the political 
campaign of 1968, I was accorded a 
measure of leadership. I do not regret my effort 
against this error. One must, however, 
regret the way in which we allowed the Vietnam 
war to become the totally defining 
event of those years and likewise of the history. 
In the Johnson years it was the Vietnam 
war and nothing else. And so in the his-

unforgiving poverty in this generally affluent 
land. The danger to domestic peace and 
harmony was recognized. Poverty, economic 
deprivation, is still with us. Income inequality 
is great and still growing. But recognition 
of this together with the belief that 
something can and must be done—that there 
can be remedial action—goes back to the 
Johnson years. And so does the range of action 
for the young, the poor, the ill and the 
old without which all would be much worse. 

Three Presidents in our lifetime have seen 
the social need of their citizenry from their 
particular position in life. Franklin D. Roosevelt, 
as I’ve elsewhere said, saw the people 
of the United States as a tenantry stretching 
out from Hyde Park. For them and their depression 
hardship he had a landlord’s responsibility. 
From Irish Boston, John F. Kennedy 
saw a great minority still seeking to escape—
and his family had escaped—the trials 
and oppressions of a once beleaguered community. 
(It helped that it had become a political 
force.) Johnson’s identification was 
with a larger, less easily identified, politically 
less powerful community—the widely 
distributed urban and rural poor. What Kennedy 
and his family had escaped, Johnson 
had experienced at first hand. (His personal 
encounter with rural privation was never understated.) 
The basic motivation of all three 
Presidents was the same: the sense of responsibility 
for a larger, less fortunate community 
within the range of actual observation 
and experience. 

There is a final, greatly needed revision. 
We must accord much more emphasis to the 
dangerous, even insane military pressures to 
which Kennedy and Johnson were subject. 
We should note that these were especially 
strong in 1965, the time when Johnson’s mind 
and effort were sharply focused on poverty 
and civil rights and the requisite legislation. 

When we think of Vietnam, we must think 
much more of the generals (and associated 
civilians) who pressed powerfully for the 
war, for the risks of a greater war and for an 
opening for nuclear weapons. That, in the 
full light of history, there were presidential 
errors here cannot be doubted. We must, 
however, be grateful for what was resisted. 

Thus the historical revision I seek, we 
must all seek. The initiatives of Lyndon 
Johnson on civil rights, voting rights and on 
economic and social deprivation and the responding 
role of the state must no longer be 
enshrouded by that war. Those of us who 
helped make the war central to the public 
attitude and politics of the time have a special 
responsibility here. That responsibility I 
would like to think I have partly assumed on 
this favored evening. 

f 


HOLD ON H.R. 2260 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I 
have notified the minority leader that 
I have placed a hold on H.R. 2260, the 
Pain Relief Promotion Act of 1999. This 
legislation would negate Oregon’s physician 
assisted suicide law which was 
debated and passed twice by the voters 

States submitting sundry nominations 
which were referred to the appropriate 
committees. 

(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 


MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE RE


CEIVED DURING SINE DIE AD


JOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on November 22, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate, received a message from the 
House of Representatives, announcing 
that the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bill: 

H.R. 3194. An act making consolidated appropriations 
for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2000, and for other purposes. 
Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the enrolled 
bill was signed on November 22, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. THURMOND). 

f 


MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE RE


CEIVED DURING SINE DIE AD


JOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on November 29, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate, received a message from the 
House of Representatives, announcing 
that the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bills and joint resolutions: 


H.R. 15. An act to designate a portion of 
the Otay Mountain region of California as 
wilderness. 
H.R. 449. An act to authorize the Gateway 
Visitor Center at Independence National Historical 
Park, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 459. An act to extend the deadline 
under the Federal Power Act for FERC 
Project No. 9401, the Mt. Hope Waterpower 
Project. 
H.R. 592. An act to designate a portion of 
Gateway National Recreational Area as 
‘‘World War Veterans Park at Miller Field.’’ 
H.R. 658. An act to establish the Thomas 
Cole National Historic Site in the State of 
New York as an affiliated area of the National 
Park System. 
H.R. 747. An act to protect the permanent 
trust funds of the State of Arizona from erosion 
due to inflation and modify the basis of 
which distributions are made from those 
funds. 
tory it remains. Those of us who were in-H.R. 748. An act to amend the Act that es-

of Oregon. 
volved allowed that response; at the time, tablished the Keweenaw National Historical 

f

perhaps it was inevitable. But certainly we Park to require the Secretary of the Interior 
have done far too little to correct the his-to consider nominees of various local inter-

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 

tory since. ests in appointing members of the Keweenaw 
The needed correction is clear. In the Messages from the President of the National Historical Park Advisory Commis-
Johnson years two major flaws in the Amer-United States were communicated to sion. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S15 

H.R. 791. An act to amend the National 
Trail System to designate the route of the 
War of 1812 British invasion of Maryland and 
Washington, District of Columbia, and the 
route of the American defense, for study for 
potential additional to the national trail 
system. 
H.R. 970. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to provide assistance to the 
Perkins County Rural Water System, Inc., 
for the construction of water supply facilities 
in Perkins County, South Dakota. 
H.R. 1094. An act to amend the Federal Reserve 
Act to broaden the range of discount 
window loans which may be used as collateral 
for Federal reserve notes. 
H.R. 1104. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to transfer administrative 
jurisdiction over land within the boundaries 
of the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt 
National Historic Site to the Archivist of the 
United States for the construction of a visitor 
center. 
H.R. 1191. An act to designate certain facilities 
of the United States Postal Service 
in Chicago, Illinois. 
H.R. 1251. An act to designate the United 
States Postal Service building located at 
8850 South 700 East, Sandy, Utah, as the 
‘‘Noal Cushing Bateman Post Office Building.’’ 
H.R. 1327. An act to designate the United 
States Postal Service building located at 
34490 Highway 101 South in Cloverdale, Oregon, 
as the ‘‘Maurine B. Neuberger United 
States Post Office.’’ 
H.R. 1528. An act to reauthorize and amend 
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992. 
H.R. 1619. An act to amend the Quinebaug 
and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1994 to expand the boundaries 
of the Corridor. 
H.R. 1665. An act to allow the National 
Park Service to acquire certain land for addition 
to the Wilderness Battlefield in Virginia, 
as previously authorized by law, by 
purchase or exchange as well as by donation. 
H.R. 1693. An act to amend the Fair Labor 
Standard Act of 1938 to clarify the overtime 
exemption for employees engaged in fire protection 
activities. 
H.R. 1794. An act concerning the participation 
of Taiwan in the World Health Organization 
(WHO). 
H.R. 1887. An act to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to punish the depiction of animal 
cruelty. 
H.R. 1932. An act to authorize the President 
to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
Congress to Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
in recognition of his outstanding and enduring 
contribution to civil rights, higher education, 
the Catholic Church, the Nation, and 
global community. 
H.R. 2079. An act to provide for the conveyance 
of certain National Forest System 
lands in the State of South Dakota. 
H.R. 2140. An act to improve protection and 
management of the Chattahoochee River National 
Recreation Area in the State of Georgia. 
H.R. 2401. An act to amend the U.S. Holocaust 
Assets Commission Act of 1998 extend 
the period by which the final report is due 
and to authorize additional funding. 
H.R. 2632. An act to designate certain Federal 
lands in the Talladega National Forest 
in the State of Alabama as the Dugger 
Mountain Wilderness. 
H.R. 2737. An act to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to convey to the State 
of Illinois certain Federal land associated 
with the Lewis and Clark National Historic 
Trail to be used as an historic and interpretive 
site along the trail. 
H.R. 2886. An act to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to provide that an 
adopted alien who is less than 18 years of age 
may be considered a child under such Act if 
adopted with or after a sibling who is a child 
under such Act. 

H.R. 2889. An act to amend the Central 
Utah Project Completion Act to provide for 
acquisition of water and water rights for 
Central Utah project purposes, completion of 
Central Utah project facilities, and implementation 
of water conservation measures. 
H.R. 3257. An act to amend the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 to assist the Congressional 
Budget Office with the scoring of 
State and local mandates. 
H.R. 3373. An act to require the Secretary 
of the Treasury to mint coins in conjunction 
with the minting of coins by the Republic of 
Iceland in commemoration of the millennium 
of the discovery of the New World by 
Leif Ericson. 
H.R. 3381. An act to reauthorize the Overseas 
Private Investment Corporation and the 
Trade and Development Agency, and for 
other purposes. 
H.R. 3456. An act to amend statutory damages 
provision of title 17, United States 
Code. 
H.J. Res. 46. Joint resolution 46 conferring 
status as an honorary veteran of the United 
States Armed Forces on Zachary Fisher. 
H.J. Res. 65. Joint resolution commending 
the World War II veterans who fought in the 
Battle of the Bulge, and for other purposes. 
H.J. Res. 85. Joint resolution appointing 
the day for the convening of the second session 
of the One Hundred Sixth Congress. 
Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the enrolled 
bills and joint resolutions were 
signed on November 30, 1999, during the 
adjournment of the Senate by the 
President pro tempore (Mr. THURMOND). 


f 


MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE RE


CEIVED DURING SINE DIE AD


JOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on November 30, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate, received a message from the 
House of Representatives, announcing 
that the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bills: 

H.R. 1555. An act to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2000 for intelligence and 
intelligence-related activities of the United 
States Government, the Community Management 
Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability 
System, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 2280. An act to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to provide a cost-of-living-adjustment 
in the rates of disability compensation 
for veterans with service-connected disabilities 
and the rates of dependency and indemnity 
compensation for survivors of such 
veterans. 
H.R. 20. An act authorizing the Secretary 
of the Interior to construct and operate a 
visitor center for the Upper Delaware Scenic 
and Recreational River on land owned by the 
State of New York. 
H.R. 322 An act for the relief of Suchada 
Kwong. 
H.R. 197. An act to designate the facility of 
the United States Postal Service at 410 
North 6th Street in Garden City, Kansas, as 
the ‘‘Clifford R. Hope Post Office.’’ 
H.R. 100. An act to establish designations 
for United States Postal Service buildings in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 2116. An act to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to establish a program of extended 
care services for veterans, to make 
other improvements in health care programs 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to enhance 
compensation, memorial affairs, and 
housing programs of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, to improve retirement authorities 
applicable to judges of the United States 
Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, and 
for other purposes. 
S. 28. An act to authorize an interpretive 
center and related visitor facilities within 
the Four Corners Monument Tribal Park, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 67. An act to designate the headquarters 
building of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development in Washington, District 
of Columbia, as the ‘‘Robert C. Weaver Federal 
Building.’’ 
S. 335. An act to amend chapter 30 of title 
39, United States Code, to provide for the 
nonmailability of certain deceptive matter 
relating to sweepstakes, skill contests, facsimile 
checks, administrative procedures, orders, 
and civil penalties relating to such 
matter, and for other purposes. 
S. 416. An act to direct the Secretary of 
Agriculture to convey to the city of Sisters, 
Oregon, a certain parcel of land for use in 
connection with a sewage treatment facility. 
S. 438. An act to provide for the settlement 
of the water rights claims of the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 548. An act to establish the Fallen Timbers 
Battlefield and Fort Miamis National 
Historic Site in the State of Ohio. 
S. 574. An act to direct the Secretary of the 
Interior to make corrections to a map relating 
to the Coastal Barrier Resources System. 
S. 580. An act to amend title IX of the Public 
Health Service Act to revise and extend 
the Agency for Healthcare Policy and Research. 
S. 791. An act to amend the Small Business 
Act with respect to the women’s business 
center program. 
S. 1418. An act to provide for the holding of 
court at Natchez, Mississippi, in the same 
manner as court is held at Vicksburg, Mississippi, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1595. An act to designate the United 
States courthouse at 401 West Washington 
Street in Phoenix, Arizona, as the ‘‘Sandra 
Day O’Connor United States Courthouse.’’ 
S. 1866. An act to redesignate the Coastal 
Barrier Resources System as the ‘‘John H. 
Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.’’ 
Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the enrolled 
bills were signed subsequently 
on November 30, 1999, during the adjournment 
of the Senate by the President 
pro tempore (Mr. THURMOND). 

f 


MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE RE


CEIVED DURING SINE DIE AD


JOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on December 2, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate, received a message from the 
House of Representatives, announcing 
that the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bills: 

H.R. 3443. An act to amend part E of title 
IV of the Social Security Act to provide 
States with more funding and greater flexibility 
in carrying out programs designed to 
help children make the transition from foster 
care to self-sufficiency, and for other purposes. 

S16 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

H.R. 3419. An act to amend title 49, United 
States Code, to establish the Federal Motor 
Carrier Safety Administration, and for other 
purposes. 
Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the enrolled 
bills were signed on December 2, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. THURMOND). 

f 


MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE RE


CEIVED DURING SINE DIE AD


JOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on December 6, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate, received a message from the 
House of Representatives, announcing 
that the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bill: 

H.R. 1180. An act to amend the Social Security 
Act to expand the availability of 
health care coverage for working individuals 
with disabilities, to establish a Ticket to 
Work and Self-Sufficiency Program in the 
Social Security Administration to provide 
such individual with meaningful opportunities 
to work, and for other purposes. 
Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 1999, the enrolled 
bill was signed on December 6, 
1999, during the adjournment of the 
Senate by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. THURMOND). 

f 


MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 
At 2:18 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Hays, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has passed the 
following joint resolution, in which it 
requests the concurrence of the Senate: 

H.J. Res. 84. Joint resolution making further 
continuing appropriations for the fiscal 
year 2000, and for other purposes. 
The message also announced that the 
House requests that the Senate withdraw 
its request for a conference dated 
November 19, 1999 on the bill, S. 376, to 
amend the Communications Satellite 
Act of 1962 to promote competition and 
privatization in satellite communications, 
and for other purposes, and agree 
to the conference requested by the 
House. 

f 


ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED 
The Secretary of the Senate reported 
on November 30, 1999, he had presented 
to the President of the United States 
the following enrolled bills: 

S. 28. An act to authorize an interpretive 
center and related visitor facilities within 
the Four Corners Monument Tribal Park, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 67. An act to designate the headquarters 
building of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development in Washington, District 
of Columbia, as the ‘‘Robert C. Weaver Federal 
Building.’’ 
S. 416. An act to direct the Secretary of 
Agriculture to convey to the city of Sisters, 
Oregon, a certain parcel of land for use in 
connection with a sewage treatment facility. 
S. 438. An act to establish the Fallen Timbers 
Battlefield and Fort Miamis National 
Historic Site in the State of Ohio. 
S. 574. An act to direct the Secretary of the 
Interior to make corrections to a map relating 
to the Coastal Barrier Resources System. 
The Secretary of the Senate reported 
on December 1, 1999, he had presented 
to the President of the United States 
the following enrolled bills: 

S. 335. An act to amend chapter 30 of title 
39, United States Code, to provide for the 
nonmailability of certain deceptive matter 
relating to sweepstakes, skill contests, facsimile 
checks, administrative procedures, orders, 
and civil penalties relating to such 
matter, and for other purposes. 
S. 580. An act to amend title IX of the Public 
Health Service Act to revise and extend 
the Agency for Healthcare Policy and Research. 
S. 791. An act to amend the Small Business 
Act with respect to the women’s business 
center program. 
S. 1418. An act to provide for the holding of 
court at Natchez, Mississippi, in the same 
manner as court is held at Vicksburg, Mississippi, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1595. An act to designate the United 
States courthouse at 401 West Washington 
Street in Phoenix, Arizona, as the ‘‘Sandra 
Day O’Connor United States Courthouse.’’ 
S. 1866. An act to redesignate the Coastal 
Barrier Resources System as the ‘‘John H. 
Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System.’’ 
f 


EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
which were referred as indicated: 


EC–6298. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled: ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Eurocopter France Model; AS 322C, L, 
and L1 Helicopters; Docket No. 98–SW–78 {11– 
16/11–18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0453), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6299. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Eurocopter France Model SA330F, G, 
J, and AS332C, L, and L1 Helicopters; Request 
for Comments; Docket No. 99–SW–01 
{11–12/11–18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0441), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6300. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Eurocopter Deutschland GmbH Model 
EC135 P1 T1 Helicopters; Request for Comments; 
Docket No. 99–SW–59 {12–2/12–2}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0488), received December 
3, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6301. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives; 
Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc. Model 
412, 412EP and 412CF Helicopters; Request for 
Comments; Docket No. 99–SW–55 {11–16/11– 
18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0451), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6302. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administra


tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Bell Helicopter Textron Canada Model 
407 Helicopters; Request for Comments; 
Docket No. 99–SW–48 {11–15/11–18}’’, received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6303. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘ Airworthiness Directives: 
Saab Model 2000 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99–NM–197 {11–30/12–2}’’ (RIN2120– 
AA64) (1999–0489), received November 19, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–6304. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives; 
Airbus Model A319, A320, and A321 Series 
Airplanes; Docket No. 99–NM–106 {11–12/ 
11–18}’’ (RIN2122–AA64) (1999–0443), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6305. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
McDonnell Douglas Model DC–9–10, –20, 
–30, –40, and –50 Series Airplanes and C–9 Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99–NM–186 {11–12/11–18}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0442), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6306. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives; 
Bombardier Model DHC–8–101, –102, 
–103, –106, –201, –202, –301, –311, and –315 Series 
Airplanes; Docket No. 98–NM–335 {11–12/11– 
18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0439), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6307. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Aerospatiale Model SN–601 (Corvette) 
Series Airplanes; Docket No. 98–NM–365 {11– 
12/11–18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0438), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6308. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
British Aerospace Model BAe 146 and 
AVro 146–RJ Series Airplanes; Docket No. 99– 
NM–70 {11–15/11–18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999– 
0450), received November 19, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–6309. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Boeing Model 757 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99–NM–101 {11–16/11–18}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0455), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6310. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Learjet Model 31, 31A, 35, 35A, and 60 
Airplanes; Docket No. 99–NM–15 {11–16/11– 
18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0456), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6311. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Rolls–Royce plc Tay 650–15, and Tay 
651–54 Series Turbofan Engines; Docket No. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S17 

99–NE–26 {11–17/11–18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999– 
0454), received November 19, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–6312. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Boeing Model 727–200 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 97–NM–227 {11–12/11–18}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0444), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6313. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Dornier Model 328–100 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 96–NM–110 {11–12/11–18}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0445), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6314. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Airbus Model A330 and A340 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99–NM–184 {11–12/11–18}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0446), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6315. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives; 
Dornier Model 328–100 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99–NM–207 {11–12/11–18}’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0447), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6316. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Airbus Model A300, A310, and A300–600 
Series Airplanes; Docket No. 98–NM–205 {11– 
12/11–18}’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0448), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6317. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Federal Aviation Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
McDonnell Douglas Model DC–9–8 Series 
Airplanes and Model MD–88 Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99–NM–05 {11–19/11–22}’’ (RIN2120– 
AA64) (1999–0475), received November 22, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–6318. A communication from the Administrator, 
Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the Federal Acquisition Regulation; 
to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6319. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), 
transmitting a report relative to authorized 
navigation improvements at Sand Point Harbor, 
Alaska; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6320. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to flood damage reduction in the Yuba 
River Basin, California; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6321. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report relative to 
coal mining operations that result in valley 
fills; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6322. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Spe


cial Emphasis Given to Coral Reef Projection 
under the Clean Water Act, Marine Protection, 
Research, and Sanctuaries Act, Rivers 
And Harbors Act, and Federal Project 
Authorities’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6323. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Availability of Action 
Plan Demonstration Projects (ADDP) 
Funds for Tier IV and V NEP’s (FRL # N/A)’’ 
Receive November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6324. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Biennial Review of 
Post-CCMP NEPs—Final Guidance (FRL # N/ 
A), received November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6325. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Biennial Review of 
Post-CCMP NEPs FY 1999 Guidance (FRL # 
N/A), received November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6326. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Cover Memorandum 
and Wetland Program Development 
Grants—FY2000 Grant Guidance (FRL # N/ 
A); to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6327. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Funding the Development 
and Implementation of Watershed 
Restoration Action Strategies Under Section 
319 of the Clean Water Act’’ (FRL # N/A), received 
November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6328. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Estuary 
Program FY 1999 Budget and Funding Guidance’’ 
(FRL # N/A), received November 23, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6329. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Estuary 
Program Travel Funds Special Conditions’’ 
(FRL # N/A), received November 23, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6330. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘NEP FY 1997 Budget 
and Selected Guidance Topics’’ (FRL # N/ 
A), received November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6331. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘NEP FY 1998 Budget 
and Selected Guidance Topics’’ (FRL # N/ 
A), received November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6332. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 

report of a rule entitled ‘‘Nonpoint Source 
Program and Grants Guidance for Fiscal 
Year 1997 and Future Years’’ (FRL # N/A), received 
November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6333. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Process and Criteria 
for Funding State and Territorial 
Nonpoint Source Management Programs in 
FY 1999’’ (FRL # N/A), receive November 23, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6334. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to construction of flood damage reduction 
and recreation improvements for Grand 
Forks, ND and East Grand Forks, MN; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6335. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to the Baltimore Harbor Anchorages 
and Channels, MD, navigation project; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6336. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘1999 
PCB Questions and Answers Manual (Part 3 
of 3); to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6337. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Interim 
Guidance in Response to the OIG 
Audit ‘Superfund Sites Deferred to RCRA’ ’’; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6338. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Issuance of Abbreviated Assessments (EPA540-
F-98-037), Combined PA/SI Assessments 
(EPA-540-F-98-038), and Pre-CERCLIS 
Screening Assessment (EPA-540-F-98-039) 
Fact Sheets’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6339. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to authorized navigation improvements 
to the Big Bend Channel, Tampa Harbor, 
FL; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6340. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans and 
State Operating Permits Programs; State of 
Missouri’’ (FRL # 6506-2), received December 
6, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6341. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Acceptability’’ 
(FRL # 6503-7), received December 6, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6342. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Voluntary Submission of Performance Indicator 
Data’’ (NRC Regulatory Issue Summary 
99-06), received December 8, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 


S18 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

EC–6343. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Superfund Redevelopment 
Pilot Program’’ (FRL # 6506-5), received 
December 7, 1999; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6344. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to the decommissioning 
criteria for the West Valley 
Demonstration Project (M-32); to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6345. A communication from the Director 
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Determination of Endangered Status for the 
Plant ‘Fritillaria gentneri’ (Gertner’s 
frillary)’’ (RIN1018-AE75), received December 
7, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6346. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Emission 
Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for 
Ethylene Oxide Commercial Sterilization 
and Fumigation Operations’’ (FRL # 6500-2), 
received November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6347. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Emission 
Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Halogenated 
Solvent Cleaning’’ (FRL # 6500-1), 
received November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6348. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Findings of Significant 
Contribution and Rulemaking on Section 
126 Petitions for Purposes of Reducing 
Interstate Ozone Transport (final stay extension)’’ 
(FRL #6482–2), received November 30, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6349. A communication from the Director 
of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to Hurricane Lenny; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6350. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; State of Massachusetts; Interim Final 
Determination that Massachusetts has Corrected 
the Deficiencies of its I/M SIP Revision’’ 
(FRL #6481–2), received November 29, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6351. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘ Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California 
State Implementation Revision, Ventura 
County Air Pollution Control District, 
Project XL Site-specific Rulemaking for 
Imation Corp. Camarillo Plant’’ (FRL #6481– 
8), received November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6352. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 

Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California 
State Implementation Plan Revision, 
Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management 
District, Santa Barbara County Air 
Pollution Control District, Ventura County 
Air Pollution Control District, and Yolo-Solano 
County Air Quality Management District’’ 
(FRL #6477–7), received November 29, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6353. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Primary 
and Secondary Water Regulations: Analytic 
Methods for Chemical and Microbial Contamination 
and Revisions to Laboratory Certification 
Requirements’’ (FRL #6481–7), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6354. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘OMB Approval 
Numbers Under the Paperwork Reduction 
Act Relating to the Criteria for Classification 
of Solid Waste Disposal Facilities and 
Practices’’ (FRL #6481–3), received November 
29, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6355. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
entitled ‘‘The Super Fund Innovative 
Technology Evaluation Program’’ for fiscal 
year 1998; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6356. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Connecticut; Removal of Oxygenated 
Gasoline Requirement for the Connecticut 
Portion of the New York-New Jersey-Long 
Island Area (the ’Southwest Connecticut 
Area’)’’ (FRL #6479–4), received November 29, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6357. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Rhode Island; VOC Regulations and 
RACT Determinations’’ (FRL # 6483–8), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6358. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans and Approval 
Under Section 112(1); State of Iowa’’ 
(FRL # 6483–4), received November 29, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6359. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California 
State Implementation Plan Revision, 
South Coast Air Quality Management District 
and Ventura County Air Pollution Control 
District’’ (FRL # 6480–4), received November 
29, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6360. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 

Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to the 
Underground Injection Control Regulations 
for Class V Injection Wells’’ (FRL # 6482–2), 
received November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6361. A communication from the Acting 
Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and 
Plants; Designation of Critical Habitat for 
the Pacific Coast Population of the Western 
Snowy Plover’’ (RIN1018–AD10), received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6362. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Policy 
Issues Related to the Food Quality Protection 
Act; Guidance for Performing Aggregate 
Exposure and Risk Assessments; Tolerance 
Reassessment Advisory Committee Review 
and Request for Public Comment’’; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6363. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Policy 
Issues Related to the Food Quality Protection 
Act; Revised Paper Estimating the 
Drinking Water Component of a Dietary Exposure 
Assessment’’; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6364. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Policy 
Issues Related to the Food Quality Protection 
Act; Revised Threshold of Regulation 
(TOR) Policy When a Food Use Does Not Require 
a Tolerance’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6365. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; State of 
New Mexico; Approval of Revised Maintenance 
Plan for Albuquerque/Bernalillo County, 
NM; Carbon Monoxide’’ (FRL # 6504–9), 
received December 8, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6366. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval of Hospital/
Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerator 
State Plan for Designated Facilities and Pollutants: 
Indiana’’ (FRL #6388–4), received December 
8, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6367. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; State of Iowa; Correction’’ (FRL 
#6501–4), received December 2, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6368. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Alklegheny County Portion of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s Operations 
Permits Program, and Federally Enforceable 
State Operating Permit Program’’ (FRL 
#6500–8), received December 2, 1999; to the 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S19 

Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6369. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; District of Columbia; Approval of 
Definitions for the New Source Review Regulations’’ 
(FRL #6500–7), received December 2, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6370. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Montana; Emergency Episode Plan, 
Columbia Falls; Butte and Missoula Particulate 
Matter State Implementation Plans, 
Missoula Carbon Monoxide State Implementation 
Plan’’ (FRL #6482–6), received December 
2, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6371. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Utah: Road Salting and Sanding, Control 
of Installations, Revisions to Salting 
and Sanding Requirements and Deletion of 
Non-ferrous Smelter Orders, Incorporation 
by Reference, and Nonsubstantive Changes’ 
(FRL #6482–9), received December 2, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6372. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Texas; 
Control of Air Pollution from Volatile Organic 
Compounds, Miscellaneous Industrial 
Sources, Cut back Asphalt’’ (FRL #6504–4), 
received December 2, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6373. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Control of Emissions 
of Air Pollution from New CI Marine 
Engines at or above 37kw’’ (FRL #6482–3), received 
December 2, 1999; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6374. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Effluent Limitations 
Guidelines and Standards for the Commercial 
Hazardous Waste Combustor Subcategory 
of the Waste Combustors Point 
Source Category’’ (FRL #6503–6), received 
December 2, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6375. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Effluent Limitations 
Guidelines, Pretreatment Standards, 
and New Source Performance Standards for 
the Landfills Point Source Category’ (FRL 
#6503–5), received December 2, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6376. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval of Data 
Sharing Committee Recommendations for 

Lead and Copper’’ (FRL # N/A), received December 
9, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6377. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drinking Water 
State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) Program 
Policy Announcement: Eligibility of Reimbursement 
of Incurred Costs for Approved 
Projects’’ (FRL #6217–9), received December 
9, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6378. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drinking Water 
State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) Program 
Policy Announcement: Eligibility of Using 
DWSRF Funds to Create a New Public Water 
System’’ (FRL #65183–2), received December 
9, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6379. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Policy on Cutoff 
Dates for Submitting Data to SDWIS/FED’’ 
(FRL # N/A), received December 9, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6380. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revised Safe 
Drinking Water Information System 
(SDWIS) Inventory Reporting Requirements-
Technical Guidance’’ (FRL # N/A), received 
December 9, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6381. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘The Data Sharing 
Committee’s Review of the Surface Water 
Treatment Rule Data Needs and Safe Drinking 
Water Information System (SDWIS) Reporting’’ 
(FRL # N/A), received December 9, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6382. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; 
Oxygenated Gasoline Program’’ (FRL #6501– 
2), received December 9, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6383. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plan; Indiana 
Volatile Organic Compound Rules’’ (FRL 
#6500–9), received December 9, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6384. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans and Part 
70 Operating Permits Program; State of Missouri’’ 
(FRL #6508–4), received December 9, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6385. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 

Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘OMB Approvals 
Under the Paperwork Reduction Act; Technical 
Amendment’’ (FRL #6505–8), received 
December 9, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6386. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to Guidelines 
for the Storage and Collection of Residential, 
Commercial, and Industrial Solid 
Waste’’ (FRL #6505–6), received December 9, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6387. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Title V Operating 
Permit Deferrals for Area Sources: National 
Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants 
(NESHAP) for Chromium Emissions 
from Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating 
and Chromium Anodizing Tanks; 
Ethelyne Oxide Commercial Sterilization 
and Fumigation Operations; 
Perchloroethylene Dry Cleaning Facilities; 
Halogenated Solvent Cleaning Machines; and 
Sanitary Lead Smelting’’ (FRL #6508–7), received 
December 9, 1999; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6388. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Concurrence on the Classification of 
Wells in an in-situ Nacholite Leaching Facility 
in Colorado-Amer-Alia, Inc.’’; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6389. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, a report entitled ‘‘Disinfection 
Profiling and Benchmarking Guidance 
Manual’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6390. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Handbook for Capacity Development: Developing 
Water System Capacity Under the 
Safe Drinking Water Act as Amended in 
1996’’; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6391. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Microbial 
and Disinfection Byproduct Rules Simultaneous 
Compliance Guidance Manual’’; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6392. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘State Implementation Guidance for the 
Consumer Confidence Report (CCR) Rule’’; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6393. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled ‘‘Unregulated 
Contaminant Monitoring Regulation 
Analytical Methods and Quality Control 
Manual’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6394. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and 
Parks, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Migratory Bird Hunting: Regulations 
Designed to Reduce the Mid-continent Light 


S20 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Goose Population’’ (RIN1018–AF85), received 
December 13, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6395. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘NRC Management Directive 5.6, ‘Integrated 
Materials Performance Evaluation Program’ 
’’, received December 14, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6396. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Award of Grants 
for Special Projects Authorized by the Omnibus 
Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations 
Act of 1996 (PL 104–134)’’, received December 
16, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6397. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Award of Grants 
For Special Projects Authorized by this 
Agency’s FY 1997 Appropriations Act’’, received 
December 16, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6398. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Award of Grants 
for Special Projects Authorized by this 
Agency’s 1999 Appropriations Act’’, received 
December 16, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6399. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; State of 
Missouri’’ (FRL #6512–2), received December 
16, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6400. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, 
and Virginia; Approval of Low Emmission 
Vehicle Programs’’ (FRL #6483–9), received 
December 16, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6401. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; State of 
Missouri’’ (FRL #6510–9), received December 
16, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6402. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Emission 
Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for 
Amino/Phenolic Resins Production’’ (FRL 
#6513–4), received December 16, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6403. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Indiana’’ 
(FRL #6483–2), received December 16, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6404. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revision of Promulgation 
of Federal Implementation Plan 
for Arizona—Maricopa Nonattainment Area; 
PM10’’ (FRL #6511–3), received December 16, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6405. A communication from the Director 
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Determination of Endangered Status for 
‘Sidalcea oregana var. calva’ (Wenatchee 
Mountains checker-mallow)’’ (RIN1018– 
AE32), received December 16, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6406. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, a report entitled 
‘‘Final Guidance on Award of Grants to Indian 
Tribes Under Section 106 of the Clean 
Water Act for Fiscal Year 2000 and Future 
Years’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6407. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, a report entitled 
‘‘Letter to Ms. Micki Schultz, P.E. Senior 
Environmental Engineer, Durel Corporation; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6408. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, a report entitled 
‘‘Letter to Peggy Harris, Chief, Standardized 
Permitting Section of the Hazardous Waste 
Management Program’’; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6409. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to properties and funds 
to be transferred by the United States to the 
Republic of Panama on December 31, 1999 
upon the termination of the Panama Canal 
Treaty of 1977; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–6410. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Rev. Proc. 2000–9, Per Diem Travel Expenses’’ 
(Rev. Proc. 2000–9), received December 
21 , 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6411. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Rev. Proc. 99–50, Combined 
Information Reporting’’ (Rev. Proc. 99–50), 
received December 21, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6412. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘January 2000 Applicable Rates’’ (Revenue 
Ruling 2000–1), received December 21, 1999; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6413. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘October-December 1999 Bond 
Factor Amounts’’ (Revenue Ruling 99–54), received 
December 21, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6414. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 

transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Effective Date of Proposed 
Regulations Under Section 1.368–2(d)(4)’’ (Notice 
2000–1, 2000–2 I.R.B.ll) , received December 
23, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6415. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Information Reporting with 
Respect to Certain Foreign Partnerships and 
Certain Foreign Corporations’’ (RIN 1545– 
AV69), received December 29, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6416. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Separate Share Rules Applicable 
to Estates’’ (RIN 1545–AW57) (T.D. 
8849), received December 28, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6417. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Year 2000 Section 1274A CPI 
Adjustments’’ (Revenue Ruling 99–50), received 
November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6418. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Treatment of Changes in Effective 
Entity Classification’’ (RIN 1545– 
AV16) (TD 8844), received November 29, 1999; 
to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6419. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Annual Covered Compensation 
Tables’’ (Revenue Ruling 99–47), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6420. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘December 1999 Applicable 
Federal Rates’’ (Revenue Ruling 99–48), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6421. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Annual Section 415(d) Costof-
Living Adjustments’’ (Notice 99–55), received 
December 7, 1999; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–6422. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘BLS-LIFO Department Store 
Indexes—October 1999’’ (Rev. Rul. 99–55), received 
December 3, 1999; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–6423. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Revenue Ruling 99–57’’ (RR– 
103838–99), received December 6, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6424. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Automatic Approval of 
Changes in Funding Methods’’ (Revenue Procedure 
99–45), received November 19, 1999; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6425. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S21 

transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Duke Energy Natural Gas 
Corporation v. Commissioner’’ (–F.3d– [10th 
Cir. 1999]), received November 23, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6426. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Conway v. Commissioner’’ 
(111 T.C. 350 [1999] TL 22257–96), received November 
23, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6427. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Year 2000 Section 7872(g) CPI 
Adjustment’’ (Revenue Ruling 99–49), received 
November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6428. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Quarterly Interest Rates— 
First Quarter 2000’’ (Rev. Rul. 99–53), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6429. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Tax Avoidance Using Distributions 
of Encumbered Property’’ (Notice 
99–59, 1999–52 I.R.B.), received December 9, 
1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6430. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Notice 99–57; Section 705 
Special Basis Rules’’ (OGI0116328–99), received 
December 6, 1999; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–6431. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘T.D. 8846, Deductions for Transfers for Public, 
Charitable, and Religious Uses; in General 
Marital Deduction; Valuation of Interest 
Passing to Surviving Spouse’’ (RIN 1545– 
AV45), received December 3, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6432. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Adequate Disclosure of 
Gifts’’ (RIN 1545–AW 20) (TD 8845), received 
December 3, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6433. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Use of Penalty Mail in the 
Location and Recovery of Missing Children’’ 
(RIN 1545–AX 29) (TD 8848), received December 
10, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6434. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Annual Covered Compensation 
Tables’’ (Revenue Ruling 99–47), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6435. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Quarterly Interest Rates— 
First Quarter 2000’’ (Rev. Rul. 99–53), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6436. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Rev


enue Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘1999 Base Period T-Bill 
Rate’’ (RR–115894–99), received November 29, 
1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6437. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘T.D. 8847: Adjustments Following 
Sales of Partnership Interests’’ (RIN 
1545–AS39), received December 14, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6438. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Continuity of Interest on 
Repurchase of Issuers Shares’’ (Rev. Rul. 99– 
58, 1999–52 I.R.B.——, dated December 27, 
1999), received December 14, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6439. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Automatic Consent to 
Change a Method of Accounting’’ (Rev. Proc 
99–49), received December 14, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6440. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Duplicate Benefits’’ (Rev. 
Rul. 99–51), received December 14, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6441. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Information Reporting on 
Amounts Paid Under the General Allotment 
Act’’ (Notice 99–60), received December 14, 
1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6442. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Use of Penalty Mail in the 
Location and Recovery of Missing Children’’ 
(RIN 1545–AX 29) (TD 8848), received December 
14, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6443. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Weighted Average Interest 
Rate Update’’ (Notice 99–54), received November 
23, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6444. A communication from the Deputy 
Executive Secretary, Office of Communications 
and Operations Support, Health 
Care Financing Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revisions to Payment Policies Under the 
Physician Fee Schedule for Calendar Year 
2000—Medicare’’ (RIN 0938–AJ 40), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6445. A communication from the Deputy 
Executive Secretary to the Department, 
Health Care Financing Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Medicare Program; Inpatient 
Hospital Deductible and Hospital and 
Extended Care Services Coinsurance 
Amounts for 2000 (8005–N)’’ (RIN 0938–AB 52), 
received November 22, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6446. A communication from the Deputy 
Executive Secretary, Health Care Financing 
Administration, Department of 
Health and Human Services transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 

‘‘Part A Premium for 2000 for the Uninsured 
Aged and for Certain Disabled Individuals 
who Have Exhausted Other Entitlement 
(8005–N) (RIN 0938–AB 53), received November 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6447. A communication from the Deputy 
Executive Secretary, Health Care Financing 
Administration, Department of 
Health and Human Services transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Medicare Program; Monthly Actuarial 
Rates and Monthly Supplementary Medical 
Insurance Premium Rate Beginning January 
1, 2000 (HFCA–8006–N) (RIN 0938–AJ 80), received 
November 22, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6448. A communication from the Deputy 
Executive Secretary, Health Care Financing 
Administration, Department of 
Health and Human Services transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Medicare and Medicaid Program; Programs 
for All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly 
(PAGE)’’ (RIN 0938–AE 98), received December 
2, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6449. A communication from the Chairman 
of the International Trade Commission 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to imports of wheat gluten; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6450. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations Branch, US Customs 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Import Restrictions on Certain 
Khmer Stone Archaeological Material of the 
Kingdom of Cambodia’’ (RIN 1515–AC 52), received 
November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6451. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations Branch, US Customs 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Export Certificates for Lamb Meat 
Subject to Tariff-Rate Quota’’ (RIN 1515–AC 
54), received November 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6452. A communication from the Acting 
Regulations Officer, Social Security Administration 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Extension of Expiration 
Dates for Several Body System Listings’’ 
(RIN 0960–AF 15), received December 8, 
1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6453. A communication from the Senior 
Attorney, Federal Register Certifying Officer, 
Department of the Treasury transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Barring Delinquent Debtors from Obtaining 
Federal Loans or Loan Insurance or 
Guarantees’’ (31 CFR 285) (RIN 1510–AA 78), 
received December 16, 1999; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6454. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Energy Information Administration, 
Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the 
United States, 1998’’; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6455. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to hydropower construction 
deadlines; to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources. 

EC–6456. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Land and Minerals Management, 
Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Update of Documents Incorporated 
by Reference’’ (RIN 1010–AC 55), received December 
29, 1999; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–6457. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Virginia Regulatory 


S22 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Program’’ (SPATS NO. VA–116–FOR), received 
December 21, 1999; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6458. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Illinois Regulatory 
Program’’ (SPATS NO. IL–097–FOR, PART 
II), received December 24, 1999; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6459. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the annual report on Federal Government 
Energy Management and Conservation 
Programs for fiscal year 1997; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6460. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Energy Information Administration, 
Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Annual Energy Outlook 2000’’; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6461. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘State-Federal Cooperative 
Agreements; Indiana’’ (SPATS No. 
IN–142–FOR), received December 14, 1999; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6462. Director of the Office of Surface 
Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Surface Coal Mining and Reclamation Operations; 
Permanent Regulatory Program; 
Compliance with Court Order’’ (RIN1029– 
AB69), received December 14, 1999; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6463. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Illinois Regulatory 
Program’’ (SPATS No. IL–097–FOR, Part I), 
received December 1, 1999; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6464. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Louisiana Regulatory 
Program’’ (SPATS No. LA–018–FOR), 
received December 2, 1999; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6465. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Land and Minerals Management, 
Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Final Rule for Revision to 30 CFR 
250 Subpart A, ‘Postlease Operations Safety’—
Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations in 
the Outer Continental Shelf, Subpart A–General’’ 
(RIN1010–AC32), received December 3, 
1999; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–6466. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Virginia Regulatory 
Program’’ (SPATS No. VA–113–FOR), received 
December 9, 1999; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6467. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Iowa Regulatory Program’’ 
(SPATS No. IA–005–FOR), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–6468. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 

to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implementation 
of Fiscal Year 2000 Legislative 
Provisions’’ (99–07), received December 7, 
1999; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–6469. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implementation 
of Fiscal Year 2000 Legislative 
Provisions’’ (99–02), received December 7, 
1999; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–6470. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report entitled ‘‘Quality of 
Water, Colorado River Basin, Progress Report 
No. 19’’; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–6471. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator of Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Marketing 
and Regulatory Programs, Department of 
Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Change in Disease 
Status of Portugal Because of African 
Swine Fever’’ (Docket No. 99–096–1), received 
December 28, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6472. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator of Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Marketing 
and Regulatory Programs, Department of 
Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Export Certification; 
Heat Treatment of Solid Wood Packing 
Materials Exported to China’’ (Docket 
No. 99–100–1), received December 28, 1999; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6473. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Marketing 
and Regulatory Programs, Department of 
Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Importation 
from Europe of Rhododendron Established in 
Growing Media’’ (Docket No. 89–154–5), received 
November 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6474. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator of Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Marketing 
and Regulatory Programs, Department of 
Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Mexican Hass 
Avocado Import Program’’ (Docket No. 99– 
020–2), received December 6, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–6475. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Veterinary 
Services User Fees’’ (Docket No. 98–004–1), 
received December 3, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6476. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Veterinary 
Service Fees; Biosecurity Level Three Laboratory 
Inspection Fee’’ (Docket No. 98–052– 
2), received December 3, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–6477. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Brucellosis; 
State and Area Classification; Kansas’’ 
(Docket No. 99–051–2), received December 3, 
1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6478. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 

Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Change in Disease Status of Liechtenstein 
Because of BSE’’ (Docket No. 98–119–2), received 
December 3, 1999; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6479. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Mexican 
Fruit Fly; Regulated Areas, Regulated Articles, 
and Treatments’’ (Docket No. 99–075–2), 
received December 17, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6480. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Phosphine; Pesticide 
Tolerance’’ (FRL #6484–5), received December 
23, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6481. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Bifenthrin; Extension 
of Tolerance for Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL #6395–5), received December 22, 
1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6482. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Metsulfuron Methyl; 
Pesticide Tolerances for Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL #6391–8), received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6483. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Myclobutanil; Extension 
of Tolerances For Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL #6398–2), received December 
20, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6484. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2,4dichlorophenoxyacetic 
Acid; Re-establishment 
of Tolerances for Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL #6396–3), received December 8, 
1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6485. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Clomazone; Pesticide 
Tolerances foe Emergency Exemptions’ 
(FRL #6388–4), received December 8, 
1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6486. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Tetraconazole[(+/ 
´)-2(2,2,4-dichlorphenyl) -3 -(1H-1,2,4triazol-
1-yl) propyl 1, 1,2,2-tetrafluroethyl 
ether]; Pesticide Tolerances for Emergency 
Exemptions’’ (FRL #6384–1), received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6487. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘N-Acyl Sarcosines 
and Sodium N-Acyl sarcosinates; Exemption 
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S23 

#6386–6), received November 30, 1999; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6488. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Tebufenozide; Pesticide 
Tolerances for Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL #6390–9), received December 2, 
1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6489. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Oranges, Grapefruit, Tangerines, 
and Tangelos Grown in Florida; Limiting the 
Volume of Small Red Seedless Grapefruit’’ 
(FV99–905–3 FIR), received November 19, 1999; 
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6490. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Avocados Grown in South Florida, 
Relaxation of Container and Pack Requirements’’ 
(FV00–915–1 IFR), received December 
17, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6491. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Oranges and Grapefruit Grown in 
Lower Rio Grande Valley in Texas; Changes 
to Pack Requirements’’ (FV99–906–3 FIR), received 
December 17, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6492. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Milk in the New England and Other 
Marketing Areas; Exemption of Handlers Operating 
Plants in Clark County, Nevada, 
from Other Requirements’’ (DA–00–01), received 
November 19, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6493. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Revision of Regulations for 
Permissive Inspection’’ (TB–99–10) (RIN0581– 
AB65), received December 8, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–6494. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled Oranges, Grapefruit, Tangerines, 
and Tangelos Grown in Florida; Modification 
of Procedures for Limiting the Volume of 
Small Red Seedless Grapefruit’’ (FV99–905–4 
FIR), received December 17, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–6495. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revised Procedures 
for Listing New Contracts’’ (RIN3038– 
AB42), received November 23, 1999; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6496. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Trade Options 
on Enumerated Commodities’’ (RIN3038– 
AB43), received December 16, 1999; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6497. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Serv


ice, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Non-Discretionary Funding Provisions 
of the William F. Goodling Child Nutrition 
Reauthorization Act of 1998’’ (RIN0584– 
AC77), received December 10, 1999; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6498. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Local Agency Expenditure Reports’’ 
(RIN0584–AC74), received November 22, 1999; 
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6499. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Generic E. Coli Testing for 
Sheep, Goats, Equines, Ducks, Geese, and 
Guineas’’ (RIN0583–AC32), received December 
8, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6500. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Rules of Practice’’ (RIN0583– 
AC34), received December 8, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6501. A communication from the Administrator 
and Executive Vice President, 
Commodity Credit Corporation, Farm Service 
Agency, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Final Rule: 1999 Marketing 
Quota and Price Support for Flue-cured Tobacco’’ 
(RIN0560–AF49), received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6502. A communication from the Administrator, 
Farm Service Agency, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Dairy 
Indemnity Payment Program’’ (RIN0560– 
AG10), received November 19, 1999; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6503. A communication from the Administrator, 
Farm Service Agency, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Debarment 
and Suspension’’ (RIN0560–AF47), received 
November 22, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6504. A communication from the Secretary 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the annual Horse Protection Enforcement 
Report; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6505. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the Congressional Commission 
on Servicemembers and Veterans Transition 
Assistance; to the Committee on Veterans’ 
Affairs. 

EC–6506. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulations Management, 
Office of Acquisition and Materials Management, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘VA Acquisition Regulation: Simplified 
Acquisition Procedures’’ (RIN2900– 
AJ16), received December 13, 1999; to the 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 

EC–6507. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report on direct 
spending or receipts legislation dated November 
12, 1999; to the Committee on the 
Budget. 

EC–6508. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, 

Executive Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, reports as required by 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985; to the Committee on the 
Budget. 

EC–6509. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Federal Election Commission, 
transmitting a report relative to the Commission’s 
fiscal year 2001 budget; to the Committee 
on Rules and Administration. 

EC–6510. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the U.S. Arms Control 
and Disarmament Agency’s 1998 annual 
report; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–6511. A communication from the Assistant 
Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of texts and background 
statements of international agreements, 
other than treaties; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–6512. A communication from the Assistant 
Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of the texts and background 
statements of international agreements, 
other than treaties; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–6513. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Schedule 
of Fees for Consular Services, Department of 
State and Overseas Embassies and Consulates’’ 
(22 CFR Part 22), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–6514. A communication from the Assistant 
Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the Taiwan Relations 
Act; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–6515. A communication from the President 
of the United States transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the Convention 
on the Prohibition of the Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of 
Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction 
relating to the Australia Group; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–6516. A communication from the Chief, 
Programs and Legislation Division, Office of 
Legislative Liaison, Department of the Air 
Force, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to an independent business 
analysis of Aircraft Maintenance and Supply 
Functions at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland; 
to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6517. Chief, Programs and Legislation 
Division, Office of Legislative Liaison, Department 
of the Air Force, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to a cost 
comparison conducted at General Mitchell 
Air Reserve Base, Wisconsin; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–6518. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting a report relative 
to a retirement; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6519. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting a report relative 
to a retirement; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6520. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting a report relative 
to a retirement; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6521. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy (Acquisition and Technology), 
Under Secretary of Defense, transmitting 
pursuant to law, a report relative to a cost 
comparison waiver; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6522. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, pursuant to 


S24 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

law, a report relative to the transportation 
of a chemical warfare agent; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–6523. A communication from the Alternate 
OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, 
Office of the Secretary, Department of Defense 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Screening the Ready 
Reserve’’ (RIN0790–AG57), received December 
15, 1999; to the Committee on Armed Services. 


EC–6524. A communication from the Freedom 
of Information Act Officer, Department 
of the Air Force transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Air Force 
Freedom of Information Act Program’’ 
(RIN0701–AA61), received December 22, 1999; 
to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6525. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner 
of Patents and Trademarks transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revision of Patent and Trademark 
Fees for Fiscal Year 2000’’ (RIN0651–AB01), 
received November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

EC–6526. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner 
of Patents and Trademarks, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Clarification of Patent and Trademark 
Copy Fees’’ (RIN0651–AB08), received 
November 23. 1999; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 

EC–6527. A communication from the Assistant 
Attorney General (Office of Legislative 
Affairs), transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the Department’s prison impact 
assessment for 1998; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

EC–6528. A communication from the Rules 
Administrator, Federal Bureau of Prisons, 
Department of Justice transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Victim 
and/or Witness Notification: State Custody 
Transfers’’ (RIN1120–AA80), received December 
9, 1999; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 


EC–6529. A communication from the Director, 
Policy Directives and Instructional 
Branch, Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, Department of Justice transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Adjustment of Small Volume Application 
Fees of the Immigration Examinations’’ 
(RIN1115–AF10), received December 21, 1999; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

EC–6530. A communication from the Assistant 
Attorney General, Office of Legislative 
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
the entry into the United States of two Salvadoran 
generals; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 

EC–6531. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, U.S. 
Department of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Final Regulations—Special Education— 
Personnel Preparation to Improve Services 
and Results for Children with Disabilities’’ 
(RIN1820–AB46), received December 13, 1999; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6532. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, U.S. 
Department of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘State-administered Programs’’, received 
December 20, 1999; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6533. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final 
Regulations-Preparing Tomorrows Teachers 
to Use Technology’’ (RIN1840–AC81), received 
December 22, 1999; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6534. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Strengthening Institutions Programs and 
Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions 
Programs’’, received December 22, 1999; to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions. 

EC–6535. A communication from the Deputy 
Executive Secretary, Administration for 
Children and Families, Department of 
Health and Human Services transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Head Start Program (Priority for Previously 
Selected Head Start Agencies)’’ 
(RIN0970–AB98), received December 17, 1999; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6536. A communication from the Director, 
Corporate Policy and Research Department, 
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of Assets in Single-
Employer Plans; Valuation of Benefits 
and Assets; Expected Retirement Age’’, received 
November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6537. A communication from the Director, 
Corporate Policy and Research Department, 
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Disclosure to Participants; 
Benefits Payable in Terminated Single-Employer 
Plans’’, received November 30, 1999; to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions. 

EC–6538. A communication from the Director, 
Corporate Policy and Research Department, 
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Payment of Premiums’’ 
(RIN1212–AA82), received December 2, 1999; to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions. 

EC–6539. A communication from the Director, 
Corporate Policy and Research Department, 
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of Assets in Single-
employer Plans; Interest Assumptions 
for Valuing Benefits’’, received December 16, 
1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6540. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: 
Paper and Paperboard Components’’ (99F– 
1423), received December 17, 1999; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6541. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations Policy, Management 
Staff, Office of Policy, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and 
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Irradiation 
in the Production, Processing, and Handling 
of Food’’ (99F–0455), received December 15, 
1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6542. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’ 
(98F–0492), received November 23, 1999; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6543. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 

transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Prescription Drug Marketing 
Act of 1987; Prescription Drug Amendments 
of 1992; Policies, Requirements, and 
Administrative Procedures’’ (RIN0910–AA08), 
received December 9, 1999; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6544. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids and Sanitizers’’ 
(95F–0150), received December 7, 1999; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6545. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Medical Devices; Revocation 
of Pacemaker Registry’’ (85N–0322), received 
December 2, 1999; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6546. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’ 
(98F–0825), received December 2, 1999; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6547. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Animal Drug Availability 
Act; Medicated Feed Mill License’’ (RIN0910– 
AB18), received December 2, 1999; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6548. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations Policy, Management 
Staff, Office of Policy, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and 
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect 
Food Additives; Adjuvants, Production Aids, 
and Sanitizers’’ (99F–1170), received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6549. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Listing of Color Additives 
for Coloring Bone Cement; FD&C Blue No . 2Aluminum 
Lake on Alumina; Confirmation 
of Effective Date’’ (99C–0348), received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6550. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations Policy, Management 
Staff, Office of Policy, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and 
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect 
Food Additives: Paper and Paperboard Components’’ 
(86F–0312), received December 8, 
1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6551. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations Policy, Management 
Staff, Office of Policy, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and 
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Biological 
Products Regulated Under Section 351 of the 
Public Health Service Act; Implementation 
of the Biologics License; Elimination of Establishment 
License and Product License’’ 
(RIN0910–AB79), received December 8, 1999; to 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S25 

the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions. 

EC–6552. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Sunscreen Drug Products for 
Over-the-Counter Human Use; Final Monograph’’ 
(RIN0910–AA01), received December 8, 
1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6553. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations Policy, Management 
Staff, Office of Policy, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and 
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Progestational 
Drug Products for Human Use; Requirements 
for Labeling Directed to the Patient’’ 
(99N–0188), received November 22, 1999; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6554. A communication from the Regulations 
Officer, National Institutes of 
Health, Department of Health and Human 
Services transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Institutes 
of Health Construction Grants’’ (RIN0925– 
AA04), received December 2, 1999; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6555. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Corporation for National and 
Community Service transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Rules 
Implementing the Government in the Sunshine 
Act’’ (RIN3045–AA21), received December 
3, 1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6556. A communication from the Secretary 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the annual report of the National Advisory 
Committee on Institutional Quality 
and Integrity for fiscal year 1999; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6557. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a draft of proposed legislation relative 
occupational illness in the Department’s 
workforce; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6558. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to a retirement; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6559. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Installations and 
Environment), transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the emergency detonation 
of a bomblet potentially filled with 
Sarin chemical, agent; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6560. A communication from the Alternate 
OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, 
Department of Defense transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘TRICARE—Nonavailability Statement Requirement 
for Maternity Care’’, received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–6561. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the demonstration project 
for uniform funding of morale, welfare, and 
recreation activities; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6562. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulations Management, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Rules of Practice: Title Change’’ 
(RIN2900–AJ57), received January 6, 2000; to 
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 

EC–6563. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulations Management, 

Department of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Per Diem for Nursing Home Care of 
Veterans in State Homes’’ (RIN2900–AE87), 
received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Veterans’ Affairs. 

EC–6564. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulations Management, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Board of Veterans’ Appeals: Rules of 
Practice-Revision of Decisions on Grounds of 
Clear and Unmistakable Error; Clarification’’ 
(RIN2900–AJ98), received January 3, 
2000; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 

EC–6565. A communication from the Director 
of Central Intelligence transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of violations of the 
Antideficiency Act; to the Committee on Appropriations. 


EC–6566. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the reports required 
by the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985; to the Committee on 
the Budget. 

EC–6567. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to United States contributions 
to international organizations; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–6568. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of the texts and background 
statements of international agreements, 
other than treaties; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–6569. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report texts and background statements 
of international agreements, other 
than treaties; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

EC–6570. A communication from the Clerk 
of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims for fiscal year 1999; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

EC–6571. Director of the Office of Surface 
Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Oklahoma Regulatory Program’’ (SPATS 
No. OK–026–FOR), received December 14, 1999; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6572. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Indiana Regulatory 
Program’’ (SPATS No. IN–146–FOR), received 
January 4, 1999; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–6573. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Virginia Abandoned 
Mine Land Reclamation Plan’’ (SPATS No. 
VA–115–FOR), received January 4, 2000; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6574. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Rule on Regional 
Transmission Organizations’’ 
(RIN1902–AB77) , received January 3, 2000; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6575. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Manage


ment Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additive: 
Polymers’’, received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6576. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’, 
received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6577. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’ 
(99F–1457), received January 6, 2000; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6578. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’ 
(98F–1201), received January 6, 2000; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6579. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy Management Staff, 
Office of Policy Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’ (99F–1421), 
received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6580. A communication from the Associate 
Solicitor, Legislative and Legal Counsel, 
Department of Labor transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct 
for Employees of the Department of Labor’’ 
(RIN1290–AA15/3209–AA15), received January 
6, 2000; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6581. A communication from the Acting 
Deputy Assistant Secretary, Labor-Management 
Standards, Department of Labor transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Labor Organization Annual Reports’’ 
(RIN1215–AB29), received January 3, 
2000; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6582. A communication from the Secretary 
of Labor, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the 1999 reports of the Department’s Advisory 
Council for Employee Welfare and 
Pension Benefit Plans; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6583. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the annual reports 
of the Administration on Developmental Disabilities 
for fiscal years 1996 and 1997 ; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–6584. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Information Reporting Exception 
for Certain De Minimis Barter 
Transactions’’ (Notice 2000–6), received January 
4, 2000; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6585. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Revenue Procedure 2000–7’’ 
(RP–118112–99), received January 10, 2000; to 
the Committee on Finance. 


S26 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

EC–6586. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Qualified Intermediary 
Withholding Agreement’’ (Rev. Proc. 2000– 
12), received January 10, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6587. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Announcement and Request 
for Comments on Certain Plans of State and 
Local Government Employers Under Section 
457’’ (Announcement 2000–1, I.R.B. 2000–2 
[January 10, 2000]), received December 23, 
1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6588. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Passthrough of Items of an 
S Corporation to its Shareholders’’ (RIN1545– 
AT52), received December 23, 1999; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6589. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Return Requirement for United 
States Persons Acquiring or Disposing of an 
Interest in a Foreign Partnership, or Whose 
Proportional Interest in a Foreign Partnership 
Changes’’ (RIN1545–AK75), received December 
29, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6590. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Weighted Average Interest 
Rate Update’’ (Notice 99–61), received December 
29, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6591. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Disclosures of Return Information 
to Officers and Employees of the Department 
of Agriculture for Certain Statistical 
Purposes and Related Activities’’ 
(RIN1545–AX70), received January 5, 2000; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6592. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations, Internal Revenue Service, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Section 1504(d) Elections-Deferral of Termination’’ 
(OGI–111839–99), received January 5, 
2000; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6593. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Purchase Price Allocations 
in Deemed and Actual Asset Acquisitions’’ 
(RIN1545–AV58) (TD 8858), received January 
5, 2000; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6594. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations, Internal Revenue Service, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Determination of Underwriting Income’’ 
(TD 8857) (RIN1545–AU60), received January 
5, 2000; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6595. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Recharacterizing Financing Arrangements 
Involving Fast-pay Stock’’ (RIN1545–AV07) 
(TD 8853), received January 6, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6596. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 

a rule entitled ‘‘ISO 9000 Costs’’ (Rev. Rul. 
2000–4), received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6597. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Additional Guidance on Cash 
or Deferred Arrangements’’ (Notice 2000–3), 
received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6598. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Foreign Withholding on Payments of U.S. 
Source Income to Foreign Persons’’ 
(RIN1545–AX44), received January 3, 2000; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6599. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Qualified Zone Academy Bonds Allocations 
2000’’ (Rev. Proc. 2000–10), received January 3, 
2000; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6600. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Binding Arbitration’’ (Announcement 2000– 
4, 2000–3 I.R.B.——, dated January 18, 2000), 
received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6601. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Automatic Consent to 
Change an Accounting Period’’ (Rev. Proc. 
2000–11), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6602. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Letter Rulings, determination 
Letters, and Information Letters Issued 
by the Associate Chief Counsel (Domestic), 
Associate Chief Counsel (Employee Benefits 
and Exempt Organizations), Associate Chief 
Counsel (Enforcement Litigation), and Associate 
Chief Counsel (International)’’ (RP– 
114403–99), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6603. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘EP/EO Technical Advice Procedures’’ (Rev. 
Proc. 2000–5), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6604. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘EP/EO Letter Rulings’’ (Rev. 
Proc. 2000–4), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6605. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Employee Plans Determination 
Letter Procedures’’ (Rev. Proc. 2000–6), 
received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6606. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘BLS–LIFO Department 
Store Indexes-November 1999’’ (Rev. Rul. 
2000–3), received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6607. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 

transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Technical Advice to the District 
Directors and Chiefs, Appeals Offices, 
from the Associate Chief Counsel (Domestic), 
Associate Chief Counsel (Employee Benefits 
and Exempt Organizations), Associate Chief 
Counsel (Enforcement Litigation), and Associate 
Counsel (International)’’ (RP–114404– 
99), received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6608. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Like-kind Exchange and Involuntary 
Conversion of MACRS Property’’ 
(OGI–108813–99), received January 3, 2000; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6609. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘EP/EO User Fees’’ (Rev. Proc. 2000–8), received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–6610. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Estimated Tax Penalty Relief 
for Corporations Affected by Section 571 
of the Tax Relief Extension Act’’ (Notice 
2000–5), received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6611. A communication from the Assistant 
Attorney General, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the Foreign 
Agents Registration Act; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–6612. A communication from the Legislative 
and Regulatory Activities Division, 
Comptroller of the Currency, Administrator 
of National Banks, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Interagency 
Guidelines Establishing Year 2000 
Standards for Safety and Soundness’’ 
(RIN1557–AB67), received November 29, 1999; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6613. A communication from the Legislative 
and Regulatory Activities Division, 
Comptroller of the Currency, Administrator 
of National Banks, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Community 
Development Corporations, Community 
Development Projects, and Other Public 
Welfare Investments’’ (RIN1667–AB69), received 
December 16, 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6614. A communication from the Legislative 
and Regulatory Activities Division, 
Administrator of National Banks, Comptroller 
of the Currency, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Safety and Soundness Standards’’ (RIN1550– 
AB27), received November 29, 1999; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6615. A communication from the Legislative 
and Regulatory Activities Division, 
Administrator of National Banks, Comptroller 
of the Currency, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Loans in Areas Having Special Flood Hazards’’ 
(RIN1557–AB74), received December 13, 
1999; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6616. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations’’ 
(RIN0694–AB06), received December 28, 
1999; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6617. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise 
Oversight, transmitting, pursuant to 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S27 

law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Rules of 
Practice and Procedure’’ (RIN2550–AA04), received 
December 28, 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6618. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Expansion of License Exception CIV Eligibility 
for ‘Microprocessors’ Controlled by 
ECCN 3A001’’ (RIN0694–AB90), received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6619. A communication from the Assistant 
to the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve Board, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Loans in 
Areas Having Special Flood Hazards’’ (Docket 
No. R–1052), received December 13, 1999; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6620. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the National Credit Union 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Credit 
Union Service Organizations’’, received December 
13, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6621. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Audit Committee 
Disclosure’’ (RIN3235–AH83), received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6622. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Adoption of an 
Amendment to the Intermarket Trading System 
Plan to Expand the ITS/Computer Assisted 
Executive System Linkage to All Listed 
Securities’’ (RIN3235–AH49), received December 
10, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6623. A communication from the Secretary 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Temporary Exemption 
for Certain Investment Advisers-Investment 
Company release No. 24177 (Nov. 29, 
1999)’’, received November 29, 1999; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6624. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Community Development 
Grant (CDBG) Program; Clarification of the 
Nature of Required CDBG Expenditure Documentation; 
Final Rule’’ (RIN2506–AC00) (FR– 
4449–F–02), received November 24, 1999; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6625. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations of the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Technical Amendment 
to the Section 8 Management Assessment 
Program (SEMAP)’’ (RIN2577–AC10) 
(FR–4498–F–02), received December 13, 1999; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6626. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Housing Choice Voucher 
Program; Amendment’’ (RIN2577–AB91) (FR– 
4428–F–05), received November 24, 1999; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6627. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the re


port of a rule entitled ‘‘Fair Market Rents 
for the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments 
Program-Fiscal Year 2000’’ (FR–4496– 
N–03), received January 4, 2000; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–6628. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Single Family Mortgage Insurance; 
Appraiser Roster Placement Procedures’’ 
(RIN2502–AH29) (FR–4429–F–02), received 
January 4, 2000; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6629. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Civil Penalties for 
Fair Housing Act Violations’’ (RIN2529– 
AA83) (FR–4302–F–03), received January 4, 
2000; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6630. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Section 8 Housing Assistance 
Payments Program-Contract Rent Annual 
Adjustment Factors, Fiscal Year 2000’’ 
(FR–4528–C–02), received January 4, 1999; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6631. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, U.S. 
Department of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Up-Front Grants and Loans in the Disposition 
of Multifamily Projects’’ (RIN2502– 
AH12) (FR–4310–F–02), received January 4, 
2000; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6632. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension 
of Community Eligibility’’ (FEMA– 
7725), received November 22, 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–6633. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘List of 
Communities Eligible for the Sale of Flood 
Insurance’’ (FEMA–7720), received November 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6634. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final 
Flood Elevation Determinations’’, received 
December 28, 1999; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6635. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Changes in 
Flood Elevation Determinations’’, received 
December 28, 1999; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6636. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Change in 
Flood Elevation Determinations’’, received 
December 28, 1999; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6637. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final 
Flood Elevation Determinations’’, received 
December 28, 1999; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6638. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Man


agement Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Changes in 
Flood Elevation Determinations’’ (Docket 
No. FEMA–7308), received December 28, 1999; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6639. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Changes in 
Flood Elevation Determinations’’ (Docket 
No. FEMA–7301), received December 28, 1999; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6640. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘List of 
Communities Eligible for the Sale of Flood 
Insurance’’ (FEMA–7722), received November 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6641. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension 
of Community Eligibility’’ (Docket No. 
FEMA–7725), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6642. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘National 
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP); Standard 
Flood Insurance Policy’’ (RIN3067–AD05), received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6643. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension 
of Community Eligibility’’ (Docket No. 
FEMA–7721), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6644. A communication from the Comptroller 
of the Currency, Administrator of National 
Banks transmitting, pursuant to law, 
a report relative to compliance by insured 
depository institutions with the National 
Flood Insurance Program for the period September 
1, 1997 to August 31, 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–6645. A communication from the President 
and Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
semiannual report on tied aid credits; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6646. A communication from the President 
and Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
on tied aid credits; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6647. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Thrift Supervision, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to compliance 
by savings associations with the national 
flood insurance program; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6648. A communication from the President 
and Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, the annual 
report for fiscal year 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–6649. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the National Credit Union 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Management 
Official Interlocks’’, received January 
10, 2000; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6650. A communication from the Managing 
Director, Federal Housing Finance 


S28 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Information Collection 
Approval; Technical Amendment to Advances 
to Nonmembers Rule’’ (RIN3069– 
AA91), received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–6651. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
continuing the national emergency relating 
to Libya; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6652. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a 6-month periodic 
report relative to the national emergency 
with respect to Yugoslavia and Kosovo; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6653. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a 6-month periodic 
report relative to the national emergency 
caused by the lapse of the Export Administration 
Act of 1979; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6654. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a 6-month periodic 
report on the national emergency with respect 
to Burma; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6655. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a 6-month periodic 
report on the national emergency with respect 
to Libya; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6656. A communication from the President 
and Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to a transaction involving U.S. 
exports to the Republic of Panama; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6657. A communication from the President 
and Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to a transaction involving U.S. 
Exports to Venezuela; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6658. A communication from the President 
and Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to a transaction involving U.S. 
Exports to the Republic of Korea; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6659. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the Committee for Purchase 
from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule relative to additions to and deletions 
from the Procurement List, received 
December 7, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6660. Executive Director of the Committee 
for Purchase from People Who Are 
Blind or Severely Disabled, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule relative 
to additions to the Procurement List, received 
December 2, 1999; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6661. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the Committee for Purchase 
from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule relative to additions to and deletions 
from the Procurement List, received 
December 13, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6662. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the Committee for Purchase 
from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule relative to additions to and deletions 
from the Procurement List, received 

December 17, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6663. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the Committee for Purchase 
from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule relative to additions to and deletions 
from the Procurement List, received 
January 4, 2000; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6664. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the Committee for Purchase 
from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule relative to additions to and deletions 
from the Procurement List, received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6665. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, 
Department of the Treasury transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Commission’s 
report under the Government in the Sunshine 
Act for calendar year 1999; to the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6666. A communication from the Executive 
Officer of the National Science Board, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Board’s 
report under the Government in the Sunshine 
Act for calendar year 1999; to the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6667. A communication from the Commissioner 
of Social Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the fiscal year 1999 Accountability 
Report; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6668. A communication from the Chairman 
of the U.S. Merit Systems Protection 
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
strategic plan for fiscal years 2000 through 
2005 and the performance plans for fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6669. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 13–166, ‘‘Gift of Light Permit 
Temporary Amendment Act of 1999’’; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6670. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 13–167, ‘‘Real Property Tax Appeal 
Filing Deadline Extension Temporary 
Act of 1999’’; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6671. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 13–171, ‘‘Management Supervisory 
Service Temporary Act of 1999’’; to 
the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6672. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 13–170, ‘‘Advisory Neighborhood 
Commission Vacancy Temporary Act of 
1999’’; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6673. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 13–165, ‘‘Petition Circulation Requirements 
Amendment Act of 1999’’; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6674. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 13–164, ‘‘Potomac River Bridges 
Towing Compact Act of 1999’’; to the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6675. A communication from the Acting 
Deputy Associate Administrator for Acquisition 
Policy, General Services Administration 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition 
Circular’’ (FAC 97–15), received December 29, 
1999; to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 


EC–6676. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the Federal Retirement 
Thrift Investment Board, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Privacy Act Regulations’’, received November 
30, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6677. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Pay Administration; Back 
Pay, Holidays, and Physicians’ Comparability 
Allowance’’ (RIN3206–AI61), received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6678. A communication from the Director, 
U.S. Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Prevailing Rate Systems; 
Abolishment of the Washington, Maryland, 
Nonappropriated Fund Wage Area’’ (RIN3206– 
AI97), received December 22, 1999; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6679. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Employees’ Life Insurance 
Program: Life Insurance Improvements’’ 
(RIN3206–AI64), received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6680. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Employees’ Group 
Life Insurance Program-New Premiums’’ 
(RIN3206–AI73), received December 28, 1999; 
to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6681. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Emergency Leave Transfer 
Program’’ (RIN3206–AI03), received December 
28, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6682. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Retention Allowances’’ 
(RIN3206–AI31), received December 28, 1999; 
to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6683. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Final Regulations-Miscellaneous 
Changes in Compensation Regulations’’ 
(RIN3206–AH11), received December 28, 
1999; to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 


EC–6684. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Prevailing Rate Systems; 
Changes in Federal Wage System Survey 
Jobs’’ (RIN3206–AH81), received December 13, 
1999; to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 


EC–6685. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Miscellaneous Changes in 
Compensation Regulations’’ (RIN3206–AH11), 
received December 7, 1999; to the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6686. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
Statement of Federal Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 16; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6687. A communication from the Chief 
of Staff of the White House, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to the Executive 
Office of the President’s Drug Free 
Workplace Plan; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6688. A communication from the Chief 
Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S29 

Space Administration, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to mixed waste 
generated at Ames Research Center in 
Sunnyvale, CA; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6689. A communication from the Acting 
Director of the Office of Administration, Executive 
Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to personnel 
employed in the White House Office, 
the Executive Residence at the White House, 
the Office of the Vice President, the Office of 
Policy Development and the Office of Administration; 
to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6690. A communication from the President’s 
Pay Agent transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to locality-based comparability 
payments ; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6691. A communication from the Secretary 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to surplus Federal 
real property; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6692. A communication from the Comptroller 
General of the United States, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of the 
General Accounting Office reports for October 
1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6693. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report of surplus 
real property transferred for public health 
purposes; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–6694. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Statistical 
Programs of the United States Government: 
Fiscal Year 2000²; to the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–6695. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Vidalia Onions Grown in 
Georgia; Final Period Change’’ (Docket No. 
FV99–955–1–FIR), received January 6, 2000; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6696. A communication from the 
Assosciate Administrator of the Agriculture 
Marketing Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Vidalia Onions 
Grown in Georgia; Changing the Term of Office 
and Nomination Deadlines’’ (Docket No. 
FV–00–955–2–IFR), received January 6, 2000; 
to the Committee on Agriculture , Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6697. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator of the Agriculture Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Soybean Promotion and Research: 
The Procedures to Request a Referendum; 
Correction’’ (Docket No. LS–99–17), 
received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6698. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Milk in the Southern Illinois-
Eastern Missouri Federal Marketing 
Area; Suspension’’ (Docket No. DA–00–02), received 
January 6, 2000; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6699. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Emanectin Benzoate; 
Pesticide Tolerances for Emergency 
Exemptions’’ (FRL #6398–5), received Janu


ary 10, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6700. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘N, N–diethyl–2–(4– 
methylbenzyloxy) ethylamine Hydrochloride; 
Pesticide Tolerance’’ (FRL #6486–2), 
received January 10, 2000; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6701. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spinosad; Pesticide 
Tolerance’’ (FRL #6299–7), received January 
10, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6702. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Mepiquat Chloride; 
Pesticide Tolerance’’ (FRL #6485–4), received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6703. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Glufosinate Ammonium; 
Extension of Tolerance for Emergency 
Exemptions’’ (FRL #6394–5), received December 
21, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6704. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Maneb; Extension 
of Tolerance for Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL #6394–9), received December 21, 1999; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6705. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator of the Animal 
and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Horses 
From Qatar; Change in Disease Status’’ 
(Docket No. 97–131–3), received January 3, 
2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6706. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Importation 
of Pork and Pork Products’’ (Docket 
No. 95–027–2), received January 10, 2000; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6707. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law , the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Summer Food Service Program: 
Implementation of Legislative Reforms’’, received 
January 10, 2000; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6708. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law , the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘School Nutrition Programs: Direct 
Certification of Eligibility for Free and Reduced 
Price Meals and Free Milk in 
Schools’’, received January 10, 2000; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6709. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law , the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Child and Adult Care Food Program: 
Overclaim Authority and Technical 
Changes to the Meal Pattern Requirements’’, 

received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6710. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law , the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations: Disqualification Penalties 
for Intentional Program Violations’’, 
received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6711. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law , the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘The Summer Food Service Program 
Final Rule: Program Meal Service During 
the School Year, Paperwork Reduction 
and Targeted State Marketing’’, received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6712. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law , the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘WIC Bloodwork Rule’’, received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6713. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Irradiation of Meat Food 
Products’’, received January 6, 2000; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6714. A communication from the Administrator, 
Risk Management Agency , Department 
of Agriculture transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Common Crop Insurance Regulations; Potato 
Crop Insurance Certified Seed Endorsement’’, 
received January 10, 2000; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6715. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Rural Business Opportunity 
Grants’’ (RIN0570–AA05), received 
December 22, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6716. A communication from the Director, 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics, Department 
of Transportation transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Transportation 
Statistics Annual Report 1999’’; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6717. A communication from the National 
Telecommunications and Information 
Administration, Department of Commerce 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability of 
Funds’’ (RIN0660–ZA06), received January 3, 
2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6718. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Procurement, National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Correction of Inconsistency 
with FAR 22,1103’’, received December 13, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6719. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Federal Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Guides for the Law Book Industry, 
16 CFR Part 256’’, received January 
11, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6720. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Federal Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Annual Adjustment of Ceiling 
on Allowable Charge for Certain Disclosures 
under the Fair Credit Reporting Act 


S30 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Section 612(a)’’, received December 21, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–6721. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Federal Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Appliance Labeling Rule (16 
CFR Part 305)’’ (RIN3084–AA74), received December 
15, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6722. A communication from the Deputy 
Director, National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, Department of Commerce 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Partnership for Advancing 
Technologies in Housing Cooperative 
Research Program (PATH–CoRP)—Notice 
of Availability of Funds’’ (RIN0693– 
ZA34), received December 9, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–6723. A communication from the Deputy 
Director, National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, Department of Commerce 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Availability of Funds 
for a Competition-Advanced Technology Program’’ 
(RIN0693–ZA35), received December 7, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6724. A communication from the Deputy 
Director, National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, Department of Commerce 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability 
of Funds for Six Grants Programs: 
Precision Measurement Grants; Physics, 
MSEL, and MEL SURF Programs; MSEL 
Grants Program; and Fire Research Grants 
Program’’ (RIN0693–ZA32), received December 
7, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6725. A communication from the Deputy 
Assistant Administrator for Satellite 
and Information Services, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, Department 
of Commerce transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of 
Availability of Federal Assistance (Ocean 
Remote Sensing Program)’’ (RIN0648–ZA75), 
received November 30, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–6726. A communication from the Chief, 
Policy and Rules Division, Engineering and 
Technology, Federal Communications Commission 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Dedicated Short 
Range Communications of Intelligent Transportation 
Services’’ (ET Docket No. 98– 
85)(FCC 99–305), received December 8, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce , Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6727. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Bureau Chief , Mass 
Media Bureau, Federal Communications 
Commission transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of 
Section 73.202(b), Table of FM Allotments; 
FM Broadcast Stations Mishicot, WI and 
Gulliver, MI’’ (MM Docket No. 99–145), received 
January 5, 2000; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6728. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of Section 
73.20.(b), Table of Allotments, FM Broadcast 
Stations Bay Springs, Ellisville, and 
Sandersville, MS’’ (MM Docket No. 99–74), received 
January 5, 2000; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6729. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of Section 

73.202(b) of the Commission’s Rules Farmington, 
Grass Valley, Jackson, Lindon, 
Placerville and Fair Oaks, CA and Carson 
City and Sun Valley, NV’’ (MM Docket No. 
90–189), received November 24,1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6730. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled Amendment of Section 
73.202(b), Table of Allotments; FM Broadcast 
Stations White Wright and Van Alstyne,TX’’ 
(MM Docket No. 98–196), received November 
24, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6731. A communication from the Assistant 
Division Chief, Policy and Program 
Planning Division, Common Carrier Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Deployment of Wireline Services 
Offering Advanced Telecommunications Capability, 
CC docket 98–147, Third Report and 
Order, and CC Docket No. 96–98, Fourth Report 
and Order’’ (FCC99–355) (CC Doc. 98–147), 
received December 22, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6732. A communication from the deputy 
Chief, Competitive Pricing Division, Common 
Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications 
Commission transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Access 
Charge Reform, Third Order on Reconsideration’’ 
(FCC 98–257) (CC Doc. 96–262), received 
January 11, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6733. A communication from the Director 
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Direct 
Investment Surveys: BE–10, Benchmark 
Survey of U .S. Direct Investment Abroad1999’’ 
(RIN0691–AA36), received January 3, 
2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6734. A communication from the Chief, 
Endangered Species Division, National Marine 
Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, Department of 
Commerce transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled Sea Turtle Conservation; 
Shrimp Trawling Requirements’’ 
(RIN0648–AN30), received December 9, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6735. A communication from the Chief 
Endangered Species Division, National Marine 
Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, Department of 
Commerce transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Sea Turtle Conservation; 
Shrimp Trawling Requirements’’ 
(RIN0648–AK66), received December 9, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6736. A communication from the Chief, 
Endangered Species Division, National Marine 
Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, Department of 
Commerce transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Sea Turtle Conservation; 
Summer Flounder Trawling Requirements’’ 
(RIN0648–AM89), received December 
9, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6737. A communication from the Attorney, 
Federal Railroad Administration, Department 
of Transportation transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Planning Activities Under the Magnetic 
Levitation Transportation Technology Deployment 
Program’’ (RIN2130–AB29) (2000– 
0001), received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–6738. A communication from the Assistant 
Chief Counsel, federal Motor Carrier 

Safety Administration, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revision 
of Chapter Heading; Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration’’ (RIN2126–AA48), received 
December 21, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6739. A communication from the Attorney, 
Office of the Secretary, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Rules of 
Practice in Aviation Economic Proceedings: 
Reinvention’’ (RIN2105–AC48), received December 
21, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6740. A communication from the Attorney, 
Office of the Secretary, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Air Carrier 
Access Act: Miscellaneous Amendments: 
Seat Assignments and Wheelchairs’’ 
(RIN2105–AC28), received December 23, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–6741. A communication from the Attorney, 
Research and Special Programs Administration, 
Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Pipeline Safety: Gas and 
Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Repair’’ (RIN2137– 
AD25), received December 16, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6742. A communication from the Attorney-
Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Department 
of Transportation transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Domestic 
Baggage Liability’’ (RIN2105–AC07), 
received December 16, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6743. A communication from the Trial 
Attorney, Federal Railroad Administration, 
Department of Transportation transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revised Docket Filing Procedures for Federal 
Railroad Administration Rulemaking 
and Adjudicatory Dockets’’ (RIN2130–AB37) , 
received December 9, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6744. A communication from the Trial 
Attorney, Federal Railroad Administration, 
Department of Transportation transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Annual Adjustment of Monetary Threshold 
for Reporting Rail Equipment Accidents/Incidents’’ 
(RIN2130–AB30), received November 
19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6745. A communication from the Attorney, 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Dynamically Deploying 
Head Protection Systems’’ (RIN2127–AH60), 
received December 21, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6746. A communication from the Attorney, 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Anthropomorphic Test 
Dummy for Head Impact Protection’’ 
(RIN2127–AG74), received January 6, 2000; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6747. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; New Years Eve ’99 
Fireworks Display, Southampton, NY (CG01– 
99–184)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0071), received 
December 16, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6748. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S31 

Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regulated 
Navigation Areas; Arrival Notification and 
Year 2000 (Y2K) Reporting Requirements for 
Vessels Transiting the Cape Cod Canal 
(CGD01–99–150)’’ (RIN2115–AE84) (1999–0005), 
received December 16, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6749. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regattas 
and Marine Parades (CGD 95–054)’’ (RIN2115– 
AF17) (1999–0001), received December 16, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–6750. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta 
Regulations; Bellsouth Winterfest Boat Parade, 
Broward County, Fort Lauderdale, Fl 
(CGD07–99–082)’’ (RIN2115–AE46) (1999–0046), 
received December 6, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6751. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard 
Measurement System Exemption from Gross 
Tonnage (USCG–1999–5118)’’ (RIN2115–AF76) 
(1999–0002), received December 9, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6752. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Puget 
Sound Vessel Traffic Service (USCG–1999– 
6141)’’ (RIN2115–AF92), received December 9, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6753. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge 
Regulations; Navesink River, NJ 
(CGD01–99–075)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0069) , 
received December 16, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6754. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; New York Harbor 
and Hudson River Fireworks (CGD01–99–130)’’ 
(RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0001), received January 
6, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6755. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta 
Regulations; SLR; Approaches to Annapolis 
Harbor, Spa Creek, and Severn River, Annapolis, 
MD (CGD05–99–096)’’ (RIN2115–AE46) 
(1999–0045), received December 3, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6756. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta 
Regulations; SLR; Puerto Rico International 
Cup, Fajardo, PR (CGD07–99–057)’’ (RIN2115– 
AE46) (1999–0043), received December 3, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–6757. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 

Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta 
Regulations; SLR; New Year’s Celebration 
Fireworks, Patapsco River, Baltimore, MD 
(CGD05–99–089)’’ (RIN2115–AE46) (1999–0044), 
received December 3, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6758. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge 
Regulations; Racoon Creek, NJ 
(CGD05–99–095)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0064), 
received December 3, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6759. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Chesapeake Bay, 
Whitehall Bay, Annapolis , MD (CGD05–999– 
094)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0070), received December 
3, 1999 ; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6760. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge 
Regulations; Acushnet River, 
Annisquam River, Fore River, and Taunton 
River, MA (CGD01–99–187)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) 
(1999–0065), received December 3, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6761. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge 
Regulations; China Basin, Mission 
Creek, CA (CGD11–00–017)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) 
(1999–0067), received December 3, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6762. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge 
Regulations; Keweenaw Waterway, MI 
(CGD09–99–082)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0068), 
received December 3, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6763. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Update and Standards 
from American Society for Testing and 
Materials (ASTM) (USCG–1999–5151)’’ 
(RIN2115–AF80) (1999–0003), received December 
3, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6764. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
New York Harbor and Hudson River 
Fireworks (CGD01–99–99–130)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) 
(2000–0003), received January 13, 2000; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 
EC–6765. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Passaic River, NJ (CGD01–99–206)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (2000–0006), received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6766. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Saugus River, MA (CGD01–99–193)’’ 
(RIN 2115–AE 47) (2000–0006), received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6767. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Black River, WI (CGD08–99–064)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (2000–0002), received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6768. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Columbia River, OR (CGD13–99–011)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (2000–0001), received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6769. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Mississippi River, IA and IL (CGD08– 
99–077)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) (2000–0005), received 
January 13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6770. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Chelsea River, MA (CGD01–00–001)’’ 
(RIN 2115–AE47) (2000–0008), received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6771. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Williamette River, OR (CGD 13–99– 
008)’’ (RIN 2115–AE 47) (2000–0004), received 
January 13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6772. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Regulations and Administrative Law, 

U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Special Anchorage 
Areas/Anchorage Grounds Regulations; St. 
Lucie River, Stuart, FL (CGD 07–99–058)’’ 
(RIN 2115–AA 98) (2000–0001), received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–6773. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Annual 
report on Civil Works Activities for Fiscal 
1998; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6774. A communication from the Director 
of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the emergency caused by 
Hurricane Floyd in New Jersey; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6775. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to the shore erosion plan for the Fire 
Island Inlet to Moriches Inlet reach of the 
Fire Island to Montauk Point, NY, project; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6776. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the quality of ground water 
in the nation and the effectiveness of state 
ground water protection programs; to the 


S32 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6777. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Board, Inland Waterways Users 
Board transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
1999 annual report; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6778. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary for Economic Development, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Economic Development Administration 
Regulations: Revision to Implement 
Economic Development Administration Reform 
Act of 1998’’ (RIN 0610–AA 56) (RIN 0610– 
AA 59), received December 10, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6779. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary for Economic Development, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Requirements for Economic Adjustment 
Grants—Revolving Loan Fund Projects 
under 13 CFR Part 308 and Property under 
Part 314’’, received January 13, 2000; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6780. A communication from the Chief, 
Endangered Species Division, Office of Protected 
Resources, National Marine Fisheries 
Service transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Designated Critical 
Habitat: Revision of Critical Habitat for 
Snake River Spring/Summer Chinook Salmon’’ 
(RIN 0648–AM 41), received December 9, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6781. A communication from the Chief, 
Endangered Species Division, Office of Protected 
Resources, National Marine Fisheries 
Service, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and 
Threatened Wildlife and Plants: Definition of 
‘Harm’ ’’ (RIN0648–AK55), received December 
9, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6782. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of the Interior for Fish and 
Wildlife and Parks, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Convention 
on International Trade in Endangered 
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES); 
Carrying out the Inclusion of all Species of 
the Order Acipenseriformes (Sturgeon and 
Paddlefish) in the Appendices to CITES’’ 
(RIN1018–AF66), received December 1, 1999; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6783. A communication from the Assistant 
Chief Counsel, Federal Highway Administration, 
Department of Transportation 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Right-of-Way Program Administration’’ 
(RIN2125–AE44), received December 
21, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6784. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Final Rule: Use of Alternative Source 
Terms at Operating Reactors, Amendments 
to 10 CFR Part 21, 50, and 54’’ (RIN3150– 
AG12), received January 6, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6785. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Design Certification Rule for the AP600 Design’’ 
(RIN3150–AG23), received December 23, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6786. A communication from the Director 
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endan


gered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Emergency and Proposed Status for the 
Santa Barbara County Distinct Population 
Segment of the California Tiger Salamander 
(Ambystoma californiense)’’ (RIN1018–AF81), 
received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6787. A communication from the Director 
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Final Rule to List Two Cave Animals from 
Kauai, HI as Endangered’’ (RIN1018–AE39), 
received January 11, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6788. A communication from the Director 
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Determination of Threatened Status for the 
Central Valley spring-run Evolutionary Significant 
Unit (ESU) and the California Coastal 
ESU, of the West Coast Chinook Salmon 
(Oncorhynchus tsawytscha)’’ (RIN1018–AF82), 
received December 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6789. A communication from the Director 
of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Final Rule to List Sierra Nevada Distinct 
Population Segment of the California Bighorn 
Sheep as Endangered’’ (RIN1018–AF59), 
received December 29, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6790. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Findings of Significant 
Contribution and Rulemaking on Section 
126 Petitions for Purposes of Reducing 
Interstate Ozone Transport’’ (FRL #6515–5), 
received December 23, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6791. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Significant New 
Uses of Certain Chemical Substances’’ (FRL 
#6055–2), received December 23, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6792. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Section 112(1) Approval 
of the State of Florida’s Rule Adjustment 
to the National Perchloroethylene Air 
Emission Standards for Dry Cleaning Facilities’’ 
(FRL #6514–5), received December 20, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6793. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Comprehensive 
Guide for Procurement of Products Containing 
Recovered Materials/Recovered Materials 
Advisory Notice III’’ (FRL #6524–2), 
received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6794. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Tennessee; Adoption of Rule Governing 
Any Credible Evidence’’ (FRL #6520– 
2), received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6795. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendments to the 
Test Procedures for Heavy-Duty Engines, 
and Light-Duty Vehicles and Trucks and 
Amendments to the Emission Standard Provisions 
for Gaseous Fueled Vehicles and Engines’’ 
(FRL #6523–7), received January 13, 
2000; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6796. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘#35 Grants and 
Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, 
Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations’’, 
received January 13, 2000; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6797. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘#34 Uniform Administrative 
Requirements for Grants and 
Cooperative Agreements to State and Local 
Governments’’, received January 13, 2000; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6798. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘#36 How to Complete 
Your Application for Federal Assistance’’, 
received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6799. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Findings of Significant 
Contribution and Rulemaking on Section 
126 Petitions for Purposes of Reducing 
Interstate Ozone Transport (final stay extension)’’ 
(FRL #6522–9), received January 10, 
2000; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6800. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Environmental 
Justice Through Pollution Prevention Grant 
Guidance 1999’’, received January 10, 2000; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6801. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pollution Prevention 
Grants and Announcement of Financial 
Assistance Programs Eligible for Review; 
Notice of Availability’’ (FRL #6037–9), received 
January 10, 2000; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6802. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability 
of FY 1999 Multimedia Environmental 
Justice Through Pollution Prevention 
Grant Funds’’ (FRL #6085–8), received 
January 10, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6803. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability 
of FY 1998 Multimedia Environmental 
Justice Through Pollution Prevention 
Grants’’ (FRL #5766–1), received January 
10, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S33 

EC–6804. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability 
of FY 2000 Grant Funds for the Support 
of a Pollution Prevention Information 
Network’’ (FRL #6391–3), received January 
10, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6805. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Alaska: Tentative 
Determination and Final Determination of 
Full Program Adequacy of the State of Alaska’s 
Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Permit 
Program’’ (FRL #6518–1), received January 4, 
2000; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6806. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans and Part 
70 Operating Permits Program’’ (FRL #6519– 
9), received January 4, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6807. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; State of 
Kansas’’ (FRL #6517–9), received January 4, 
2000; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6808. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Georgia; 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress 
Plan and 9 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plan for 
the Atlanta Ozone Nonattainment Area’’ 
(FRL #6518–3), received December 22, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6809. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plan; Illinois’’ 
(FRL #6506–3), received December 22, 1999 ; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6810. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Clean Air Act Approval 
and Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation 
Plan Revision for Montana; 
Revisions to the Missoula County Air Quality 
Rules’’ (FRL #6506–1), received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6811. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Primary 
Drinking Water Regulations for Lead and 
Copper’’ (FRL #6515–6), received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6812. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Control Air Pollution 
from New Motor Vehicles; Tier 2 Motor 
Vehicle Emissions Standards and Gasoline 
Sulfur Control Requirements’’, received De


cember 22, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6813. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘State of Alabama; 
Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program 
Revision; Approval of Alabama’s Class 
II UIC Program Revision’’, received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6814. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California 
State Implementation Plan Revision, 
South Coast Air Quality Management District, 
El Dorado County Air Pollution Control, 
Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management 
District, and Ventura County Air Pollution 
Control District’’ (FRL #6508–5), received 
January 6, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6815. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Rule-Approval 
and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans; California State Implementation Plan 
Revision, Kern County Air pollution Control 
District, CA172–0203’’ (FRL #6513–9), received 
January 6, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6816. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans and Operating 
Permits Programs, Approval under 
Section 112(1); State of Nebraska’’ (FRL 
#6521–6), received January 6, 2000; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6817. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Maryland; Control of VOC’s from 
Paper, Fabric, Vinal and Other Plastic Parts 
Coating’’ (FRL #6506–9), received January 6, 
2000; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6818. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Adequacy of state 
Permit Programs Under RCRA Subtitle D’’ 
(FRL #6521–4), received January 6, 2000; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6819. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘State of Alabama; 
Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program 
Revision; Approval of Alabama’s Class 
II UIC Program Revision’’ (FRL #6516–7), received 
January 6, 2000; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6820. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans: Approval under Section 112(1) of the 
Clean Air Act; West Virginia Permits for 
Construction, Modification, Relocation and 
Operation of Stationary Sources of Air Pol


lution’’ (FRL #6505–1), received January 5, 
2000; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–6821. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Preliminary Assessment 
Information and Health and Safety 
Data Reporting: Addition and Removal of 
Certain Chemicals and Removal of Stay’’ 
(FRL #5777–2), received January 5, 2000; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6822. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standards of Performance 
for New Stationary Sources; Supplemental 
Delegation of Authority to the 
State of Wyoming’’ (FRL #6521–1), received 
January 5, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6823. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Supplemental 
Guidance for the Award of Section 319 
Nonpoint Source Grants in FY 2000’’, received 
January 4, 2000; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6824. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Tennessee; Revision to Rule Governing 
Monitoring of Source Emissions’’ 
(FRL #6519–4), received January 4, 2000; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6825. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Protection of 
Stratospheric Ozone: Allocation of Essential 
Use Allowances for Calendar Year 2000; Allocations 
for Metered-Dose Inhalers and the 
Space Shuttle and Titan Rockets’’ (FRL 
#6519–3), received January 3, 2000; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6826. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidance on 
Awarding Section 319 Grants to Indian 
Tribes in FY 2000’’, received January 3, 2000; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6827. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; and 
Designation of Areas for Air Quality Planning 
Purposes; Indiana’’ (FRL #6522–1), received 
January 10, 2000; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6828. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pollution Prevention 
Grants and Announcements for Financial 
Assistance Programs Eligible for Review; 
Notice of Availability’’ (FRL #6398–8), 
received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6829. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 


S34 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Delaware-Minor New Source Review 
and Federally Enforceable State Operating 
Permit Program’’ (FRL #6522–6), received 
January 3, 2000; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6830. A communication from the Director 
of the Congressional Budget Office, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Final Sequestration Report for Fiscal 
Year 2000; transmitted jointly, pursuant to 
the order of January 30, 1975, as modified by 
the order of April 11, 1986 to the Committees 
on Appropriations; the Budget; Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry; Armed Services; 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; Commerce 
, Science, and Transportation; Energy 
and Natural Resources; Environment and 
Public Works; Finance; Foreign Relations; 
Governmental Affairs; the Judiciary; Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions; Small Business; 
Veterans’ Affairs; Intelligence; and Indian 
Affairs. 

EC–6831. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner 
of Patents and Trademarks, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Complaints Regarding Invention Promoters’’ 
(RIN0651–AB12), received January 
14, 2000; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

EC–6832. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Surface Mining, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Arkansas 
Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation 
Plan’’ (SPATS No. AR–035–FOR), received 
January 11, 2000; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–6833. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Policy, 
Management and Budget, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Administrative and Audit Requirements 
and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs’’ 
(RIN1090–AA67), received December 
17, 1999; to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources. 

EC–6834. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Water and Science, Bureau of 
Reclamation, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Information Requirements 
for Certain Farm Operations in Excess of 960 
Acres and the Eligibility of Certain Formerly 
Excess Land’’ (RIN1006–AA38), received 
January 18, 2000; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–6835. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Foreign 
National Access to DOE Cyber Systems’’ 
(DOE N 205.1), received November 23, 1999; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6836. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Carrying 
Semiautomatic Pistols with a Round 
in the Chamber’’ (DOE N 473.1), received November 
23, 1999; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–6837. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Chronic 
Beryllium Disease Prevention Program’’ 
(RIN1901–AA75), received December 22, 1999; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6838. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Password 
Generation, Protection and Use’’ (DOE 

N 205.3 and G 205.3–1), received December 22, 
1999; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–6839. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Law, Department 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Polygraph 
Examination Regulations’’ (RIN1992– 
AB24), received December 22, 1999; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–6840. A communication from the Acting 
Under Secretary for Health, Department of 
Veterans Affairs transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the sharing of 
health care resources between the Department 
of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans 
Affairs. 

EC–6841. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to several initiatives 
for Gulf War veterans; to the Committee on 
Veterans Affairs. 

EC–6842. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulations Management, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘DIC Benefits for Survivors of Certain 
Veterans Rated Totally Disabled at the Time 
of Death’’ (RIN2900–AJ65), received January 
19, 2000; to the Committee on Veterans Affairs. 


EC–6843. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a 6-month periodic 
report relative to the national emergency 
with respect to the Taliban (Afghanistan) 
that was declared in Executive Order 13129 of 
July 4, 1999; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6844. A communication from the Managing 
Director of the Federal Housing Finance 
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of 
Affordable Housing Program Regulation’’ 
(RIN3069–AA82), received January 19, 2000; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6845. A communication from the Managing 
Director of the Federal Housing Finance 
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Devolution of 
Corporate Governance Responsibilities’’ 
(RIN3069–AA89), received January 19, 2000; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–6846. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the National Credit Union 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Required 
Use of Standard Flood Hazard Determination 
Form’’, received January 19, 2000; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6847. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Public Housing Assessment 
System (PHAS) Amendments to the PHAS’’ 
(RIN2577–AC08) (FR–4497–F–05), received January 
14, 2000; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6848. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Department of Commerce transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revisions to Encryption Items’’ (RIN0694– 
AC11), received January 18, 2000; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–6849. A communication from the Federal 
Register Liaison Officer, Office of Thrift 
Supervision, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Technical Amendments’’, received 
December 7, 1999; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–6850. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘List of Communities 
Eligible for the Sale of Flood Insurance; 
65 FR 1554; 01/11/00’’ (FEMA Docket No. 
FEMA–7724), received January 19, 2000; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6851. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘List of Communities 
Eligible for the Sale of Flood Insurance; 
65 FR 1555; 01/11/00’’ (FEMA Docket No. 
FEMA–7726), received January 19, 2000; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–6852. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Food Distribution Programs: Definition 
of Indian Tribal Household’’ (RIN0584– 
AB67), received January 3, 2000; to the Committee 
on Indian Affairs. 

EC–6853. A communication from the Administrator, 
Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Fee Increase for Meat and Poultry 
Inspection Services’’ (RIN0583–AC67), received 
January 13, 2000; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6854. A communication from the Administrator, 
Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Food Ingredients and Sources of 
Radiation Listed or Approved for Use in the 
Production of Meat and Poultry Products’’ 
(RIN0583–AB02), received January 13, 2000; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6855. A communication from the Administrator, 
Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Exemption of Retail Operations 
from Inspection Requirements’’ (99–055R), received 
January 13, 2000; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6856. A communication from the Administrator, 
Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Scale Requirements for Accurate 
Weights, Repairs, Adjustments, and Replacement 
After Inspection’’, received January 13, 
2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6857. A communication from the Administrator, 
Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Sanitation Requirements for Official 
Meat and Poultry Establishments’’ 
(RIN0583–AC39), received November 23, 1999; 
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6858. Congressional Review Coordinator 
of Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Importation of Pork and Pork Products 
from Yucatan and Sonora, Mexico’’ (Docket 
# 97–079–2), received January 12, 2000; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–6859. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food and Nutrition Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Food Distribution Programs: Implementation 
of the Personal Responsibility 
and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 
1996’’ (RIN0584–AC49), received January 3, 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S35 

2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6860. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Dairy Tariff-Rate Import Quota Licensing’’ 
(RIN0551–AA58), received January 
14, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6861. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Fruit and Vegetable Programs, Department 
of Agriculture transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Walnuts Grown in California; Decreased Assessment 
Rate’’ (Docket # FV99–984–3 FIR), 
received January 14, 2000; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6862. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Fruit and Vegetable Programs, Department 
of Agriculture transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Domestically Produced and Imported Peanuts: 
Change in the Maximum Percentage of 
Foreign Material Allowed Under Quality Requirements’’ 
(Docket # FV–99–997–2 FIR, FV– 
99–998–1 FIR, FV–99–999–1 FIR), received January 
12, 2000; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–6863. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Agricultural Marketing 
Service, Fruit and Vegetable Programs, Department 
of Agriculture transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Amendments to the Regulations Under the 
Federal Seed Act’’ (Docket # LS–94–012) 
(RIN0581–AB55), received January 12, 2000; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–6864. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Business Plan Comments’’ (Notice 2000–10), 
received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6865. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Section 817(h) Diversification Requirements 
for Variable Annuity Contracts’’ (Notice 
2000–9), received January 13, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6866. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘TD 8855: Communications Excise Tax; Prepaid 
Telephone Cards’’ (RIN1545–AV63), received 
January 10, 2000; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–6867. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Annual Update of the Service’s No-Rule 
Revenue Procedures’’ (Rev. Proc. 2000–3, 
2000–1 I.R.B.——), received January 12, 2000; 
to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6868. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Treatment of Income and Expense from 
Certain Hyperinflationary, Nonfunctional 
Currency Transactions and Certain Notational 
Principal Contracts’’ (RIN1545–AP78) 
(TD 8860), received January 12, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6869. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Purchase Price Allocations in Deemed and 
Actual Asset Acquisitions’’ (RIN1545–AV58) 

(TD 8858), received January 12, 2000; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–6870. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Compliance Monitoring and Miscellaneous 
Issues Relating to the Low-Income Housing 
Credit’’ (RIN1545–AV44) (TD 8859), received 
January 14, 2000; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6871. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Application of Section 368(a)(1)(A) to Divisive 
Mergers’’ (Rev. Rul. 2000–5, 2000–5 I.R.B. 
——), received January 18, 2000; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6872. A communication from the Director, 
Statutory Import Staff, Department of 
Commerce transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Extend Production 
Incentive Benefits to Jewelry Manufacturers 
in the U.S. Insular Possessions’’ 
(RIN0625–AA55), received November 29, 1999; 
to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6873. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Branch, U.S. Customs Service, 
Department of the Treasury transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Boarding of Vessels in the United States’’ 
(RIN1515–AC29), received January 13, 2000; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6874. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Bureau of the Public Debt, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Marketable Treasury Securities Redemption 
Operations’’ (PDGSR99B2), received 
January 19, 2000; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–6875. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the Japan-United States 
Friendship Commission, transmitting the 
annual report for fiscal year 1999; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–6876. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Ethnic Cleansing in Kosovo: An Accounting’’; 
to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–6877. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Foreign Claims Settlement Commission 
of the United States, Department of 
Justice transmitting the annual report for 
1998; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–6878. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
cost-sharing arrangements relating to the 
Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, 
Production, Stockpiling and Use of 
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction; 
to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–6879. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
efforts to obtain Iraq’s compliance with the 
resolutions adopted by the United Nations 
Security Council; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

EC–6880. A communication from the President 
of the United States of America, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to the emigration laws and policies 
of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, 
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldava, the Russian 
Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, 
Ukraine, and Uzbekistan; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–6881. A communication from the Chairman 
of the U.S. International Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to imports of wheat gluten; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–6882. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, pursuant to 

law, a report entitled ‘‘FY 98 Report on Accounting 
for United States Assistance under 
the Cooperative Threat (CTR) Program’’; to 
the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6883. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to Congress on 
Arms Control, Nonproliferation and Disarmament 
Studies Completed in 1998’’; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6884. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Defense Procurement, Department 
of Defense transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Authority Relating 
to Utility Privatization’’ (DFARS 
Case 99–D309) , received January 13, 2000; to 
the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6885. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Defense Procurement, Department 
of Defense transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Manufacturing 
Technology Program’’ (DFARS Case 99– 
D302), received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–6886. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Defense Procurement, Department 
of Defense transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Institutions of 
Higher Education’’ (DFARS Case 99–D303), 
received January 13, 2000; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–6887. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Defense Procurement, Department 
of Defense transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Paid Administration’’ 
(DFARS Case 99–D029), received 
January 13, 2000; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–6888. A communication from the Alternate 
OSD Federal Register Officer, Department 
of Defense transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘National 
Security Agency/Central Security Service 
(NSA/CSS) Freedom of Information Act Program’’ 
(RIN0790–AG59), received December 
15, 1999; to the Committee on Armed Services. 


EC–6889. A communication from the Alternate 
OSD Federal Register Officer, Department 
of Defense transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘National 
Reconnaissance Office Freedom of Information 
Act Program Regulation’’, received December 
15, 1999; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–6890. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to Cooperative Threat 
Reduction funds for chemical weapons destruction 
in Russia; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6891. A communication from the President 
of the United States transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the National 
Security Strategy of the United 
States; to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–6892. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense, Force Management 
Policy transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
entitled ‘‘Access and Purchase Restrictions 
in Overseas Commissary and Exchange 
Stores²; to the Committee on Armed Services. 


EC–6893. A communication from the Chairman, 
The Advisory Panel to Assess Domestic 
Response Capabilities for Terrorism Involving 
Weapons of Mass Destruction transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the annual report for 
fiscal year 1999; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–6894. A communication from the Chief, 
Programs and Legislation Division, Office of 
Legislative Liaison, Department of the Air 
Force, transmitting, a report relative to Air 
Force depot maintenance activities for fiscal 
year 2000; to the Committee on Armed Services. 



S36 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

EC–6895. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense, Strategy and 
Threat Reduction transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the Cooperative 
Threat Reduction Program; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–6896. A communication from the Director 
of Administration and Management, Office 
of the Secretary of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Air Force Privacy Act Program’’, received 
January 13, 2000; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–6897. A communication from the Chairperson, 
District of Columbia Courts Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Planning and Budgeting Difficulties 
During Fiscal Year 1998’’ to the Committee 
on Appropriations. 

EC–6898. A communication from the Director, 
Congressional Budget Office , transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Unauthorized 
and Expiring Authorizations’’; to 
the Committee on Appropriations. 

EC–6899. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Management and Budget, Executive 
Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the reports as required by 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985; to the Committee on Appropriations. 


EC–6900. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Management and Budget, Executive 
Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the separate appropriations 
and pay-as-you-go reports as required by the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985; to the Committee on Appropriations. 


EC–6901. A communication from the Public 
Printer, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to the Status of GPO Access; to the 
Committee on Rules and Administration. 

EC–6902. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary, Pension and Welfare 
Benefits Administration, Department of 
Labor, transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Rule Relating 
to Insurance Company General Accounts’’ 
(RIN1210–AA58), received January 11, 2000; to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions. 

EC–6903. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Secondary Food Additives 
Permitted in Food for Human Consumption’’ 
(Docket No. 99F–2907), received January 13, 
2000; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6904. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Over-the-Counter Human 
Drugs: Labeling Requirements; Final Rule; 
Technical Amendment’’, received January 
13, 2000; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6905. A communication from the Acting 
Director of Communications and Legislative 
Affairs, U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the fiscal year 1998 annual report on the 
‘‘Employment of Minorities, Women and 
People with Disabilities in the Federal Government’’ 
and the fiscal year 1998 annual report 
on ‘‘Pre-Complaint Counseling and 
Complaint Processing’’; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6906. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Executive Office of the President, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 

relative to the resignation of the Assistant 
Secretary for Pension and Welfare Benefits 
Administration, Department of Labor, and 
the designation of an Acting Assistant Secretary; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6907. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the fiscal year 1998 
annual report entitled ‘‘Community Services 
Block Grant Program’’; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6908. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
the Family Violence Prevention and Services 
Program for fiscal years 1994 through 
1998; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–6909. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of State Implementation Plans; Alaska’’ 
(FRL #6515–3), received December 21, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6910. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plan; Louisiana; 
Transportation Conformity Rule’’ (FRL 
#6514–6), received December 21, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6911. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidelines Establishing 
Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants; 
Available Cyanide in Water’’ (FRL 
#6478–1), received December 21, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6912. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California 
State Implementation Plan Revision, South 
Coast Air Quality Management District’’ 
(FRL #6510–7), received December 22, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6913. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; New Jersey 
Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance 
Program’’ (FRL #6509–4), received December 
22, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6914. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Texas; Repeal 
of Board Seal Rule and Revisions to Particulate 
Matter Regulations’’ (FRL #6510–5), received 
December 22, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6915. A communication from the Director, 
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, 

the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered 
Status for the Plant ‘Plagiobothrys 
hirtus’ (Rough Popcornflower)’’ (RIN1018– 
AE44), received January 18, 2000; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–6916. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Data Quality Objectives Process for Hazardous 
Waste Site Investigations’’; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6917. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Guidance on Technical Audits and Related 
Assessments for Environmental Data Operations’’ 
to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–6918. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting a report entitled 
‘‘Lead-based Paint Activities in Target 
Housing and Child-Occupied Facilities; State 
of Kansas Authorization Application’’; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–6919. A communication from the Deputy 
Assistant Administrator, National Ocean 
Service, Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Final Rule for the Hawaiian Islands 
Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary’’ 
(RIN0648–AN28), received December 2, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6920. A communication from the Director 
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘International Services Survey: BE–80, 
Benchmark Survey of Financial Services 
Transactions Between U.S. Financial Services 
Providers and Unaffiliated Foreign Persons’’ 
(RIN0691–AA35), received December 10, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6921. A communication from the President 
and Chief Executive Officer, Corporation 
for Public Broadcasting transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Public 
Broadcasting’s Services to Minority and Diverse 
Audiences’’; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6922. A communication from the Secretary 
of Transportation, transmitting the 
revised performance goals and corporate 
management strategies for the Department’s 
fiscal year 2000 Performance Plan; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–6923. A communication from the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer, Farm Credit 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Flood Insurance’’ 
(RIN3052–AB89), received December 
10, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6924. A communication from the Secretary, 
Federal Trade Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the annual report for 
fiscal year 1998; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–6925. A communication from the Assistant 
Administrator for Fisheries, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report on the Apportionment 
of the Regional Fishery Management 
Council Membership in 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 



January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S37 

The Immigration and Naturalization 
Service (INS) allowed Guy to temporarily 
enter the United States by 
granting him a one-year humanitarian 
parole. Once the parole expired, the 
INS extended for one more year. This is 
a very rare act on the INS’ part. 

Initially, Guy had sought to obtain 
permanent resident status by being declared 
a dependent of a United States 
court. However, the Orange County, 
California Social Services referee declined 
to name Guy a court dependent 
because he was considered to be under 

(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Guy Taylor, 
the Secretary of State shall instruct the 
proper officer to reduce by one, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
ONE LAST HOPE FOR TEENAGER WHO 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
time and second time by unanimous 
consent, and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. MACK (for himself, Mr. 

TORRICELLI, Mr. HELMS, Mr. LOTT, 

and Mr. GRAHAM): 

S. 1999. A bill for the relief of Elian Gonzalez-
Brotons; read the first time. 
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 2000. A bill for the relief of Guy Taylor; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GRAMS: 

S. 2001. A bill to protect the Social Security 
and Medicare surpluses by requiring a 
sequester to eliminate any deficit; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs, jointly, 
pursuant to the order of August 4, 1977. 
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 2002. A bill for the relief of Tony Lara; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. DASCHLE (for Mr. JOHNSON (for 
himself, Mr. COVERDELL , and Mr. 
MCCAIN)): 

S. 2003. A bill to restore health care coverage 
to retired members of the uniformed 
services; to the Committee on Veterans Affairs. 
f 


SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. LOTT: 

S. Res. 242. A resolution notifying the 
President that the Senate is ready to proceed 
to business; considered and agreed to. 
S. Res. 243. A resolution notifying the 
House that the Senate is ready to proceed to 
business; considered and agreed to. 
By Mr. LAUTENBERG (for himself and 
Mr. TORRICELLI): 

S. Res. 244. A resolution expressing sympathy 
for the victims of the tragic fire at 
Seton Hall University in South Orange, New 
Jersey on January 19, 2000; considered and 
agreed to. 
f 


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 2000. A bill for the relief of Guy 
Taylor; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
PRIVATE RELIEF LEGISLATION 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
am pleased to offer today, legislation 
that would provide lawful permanent 
residence status to Guy Taylor, a Canadian 
national who was orphaned at 
age 16. Guy is now 18. 

Guy Taylor was born in Canada but 
spent the first half of his life in the 
United States attending school and living 
with his mother. Guy’s father died 
before he was born. In the summer of 
1998, his mother died of a drug overdose. 
This left him without any other 
family except for his extensive family 
in Southern California. 

Upon his mother’s death, Guy’s 
grandmother, Oleta Hansen, flew to 
Canada to secure her daughter’s body 
and bring her grandchild back to the 
United States. 

the guardianship of his grandmother. 

Because the INS has declared Guy 
too old to be a dependent of his grandmother, 
Guy is unable to obtain permanent 
residence in the United States. 
Immigration law prohibits permanent 
legal residency to minor children under 
the age of twenty-one without their 
parents. 

Guy’s dream is to join the United 
States Army. Although Guy’s Army recruiter 
said he has successfully tested 
and is qualified for enlistment, without 
permanent resident status, Guy will be 
unable to join. 

Today Guy, a first-year college student 
and a young man willing to fight 
for his adopted country, faces deportation. 


News about this young man’s imminent 
deportation has shaken the community 
in southern California. More 
than 1,000 of Guy’s friends and neighbors 
have signed a petition calling for 
legislation on his behalf. 

I hope you support this bill so that 
we can help Guy rebuild his life and 
continue to contribute to his community 
in the United States. 

Mr. President, I also ask unanimous 
consent that the bill and a recent news 
article depicting the compelling circumstances 
of Guy Taylor’s life be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

S. 2000 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
GUY TAYLOR. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Guy Taylor 
shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or for adjustment of status to that of an 
alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
upon filing an application for issuance 
of an immigrant visa under section 204 of 
such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful 
permanent resident. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Guy Taylor 
enters the United States before the filing 
deadline specified in subsection (c), he shall 
be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be 
eligible for adjustment of status under section 
245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of enactment of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status are filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
DESERVES A BREAK 
(By Mike Downey) 
The calls and letters came in regularly for 
a while. 
‘‘So what became of Guy Taylor?’’ ‘‘Whatever 
happened to that poor kid from Orange 
County they were trying to kick out of the 
country?’’ It was a story that amazed people, 
confused people. How could an orphan be ordered 
to leave his grandparents in the United 
States and be required to live where he has 
no family at all? 
Eventually, though, everyone forgot Guy 
and got on with their own lives. The news 
crews were gone, because nothing was new. 
No politician came through for Guy in the 
nick of time, here in a land where campaign 
speeches preach family values. No loophole 
in the law was located. No judge found it in 
his heart to cite extenuating circumstances 
for a boy who had done nothing wrong. 
Guy Taylor could have a country without a 
home, but no home without a country. 
He was born in Canada. He was 16 when his 
mother died. (The father’s identify is unknown.) 
He celebrated his 17th birthday and 
high school graduation in Garden Grove, 
where he came to live with his grandparents. 
The law said they could be Guy’s guardians 
but not legally adopt him. A judge refused in 
July to make him a ward of the court, because 
he was too old. 
Unable to establish permanent residence 
and gain a green card, Guy, who turned 18 a 
few weeks ago, faces expulsion from the 
United States. 
‘‘What will you do?’’ he is asked. 
‘‘I try not to think about it,’’ he says. 
Actually, it is unfair to say that Guy Taylor 
has been forgotten by all. Not long ago, 
for example, a United Parcel Service 
deliveryman was making his rounds in downtown 
Los Angeles when he spotted Carl 
Shusterman. 
‘‘Hey, aren’t you the lawyer who represented 
that nice kid they were trying to 
deport to Canada?’’ the UPS guy inquired. 
‘‘Yes, that’s me,’’ Shusterman said. 
‘‘Whatever happened to him?’’ 
Susterman still hears this question here 
and there. This case isn’t typical of the immigration 
cases he usually handles. It 
touched a nerve. 
Guy’s mother died in Canada from a drug 
overdose. His grandmother was 17 when she 
gave birth there. Here’s where it gets complicated: 
To adopt a grandson, the law stipulates 
she needed to be a U.S. citizen before 
giving birth (which she was), needed to live 
in the U.S. for 10 years before giving birth 
(which she did), but five of those 10 years had 
to follow her 14th birthday (which they 
didn’t). 
The family has tried everything it can 
think of, including petitions and appeals to 
politicians, to keep Guy here. 
‘‘Show him your Native American card,’’ 
Shusterman tells him in his law office. 
Guy slides a laminated badge across a conference 
table. Issued by the U.S. Department 
of the Interior, Bureau of Indian affairs, it 
identifies Guy Douglas Taylor as officially 
being of ‘‘1/32nd Choctaw’’ heritage. 


S38 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

Since exemptions are given to Native 
Americans in immigration matters, Guy’s 
grandmother, Oleta Hansen, who has some 
Choctaw blood in her, figured it was worth a 
try. That’s how desperate she and her husband, 
Charles, are to keep their grandson 
from being sent away. Unfortunately, it 
wasn’t quite enough Choctaw blood. 

The best—perhaps last—chance for Guy 
could be Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who could 
introduce a private bill to Congress on the 
boy’s behalf. Her office has been receptive, 
Shusterman says. And such a bill is not 
without precedent. Earlier this year, Rep. 
Bill McCollum (R.–Fla.) proposed one on behalf 
of Robert Anthony Broley, a 32-year-old 
felon deported to Canada after serving four 
years in a Florida prison on 13 counts, including 
forgery and theft. 

Shusterman does not believe it a coincidence 
that Broley’s father is the Republican 
Party treasurer in McCollum’s home district. 


‘‘How about a young guy right here,’’ 
Shusterman says of the boy by his side, 
‘‘who’s been in no trouble at all?’’ 

So here sits Guy, in need of a holiday miracle. 


A temporary visa was extended one last 
time, to next summer. He takes classes at 
Cypress College and wants to join the U.S. 
Army, but can’t without a green card. 

‘‘He’s a good boy who does his schoolwork 
and his chores,’’ his grandmother says. 
‘‘We’re all he has left I was born here. My 
husband was born here. We want our grandson 
here with us.’’ 

They were with him at lunch Tuesday, 
when that same UPS driver happened by. 

‘‘Remember that nice kid you asked me 
about?’’ Shusterman said. ‘‘This is him.’’ 

By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 2002. A bill for the relief of Tony 
Lara; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
PRIVATE RELIEF LEGISLATION 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
am pleased to offer today, legislation 
to provide lawful permanent residence 
status to Tony Lara, a remarkable 
young man from El Salvador who has 
lived in the United States since he was 
10 years old. 

Tony’s story is particularly compelling. 
In less than twenty years of this 
young man’s life, Tony has faced one 
tragic setback after another. However, 
through his optimism, intelligence, and 
hard work, he has bravely confronted 
challenges that most would view as insurmountable. 
In spite of enormous 
odds, Tony has become a high school 
graduate, a California State Wrestling 
Champion and an inspiration to his 
community. 

An unfortunate chapter in Tony’s 
story is that he faces deportation and 
separation from his younger sister because 
at age nineteen, Tony is an orphan. 
Immigration law prohibits permanent 
legal residency to minor children 
under the age of twenty-one without 
their parents. 

Ten years ago, Tony Lara and his 
younger sister Olga were brought to 
the United States by their parents who 
were fleeing the civil war in El Salvador. 
That same year, Tony’s mother 
was deported back to El Salvador. She 
tragically died in a drowning accident 
while trying to reenter the United 
States. Tony’s father turned to drugs, 

abandoned his children and was eventually 
deported in 1994. He has not heard 
from him since. At age 11, Tony became 
a surrogate father to his younger 
sister. 

Tony and his sister were taken in by 
an uncle who had neglected to care for 
them. Eventually, Tony’s neighbors, 
Philip and Linda Bracken, invited the 
children to live with them. The 
Brackens later adopted Olga, who now 
has permanent residency in this country. 
The couple lacked the resources, 
however, to adopt Tony and at age 16, 
Tony was left without a home. 

Unfortunately, the adults to which 
Tony turned for advice counseled 
against turning himself in to the Department 
of Children Services. They 
feared he could be deported and would 
never see his sister again. Tony could 
not bear losing the only family he had 
left; thus he remained on his own. 

In 1996, Tony met his high school’s 
wrestling coach, Terrence Fisher. Mr. 
Fisher knew little about Tony’s circumstances, 
but he noticed his slight 
build and extreme sadness. When the 
coach had discovered Tony was homeless 
and hungry, he invited him to live 
with his family. Mr. Fisher also invited 
Tony to try out for the school’s wrestling 
team. Although he had never 
wrestled before, Tony was truly a natural. 


By his senior year, Tony had worked 
hard and captured the California state 
wresting championship for his age 
group and weight class. He had also excelled 
socially and academically. After 
Tony graduated from high school, he 
continued to win wrestling championships 
and has become a role model in 
his community. He is continuing his 
education by studying business at West 
Valley Occupational Center. 

Tony has been featured on two television 
programs. In 1998, he was featured 
on an NBC news program called 
‘‘Beating the Odds,’’ which was about 
young people of great achievement who 
have overcome enormous obstacles. 
Last year, Tony was featured on a 
Univision hour-long special program, 
which also spoke to Tony’s special circumstances. 


I can think of no one more deserving 
of permanent residency in this country. 


Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the attached bill be entered 
into the record with this statement. 

Mr. President, I also ask unanimous 
consent that the bill and a letter from 
Terrence Fisher, high school coach, 
which illustrates the compelling nature 
of young man’s circumstance, be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

S. 2002 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
TONY LARA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Tony Lara 
shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or for adjustment of status to that of an 
alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
upon filing an application for issuance 
of an immigrant visa under section 204 of 
such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful 
permanent resident. 

(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Tony Lara 
enters the United States before the filing 
deadline specified in subsection (c), he shall 
be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be 
eligible for adjustment of status under section 
245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of enactment of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status are filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Guy Taylor, 
the Secretary of State shall instruct the 
proper officer to reduce by one, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
TERRENCE FISHER, 

Northridge, CA, September 12, 1999. 

Senator DIANNE FEINSTEIN, 

Hart Senate Building, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR SENATOR FEINSTEIN: I am a United 
States citizen and reside with my wife and 
children in Northridge, California. For the 
past nine years, I have taught music and 
coached wrestling, football, and track at El 
Camino High School in Woodland Hills, California. 
I write to ask your help in sponsoring 
a private bill to grant Gerardo (‘‘Tony’’) 
Lara permanent residency. 

Tony is a nineteen year old national of El 
Salvador who has resided in this country 
since 1990, and against all odds, has become 
a high school graduate and California State 
Wrestling Champion. In 1990, Tony and his 
sister Olga were brought to the United 
States by their parents who were fleeing 
civil war. Tony and Olga were then ten and 
four years old, respectively. 

The same year, Tony’s mother was deported 
back to El Salvador. When she again 
fled civil war in her country and tried to reenter 
the United States, she died in a drowning 
accident. Tony’s father turned to drugs, 
effectively abondoning Tony and Olga in the 
United States. From 1991 on, Tony became a 
surrogate father to his baby sister. 

Between 1990 and 1996, Tony somehow managed 
to survive and care for his sister. 
Tony’s father was jailed repeatedly for drugs 
and in 1994 was finally deported. Tony and 
Olga were given free housing in their uncle’s 
rented apartment, but the uncle was almost 
never home. Eventually Tony’s neighbors, 
Philip and Linda Bracken, invited Olga to 
live with them. Olga’s relationship with the 
Brackens became increasingly close, and 
they eventually adopted Olga. Because of the 
adoption, Olga now has permanent residency 
in this country. The Brackets lacked the resources 
to adopt Tony along with his sister. 

Tony was left on his own. When he had 
money, he would eat at fast food restaurants. 
When he did not have money, he 
would ask his friends for food. Sadly, all 
adults whom Tony sought help from about 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S39 

his situation told him that if he turned himself 
in to the Department of Children Services, 
he could be deported and would never 
see his sister again. Tony could not bear losing 
the only family he had left, and thus remained 
on his own. 

I met Tony in 1996 when he was a student 
at El Camino Real High School. Tony was a 
tiny kid, just the size to qualify as a wrestler 
in the 105-pound division. Though Tony had 
no wrestling experience, I invited him to try 
out for the school’s wrestling team. Tony 
had never wrestled before but was a natural. 
By his senior year, he captured the California 
state championship for his age group 
and weight class. I’ve never coached anyone 
who works as hard as has Tony. 

I initially knew little of Tony’s background, 
but noticed his extreme sadness. 
When I asked Tony why he was so sad, he 
confided in me that he was homeless and 
hungry. I then invited Tony to live with my 
family. Tony shares a bedroom with my son. 
Since moving in with our family, Tony has 
prospered both socially and academically. I 
am sure that is because for the first time 
since he was ten, he has had the loving support 
of a family and adequate food and shelter. 
Tony graduated high school and continues 
to win championships. He is continuing 
his education by studying business 
at West Valley Occupational Center. 

Tony has no legal immigration status. His 
inability to secure permanent residency cannot 
be attributed to any lack of effort on 
Tony’s part. Tony has a list of forty professionals 
(lawyers, teachers and guidance 
counselors) he sought legal advice from. 
Time and time again, he was told that if the 
authorities knew of his immigration status 
or the fact that had no parents in the United 
States, he would be separated forever from 
his baby sister. The tragedy is that we now 
know that had Tony become a ward of the 
court before age 16, he could have filed a special 
immigrant visa petition and obtained 
legal status. And had suspension of deportation 
not been eliminated in the 1996 immigration 
law, Tony would easily have qualified 
for suspension of deportation. 

I am asking for your assistance in sponsoring 
a private bill on Tony’s behalf. I am 
told that the enactment of a private bill is 
extremely rare and a real longshot. But 
Tony’s whole life has been a longshot, and I 
believe that he will overcome the difficulties 
of securing permanent residency just as he 
has overcome all the many other obstacles in 
his life. 

In a time where anti-immigrant sentiments 
still run high in California, it is important 
to remember that it was not Tony’s 
choice that his parents fled to the United 
States during a time of civil war, and it was 
not his choice that his mother drown in a 
river or that his father turn to drugs. It was 
Tony’s choice to overcome these tragedies, 
to care for his baby sister, and to succeed as 
a high school graduate and a state wrestling 
champion. To recognize these achievements, 
Tony was featured in an NBC news program 
called ‘‘Beating the Odds.’’ 

The United States would undoubtedly benefit 
from the contributions that Tony will 
make as a permanent resident in this country, 
and I can think of no young man more 
deserving of our country’s support. It is hard 
to imagine Tony now returning to El Salvador. 
He would suffer not only extreme poverty 
(Tony has a weak command of Spanish 
and no ability to write in Spanish) but extreme 
emotional distress from losing the 
family support he has finally found at my 
home. Most importantly, Tony would suffer 
the loss of contact with his U.S. citizen sister, 
now age 12. Our family would also suffer 
if separated from Tony, as he has truly become 
a member of our family and the community 
in which we work and live. 

I look forward to meeting with you further 
to discuss my request for your assistance. I 
am joined in asking for your support from 
the people listed on the attached pages. I 
thank you in advance for you consideration 
of this matter. 

Sincerely, 

TERRENCE FISCHER. 

By Mr. DASCHLE (for Mr. JOHN


SON (for himself, Mr. COVER


DELL, and Mr. MCCAIN): 

S. 2003. A bill to restore health care 
coverage to retired members of the 
uniformed services; to the Committee 
on Veterans’ Affairs. 
KEEP OUR PROMISE TO AMERICA’S MILITARY 
RETIREES ACT 

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to join Senator PAUL COVERDELL 
and Senator JOHN MCCAIN today 
in introducing the Keep Our Promise to 
America’s Military Retirees Act. This 
legislation honors our nation’s commitment 
to the men and women who 
served in the military by upholding the 
promise of health care coverage in return 
for their selfless dedication. 

Last year, the Senate began to address 
critical recruitment and retention 
problems currently facing our nation’s 
armed services. The pay table 
adjustments and retirement reform enacted 
in the fiscal year 2000 Department 
of Defense Authorization bill 
were both long overdue improvements 
for our active duty military personnel. 
However, these improvements do not 
solve our country’s difficulty in recruiting 
and keeping the best and the 
brightest in the military. In order to 
maintain a strong military for now and 
in the future, our country must show 
that it will honor its commitment to 
military retirees and veterans as well. 

For years, men and women who 
joined the military were promised lifetime 
health care coverage for themselves 
and their dependents. Prior to 
June 7, 1956, no statutory health care 
plan existed for military personnel. 
Even when the Civilian Health and 
Medical Program for the Uniformed 
Services (CHAMPUS) was enacted that 
year, the health care coverage was dependent 
upon the space available at 
military treatment facilities. Post-
Cold War downsizing, base closures, 
and the reduction of health care services 
at military bases have limited the 
health care options available to military 
retirees. 

In my home state of South Dakota, I 
have heard from many military retirees 
who are forced to drive hundreds of 
miles to receive care. As a final disgrace, 
military retirees are currently 
kicked off the military’s Tricare 
health care system when they turn 65. 
This is a slap in the face to those men 
and women who have sacrificed their 
livelihood to keep our country safe 
from threats at home and abroad. 

The Keep Our Promise to America’s 
Military Retirees Act restores adequate 
health care coverage to all military 
retirees. For those retirees who 
entered the armed services before June 
7, 1956, when CHAMPUS was created, 

my legislation will honor the promise 
of health care coverage for life. This 
will be accomplished by allowing military 
retirees to enroll in the Federal 
Employees Health Benefits Program 
(FEHBP), with the United States paying 
100 percent of the costs. Military 
retirees who joined the armed services 
after space-available care was enacted 
into law in 1956 will be allowed to enroll 
in FEHBP or continue to participate 
in Tricare—even after they turn 

65. These military retirees who choose 
to enroll in FEHBP will pay the same 
premiums and fees as all other federal 
employees in the program. 
The Keep Our Promise to America’s 
Military Retirees Act has been endorsed 
by the National Military and 
Veterans Alliance and its member organizations. 
Companion legislation in 
the House of Representatives already 
has over 220 bipartisan cosponsors 
thanks to unprecedented grassroots 
support by military retirees nationwide. 


A promise made should be a promise 
kept. We owe it to our country’s military 
retirees to provide them with the 
health care they were promised. These 
men and women stood ready to answer 
the call to defend our rights, anytime 
and anywhere. It is now our duty to answer 
their calls for better health care. 

We also owe it to ourselves to help 
attract and keep qualified men and 
women in our military by showing potential 
recruits and active duty personnel 
that our country honors its 
commitment to those who serve it. We 
have a long way to go, but I will continue 
to work to make sure our country’s 
active duty personnel, military 
retirees, and veterans receive the benefits 
they deserve. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objecton, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

S. 2003 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Keep Our 
Promise to America’s Military Retirees 
Act’’. 

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. 

Congress finds the following: 

(1) No statutory health care program existed 
for members of the uniformed services 
who entered service prior to June 7, 1956, and 
retired after serving a minimum of 20 years 
or by reason of a service-connected disability. 
(2) Recruiters for the uniformed services 
are agents of the United States government 
and employed recruiting tactics that allowed 
members who entered the uniformed services 
prior to June 7, 1956, to believe they would be 
entitled to fully-paid lifetime health care 
upon retirement. 
(3) Statutes enacted in 1956 entitled those 
who entered service on or after June 7, 1956, 
and retired after serving a minimum of 20 
years or by reason of a service-connected disability, 
to medical and dental care in any facility 
of the uniformed services, subject to 

S40 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

the availability of space and facilities and 
the capabilities of the medical and dental 
staff. 

(4) After 4 rounds of base closures between 
1988 and 1995 and further drawdowns of remaining 
military medical treatment facilities, 
access to ‘‘space available’’ health care 
in a military medical treatment facility is 
virtually nonexistent for many military retirees. 
(5) The military health care benefit of 
‘‘space available’’ services and Medicare is 
no longer a fair and equitable benefit as 
compared to benefits for other retired Federal 
employees. 
(6) The failure to provide adequate health 
care upon retirement is preventing the retired 
members of the uniformed services 
from recommending, without reservation, 
that young men and women make a career of 
any military service. 
(7) The United States should establish 
health care that is fully paid by the sponsoring 
agency under the Federal Employees 
Health Benefits program for members who 
entered active duty on or prior to June 7, 
1956, and who subsequently earned retirement. 
(8) The United States should reestablish 
adequate health care for all retired members 
of the uniformed services that is at least 
equivalent to that provided to other retired 
Federal employees by extending to such retired 
members of the uniformed services the 
option of coverage under the Federal Employees 
Health Benefits program, the Civilian 
Health and Medical Program of the uniformed 
services, or the TRICARE Program. 
SEC. 3. COVERAGE OF MILITARY RETIREES 

UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES 

HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM. 

(a) EARNED COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN RETIREES 
AND DEPENDENTS.—Chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in section 8905, by adding at the end the 
following new subsection: 
‘‘(h) For purposes of this section, the term 
‘employee’ includes a retired member of the 
uniformed services (as defined in section 
101(a)(5) of title 10) who began service before 
June 7, 1956. A surviving widow or widower of 
such a retired member may also enroll in an 
approved health benefits plan described by 
section 8903 or 8903a of this title as an individual.’’; 
and 

(2) in section 8906(b)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘paragraphs 
(2) and (3)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs 
(2) through (5)’’; and 
(B) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(5) In the case of an employee described in 
section 8905(h) or the surviving widow or 
widower of such an employee, the Government 
contribution for health benefits shall 
be 100 percent, payable by the department 
from which the employee retired.’’. 

(b) COVERAGE FOR OTHER RETIREES AND DEPENDENTS.—(
1) Section 1108 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘§ 1108. Health care coverage through Federal 
Employees Health Benefits program 

‘‘(a) FEHBP OPTION.—The Secretary of Defense, 
after consulting with the other administering 
Secretaries, shall enter into an 
agreement with the Office of Personnel Management 
to provide coverage to eligible 
beneficiaries described in subsection (b) 
under the health benefits plans offered 
through the Federal Employees Health Benefits 
program under chapter 89 of title 5. 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE BENEFICIARIES; COVERAGE.— 

(1) An eligible beneficiary under this subsection 
is— 
‘‘(A) a member or former member of the 
uniformed services described in section 
1074(b) of this title; 

‘‘(B) an individual who is an unremarried 
former spouse of a member or former member 
described in section 1072(2)(F) or 
1072(2)(G); 

‘‘(C) an individual who is— 

‘‘(i) a dependent of a deceased member or 
former member described in section 1076(b) 
or 1076(a)(2)(B) of this title or of a member 
who died while on active duty for a period of 
more than 30 days; and 

‘‘(ii) a member of family as defined in section 
8901(5) of title 5; or 

‘‘(D) an individual who is— 

‘‘(i) a dependent of a living member or 
former member described in section 1076(b)(1) 
of this title; and 

‘‘(ii) a member of family as defined in section 
8901(5) of title 5. 

‘‘(2) Eligible beneficiaries may enroll in a 
Federal Employees Health Benefit plan 
under chapter 89 of title 5 under this section 
for self-only coverage or for self and family 
coverage which includes any dependent of 
the member or former member who is a family 
member for purposes of such chapter. 

‘‘(3) A person eligible for coverage under 
this subsection shall not be required to satisfy 
any eligibility criteria specified in chapter 
89 of title 5 (except as provided in paragraph 
(1)(C) or (1)(D)) as a condition for enrollment 
in health benefits plans offered 
through the Federal Employees Health Benefits 
program under this section. 

‘‘(4) For purposes of determining whether 
an individual is a member of family under 
paragraph (5) of section 8901 of title 5 for purposes 
of paragraph (1)(C) or (1)(D), a member 
or former member described in section 
1076(b) or 1076(a)(2)(B) of this title shall be 
deemed to be an employee under such section. 


‘‘(5) An eligible beneficiary who is eligible 
to enroll in the Federal Employees Health 
Benefits program as an employee under 
chapter 89 of title 5 is not eligible to enroll 
in a Federal Employees Health Benefits plan 
under this section. 

‘‘(6) An eligible beneficiary who enrolls in 
the Federal Employees Health Benefits program 
under this section shall not be eligible 
to receive health care under section 1086 or 
section 1097. Such a beneficiary may continue 
to receive health care in a military 
medical treatment facility, in which case the 
treatment facility shall be reimbursed by 
the Federal Employees Health Benefits program 
for health care services or drugs received 
by the beneficiary. 

‘‘(c) CHANGE OF HEALTH BENEFITS PLAN.— 
An eligible beneficiary enrolled in a Federal 
Employees Health Benefits plan under this 
section may change health benefits plans 
and coverage in the same manner as any 
other Federal Employees Health Benefits 
program beneficiary may change such plans. 

‘‘(d) GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS.—The 
amount of the Government contribution for 
an eligible beneficiary who enrolls in a 
health benefits plan under chapter 89 of title 
5 in accordance with this section may not exceed 
the amount of the Government contribution 
which would be payable if the 
electing beneficiary were an employee (as defined 
for purposes of such chapter) enrolled 
in the same health benefits plan and level of 
benefits. 

‘‘(e) SEPARATE RISK POOLS.—The Director 
of the Office of Personnel Management shall 
require health benefits plans under chapter 
89 of title 5 to maintain a separate risk pool 
for purposes of establishing premium rates 
for eligible beneficiaries who enroll in such a 
plan in accordance with this section.’’. 

(2) The item relating to section 1108 at the 
beginning of such chapter is amended to read 
as follows: 
‘‘1108. Health care coverage through Federal 
Employees Health Benefits program.’’. 


(3) The amendments made by this subsection 
shall take effect on January 1, 2001. 
SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF COVERAGE OF CIVILIAN 

HEALTH AND MEDICAL PROGRAM 

OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES. 

Section 1086 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended— 

(1) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘Except as 
provided in subsection (d), the’’, and inserting 
‘‘The’’; 
(2) by striking subsection (d); and 
(3) by redesignating subsections (e) 
through (h) as subsections (d) through (g), 
respectively. 
f 


ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 146 

At the request of Mr. ROBB, his name 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 146, a 
bill to amend the Controlled Substances 
Act with respect to penalties 
for crimes involving cocaine, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 162 

At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 162, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to change the determination 
of the 50,000-barrel refinery 
limitation on oil depletion deduction 
from a daily basis to an annual average 
daily basis. 

S. 285 

At the request of Mr. MCCAIN, the 
name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 285, a bill to amend title II of the 
Social Security Act to restore the link 
between the maximum amount of earnings 
by blind individuals permitted 
without demonstrating ability to engage 
in substantial gainful activity and 
the exempt amount permitted in determining 
excess earnings under the earnings 
test. 

S. 398 

At the request of Mr. CAMPBELL, the 
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
HARKIN) and the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. GRAMS) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 398, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to mint 
coins in commemoration of Native 
American history and culture. 

S. 484 

At the request of Mr. CAMPBELL, the 
names of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. LOTT) and the Senator from 
Vermont (Mr. JEFFORDS) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 484, a bill to provide 
for the granting of refugee status in 
the United States to nationals of certain 
foreign countries in which American 
Vietnam War POW/MIAs or American 
Korean War POW/MIAs may be 
present, if those nationals assist in the 
return to the United States of those 
POW/MIAs alive. 

S. 522 

At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the name of the Senator from New 
York (Mr. MOYNIHAN) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 522, a bill to amend the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act to 
improve the quality of beaches and 
coastal recreation water, and for other 
purposes. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S41 

S. 569 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
LUGAR) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
569, a bill to amend the internal revenue 
Code of 1986 to exclude certain 
farm rental income from net earnings 
from self-employment if the taxpayer 
enters into a lease agreement relating 
to such income. 

S. 662 
At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, LINCOLN, 
the name of the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 662, a bill to amend title 
XIX of the Social Security Act to provide 
medical assistance for certain 
women screened and found to have 
breast or cervical cancer under a federally 
funded screening program. 
S. 663 
At the request of Mr. ROBB, his name 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 663, a 
bill to impose certain limitations on 
the receipt of out-of-State municipal 
solid waste, to authorize State and 
local controls over the flow of municipal 
solid waste, and for other purposes. 
S. 664 
At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, LINCOLN, 
the name of the Senator from 
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 664, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
a credit against income tax to individuals 
who rehabilitate historic 
homes or who are the first purchasers 
of rehabilitated historic homes for use 
as a principal residence. 
S. 693 
At the request of Mr. HELMS, the 
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
DEWINE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
693, a bill to assist in the enhancement 
of the security of Taiwan, and for other 
purposes. 
S. 758 
At the request of Mr. ASHCROFT, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. GRAMS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 758, a bill to establish legal standards 
and procedures for the fair, 
prompt, inexpensive, and efficient resolution 
of personal injury claims arising 
out of asbestos exposure, and for other 
purposes. 
S. 784 
At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. LAUTENBERG) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 784, a bill to establish a 
demonstration project to study and 
provide coverage of routine patient 
care costs for medicare beneficiaries 
with cancer who are enrolled in an approved 
clinical trial program. 
S. 796 
At the request of Mr. WELLSTONE, the 
name of the Senator from West Virginia 
(Mr. ROCKEFELLER) was added as 
a cosponsor of S. 796, a bill to provide 
for full parity with respect to health 
insurance coverage for certain severe 
biologically-based mental illnesses and 
to prohibit limits on the number of 

mental illness-related hospital days 
and outpatient visits that are covered 
for all mental illnesses. 

S. 818 

At the request of Mr. DEWINE, the 
name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mr. ASHCROFT) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 818, a bill to require the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services 
to conduct a study of the mortality 
and adverse outcome rates of medicare 
patients related to the provision of anesthesia 
services. 

S. 820 

At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, LINCOLN, 
the name of the Senator from 
Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 820, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal 
the 4.3-cent motor fuel excise taxes on 
railroads and inland waterway transportation 
which remain in the general 
fund of the Treasury. 

S. 821 

At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 821, a bill to provide for 
the collection of data on traffic stops. 

S. 872 

At the request of Mr. ROBB, his name 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 872, a 
bill to impose certain limits on the receipt 
of out-of-State municipal solid 
waste, to authorize State and local 
controls over the flow of municipal 
solid waste, and for other purposes. 

S. 956 

At the request of Ms. SNOWE, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
CLELAND) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 956, a bill to establish programs regarding 
early detection, diagnosis, and 
interventions for newborns and infants 
with hearing loss. 
S. 1020 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1020, a bill to amend chapter 1 of title 
9, United States Code, to provide for 
greater fairness in the arbitration 
process relating to motor vehicle franchise 
contracts. 

S. 1028 

At the request of Mr. HATCH, the 
name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. BREAUX) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1028, a bill to simplify and expedite 
access to the Federal courts for injured 
parties whose rights and privileges, 
secured by the United States 
Constitution, have been deprived by 
final actions of Federal agencies, or 
other government officials or entities 
acting under color of State law, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 1172 
At the request of Mr. CLELAND, his 
name was withdrawn as a cosponsor of 

S. 1172, a bill to provide a patent term 
restoration review procedure for certain 
drug products. 
S. 1378 
At the request of Mr. GRAMS, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 

1378, a bill to amend chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, for the purposes 
of facilitating compliance by small 
businesses with certain Federal paperwork 
requirements, to establish a task 
force to examine the feasibility of 
streamlining paperwork requirements 
applicable to small businesses, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 1472 

At the request of Mr. SARBANES, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. BOXER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1472, a bill to amend chapters 83 
and 84 of title 5, United States Code, to 
modify employee contributions to the 
Civil Service Retirement System and 
the Federal Employees Retirement 
System to the percentages in effect before 
the statutory temporary increase 
in calendar year 1999, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 1526 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1526, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide a tax 
credit to taxpayers investing in entities 
seeking to provide capital to create 
new markets in low-income communities. 


S. 1696 

At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. BREAUX) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1696, a bill to amend the Convention 
on Cultural Property Implementation 
Act to improve the procedures for 
restricting imports of archaeological 
and ethnological material. 

S. 1715 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1715, a bill to provide for an interim 
census of Americans residing 
aboard, and to require that such individuals 
be included in the 2010 decennial 
census. 

S. 1754 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. LIEBERMAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1754, a bill entitled the 
‘‘Denying Safe Havens to International 
and War Criminals Act of 1999.’’ 

S. 1851 

At the request of Mr. CAMPBELL, the 
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
AKAKA) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1851, a bill to amend the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to 
ensure that seniors are given an opportunity 
to serve as mentors, tutors, and 
volunteers for certain programs. 

S. 1873 

At the request of Mr. SESSIONS, the 
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
BROWNBACK) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1873, a bill to delay the effective 
date of the final rule regarding the 
Organ Procurement and Transplantation 
Network. 

S. 1957 
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 


S42 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

(Mr. LAUTENBERG) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1957, a bill to provide for 
the payment of compensation to the 
families of the Federal employees who 
were killed in the crash of a United 
States Air Force CT–43A aircraft on 
April 3, 1996, near Dubrovnik, Croatia, 
carrying Secretary of Commerce Ronald 
H. Brown and 34 others. 

S. 1961 

At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the 
name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. DASCHLE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1961, a bill to amend the 
Food Security Act of 1985 to expand the 
number of acres authorized for inclusion 
in the conservation reserve. 

S. 1991 

At the request of Mr. GRAMS, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1991, a bill to amend the Federal Election 
Campaign Act of 1971 to enhance 
criminal penalties for election law violations, 
to clarify current provisions of 
law regarding donations from foreign 
nationals, and for other purposes. 

S. RES. 87 

At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the 
names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. THOMPSON) and the Senator from 
Arkansas (Mrs. LINCOLN) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 87, a resolution 
commemorating the 60th Anniversary 
of the International Visitors Program. 

f 


SENATE RESOLUTION 242—NOTIFYING 
THE PRESIDENT THAT 
THE SENATE IS READY TO PROCEED 
TO BUSINESS 

Mr. LOTT submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 242 
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate 
inform the President of the United States 
that a quorum of the Senate is assembled 
and that the Senate is ready to proceed to 
business. 

f 


SENATE RESOLUTION 243—NOTIFYING 
THE HOUSE THAT THE 
SENATE IS READY TO PROCEED 
TO BUSINESS 

Mr. LOTT submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 243 
Resolved, That the Secretary inform the 
House of Representatives that a quorum of 
the Senate is assembled and that the Senate 
is ready to proceed to business. 

f 


SENATE RESOLUTION 244—EXPRESSING 
SYMPATHY FOR THE 
VICTIMS OF THE TRAGIC FIRE 
AT SETON HALL UNIVERSITY IN 
SOUTH ORANGE, NJ, ON JANUARY 
19, 2000 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for himself and 
Mr. TORRICELLI) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered 
and agreed to: 

S. RES. 244 
Whereas at approximately 4:30 a.m. on January 
19, 2000, a fire broke out in the com


mons area on the third floor of Boland Hall, 
a six story residence hall housing 600 students 
at Seton Hall University, and this fire 
took the lives of three students—Frank S. 
Caltabilota of West Long Beach, New Jersey, 
John N. Giunta of Vineland, New Jersey and 
Aaron C. Karol of Green Brook, New Jersey, 
and, in addition, 58 persons were injured including 
54 students, two South Orange firefighters 
and two South Orange police officers; 


Whereas numerous Seton Hall students 
risked their own lives as the fire broke out 
to save the lives of their fellow dormitory 
residents; 

Whereas firefighters, paramedics, police officers 
and other emergency personnel from 
the surrounding communities worked bravely 
into the early morning darkness to reduce 
casualties and extinguish the fire; 

Whereas the entire Seton Hall University 
community has banded together in grief to 
remember the fallen students, and numerous 
people outside the university recognize the 
enormity of this tragedy and the need to do 
everything possible to keep it from happening 
again since every student should be 
able to pursue an education in a safe, secure 
environment: Now, therefore be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) expresses its sympathy to the families 
and friends of Frank S. Caltabilota, John N. 
Giunta and Aaron C. Karol on the occasion of 
the funeral service on January 25, 2000; 
(2) expresses its hope for a speedy recovery 
to those students, firefighters and police officers 
injured in the fire; 
(3) expresses its support for all of the students, 
faculty and staff at Seton Hall University 
as they heal from the tragedy; 
(4) expresses its support and thanks to the 
brave firefighters, paramedics, police and 
other emergency workers who saved numerous 
lives; 
(5) pledges to ensure that Federal, State 
and local government entities work together 
to prevent a tragedy like this from occurring 
again, so that our nation’s college students 
can live, work and study in the safest possible 
environment. 
f 


NOTICES OF HEARINGS 

COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, 

AND PENSIONS 

Mr. JEFFORDS. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for information 
of the Senate and the public that a 
hearing of the Senate Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
will be held on Tuesday, January 
25, 2000, 10 a.m., in SH–216 of the Senate 
Hart Building. The subject of the hearing 
is ‘‘Reducing Medical Error: A look 
at the Iom report.’’ For further information, 
please call the committee, 202/ 
224–5375. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT, SAFETY, AND 
TRAINING 

Mr. JEFFORDS. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for information 
of the Senate and the public that a 
hearing of the Subcommittee on Employment, 
Safety, and Training, Senate 
Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions will be held on 
Tuesday, January 25, 2000, 2:30 p.m., in 
SD–430 of the Senate Dirksen Building. 
The subject of the hearing is ‘‘Safe at 
Home: OSHA and the Modern Day 
Workplace.’’ For further information, 
please call the committee, 202/224–5375. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON PUBLIC HEALTH 

Mr. JEFFORDS. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for information 

of the Senate and the public that a 
hearing of the Subcommittee on Public 
Health, Senate Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions will be 
held on Wednesday, January 26, 2000, 9 
a.m., in SD–430 of the Senate Dirksen 
Building. The subject of the hearing is 
‘‘Gene Therapy: Promoting Patient 
Safety.’’ For further information, 
please call the committee, 202/224–5375. 

f 


ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

INTERSTATE WASTE BILLS 
· Mr. ROBB. Mr. President, I rise 
today to once again address the issue 
of the interstate movement of municipal 
solid waste. This is an issue that I 
have been working on for over five 
years, Mr. President. In 1994, I proposed 
legislation (S. 2126) that would have 
authorized localities to impose reasonable 
limits on imports of municipal 
solid waste from other states. That legislation 
did not pass, and even though 
most communities now negotiate compensation 
from landfills that imports 
waste, they negotiate with no real authority 
to power. In 1997, I re-introduced 
that bill (S. 448). In 1999 during 
the 106th Congress, and working with 
Senator WARNER, I introduced new language 
that I had hoped would spur discussion 
and perhaps some creative approaches 
to solving this problem. 
I have tried, as have many other 
Members including Senators WARNER, 
BAUCUS, Coats, SPECTER, VOINOVICH, 
BAYH, CONRAD, SANTORUM, of course 
Senator CHAFEE, to come to grips with 
this issue in some reasonable way. We 
have all tried to come up with legislation 
that would provide states and localities 
with some method of refusing 
the detritus from other states when it 
becomes an imposition, or a hazard. 
The Environment and Public Works 
Committee did have a hearing last 
summer on this issue, but unfortunately 
no mark up was held after that 
hearing. All of our efforts, singly and 
in concert, have had little effect. 
As of today Virginia remains the second 
largest importer of waste in the 
US, with the level of waste imported 
increasing from approximately 2.8 million 
tons in 1997 to 4.6 million tons in 
1998. The figures for 1999 are not in yet 
but we can safely assume that they are 
higher still. On May 29th 1996, Mayor 
Giuliani and Governor George Pataki 
announced that in December of 2001 the 
Fresh Kills landfill will close. Fresh 
Kills remains the point of disposal for 
much of New York City’s waste. Let 
me quote from a 1997 report prepared 
by the Congressional Research Service 
on this looming closure. 
How the city will replace Fresh Kill’s capacity 
is unclear. At present, there are few 
options other than an expanded recycling 
program and out-of-state disposal. A 1996 report 
for the city’s Department of Sanitation 
concluded that, given current disposal sites, 
the city would consume virtually all of the 
available disposal capacity located within a 
365-mile radius. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S43 

New York City and the state of New 
York have done virtually nothing since 
that time to increase in-state capacity. 
I would pose this question to each Senator. 
Envision the largest city in your 
state with a solid waste disposal problem 
of this magnitude, can you imagine 
your state government, and the 
mayor of that city simply ignoring the 
problem and failing to do anything 
about it? Admittedly, we have some 
tussles in Virginia, but when we have a 
problem, we try our level best to solve 
it ourselves, before we ask the rest of 
the Union to carry the weight. 

This session it is critical that we get 
something done on this issue. Because 
when Fresh Kills closes we can expect 
a lot of additional waste to come our 
way. Each additional 1 million tons of 
waste that comes to Virginia will result 
in 40,000 additional tractor trailer 
trips on Virginia highways, if the 
trucks observe the legal weight limit. 
If they don’t, we will have fewer, but 
more dangerous trucks. 

Mr. President, a principle of public 
health protection embodied in the most 
basic practices of solid waste disposal 
is that waste should move as quickly 
as possible from point of origin to 
point of disposal. Moving waste over 
300 miles through the most congested 
portion of this country makes no sense, 
but it will continue unless we move to 
stop it. Therefore, Mr. President, I urge 
that the Environment and Public 
Works committee move to mark up a 
bill that will help those of us in Virginia, 
and Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, 
Kentucky, Connecticut, New Hampshire, 
Maine, and other unwary states 
to cope with, and put reasonable restrictions 
on waste coming into our 
states. 

I have proposed an alternative option, 
but if that can’t or won’t be taken 
up by the Environment and Public 
Works Committee, I am ready to support 
any and all legislation aimed at 
empowering states to have some control 
over waste imports. To that end I 
ask that I be added as a co-sponsor to 
both the Specter and Voinovich bills. I 
will be willing to support any other 
legislation that serves my stated purpose. 


In 104th Congress we came very close 
to passing an interstate waste bill. 
Senator SMITH of New Hampshire 
worked tirelessly on that bill, and was 
integral to its passage in the Senate. I 
hope as chairman, he will take up this 
issue once again, and move a bill 
through committee for consideration 
by the full Senate. 

We were sent here to tackle complex 
issues and solve problems. We need to 
work together, and start now, so that 
an interstate waste bill will be one of 
the accomplishments of this year.· 

f 


HONORING BROTHER RONALD 

GIANNONE 
· Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to salute a true champion of hu


been a gift of service without material 
reward. A man whose work has as 
much meaning for the poor and 
disenfranchised in Sudan as it does for 
the poor and disenfranchised in his Wilmington 
community. A man whose 
faith in the human spirit abounds. A 
man that I proudly call my friend, the 
Executive Director of Delaware’s Ministry 
of Caring, Brother Ronald 
Giannone. 

This week, business and community 
leaders and hundreds of Brother Ronald’s 
closest friends from across the 
State of Delaware will gather to celebrate 
his fiftieth birthday. This Golden 
Birthday bash principally is to thank 
him fifty-times over for his countless 
years of service to our community. We 
will salute him because of who Brother 
Ronald is, what he represents and how 
much he means to improving the quality 
of life in my home State. 

Let me be specific. Brother Ronald is 
the kind of guy who when asked by a 
man or a woman down on his or her 
luck, ‘‘Can you spare a dime?’’ responds 
with a meal, a place to stay and 
a rigorous routine of training and education 
to help keep that man or woman 
from the throes of homelessness and 
despair. He is hope to the hopeless, an 
oasis of strength and inspiration for all 
those who benefit from his generosity. 

For these reasons, Brother Ronald is 
a true Delaware treasure, but still 
there is so much more. Brother Ronald 
is an exemplary administrator. There 
is, quite simply, no other organization 
like his Ministry of Caring. His 32 full-
time facilities address every need of an 
individual or family who finds themselves 
homeless, destitute and/or in 
transition. He clothes, he shelters, he 
feeds, he takes care of children, he 
helps develop skills, he finds jobs, he 
provides medical care, he cares. He 
teaches those who need his assistance 
all the things they must do to be self-
sufficient. And for those who seek to 
provide real change, he exemplifies just 
what it takes to make real differences 
in one life. 

Still, it does not stop there. Brother 
Ronald understands that while he feeds 
someone in the Emmanuel Dining 
Room, someone else is starving in 
Sudan. Consequently, his work and 
Ministry extend far beyond American 
borders and into the lives of people 
throughout the world. Few people 
could have such grand vision and still 
focus so directly on those suffering in 
their own hometown. Such is the case 
with Brother Ronald. 

Though I could say much more about 
this outstanding American, I will add 
only this. In the words of my hero, my 
dad, Joseph R. Biden, Sr., ‘‘it is a lucky 
man that wakes up each morning, puts 
his feet on the floor, goes to work and 
believes that it matters.’’ Even luckier 
is the man that does these things, and 
inspires everyone around him to believe 
the same. Happy 50th Birthday, 

BUNDESTAG/BUNDESRAT STAFF 
EXCHANGE 

· Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, 
since 1983, the United States Congress 
and the German Bundestag and Bundesrat 
have conducted an annual exchange 
program for staff members 
from both countries. The program 
gives professional staff the opportunity 
to observe and learn about each other’s 
political institutions and convey Members’ 
views on issues of mutual 
concern. 

A staff delegation from the United 
States Congress will be selected to 
visit Germany April 7 to April 22 of 
this year. During the two week exchange, 
the delegation will attend 
meetings with Bundestag Members, 
Bundestag party staff members, and 
representatives of numerous political, 
business, academic, and media agencies. 
Cultural activities and a weekend 
visit in a Bundestag Member’s district 
will complete the schedule. 

A comparable delegation of German 
staff members will visit the United 
States for three weeks this summer. 
They will attend similar meetings here 
in Washington and visit the districts of 
Congressional Members. 

The Congress-Bundestag Staff Exchange 
is highly regarded in Germany, 
and is one of several exchange programs 
sponsored by public and private 
institutions in the United States and 
Germany to foster better understanding 
of the politics and policies of 
both countries. 

The U.S. delegation should consist of 
experienced and accomplished Hill staff 
who can contribute to the success of 
the exchange on both sides of the Atlantic. 
The Bundestag reciprocates by 
sending senior staff professionals to 
the United States. 

Applicants should have a demonstrable 
interest in events in Europe. 
Applicants need not be working in the 
field of foreign affairs, although such a 
background can be helpful. The composite 
U.S. delegation should exhibit a 
range of expertise in issues of mutual 
concern in Germany and the United 
States such as, but not limited to, 
trade, security, the environment, immigration, 
economic development, 
health care, and other social policy 
issues. 

In addition, U.S. participants are expected 
to help plan and implement the 
program for the Bundestag staff delegation 
when they visit the United 
States. Participants are expected to assist 
in planning topical meetings in 
Washington, and are encouraged to 
host one or two Bundestag staffers in 
their Member’s district in July, or to 
arrange for such a visit to another 
Member’s district. 

Participants are selected by a committee 
composed of personnel from the 
Bureau of Education and Culture Exchanges 
of the U.S. Department of 
State and past participants of the exchange. 


Senators and Representatives who 
would like a member of their staff to 
apply for participation in this year’s 
program should direct them to submit 
a resume and cover letter in which 
they state why they believe they are 
qualified, the contributions they can 
make to a successful program and some 
assurances of their ability to participate 
during the time stated. Applica


manity. A man whose whole life has Brother Ronald.· tions may be sent to Connie Veillette 


S44 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE January 24, 2000 

in Congressman REGULA’s office, 2309 We should follow Admiral Zumwalt’s on Wednesday at a time to be deter-

Rayburn House Building by noon on 
Friday, March 3.· 

f 


IN HONOR OF ADMIRAL ELMO R. 

ZUMWALT, JR. 
· Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise 
today to honor a titan in our nation’s 
naval history. Early this year, during 
our recess, Admiral Elmo R. Zumwalt, 
Jr. passed away. Admiral Zumwalt led 
a disciplined, dedicated, and directed 
life and career as a leader and, sometimes, 
as an iconoclast. 

Mr. President, Admiral Zumwalt’s 
meteoric rise through the ranks began 
at the U.S. Naval Academy, where he 
graduated in just three years, yet 
ranked seventh in his class. Following 
his graduation from the academy, 
Zumwalt began a lengthy career on a 
number of surface warships. 

Among those ships was the U.S.S. 
Wisconsin, one of four Iowa-class battleships, 
the largest battleships ever built 
by the Navy. The four vessels, the Wisconsin, 
the Iowa, the New Jersey and the 
Missouri, served gallantly in every significant 
United States conflict from 
World War II to the Persian Gulf War. 
Future Admiral Zumwalt, the Wisconsin’s 
navigator when the Korean War 
broke out, extolled her ‘‘versatility, 
maneuverability, strength, and power.’’ 
Unbeknownst to him, this would not be 
the last time that he would leave his 
indelible mark on the great state of 
Wisconsin. 

Following his service in the war, 
Zumwalt shuttled between the Pentagon 
and the sea. He excelled in both 
arenas, but in entirely different ways. 

In 1970, President Nixon appointed 
Zumwalt the youngest Chief of Naval 
Operations in our history. As CNO, Admiral 
Zumwalt tackled some of the 
most divisive and challenging issues 
not just to hit the Navy, but society at 
large. And we’re still trying to conquer 
some of them. 

Admiral Zumwalt crusaded for a fair 
and equal Navy. He fought to promote 
equality for minorities and women at a 
time of considerable racial strife in our 
country and at a time of deeply entrenched 
institutional racism and 
sexism in the Navy. He pushed so hard 
against the establishment that he almost 
lost his job. But thanks to the 
support of some like-minded reformers, 
including our esteemed colleague, the 
late John Chafee, who was then the 
Secretary of the Navy, Zumwalt prevailed 
and instituted a host of personnel 
reforms. 

Mr. President, Admiral Zumwalt’s efforts 
to promote equality addressed, in 
part, an issue that we are tackling 
anew. Many in Congress and in the Defense 
Department seem to think that 
recruitment and retention can be improved 
simply by increasing pay and 
benefits. They could learn much from 
Admiral Zumwalt, who understood the 
importance not only of boosting pay, 
but also of changing the service to re-

example and take a broader view when 
we look to improve the lives of our 
military personnel. 

Mr. President, in his later years, Admiral 
Zumwalt dedicated himself to assisting 
Vietnam War era veterans who 
had been exposed to Agent Orange. He 
played an instrumental role in getting 
Agent Orange-exposed veterans with 
cancer a service-connected illness designation. 
I had the honor of meeting 
with him to discuss his efforts to increase 
research funding for Agent Orange 
related illnesses and to explore 
options for international cooperation 
in that research. 

Admiral Elmo Zumwalt was a great 
naval leader, a visionary and a courageous 
challenger of the conventional 
wisdom. We will not see the likes of 
him again. We mourn his passing and 
salute his accomplishments.· 

f 


ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, JANUARY 
25, 2000 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Senate 
completes its business today, it adjourn 
until the hour of 11:30 a.m. on 
Tuesday, January 25. I further ask consent 
that on Tuesday, immediately following 
the prayer, the Journal of proceedings 
be approved to date, the 
morning hour be deemed expired, the 
time for the two leaders be reserved for 
their use later in the day, and the Senate 
then begin a period of morning 
business with Senators speaking for up 
to 5 minutes each, with the following 
exceptions: Senator BOND or designee 
from 11:30 a.m. until 12 noon, and Senator 
DURBIN or designee from 12 noon 
to 12:30 p.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. GRAMS. I also ask consent that 
the Senate stand in recess from the 
hours of 12:30 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. for the 
weekly policy conferences to meet, and 
that upon reconvening the Senate resume 
consideration of S. 625, the bankruptcy 
reform bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


PROGRAM 
Mr. GRAMS. For the information of 
all Senators, tomorrow the Senate will 
be in a period of morning business until 

12:30 p.m., and will then recess until 
2:15 p.m. to accommodate the weekly 
party conferences. When the Senate reconvenes, 
the Senate will resume consideration 
of S. 625, the bankruptcy reform 
legislation, under the previous 
consent agreement. Time agreements 
have been made on the remaining 
bankruptcy amendments. Therefore, 
the Senate is expected to complete action 
on the bill during Wednesday’s 
session of the Senate. As a reminder, 
the 12 noon cloture vote for tomorrow 
has been vitiated, and the debate on 
mined. 

f 


UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
AGREEMENT—S. 625 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the agreement 
with respect to the bankruptcy bill be 
vitiated at the request of the majority 
leader or minority leader up to the 
hour of 12 noon on Tuesday. 

Mr. REID. Reserving the right to object. 


Mr. President, this new unanimous 
consent request literally just came to 
our attention. I want the record to be 
very clear that the minority, the 
Democrats, have worked very hard 
throughout today to obtain the unanimous 
consent we have already agreed 
to. If the bankruptcy bill does not go 
forward, it is not the fault of the minority. 


We have done everything we can. We 
have spent all day coming up with a 
unanimous consent agreement. I have 
talked to Senators literally all over 
the country, getting them to agree to 
the unanimous consent which has already 
been agreed to and is now spread 
across the record of this Senate. 

In short, I hope that the majority 
leader would not object to the unanimous 
consent agreement that is already 
in the record. I acknowledge that 
the majority leader wants permission, 
and we are going to grant him that permission, 
to vitiate the unanimous consent 
agreement prior to noon tomorrow. 
I hope he does not do that. It 
would be a shame for this body and a 
shame for the country if this objection 
is made because it will take down the 
bankruptcy bill for the rest of the year. 
That would be a shame because we 
have already worked too hard in the effort 
to get this legislation passed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. GRAMS. I thank the Senator 
from Nevada for all his efforts. 

f 


ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. GRAMS. If there is no further 
business to come before the Senate, I 
now ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate stand in adjournment under the 
previous order, following the remarks 
of Senator FEINGOLD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. GRAMS. I yield the floor. 

The Senator from Wisconsin is recognized. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Wisconsin. 

f 


SUPREME COURT CAMPAIGN 

FINANCE RULING 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, this 
morning the Supreme Court issued the 
most significant ruling in the area of 
campaign finance and election law 
since the 1976 landmark decision in 

flect the wants and needs of service the remaining amendments will begin Buckley v. Valeo. I am happy to report 
members. tomorrow, with votes expected to occur the Court reaffirmed the core holding 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S45 

of Buckley: The public’s elected representatives 
have the constitutional 
power to limit contributions to political 
campaigns in order to protect the 
integrity of the political process from 
corruption or the appearance of corruption. 


It is most fitting that this ruling 
came down this morning as the Senate 
prepares to return from its long recess. 
As you know, Mr. President, one of the 
most important unfinished pieces of 
business on our agenda is campaign finance 
reform and the McCain-Feingold 
bill. The House passed a reform bill 
last year by a wide bipartisan margin, 
and now today’s Court decision leaves 
no doubt that a soft money ban, which 
is the core provision of that bill and of 
our bill in the Senate, is constitutional. 
Today’s decision has dispatched 
one of the most persistent and most erroneous 
arguments against reform. The 
Court did it by a decisive vote of 6–3. 
We, as a legislative body, must step up 
and do what is right, what is constitutional, 
and what is demanded by the 
public and pass a ban on soft money. 

I will take a minute to discuss this 
important Supreme Court decision and 
its implications for our work in this 
body. The case is Nixon v. Shrink Missouri 
Government PAC. It was an appeal 
of the decision of the Eighth Circuit 
Court of Appeals that struck down 
contribution limits enacted by the Missouri 
Legislature to cover State elections. 
Those limits were modeled on 
the Federal limit—$1,000 per candidate 
per election in a statewide election, 
somewhat lower for candidates for the 
State legislature. The State statute includes 
an inflation adjustment so that 
the limit for statewide races had become 
$1,075 per election by the time 
this challenge was filed. 

The Missouri limits were upheld by 
the district court, but they were struck 
down by the court of appeals. The 
court of appeals held that the State 
had not provided adequate evidence of 
actual or apparent corruption stemming 
from large contributions to justify 
the restrictions. It also suggested 
that the limits were too low and therefore 
unconstitutional because inflation 
has eroded the value of a $1,000 contribution 
since 1974, when the Congress 
chose that limit for Federal elections. 

Today the Supreme Court squarely 
and decisively rejected the court of appeals 
analysis. It did so by a 6–3 vote. 
I might note that it did so by a 4–3 vote 
of Justices appointed by Republican 
Presidents. The Court held that there 
was more than adequate evidence of actual 
or apparent corruption on which 
the State legislature could base its 
judgment that contributions should be 
limited. The Court noted that the 
Buckley decision itself provides that 
evidence. It said: 

Buckley demonstrates that the dangers of 
large, corporate contributions and the suspicion 
that large contributions are corrupt 
are neither novel nor implausible. The opinion 
noted that the deeply disturbing examples 
surfacing after the 1972 election demonstrate 
that the problem of corruption is 
not an illusory one. 

In essence, the Court today rejected 
the notion that legislatures must 
amass conclusive evidence of actual 
corruption in order to justify contribution 
limits and that each State or Federal 
legislature must reinvent the 
wheel each time it passes a new limit. 
The Court concluded: 

[T]here is little reason to doubt that sometimes 
large contributions will work actual 
corruption of our political system, and no 
reason to question the existence of a corresponding 
suspicion among voters. 

The Court thus found, as advocates 
for reform have argued for years, that 
it is reasonable for Congress to conclude 
that large contributions are corrupting 
our system. The question has 
been asked not too long ago in this 
Chamber, where is the corruption? 
Today Justice Souter has provided the 
answer: It is in the big money. 

The Court also rejected the argument 
that because the passage of time has 
eroded the value of a $1,000 contribution, 
somehow that limit is now unconstitutionally 
low, even though it was 
acceptable in 1974. We have heard this 
argument time and again on the floor 
of the Senate. It has been rejected by 
the Supreme Court. The Court specifically 
held that Buckley did not establish 
a constitutional minimum. Instead, 
the relevant question in Buckley 
was ‘‘whether the contribution limitation 
was so radical in effect as to 
render political association ineffective, 
drive the sound of a candidate’s voice 
below the level of notice, and render 
contributions pointless.’’ 

The Court concluded: 

Such being the test, the issue in later cases 
cannot be truncated to a narrow question 
about the power of the dollar but must go to 
the power to mount a campaign with all the 
dollars likely to be forthcoming. As Judge 
Gibson, the dissenting judge in the court of 
appeals, put it, ‘‘the dictates of the first 
amendment are not mere functions of the 
Consumer Price Index.’’ 

I have quoted the decision at some 
length because I think it is crucial that 
my colleagues hear and understand the 
very clear and very direct statements 
of the Supreme Court on questions that 
were not only at issue in this case but 
that we have been debating in this 
body over the past few years. No longer 
can my colleagues come to this floor 
and say they would love to support a 
ban on soft money but it would violate 
the first amendment for Congress to 
outlaw unlimited corporate and labor 
contributions to political parties. This 
favorite figleaf clutched by opponents 
of reform was snatched away today by 
the Supreme Court. That emperor now 
has no clothes. 

Just as 126 legal scholars said over 2 
years ago when they wrote to us, today’s 
decision confirms that Congress 
may constitutionally outlaw soft 
money in this country. Justice 
Breyer’s concurrence today, joined by 
Justice Ginsburg, says that explicitly. 
He writes: 

Buckley’s holding seems to leave the political 
branches broad authority to enact laws 

regulating contributions that take the form 
of soft money. 

We have more than adequate evidence 
of at least the appearance of corruption 
in these unlimited contributions. 
Furthermore, if Congress can 
limit individual contributions and ban 
corporate and labor contributions in 
connection with Federal elections, 
surely it can eliminate the soft money 
loophole through which corporations, 
unions, and wealthy individuals evade 
those limits. The constitutionality of 
the MCCAIN-FEINGOLD bill to ban soft 
money is simply no longer an open 
question. The support of the American 
people for taking such a step is not in 
doubt either. 

What is in doubt is the courage and 
will of the Senate to do what has to be 
done. Now that we are back in session, 
and with the encouragement of the Supreme 
Court of the United States, we 
must act. The reason we must act was 
made very clear by the Supreme Court 
today. The survival of our democracy 
depends on our citizens having confidence 
that their elected officials will 
vote in accordance with the public interest 
rather than the interest of their 
contributors. The appearance of corruption 
inherent in unlimited contributions 
calls that confidence into grave 
question. As the Court said in its opinion 
today: 

Leave the perception of impropriety unanswered, 
and the cynical assumption that 
large donors call the tune could jeopardize 
the willingness of voters to take part in 
democratic governance. Democracy works 
only if people have faith in those who govern. 
That faith is bound to be shattered when 
high officials and their appointees engage in 
activities which arouse suspicions of ‘‘malfeasance 
and corruption.’’ 

I urge all of my colleagues to read 
and digest the opinion of the Court in 
Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government 
PAC. The Court has done its duty and 
spoken in a clear voice. Now we must 
do ours. 

I yield the floor. 

f 


ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11:30 A.M. 

TOMORROW 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate stands 
adjourned until 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday, 
January 25, 2000. 

Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:47 p.m., 
adjourned until Tuesday, January 25, 
2000, at 11:30 a.m. 

f 


NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate January 24, 2000: 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM 

ALAN GREENSPAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE CHAIRMAN OF 
THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
SYSTEM FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS. (REAPPOINTMENT) 


DEPARTMENT OF LABOR 

EDWARD B. MONTGOMERY, OF MARYLAND, TO BE DEPUTY 
SECRETARY OF LABOR, VICE KATHRYN O’LEARY 
HIGGINS, RESIGNED. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF INDIA this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this 2000, the Indian Americans of the National 
REPUBLIC DAY earth.’’ Capital Area held a Gala Banquet at the Omni 
Just last week, we paid tribute to one of our Shoreham Hotel in Washington, DC, in honor 

HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR. 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to one of the most important dates 
on the calendar for the people of India, as well 
as for the people of Indian descent who have 
settled in the U.S. and around the world. January 
26th is Republic Day, an occasion that 
inspires pride and patriotism for the people of 
India. 

Exactly one-half century ago, on January 
26, 1950, India became a Republic, devoted 
to the principles of democracy and secularism. 
At that time, Dr. Rajendra Prasad was elected 
as the nation’s first president. Since then, despite 
the challenges of sustaining economic 
development and promoting tolerance and cooperation 
amongst its many ethnic, religious 
and linguistic communities, India has stuck to 
the path of free and fair elections, a multi-
party political system and the orderly transfer 
of power from one government to its successor. 
And, despite external threats to its 
own security, India still remains committed to 
playing its rightful role as a major force for 
peace, stability and cooperation in Asia. 

Mr. Speaker, India’s population was estimated, 
just before the beginning of the new 
millennium, to have reached and exceeded 
the truly remarkable milestone of one billion 
people, representing approximately one-sixth 
of the human race. In just a few years, India 
will be the most populous nation on earth. It 
is indeed very encouraging and inspiring that 
the people of India have lived under a democratic 
form of government for more than half a 
century. 

In 1997, worldwide attention was focused on 
India as it celebrated the 50th anniversary of 
its independence. But, many Americans remain 
largely unfamiliar with the anniversary 
that Indians celebrate on January 26th. Yet, 
Mr. Speaker, it should be noted that there is 
a rich tradition of shared values between the 
United States and India. India derived key aspects 
of her Constitution, particularly its statement 
of Fundamental Rights, from our own Bill 
Of Rights. India and the United States both 
proclaimed their independence from British colonial 
rule. The Indian independence movement 
under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi 
had strong moral support from American intellectuals, 
political leaders and journalists. 

When Time magazine recently did its ‘‘Person 
of the Century’’ edition, Mahatma Gandhi 
was selected as one of two runners-up, along 
with President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, behind 
Albert Einstein. Essentially, the editors at 
Time recognized Gandhi as one of the three 
most influential and important people of the 
entire 20th century. Einstein himself believed 
that Gandhi was the greatest man of his time, 
and was quoted as saying: ‘‘Generations to 
come will scarce believe that such as one as 

greatest American leaders, the Rev. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. Dr. King derived many of his 
ideas of non-violent resistance to injustice 
from the teachings and the actions of Mahatma 
Gandhi. I am proud that legislation was 
approved by Congress and signed by the 
President authorizing the Government of India 
to establish a memorial to honor Mahatma 
Gandhi here in Washington, DC, near the Indian 
Embassy on Embassy Row. The proposed 
statue will no doubt be a most fitting 
addition to the landscape of our nation’s capital 
and a symbol of U.S.-India friendship. 

Mr. Speaker, there is a growing need for 
India and the United States, the two largest 
democracies of the world, to work together on 
a wide variety of initiatives. India and the U.S. 
do not always agree on every issue. But I regret 
that the scant coverage that India receives 
in our media, and even from our top 
policy makers, tends to focus only on the disagreements. 
In fact, our national interests coincide 
on many of the most important concerns, 
such as fighting the scourge of international 
terrorism and controlling the transfer 
of nuclear and other weapons technology to 
unstable regimes. In 1999, when Pakistani 
forces attacked positions on India’s side of the 
Line of Control in Kashmir, I was very encouraged 
to see that the United States recognized 
that India was acting legitimately, in its self-defense, 
and that American pressure was 
brought to bear to convince Pakistan to call off 
its reckless and ill-advised attacks. I hope we 
can build on this progress in our bilateral relations, 
with the U.S. recognizing and respecting 
India’s legitimate security needs. Given India’s 
size and long-term record of democratic stability, 
I believe that India should be made a 
permanent member of the United Nations Security 
Council—a goal that I hope the United 
States will come to support, in light of the increasingly 
important role India will play in 
world affairs in the 21st century. 

India’s vast middle class represents a significant 
and growing market for U.S. trade, 
while the country’s infrastructure needs represent 
a tremendous opportunity for many 
American firms, large, small and mid-size. 
Most of the U.S. sanctions imposed on India 
in 1998 have been relaxed, and I will work towards 
the removal of the remaining sanctions. 
We must continue to work to preserve or restart 
economic relations that have developed 
during the past decade, which witnessed such 
profound changes in our bilateral relationship, 
while creating a positive atmosphere for new 
economic relations. At the same time, I hope 
that we can continue to build upon educational, 
cultural and other people-to-people 
ties that have developed between our two 
countries. I look forward to seeing the Indian-
American community, more than one million 
strong, continue to provide the important 
human ‘‘bridge’’ between our the two countries. 


Republic Day is being observed in America, 
as well as in India. On Saturday, January 22, 

of the Golden Jubilee Celebration of the Republic 
of India. On Wednesday, January 26, 
2000, the Embassy of India in Washington will 
hold a reception to mark this great occasion. 

In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me again congratulate 
the people of India on the occasion 
of Republic Day. I hope that this new century 
will witness a U.S.-India relationship that lives 
up to the great potential offered by India’s and 
America’s shared commitment to democracy. 

f 


IN HONOR OF JOSEPH A. 
STEWART, SR. 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the memory of Joseph A. Stewart, Sr. 
for his many years of service and countless 
contributions to the community. 

As a longtime friend who enriched the life of 
everyone around him, Joseph was a friendly, 
outgoing gentle man who always had something 
nice to say to everyone. He enriched the 
life of everyone he touched, including mine. 

Joseph Stewart, Sr. was born in Cleveland’s 
Slavic village where he went on to graduate 
from St. Stanislaus Elementary School and attended 
Cathedral Latin School until he moved 
to New Milford, in Portage County. In 1935, he 
graduated from high school where he was an 
outstanding athlete participating in track, basketball 
and football. 

Joseph’s commitment to community and 
family was demonstrated from the 1940’s until 
the early 1960’s, during which he operated Joseph’s 
Meat Market on Sowinski Avenue. He 
and his wife Helen would often give meat and 
groceries to local customers who could not 
pay to make sure that these families had 
enough to eat. 

Joseph served his state and country well by 
joining the Ohio National Guard and served at 
Camp Perry in Port Clinton. Joseph, most recently 
serving as a budget analysts in Cleveland’s 
Finance Department from the 1970’s 
until he retired in 1985, lived a full, rich life of 
public service in the Cleveland area. He previously 
was employed at E.F. Hauserman 
Company as a payroll manager. There he became 
a founding member and officer of the 
credit union. 

Joseph A. Stewart was a unique ray of sunshine 
at Cleveland City Hall when I had an opportunity 
to work with him as Mayor. He 
leaves behind a daughter, two sons, five 
grandchildren, six great-grandchildren and a 
brother. He will be greatly missed. 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E2 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks January 24, 2000 

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE 2000 CON-Veillette in Congressman REGULA’s office, My fellow colleagues, please join me in hon-
GRESS-BUNDESTAG/BUNDESRAT 2309 Rayburn House Building, by noon on Fri-oring Russell Manzatt. 

EXCHANGE day, March 3. 

f 


f 


TRIBUTE TO DR. FRANCES P.

HON. RALPH REGULA 

IN HONOR OF RUSSELL MANZATT MOSS OF DECATUR, ALABAMA

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. REGULA. Mr. Speaker, since 1983, the 
United States Congress and the German Bundestag 
and Bundesrat have conducted an annual 
exchange program for staff members 
from both countries. The program gives professional 
staff the opportunity to observe and 
learn about each other’s political institutions 
and convey Members’ views on issues of mutual 
concern. 

A staff delegation from the United States will 
be selected to visit Germany during April 7 to 
April 22 of this year. During the two week exchange, 
the delegation will attend meetings 
with Bundestag Members, Bundestag party 
staff members, and representatives of numerous 
political, business, academic, and media 
agencies. Cultural activities and a weekend 
visit in a Bundestag Member’s district will 
complete the schedule. 

A comparable delegation of German staff 
members will visit the United States for three 
weeks this summer. They will attend similar 
meetings here in Washington and visit the districts 
of Congressional Members. 

The Congress-Bundestag Exchange is highly 
regarded in Germany, and is one of several 
exchange programs sponsored by public and 
private institutions in the United States and 
Germany to foster better understanding of the 
politics and policies of both countries. 

The U.S. delegation should consist of experienced 
and accomplished Hill staff who can 
contribute to the success of the exchange on 
both sides of the Atlantic. The Bundestag reciprocates 
by sending senior staff professionals 
to the United States. 

Applicants should have a demonstrable interest 
in events in Europe. Applicants need 
not be working in the field of foreign affairs, although 
such a background can be helpful. The 
composite U.S. delegation should exhibit a 
range of expertise in issues of mutual concern 
in Germany and the United States such as, 
but not limited to, trade, security, the environment, 
immigration, economic development, 
health care, and other social policy issues. 

In addition, U.S. participants are expected to 
help plan and implement the program for the 
Bundestag staff members when they visit the 
United States. Participants are expected to assist 
in planning topical meetings in Washington, 
and are encouraged to host one or two 
Bundestag staffers in their member’s district in 
July, or to arrange for such a visit to another 
Member’s district. 

Participants are selected by a committee 
composed of personnel from the Bureau of 
Educational and Cultural Exchanges of the 
Department of State and past participants of 
the exchange. 

Senators and Representatives who would 
like a member of their staff to apply for participation 
in this year’s program should direct 
them to submit a resume and cover letter in 
which they state why they believe they are 
qualified, the contributions they can make to a 
successful program and some assurances of 
their ability to participate during the time stated. 
Applications may be sent to Connie 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
honor of Russell Manzatt. He celebrated his 
100th birthday on January 1, 2000. 

Russell grew up in Ilasco, Missouri, where 
his Romanian parents first settled. Many different 
immigrant groups settled here, and Russell 
spoke Hungarian, German, Italian and his 
native Romanian with his playmates. It was 
his first day of school at the age of five when 
he was given the name Russell because his 
teacher could not pronounce his Christian 
name, Vasile. 

As a foreigner in a new land, he had to 
forge his own way. Russell always had a job. 
He started selling subscriptions to The Saturday 
Evening Post and The Country Gentleman. 
Then he delivered 25-pound slabs of 
ice with a horse and buggy. When his family 
was threatened because their butcher business 
was becoming too successful, the 
Manzatt family moved to Cleveland. 

The city of Cleveland impressed Russell, 
with his new home’s flush toilet to the expanse 
of Lake Erie. Russell started working again, 
delivering telegrams during the First World 
War at the age of fifteen. But his legs were 
meant for more than delivering telegrams— 
Russell won a dance contest, went to New 
York and was cast in a vaudeville chorus 
show. Before the show was about to tour, his 
homesickness pulled him back to Cleveland. 

During the Depression, he was lucky 
enough to land a job with Colgate. Though he 
didn’t know what a ‘‘display man’’ was, he answered 
that he could do it. It was when he 
was setting up a windowfront cosmetics display 
and blocked himself in, that a store owner 
taught him what a real display man actually 
did. From setting up displays, he moved up to 
being a sales manager in his fifteen years at 
Colgate until he started his own family and 
company. 

At the Manzatt’s West Park Superette, his 
Colgate contacts helped him stock hard-to-get 
items after World War Two. The success of 
the store grew, and was profitable enough to 
sell for the Manzatts to buy a tavern. While 
their family lived upstairs from the renovated 
restaurant-bar, a steady clientele of other 
neighborhood families frequented the Rockport 
Inn. Their three children enjoyed the wooded 
acres behind the family restaurant, where they 
grew up until they moved into careers of their 
own. At the peak of the Vietnam war, Russell 
was 71 and decided to sell the Rockport Inn. 

Instead of enjoying a relaxed retirement, he 
worked as a top salesman of men’s clothing 
until the store closed, at the age of 93. During 
this time, he enjoyed the growth of his family 
as his three children were married, had children, 
and made him a great-grandparent five 
times over. Though last year, at 99 years old, 
he decided to stop driving, Russell’s former 
dancing legs have enough energy to take him 
on long walks for a haircut or just a cup of coffee. 


HON. ROBERT E. (BUD) CRAMER, JR. 

OF ALABAMA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. CRAMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the outstanding contributions of Dr. 
Frances P. Moss to the music community 
throughout the state of Alabama. It is a privilege 
for me to be able to pay tribute to Dr. 
Moss on the occasion of her retirement from 
Calhoun Community College. 

Dr. Moss has dedicated thirty-four years of 
outstanding services to Calhoun Community 
College’s music program. Her greatest asset 
to the College is her ability to reach out to students 
and instill them with confidence, skill 
and knowledge. Her teaching comes from the 
heart and her love of music is infectious. 

She has devoted herself to her students, directing 
the internationally known Chorale and 
Madrigal Singers. Her legacy to the state is a 
composition she arranged, ‘‘Alabama Has it 
All’’. She modernized the music curriculum at 
Calhoun developing ‘‘college by cassette’’, 
correspondence and intra-term courses. 

Dr. Moss is a native of Oxford, Alabama, 
and she attended Jacksonville State University 
before receiving her masters and doctorate 
degree from the University of Alabama and 
Florida State University. She is a member and 
active leader of many professional and civic 
organizations including the Alabama Vocal Association, 
Alabama Music Educators Association 
and the Decatur Music Club. She serves 
as the Minister of Music and Discipleship for 
her church, Austinville United Methodist 
Church, a role she has lovingly performed for 
the past ten years. 

I want to offer my best wishes and congratulations 
to Dr. Moss and those who love 
her in this well-deserved rest. On behalf of the 
people of Alabama’s Fifth Congressional District, 
I thank her for her extraordinary service 
to our community and our state. 

f 


IN HONOR OF FATHER EDWIN J. 
SCHENKELBURG 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Father Edwin J. Schenkelburg on the 
occasion of his retirement. Father 
Schenkelburg has served St. Mel Parish in 
multiple capacities for the last twenty-eight 
years and his presence will surely be missed. 
Father Schenkelburg has been the backbone 
of an entire community, and his legacy will last 
for generations. 

A lifelong Cleveland resident, Fr. 
Schenkelburg has gained work experience in 
a number of vocations. As a young boy, he 
helped support his family with his earnings 
from stocking grocery shelves and delivering 
newspapers such as the Baseball News and 
Cleveland Press. He held his first position at 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E3 

a parish during high school when the pastor of 
St. Vincent de Paul offered him a job as parish 
Secretary on the condition that he attend 
St. Ignatius High School. Over summer and 
Christmas vacations while at the Seminary 
Schenkelburg worked in various occupations, 
including mail carrier, playground instructor, 
and construction laborer. 

Father Schenkelburg’s ordination occurred 
on April 28, 1951 at St. John’s Cathedral and 
was bestowed by Bishop Hoban. 

Father Schenkelburg has taken on many 
challenges as a parish priest including teaching 
religious classes and serving as the hospital 
chaplain at Metro Hospital and Akron 
Children’s Hospital. An avid sports enthusiast, 
he played baseball with the Holy Name Society 
and started bowling leagues for his parishes. 


In addition to providing for the spiritual 
needs of St. Mel’s parishioners, Father 
Schenkelburg has also been able to assist the 
church financially by organizing successful 
bingo games and raffles. The funds earned 
through these fundraisers allowed St. Mel to 
make major renovations to the Church and 
add a Church Hall without the need to solicit 
building funds from parishioners. 

Father Schenkelburg will celebrate his final 
Mass as Pastor at St. Mel on January 16, 
2000, a day designated by the Parish as ‘‘Fr. 
Ed Day.’’ Following the Mass, family and parishioners 
will have the opportunity to celebrate 
his contributions at a formal reception 
and dinner. 

My fellow colleagues, please join me in paying 
tribute to Father Schenkelburg on his retirement 
from St. Mel’s Parish. I’m proud to 
have known Father Schenkelburg and I wish 
him a well-deserved and fulfilling retirement. 

f 


SPECIAL RECOGNITION OF WIL


LIAM RUSE ON THE OCCASION 

OF HIS RETIREMENT 

HON. MICHAEL G. OXLEY 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. OXLEY. Mr. Speaker, congratulations to 
William Ruse, a seasoned health care executive 
who will be retiring at the end of the year 
2000 after 43 years of service in the health 
care industry. 

Bill started his career as pharmacist in 
1957; and by 1963, upon completing his MBA 
in Hospital Administration from Xavier University 
in Cincinnati, Ohio, he advanced from 
pharmacy director to hospital administrator. As 
President and CEO of Blanchard Valley Hospital, 
he aggressively began transforming the 
organization from a small rural hospital to a 
regional health system. Recognizing the advantages 
of legal savvy, Bill completed a Doctor 
of Jurisprudence degree ‘‘in his spare 
time’’ by 1972. 

Through his vision and entrepreneurial spirit, 
he developed programs on uncharted paths. 
He gained national recognition when he introduced 
the first ‘‘guaranteed services’’ policy in 
the country in 1974. Then in the early 1980’s, 
Blanchard Valley Health Association was one 
of the first businesses to band smoking in their 
facilities. As small hospitals have struggled to 
maintain a presence in health care, Blanchard 
Valley has continued to grow and expand by 

forging partnership relationships that insure 
their customers’ best interests. 

His professional leadership positions, 
awards, honors, and society memberships 
along with community service accomplishments 
read like a Who’s Who Library. In addition, 
he has published articles in both health 
care and law journals. 

Bill Ruse is an American we can be proud 
of in every sense of the word. And one last 
honor of distinction—he just celebrated his 
65th birthday so now we welcome him into our 
inner circle, the Social Security System. Pat 
and I would like to express our sincere best 
wishes to William Ruse and his lovely wife, 
Donna as they move through their golden 
years. 

f 


IN HONOR OF THOMAS WALKER 
ON HIS 100TH BIRTHDAY 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
honor of Thomas Walker on his 100th birthday, 
December 16, 1999. He will be celebrating 
this joyous occasion with family and 
friends on February 20, 2000. By this time he 
will have lived in three centuries. 

Born in 1899 in Cleveland, Ohio, Thomas 
has dedicated his life to working with his 
hands. He always loved to build and was very 
talented with his hands. As an electrician in 
IBEW local 38, he touched so many of his coworkers’ 
lives. They looked toward him for 
leadership, advice, and friendship for so many 
years. Thomas also was a dedicated family 
man. His love for his family and friends has 
helped carry him so far in life. 

At 100 years young, Thomas continues to 
live a fulfilling and happy life. He has been a 
wonderful father of four amazing children, 
Ruth, Dorothy, Thomas Jr., and Dolores. 
Thomas is loved by his family and the many 
lives in his community that he has touched. 
My fellow colleagues, please join me in wishing 
a loving husband and father a very happy 
birthday and many more delightful years to 
come. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO MS. BEVERLY G. 

LEMONS OF UNION GROVE, ALA


BAMA 

HON. ROBERT E. (BUD) CRAMER, JR. 

OF ALABAMA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. CRAMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the outstanding contributions of Ms. 
Beverly G. Lemons to the Top of Alabama Regional 
Council of Governments. In her distinguished 
career with TARCOG, she has repeatedly 
proven her capabilities having been 
promoted from secretary to bookkeeper to fiscal 
agent and personnel officer. In this role 
she has had fiscal responsibility over various 
grants and contracts. In her most recent duties, 
she has performed the crucial tasks of 
budgeting, payroll, contract management and 
report preparation for funding agencies. 

For her vision, hard work and loyalty, I feel 
that this is an apt honor. Over her 27 year ca


reer, she has become a role model for her 
work ethic and dedication. Her titles include 
Economic Development Finance Professional 
and Certified Public Personnel Administrator. 
Now as she retires, I wish to thank Ms. Lemons 
for her extraordinary work for my community 
and this nation. 

On behalf of the U.S. Congress, I pay homage 
to Ms. Lemons and thank her for a job 
well done. I congratulate Ms. Lemons on her 
retirement and wish her a well-deserved rest. 
I wish TARCOG the best of luck in coping 
without her. 

f 


IN HONOR OF BILL RANDLE 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
tribute to Bill Randle for receiving the Lifetime 
Achievement A.I.R. Award. 

Bill Randle has been a notable figure at 
WRMR 850 AM since his being named ‘‘Top 
Jock’’ by Time in the 1950’s. Randle helped 
start up such acts as Montovani, Jonnie Ray, 
The Crewcuts, The Diamonds, and even Elvis 
Presley. 

Currently, Bill Randle spends 31 hours a 
week on the air and also practices law. The 
Lifetime Achievement A.I.R. Award is well deserved 
for a man who has built an impressive 
career in radio broadcasting. He has given 
much of his time and effort in producing quality 
radio broadcasts. His charismatic personality 
and sense of humor bring character and 
definition to his show. Randles colleagues and 
listeners appreciate and admire his professional 
skill and dedication. 

Would my distinguished colleagues please 
join me in recognizing Bill Randle as he is 
honored with the Lifetime Achievement A.I.R. 
Award. 

f 


HONORING SOUTH JERSEY’S 
EMERGENCY PERSONNEL 

HON. ROBERT E. ANDREWS 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
thank South Jersey’s emergency response 
personnel who keep our families safe during 
the holiday season as well as throughout the 
year. Communities from across South Jersey 
nominated heroic members of local EMS, Fire 
and Emergency crews who deserve special 
recognition for their bravery. I would like to 
personally express my gratitude to the 20 men 
and women who put their lives in jeopardy to 
ensure the safety of ours. Thank you to 20 of 
South Jersey’s bravest men and women. 

Javier Matos, Camden City Fire Department 

Squadron #6 
Mary Catalfamo, Chesterfield Township 

Emergency Management Squadron #269 
Lorraine Taraskas, Atco Township Emer


gency Management Squadron #23 
James Newman, Deptford Township Emer


gency Service Squadron 11–9 
Barry Petty, Edgewater Park Township 

Emergency Service Squadron 
William Mason, Newfield Borough Emer


gency Service Squadron 


E4 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks January 24, 2000 

Donald Ley, Sr., Woodbury Heights Emergency 
Service Squadron 15–9 and Fire 
Company 15–01 

Clifford Leary, Maple Shade Township Independent 
Fire Company #1 

Robert Harper, Jr., Lawnside Fire Company 
and Emergency Management Squadron 
Albert Freck, Clayton Borough Fire Com


pany Station #41–1 
Irene Rowe, Mantua Township Community 

Ambulance Squadron 
Bob Barney, Chesilhurst Fire Company 
Robert Davis, Monroe Township Ambulance 

Association Squadron #29–4 
Chief James J. Trautner, National Park Fire 
Station, #6–8 
Chief Brian Cunningham, Hi-Nella Fire Company 
#1, Station #691 
Captain James Hillman, Camden City Fire 
Department Ladder #2 
Frank Sandrock, Camden City Fire Department 
Rescue #1 
Warren Everett, Camden City Fire Department 
Rescue #1 
Al Adomanis, Chews Landing Fire Company 
#82 
Jim Price, Chews Landing Fire Company #82 

f 


IN HONOR OF THE PHILIPPINE 
AMERICAN SOCIETY OF OHIO 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in honor 
of the Philippine American Society of Ohio as 
they gather for their Rizal Night Celebration on 
December 18, 1999. 

The Philippine American Society of Ohio is 
an organization dedicated to the preservation 
of the Filipino culture. The Rizal Night is an 
annual celebration commemorating the birthday 
of the nation’s hero, Dr. Jose Rizal. In addition 
to honoring Dr. Rizal, the event will induct 
two sets of officers to the PASO board 
and PASO Women’s Auxiliary Board. This important 
event will also raise funds for maintaining 
the newly designed cultural center in 
Parma, Ohio. 

The Philippine American Society of Ohio is 
a great cultural asset. As it is probably the first 
group of Filipinos to build a cultural center, 
their determination and dedication to their heritage 
is an inspiration to their families and 
community. Countless people have contributed 
to the construction of the Center, through financial 
support, sharing their electrical and 
painting talents, granting interest-free loans 
and donations of materials. The construction 
of the center is testament to the cohesiveness 
of the Society. 

Moreover, I commend the strength of the 
Philippine American Society for the Medical 
Missions Projects. Missionaries not only treat 
patients for their physical ailment, but also 
provide spiritual support. Their work in reaching 
out to people living in the Philippines is admirable. 


It is with great honor that I ask my distinguished 
colleagues to join me in congratulating 
the Philippine American Society of Ohio 
as they celebrate the birthday of Dr. Jose 
Rizal and congratulate the new board members. 


TRIBUTE TO REP. FRANK HORTON 

HON. LOUISE McINTOSH SLAUGHTER 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
tribute to a former colleague and dear friend, 
the Honorable Frank Horton of New York. 

Representative Horton embodied all the 
best traditions of this institution. He was 
known—indeed, was legendary—for outstanding 
constituent service, for his votes cast 
in a spirit of bipartisanship and integrity, and 
for a commitment to the best interests of his 
district and the nation as a whole. For those 
of us who had the privilege of serving with 
him, he was a role model and a special friend. 

On the recent occasion of Representative 
Horton’s 80th birthday, his colleague at the 
law firm of Venable, Baetjer, Howard & Civiletti, 
Andrew Fois, composed a moving tribute 
to this great man. I would like to share it with 
my colleagues today. I hope you will all take 
the opportunity to read it; we could all learn a 
great deal from the example of Frank Horton. 

(By Andrew Fois) 
Within days of the dawn of the new millennium, 
a great man of the 20th century 
marked his 80th birthday. Frank Horton, 
born on December 12, 1919 in Cuero, Texas, 
represented parts of Rochester and its surrounding 
areas for thirty years in the United 
States House of Representatives. During the 
course of his remarkable life, Frank Horton 
saw combat in World War II, engaged successfully 
in the private practice of law, 
served as President of the Rochester Red-
wings minor league baseball franchise, raised 
a family, published a children’s song and as 
one of the most well-respected congressmen 
of his generation. 
Frank Horton’s accomplishments are 
enough for several lifetimes. What made 
Frank so remarkable as a congressman, however, 
is something that is becoming increasingly 
scarce in the Congress. Although 
Frank was and always will be a Republican, 
and represented a majority Republican district, 
he always put the interests of his district, 
state and country before those of his 
party. He was a true bipartisan, able to work 
effectively with Democrats as well as Republicans. 
As a testament to the value of that 
attribute Frank was selected by his New 
York colleagues to serve as Dean of the New 
York State delegation—despite the Democrats 
holding a substantial majority of the 
seats. 
Frank’s independence was not universally 
admired, however. The kind of man Frank 
Horton is, and the kind of congressman he 
was going to be, was apparent from his very 
first vote in Congress in 1963. The issue was 
the composition of the powerful Rules Committee 
and the proportion of Democrats, 
then in the majority, to Republican members. 
Frank supported the Democrats’ position 
in a vote the outcome of which was certain 
from the start. While the vote was still 
pending he was questioned by then Minority 
Leader Charlie Halleck. ‘‘Son,’’ said the 
older man, ‘‘I think you made a mistake.’’ 
‘‘No, sir, Mr. Halleck,’’ responded the freshman 
lawmaker, ‘‘I believe that the majority 
should have the ability to control the committee.’’ 
Halleck just walked away. Before 
that fateful vote, Frank was in line for a 
coveted position on the Judiciary Committee. 
Halleck, however, saw to it that 
Frank’s independence was ‘‘punished’’ by 
‘‘relegation’’ to the Committee on Govern


ment Operations, which oversees the federal 
bureaucracy, and the District of Columbia 
Committee. 

This incident at the start of Frank’s Washington 
career proves two points. First, that 
brass-knuckle partisanship is not a recent 
political innovation. Second, sometimes 
standing up for what you believe pays off in 
the end because Frank is convinced that 
Halleck did him a big favor. He went on to 
serve with great success on the Government 
Operations Committee for thirty years— 
most of them as the senior Republican on 
the panel where he enjoyed a great relationship 
with its feisty Chairman and fellow 
Texan, Jack Brooks. Ironically, he also rose 
to serve on the Committee on Committees, 
where he helped decide committee assignments 
for other Republicans. 

Despite being a member of the minority, 
Frank left his mark on important legislation 
and other issues of substance. He was a tireless 
watchdog of the executive branch rooting 
out waste, fraud and abuse and was a 
leader in the effort to establish inspectors 
general in federal agencies. He championed 
legislation to reduce government paperwork 
and reform federal procurement procedures. 
He fought for creation of the Department of 
Education—the only Republican on Government 
Operations to support it. He was an 
early proponent of home rule for the District 
of Columbia and he sponsored legislation 
honoring Asian-Pacific Americans. He was a 
founder of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, 
helping to focus attention on the distribution 
of federal funds in the industrial corridor. 


But his ability to reach across the aisle 
and work with his colleagues of the opposite 
party is Frank’s greatest legacy. Unfortunately, 
few members of either party seem 
able, or interested in, doing the same today. 
It is a shame that Frank Horton never saw a 
single day in the majority despite his thirty 
years in Congress. If he had been serving the 
last few years you can be sure that many 
highly charged matters would have been 
handled in a much more bipartisan and productive 
fashion. 

Among the professional mementos on display 
in his office is a personal note coincidentally 
dated December 12, 1968, from President 
Lyndon Johnson that stands as summary 
of, and testament, to Frank’s career. 
In it, the outgoing President writes of the 
memories he will take with him when he 
leaves the White House and observes that, 
‘‘High among them will always be the knowledge 
that we stood together, men of different 
parties, to work for a better America.’’ 

Happy birthday, Frank. And thank you. 

f 


IN MEMORY OF JOSEPH 
MADZELONKA 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize Joseph Madzelonka for his lifelong 
dedication to working people. Joe, retired 
president of United Food and Commercial 
Workers Union Local 880, passed away earlier 
this month at the age of 67. He was a great 
man and an extraordinary leader. 

Joe began his life in the labor industry at 
the age of 17, when he started working as a 
bagger at an A&P grocery store. Soon after, 
he was elected a steward, and eventually a 
business representative for the union. Joe was 
an international vice president of his union and 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E5 

a vice president of the Ohio AFL–CIO and the 
Cleveland Federation of Labor. Finally, in 
1977, Joe became head of the Local 880. He 
spent his 13 years as president fighting for improving 
health care and pension benefits. The 
members of Local 880 speak extremely highly 
of Joe’s years as president and remember him 
as an individual who worked for the union 
through some very tough issues and difficult 
times. 

Joe also had a great commitment to his 
family and friends. When he finally retired in 
1990, Joe was elated to be able to spend 
some time with his wife, Mary, and his four 
children. He spent much of his time babysitting 
his adorable and loving grandchildren. 
Joe was also able to relax in his final years by 
spending more time with his numerous friends 
on the golf course. 

My fellow colleagues, please join me in saluting 
a leader, an organizer, and a good man 
for his contributions to the labor movement 
and for the inspirations he instilled in us all. 

IN HONOR OF GAETANO ‘‘THOMAS’’ 

TRIGILIO 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, January 24, 2000 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
memory of Thomas Trigilio, a devoted husband, 
a good father, a dedicated co-worker, 
and a friend in need. You need to shake a lot 
of hands to know the measure of Thomas 
Trigilio. 

I was a friend of Thomas Trigilio and in that 
distinction I was in good company. Thomas 
was made of the stuff that so many Cleve-
landers love about their own friends and family. 
Name one of Thomas’ qualities and a 
Clevelander would nod his or her head knowingly. 
He’s the father who worked to give his 
children every opportunity to succeed. He’s 
the husband who loved his wife above all else. 
He’s the grandfather who couldn’t help but 
spoil his grandchildren. He’s the friend from 
the old neighborhood with which you could 
share a firm handshake and chuckle over a 
joke told three times over. He was the inven


tive genius who always looked for ways to 
make this a better world. Clevelanders nod 
their heads because they know Thomas 
Trigilio. 

To have universal qualities does not diminish 
the preciousness of a single human life. 
Thomas Trigilio’s life was one well led—and 
precious in its priorities. Thomas’ life can be 
characterized by focus. He was a man that 
made priorities. Thomas was wise in the priorities 
that he made. His were perhaps simple 
choices—but there was a wisdom in that simplicity. 
Thomas made his wife a priority. He 
made his children a priority. There is no questioning 
Thomas Trigilio’s choices. That 
Frances, Josephine, Maria, Anthony, Limeri, 
Gianni, Alec, and Justin have countless stories 
to share with each in their moment of grief 
proves there is no questioning his focus. 
Thomas Trigilio was a husband, father, and 
grandfather. And he was good at it. 

My fellow colleagues, join me in offering 
condolences to the family of Thomas Trigilio. 
Let us seek to emulate his focus. Let us pray 
for his wisdom in making priorities. Above all, 
let us honor the legacy of a man we all knew, 
in one way or another. 


E6 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks January 24, 2000 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 

Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate on February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules committee—
of the time, place, and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled, and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 

As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 

Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, January 
25, 2000 may be found in the Daily 
Digest of today’s RECORD. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

JANUARY 26 
9 a.m. 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Public Health Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine gene therapy, 
focusing on promoting patient 
safety. 
SD–430 

9:30 a.m. 
Intelligence 
To hold hearings to examine world wide 
threats to U.S. interests. 
SH–216 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Business meeting to consider pending 
calendar business. 
SD–366 
10 a.m. 
Budget 
To hold hearings on the Congressional 
Budget Office’s economic and budget 
outlook. 

SD–608 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 

To hold hearings on the nomination of 
Alan Greenspan, of New York, to be 
Chairman of the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System. 

SD–106 

2 p.m. 
Judiciary 
Immigration Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine issues on 
enhancing border security. 
SD–215 

2:30 p.m. 
Intelligence 
To hold closed hearings on pending intelligence 
matters. 
SH–219 

FEBRUARY 1 
10 a.m. 
Budget 
To hold hearings on federal spending priorities. 
SD–608 

FEBRUARY 8 

10 a.m. 
Budget 

To hold hearings on the President’s proposed 
budget request for fiscal year 
2001. 

SD–608 

FEBRUARY 9 

9:30 a.m. 
Governmental Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine the rising 
cost of college tuition and the effectiveness 
of the Federal financial aid. 

SD–342 
10 a.m. 
Budget 

To continue hearings on the President’s 
proposed budget request for fiscal year 
2001. 

SD–608 

FEBRUARY 10 
10 a.m. 
Governmental Affairs 
To continue hearings to examine the rising 
cost of college tuition and the effectiveness 
of the Federal financial aid. 
SD–342 

FEBRUARY 11 
10 a.m. 
Budget 
To resume hearings on the President’s 
proposed budget request for fiscal year 
2001. 
SD–608 


Monday, January 24, 2000 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 

Second Session of the 106th Congress Convened.
´´ 

See Resume and History of Bills of the First Session of the 106th Congress. 


Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S1–S45 

Measures Introduced: Five bills and three resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 1999–2003, and 
S. Res. 242–244. Page S37 

Measures Reported: Reports were made as follows: 

Reported on December 7, 1999 (during sine die 
adjournment): 

S. 1198, to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United 
States Code, to provide for a report by the General 
Accounting Office to Congress on agency regulatory 
actions, with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. 
(S. Rept. No. 106–225) 
Reported on January 7, 2000 (during sine die adjournment): 


S. 1144, to provide increased flexibility in use of 
highway funding, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 106–226) 
S. 1114, to amend the Federal Mine Safety and 
Health Act of 1977 to establish a more cooperative 
and effective method for rulemaking that takes into 
account the special needs and concerns of smaller 
miners. (S. Rept. No. 106–227) 
Measures Passed: 

Notification to the President: Senate agreed to S. 
Res. 242, notifying the President that the Senate is 
ready to proceed to business. Page S2 

Notification to the House of Representatives: 
Senate agreed to S. Res. 243, notifying the House 
that the Senate is ready to proceed to business. 

Page S2 

Expressing Sympathy for Seton Hall Victims: 
Senate agreed to S. Res. 244, expressing sympathy 
for the victims of the tragic fire at Seton Hall University 
in South Orange, New Jersey on January 19, 
2000. Page S6 

Bankruptcy Reform—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the 
pending cloture vote on S. 625, to amend title 11, 
United States Code, be vitiated, and the Senate resume 
consideration of the bill and certain pending 
amendments on Tuesday, January 25, 2000 at 2:15 
p.m. Pages S11, S44 

Further, that following disposition of certain 
amendments, the bill be read a third time, the Senate 
then proceed to the House companion measure, 

H.R. 833, that all after the enacting clause be 
stricken and the text of S. 625 be inserted in lieu 
thereof, the House bill be read a third time and the 
Senate then proceed to a vote on passage of the 
House bill, as amended. The Senate insist on its 
amendment, request a conference with the House, 
and S. 625 then be placed back on the calendar. 
Page S11 

Nominations Returned to the President—Agreement: 
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached 
providing that certain nominations be returned to 
the President. Page S11 

Orbit Bill—Agreement: A unanimous-consent 
agreement was reached providing that the Senate 
withdraw its request of November 19, 1999 for a 
conference on S. 376, to amend the Communications 
Satellite Act of 1962 to promote competition and 
privatization in satellite communications, and agree 
to the conference, with the same conferees previously 
appointed by the Senate, requested by the House of 
Representatives on November 10, 1999, which message 
was transmitted to the Senate today. Page S11 

Appointments: The Chair announced the following 
appointments made during the sine die adjournment: 


Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission: 
Pursuant to provisions of Public Law 106–79, on behalf 
of the President pro tempore, after consultation 

D1 


D2 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST January 24, 2000 

with the Majority and Minority Leaders, the appointment 
of the following Senators to the Dwight 

D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission: Senators Stevens 
and Roberts. Page S11 
International Financial Institution Advisory 
Commission: Pursuant to provisions of Public Law 
105–277, on behalf of the Democratic Leader, who 
consulted with the Minority Leader of the House, 
the appointment of the following individual to serve 
as a member of the International Financial Institution 
Advisory Commission: C. Fred Bergsten, of Virginia, 
vice Paul A. Volcker, of New York, resigned. 

Page S11 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Alan Greenspan, of New York, to be Chairman of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 


Edward B. Montgomery, of Maryland, to be Dep


uty Secretary of Labor. Page S45 
Messages From the House: Pages S14–16 
Communications: Pages S16–36 
Statements on Introduced Bills: Pages S37–40 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S40–42 
Notices of Hearings: Page S42 
Additional Statements: Pages S42–44 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 12:03 p.m., and 
adjourned at 6:47 p.m., until 11:30 a.m., on Tuesday, 
January 25, 2000. (For Senate’s program, see 
the remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S44.) 

Committee Meetings 

No committee meetings were held. 

h 


House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Speaker Pro Tempore: Read a letter from the 
Speaker wherein he designated Representative Upton 
to act as Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H1 

Convening of the Second Session of the 106th 
Congress: The Chair announced that, pursuant to 

H. Con. Res. 215, 106th Congress, the House shall 
conduct no organizational or legislative business on 
this day. The House will follow the practice announced 
by the Speaker at the convening of the second 
Session of the 102nd Congress under a similar 
order. Bills and resolutions introduced today will be 
numbered today but will not be noted in the record 
or referred by the Speaker until January 27, 2000. 
Executive communications, petitions, and memorials 
will not be numbered or referred until January 27, 
2000. Page H1 
Adjournment: The House met at 12:00 noon and 
pursuant to H. Con. Res. 235, 106th Congress, adjourned 
at 12:05 p.m. until noon on Thursday, January 
27, 2000. 

Committee Meetings 

No committee meetings were held. 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD 
Week of January 25 through January 29, 2000 

Senate Chamber 

On Tuesday and Wednesday, Senate will resume 
consideration of S. 625, Bankruptcy Reform Act. 

On Thursday, Senate will meet with the House of 
Representatives in a joint session to receive the 
President’s State of the Union Message. 

On Friday, Senate’s program is uncertain. 

Also, during the week, Senate may consider any 
other cleared legislative and executive business. 

Senate Committees 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 
Committee on Appropriations: January 25, Subcommittee 
on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, 
with the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, to hold joint 
hearings to examine reports and initiatives on patient 
safety, 9:30 a.m., SD–192. 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: January 
25, to hold hearings to examine loan guarantees and 
rural television service, 10 a.m., SD–628. 
January 26, Full Committee, to hold hearings on the 
nomination of Alan Greenspan, of New York, to be 
Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, 10 a.m., SD–106. 
Committee on the Budget: January 25, to hold hearings on 
evolving fiscal challenges, 10 a.m., SD–608. 
January 26, Full Committee, to hold hearings on the 
Congressional Budget Office’s economic and budget outlook, 
10 a.m., SD–608. 


January 24, 2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D3 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: January 26, 
business meeting to consider pending calendar business, 
9:30 a.m., SD–366. 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: January 
25, to hold hearings to examine medical errors, focusing 
on the Institute of Medicine report, 10 a.m., 
SH–216. 

January 25, Subcommittee on Employment, Safety and 
Training, to hold hearings to review the impact of OSHA 
regulations on home-based businesses, 2:30 p.m., 
SD–430. 

January 26, Subcommittee on Public Health, to hold 
hearings to examine gene therapy, focusing on promoting 
patient safety, 9 a.m., SD–430. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: January 26, Select Committee 
on Intelligence, to hold hearings to examine world 
wide threats to U.S. interests, 9:30 a.m., SH–216. 

January 26, Select Committee on Intelligence, to hold 
closed hearings on pending intelligence matters, 2:30 
p.m., SH–219. 

Committee on the Judiciary: January 26, Subcommittee on 
Immigration, to hold hearings to examine issues on enhancing 
border security, 2 p.m., SD–215. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: January 25, with the 
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, to hold joint 
hearings to examine reports and initiatives on patient 
safety, 9:30 a.m., SD–192. 

House Chamber 

No Chamber action has been scheduled. 

House Committees 

Committee on Appropriations, January 27, Subcommittee 
on Legislative Operations, on the House of Representatives 
and the Library of Congress, 2 p.m., H–144 Capitol. 


Committee on Education and the Workforce, January 26, 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing 
on OSHA’s Enforcement Policy on Employees Working 
at Home, 1 p.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on Government Reform, January 27, Subcommittee 
on Criminal Justice, Drug Policy and Human 
Resources, hearing on ‘‘The Decline of DOD Assets in 
the Fight Against Illegal Drugs,’’ 10 a.m., 2247 Rayburn. 


January 27, Subcommittee on Government Management, 
Information, and Technology and the Subcommittee 
on Technology of the Committee on Science, 
joint hearing on ‘‘The Year 2000 Computer Problem: 
Did the World Overreact and What Did We Learn?’’ 10 
a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

Committee on the Judiciary, January 25, Subcommittee on 
Immigration and Claims, oversight hearing on Terrorist 
Threats to the United States, 10 a.m., 2237 Rayburn. 

Committee on Ways and Means, January 27, Subcommittee 
on Oversight, hearing on Penalty and Interest 
Provisions in the Internal Revenue Code, 10 a.m., 1100 
Longworth. 


D4 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—DAILY DIGEST January 24, 2000 

´´ 

Resume of Congressional Activity 

FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTH CONGRESS 

´´ 

The first table gives a comprehensive resume of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 
January 6 through November 22, 1999 January 6 through November 22, 1999 
Senate House Total Civilian nominations, totaling 437, disposed of as follows: 
Days in session .................................... 162 137 . . Confirmed ...................................................................................... 274 
Time in session ................................... 1,183 hrs. 1125 hrs., 2¢ .. Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 142 
Congressional Record: Withdrawn .................................................................................... 12 
Pages of proceedings ................... 15,226 12,908 . . Returned to White House ............................................................. 9 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 2,537 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 48 122 170 
Private bills enacted into law .............. 2 1 3 Other Civilian nominations, totaling 2,822, disposed of as follows: 
Bills in conference ............................... 30 10 . . Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,043 
Measures passed, total ......................... 549 657 1,206 Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 778 
Senate bills .................................. 182 55 . . Returned to White House ............................................................. 1 
House bills .................................. 132 292 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 
House joint resolutions ............... 
2 
18 
. . 
21 
. . 
. . Air Force nominations, totaling 6,234, disposed of as follows: 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 24 6 . . Confirmed ...................................................................................... 6,219 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 33 70 . . Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 15 
Simple resolutions ....................... 158 213 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... 
Senate bills .................................. 
348 
245 
450 
10 
795 
. . 
Army nominations, totaling 5,429, disposed of as follows: 
House bills .................................. 40 279 . . Confirmed ...................................................................................... 5,225 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 4 . . . . Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 204 
House joint resolutions ............... 3 9 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 
6 
2 
. . 
13 
. . 
. . 
Navy nominations, totaling 6,590, disposed of as follows: 
Simple resolutions ....................... 
Special reports ..................................... 
48 
18 
139 
12 
. . 
. . 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
6,580 
10 
Conference reports ............................... . . 26 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 142 59 . . Marine Corps nominations, totaling 2,128, disposed of as follows: 
Measures introduced, total .................. 
Bills ............................................. 
Joint resolutions .......................... 
2,352 
1,997 
37 
4,241 
3,517 
85 
6,593 
. . 
. . 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
2,127 
1 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 77 239 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 
Quorum calls ....................................... 
241 
7 
400 
2 
. . 
. . 
Summary 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 374 320 . . Total nominations received this session ................................................. 23,640 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 289 . . Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 22,468 
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . 5 . . Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 1,150 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 12 
Total Returned to White House ........................................................... 10 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 227 reports have been filed in the Senate, a 
total of 488 reports have been filed in the House. 

HISTORY OF BILLS ENACTED 
INTO PUBLIC LAW 

(106th Cong., 1st Sess.) 

D5 


VerDate 04-JAN-200006:07 Jan 25, 2000Jkt 079060PO 00000Frm 00006Fmt 0668Sfmt 0668E:\CR\FM\D24JA0.RECpfrm04PsN: D24JA0

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D7 
BILLS ENACTED INTO PUBLIC LAW (106TH, 1ST SESSION) 

S. 28 ..............
S. 67 ..............
S. 249 ............
S. 278 ............
S. 293 ............
S. 314 ............
S. 322 ............
S. 323 ............
Law No. 
......... 106–143 
......... 106–162 
......... 106–71 
......... 106–114 
......... 106–66 
......... 106–8 
......... 106–80 
......... 106–76 
S. 1235 ................... 
S. 1258 ................... 
S. 1259 ................... 
S. 1260 ................... 
S. 1398 ................... 
S. 1418 ................... 
S. 1543 ................... 
S. 1546 ................... 
Law No. 
106–110 
106–42 
106–43 
106–44 
106–116 
106–130 
106–47 
106–55 
H.R. 449 ................ 
H.R. 457 ................ 
H.R. 459 ................ 
H.R. 540 ................ 
H.R. 560 ................ 
H.R. 592 ................ 
H.R. 609 ................ 
H.R. 658 ................ 
Law No. 
106–131 
106–56 
106–121 
106–4 
106–77 
106–132 
106–96 
106–146 
H.R. 1327 
H.R. 1376 
H.R. 1379 
H.R. 1528 
H.R. 1555 
H.R. 1568 
H.R. 1619 
H.R. 1663 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
Law No. 
106–125 
106–21 
106–35 
106–148 
106–120 
106–50 
106–149 
106–83 
H.R. 2841 .............. 
H.R. 2886 .............. 
H.R. 2889 .............. 
H.R. 2981 .............. 
H.R. 3036 .............. 
H.R. 3061 .............. 
H.R. 3122 .............. 
Law No. 
106–84 
106–139 
106–140 
106–64 
106–73 
106–104 
106–100 
S. 335 ............
S. 380 ............
S. 382 ............
S. 388 ............
S. 416 ............
S. 437 ............
S. 438 ............
S. 447 ............
S. 453 ............
S. 460 ............
S. 468 ............
S. 507 ............
S. 531 ............
S. 548 ............
S. 559 ............
S. 574 ............
S. 580 ............
S. 604 ............
S. 606 ............
S. 643 ............
S. 791 ............
S. 800 ............
S. 880 ............
......... 106–168 
......... 106–63 
......... 106–115 
......... 106–24 
......... 106–144 
......... 106–91 
......... 106–163 
......... 106–3 
......... 106–27 
......... 106–28 
......... 106–107 
......... 106–53 
......... 106–26 
......... 106–164 
......... 106–72 
......... 106–128 
......... 106–129 
......... 106–41 
......... 106–54 
......... 106–6 
......... 106–165 
......... 106–81 
......... 106–40 
S. 1595 ................... 
S. 1606 ................... 
S. 1637 ................... 
S. 1652 ................... 
S. 1866 ................... 
H.R. 4 .................... 
H.R. 15 .................. 
H.R. 20 .................. 
H.R. 66 .................. 
H.R. 68 .................. 
H.R. 92 .................. 
H.R. 100 ................ 
H.R. 158 ................ 
H.R. 171 ................ 
H.R. 193 ................ 
H.R. 197 ................ 
H.R. 211 ................ 
H.R. 233 ................ 
H.R. 348 ................ 
H.R. 356 ................ 
H.R. 396 ................ 
H.R. 432 ................ 
106–166 
106–70 
106–59 
106–92 
106–167 
106–38 
106–145 
106–119 
106–45 
106–9 
106–10 
106–111 
106–11 
106–18 
106–20 
106–112 
106–48 
106–12 
106–103 
106–82 
106–13 
106–29 
H.R. 659 ................ 
H.R. 669 ................ 
H.R. 705 ................ 
H.R. 747 ................ 
H.R. 748 ................ 
H.R. 774 ................ 
H.R. 775 ................ 
H.R. 791 ................ 
H.R. 800 ................ 
H.R. 808 ................ 
H.R. 882 ................ 
H.R. 911 ................ 
H.R. 915 ................ 
H.R. 970 ................ 
H.R. 974 ................ 
H.R. 1034 .............. 
H.R. 1094 .............. 
H.R. 1104 .............. 
H.R. 1121 .............. 
H.R. 1141 .............. 
H.R. 1175 .............. 
H.R. 1180 .............. 
H.R. 1183 .............. 
106–86 
106–30 
106–19 
106–133 
106–134 
106–17 
106–37 
106–135 
106–25 
106–5 
106–2 
106–23 
106–97 
106–136 
106–98 
106–32 
106–122 
106–147 
106–33 
106–31 
106–89 
106–170 
106–34 
H.R. 1664 
H.R. 1665 
H.R. 1693 
H.R. 1794 
H.R. 1887 
H.R. 1905 
H.R. 1906 
H.R. 1932 
H.R. 2035 
H.R. 2079 
H.R. 2084 
H.R. 2116 
H.R. 2140 
H.R. 2280 
H.R. 2303 
H.R. 2367 
H.R. 2401 
H.R. 2454 
H.R. 2465 
H.R. 2490 
H.R. 2561 
H.R. 2565 
H.R. 2605 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
106–51 
106–150 
106–151 
106–137 
106–152 
106–57 
106–78 
106–153 
106–39 
106–138 
106–69 
106–117 
106–154 
106–118 
106–99 
106–87 
106–155 
106–108 
106–52 
106–58 
106–79 
106–46 
106–60 
H.R. 3194 .............. 
H.R. 3257 .............. 
H.R. 3373 .............. 
H.R. 3381 .............. 
H.R. 3419 .............. 
H.R. 3443 .............. 
H.R. 3456 .............. 
H.J. Res. 26 ........... 
H.J. Res. 27 ........... 
H.J. Res. 28 ........... 
H.J. Res. 34 ........... 
H.J. Res. 46 ........... 
H.J. Res. 54 ........... 
H.J. Res. 62 ........... 
H.J. Res. 65 ........... 
H.J. Res. 68 ........... 
H.J. Res. 71 ........... 
H.J. Res. 73 ........... 
H.J. Res. 75 ........... 
H.J. Res. 76 ........... 
106–113 
106–141 
106–126 
106–158 
106–159 
106–169 
106–160 
106–14 
106–15 
106–16 
106–61 
106–161 
106–101 
106–90 
106–142 
106–62 
106–75 
106–85 
106–88 
106–93 
S. 900 ............
S. 944 ............
S. 1059 ..........
S. 1072 ..........
......... 106–102 
......... 106–67 
......... 106–65 
......... 106–68 
H.R. 433 ................ 
H.R. 435 ................ 
H.R. 440 ................ 
H.R. 441 ................ 
106–1 
106–36 
106–22 
106–95 
H.R. 1191 .............. 
H.R. 1212 .............. 
H.R. 1219 .............. 
H.R. 1251 .............. 
106–123 
106–7 
106–49 
106–124 
H.R. 2632 
H.R. 2684 
H.R. 2724 
H.R. 2737 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
.............. 
106–156 
106–74 
106–109 
106–157 
H.J. Res. 78 ........... 
H.J. Res. 80 ........... 
H.J. Res. 83 ........... 
H.J. Res. 85 ........... 
106–94 
106–105 
106–106 
106–127 

BILLS VETOED 

H.R. 2488, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to reduce individual income tax rates, to provide marriage penalty 
relief, to reduce taxes on savings and investments, to provide estate and gift tax relief, to provide incentives for education savings 
and health care, and for other purposes. Vetoed Sept. 23, 1999. 
H.R. 2587, making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia and other activities chargeable in whole 
or in part against revenues of said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. Vetoed Sept. 
28, 1999. 
H.R. 2606, making appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. Vetoed Oct. 18, 1999. 
H.R. 2670, making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. Vetoed Oct. 25, 1999. 
H.R. 3064, making appropriations for the government of the District of Columbia and other activities chargeable in whole 
or in part against revenues of said District for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. Vetoed Nov. 
3, 1999. 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D8 

Date 
Title Bill No. introduced 
Committee Date Reported Report No. Date of passage Public Law 
House Senate House Senate House Senate 
106– 106– 
House Senate Date ap-No. 
proved 106– 
To restore the management and personnel H.R. 433 Feb. 2 
authority of the Mayor of the District of 1999 
Columbia. 
To nullify any reservation of funds during H.R. 882 Mar. 1 
fiscal year 1999 for guaranteed loans under 1999 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act for qualified beginning farmers 
or ranchers, and for other purposes. 
To deem as timely filed, and process for pay-S. 447 Feb. 23 
ment, the applications submitted by the 1999 
Dodson School Districts for certain Impact 
Aid payments for fiscal year 1999. 
To amend title XIX of the Social Security H.R. 540 Feb. 3 
Act to prohibit transfers or discharges of 1999 
residents of nursing facilities as a result of 
a voluntary withdrawal from participation 
in the Medicaid Program. 
To extend for 3 additional months the pe-H.R. 808 Feb. 23 
riod for which chapter 12 of title 11 of the 1999 
United States Code is reenacted. 
To authorize the Airport Improvement Pro-S. 643 Mar. 17 
gram for 2 months, and for other purposes. (H.R. 99) 1999 
To protect producers of agricultural com-H.R. 1212 Mar. 22 
modities who applied for a Crop Revenue (S. 756) 1999 
Coverage PLUS supplemental endorsement 
for the 1999 crop year. 
To provide for a loan guarantee program to S. 314 Jan. 27 
address the Year 2000 computer problems 1999 
of small business concerns, and for other 
purposes. 
To amend section 20 of the Small Business H.R. 68 Jan. 6 
Act and make technical corrections in Title (S. 364) 1999 
III of the Small Business Investment Act. 
To designate the Federal building and H.R. 92 Jan. 6 
United States courthouse located at 251 1999 
North Main Street in Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, as the ‘‘Hiram H. Ward 
Federal Building and United States Courthouse’’. 
To designate the Federal Courthouse located H.R. 158 Jan. 6 
at 316 North 26th Street in Billings, 1999 
Montana, as the ‘‘James F. Battin Federal 
Courthouse’’. 
To designate the Federal building located at H.R. 233 Jan. 6 
700 East San Antonio Street in El Paso, 1999 
Texas, as the ‘‘Richard C. White Federal 
Building’’. 
To designate the Federal building located at H.R. 396 Jan. 19 
1301 Clay Street in Oakland, California, as 1999 
the ‘‘Ronald V. Dellums Federal Building’’. 
Providing for the reappointment of Barber H.J. Res. 26 Feb. 9 
B. Conable, Jr. as a citizen regent of the 1999 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Providing for the reappointment of Dr. H.J. Res. 27 Feb. 9 
Hanna H. Gray as a citizen regent of the 1999 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 
GRO 
Agr 
LHR 
Com 
Jud 
TI 
Agr 
SB SB 
SB SB 
TI EPW 
EPW 
TI EPW 
TI EPW 
TI EPW 
HA 
HA 
.................. 
.................. 
.................. 
Mar. 8 .................. 
1999 
Mar. 9 .................. 
1999 
Feb. 2 .................. 
1999 
.................. 
Feb. 23 
1999 
Jan. 19 Mar. 2 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 17 
1999 1999 
Mar. 17 
1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 17 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 17 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 17 
1999 1999 
.................. 
.................. 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
44 ............ 
45 ............ 
3 ............ 
............ ............ 
............ 5 
1 6 
20 0 
21 0 
22 0 
23 0 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
Feb. 9 Feb. 23 
1999 1999 
Mar. 2 Mar. 8 
1999 1999 
Mar. 10 Mar. 2 
1999 1999 
Mar. 10 Mar. 15 
1999 1999 
Mar. 11 Mar. 24 
1999 1999 
Mar. 24 Mar. 17 
1999 1999 
Mar. 23 Mar. 25 
1999 1999 
Mar. 23 Mar. 2 
1999 1999 
Feb. 2 Mar. 22 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 23 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 23 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 23 
1999 1999 
Feb. 23 Mar. 23 
1999 1999 
Mar. 23 Mar. 24 
1999 1999 
Mar. 23 Mar. 24 
1999 1999 
Mar. 5, 1 
1999 
Mar. 15, 2 
1999 
Mar. 23, 3 
1999 
Mar. 25, 4 
1999 
Mar. 30, 5 
1999 
Mar. 31, 6 
1999 
April 1, 7 
1999 
April 2, 8 
1999 
April 5, 9 
1999 
April 5, 10 
1999 
April 5, 11 
1999 
April 5, 12 
1999 
April 5, 13 
1999 
April 6, 14 
1999 
April 6, 15 
1999 


Providing for the reappointment of Wesley H.J. Res. 28 Feb. 9 HA 
S. Williams, Jr. as a citizen regent of the 1999 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. 
To amend the Small Business Act to change H.R. 774 Feb. 23 SB 
the conditions of participation and provide 1999 
an authorization of appropriations for the 
women’s business center program. 
To authorize appropriations for the Coastal H.R. 171 Jan. 6 Res 
Heritage Trail Route in New Jersey, and 1999 
for other purposes. 
To make technical corrections with respect H.R. 705 Feb. 11 HA 
to the monthly reports submitted by the 1999 
Postmaster General on official mail of the 
House of Representatives. 
To designate a portion of the Sudbury, H.R. 193 Jan. 6 Res 
Assabet, and Concord Rivers as a compo1999 
nent of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers 
System. 
To extend the tax benefits available with re-H.R. 1376 April 13 WM 
spect to services performed in a combat (S. 767) 1999 
zone to services performed in the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) 
and certain other areas, and for 
other purposes. 
To make technical corrections to the H.R. 440 Feb. 2 SB 
Microloan Program. 1999 
To designate the Federal building located at H.R. 911 Mar. 2 TI 
310 New Bern Avenue in Raleigh, North 1999 
Carolina, as the ‘‘Terry Sanford Federal 
Building’’. 
To authorize the establishment of a disaster S. 388 Feb. 8 
mitigation pilot program in the Small 1999 
Business Administration. 
To provide for education flexibility partner-H.R. 800 Feb. 23 EWf 
ships. (S. 280) 1999 
To authorize the President to award a gold S. 531 Mar. 4 BFS 
medal on behalf of the Congress to Rosa (H.R. 573) 1999 
Parks in recognition of her contributions to 
the Nation. 
To designate the Federal building located at S. 453 Feb. 24 TI 
709 West 9th Street in Juneau, Alaska, as 1999 
the ‘‘Hurff A. Saunders Federal Building’’. 
To designate the United States courthouse S. 460 Feb. 24 TI 
located at 401 South Michigan Street in 1999 
South Bend, Indiana, as the ‘‘Robert K. 
Rodibaugh United States Bankruptcy 
Courthouse’’. 
To designate the North/South Center as the H.R. 432 Feb. 2 IR 
Dante B. Fascell North-South Center. 1999 
To amend the Peace Corps Act to authorize H.R. 669 Feb. 10 IR 
appropriations for fiscal years 2000 1999 
through 2003 to carry out that Act, and 
for other purposes. 
Making emergency supplemental appropria-H.R. 1141 Mar. 17 App 
tions for the fiscal year ending September (S. 544) 1999 
30, 1999, and for other purposes. 
To declare a portion of the James River and H.R. 1034 Mar. 9 TI 
Kanawha Canal in Richmond, Virginia, to 1999 
be nonnavigable waters of the United 
States for purposes of title 46, United 
States Code, and the other maritime laws 
of the United States. 

.................. ............ ............ Mar. 
1999 
23 Mar. 
1999 
24 April 
1999 
6, 
Mar. 
1999 
10 .................. 47 ............ Mar. 
1999 
16 Mar. 
1999 
24 April 
1999 
6, 
ENR Feb. 
1999 
11 Mar. 17 
1999 
16 24 Feb. 
1999 
23 Mar. 
1999 
25 April 
1999 
8, 
GA ............ ............ Feb. 
1999 
11 Mar. 
1999 
25 April 
1999 
8, 
ENR Feb. 
1999 
8 Mar. 17 
1999 
10 25 Feb. 
1999 
23 Mar. 
1999 
25 April 
1999 
9, 
April 
1999 
13 .................. 90 ............ April 
1999 
15 April 
1999 
15 April 
1999 
19, 
SB Feb. 
1999 
8 
.................. 
12 
............ 
............ 
............ 
Feb. 
1999 
April 
1999 
9 
12 
Mar. 
1999 
April 
1999 
25 
15 
April 
1999 
April 
1999 
27, 
27, 
SB .................. ............ ............ April 
1999 
12 Mar. 
1999 
25 April 
1999 
27, 
LHR 
LHR 
BHUA 
Mar. 
1999 
8 43 
............ 
0 
............ 
Mar. 
1999 
April 
1999 
11 
20 
Mar. 
1999 
April 
1999 
11 
19 
April 
1999 
May 
1999 
29, 
4, 
EPW April 
1999 
27 Mar. 17 
1999 
113 0 May 
1999 
4 Mar. 
1999 
23 May 
1999 
13, 
EPW April 
1999 
27 Mar. 17 
1999 
114 0 May 
1999 
4 Mar. 
1999 
23 May 
1999 
13, 
FR 
FR Feb. 
1999 
16 
Mar. 23 
1999 
May 11 
1999 
............ 
18 
0 
46 
Feb. 
1999 
Mar. 
1999 
2 
3 
May 
1999 
May 
1999 
5 
12 
May 
1999 
May 
1999 
21, 
21, 
Mar. 
1999 
17 .................. 64 8 Mar. 
1999 
24 Mar. 
1999 
25 May 
1999 
21, 
CST April 
1999 
27 May 18 
1999 
107 0 April 
1999 
27 May 
1999 
26 June 
1999 
1, 

16 

17 

18 
19 

20 

21 

22 
23 

24 

25 
26 

27 
28 

29 
30 

31 
32 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D9 


D10 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST 

Date 
Title Bill No. introduced 
Committee Date Reported Report No. Date of passage Public Law 
House Senate House Senate House Senate 
106– 106– 
House Senate Date ap-No. 
proved 106– 
To designate the Federal building and H.R. 1121 Mar. 16 
United States courthouse located at 18 1999 
Greenville Street in Newnan, Georgia, as 
the ‘‘Lewis R. Morgan Federal Building 
and United States Courthouse’’. 
To amend the Fastener Quality Act to H.R. 1183 Mar. 18 
strengthen the protection against the sale 1999 
of mismarked, misrepresented, and counterfeit 
fasteners and eliminate unnecessary 
requirements, and for other purposes. 
To amend the Omnibus Consolidated and H.R. 1379 April 13 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 1999 
Act, 1999, to make a technical correction 
relating to an emergency supplemental appropriation 
for international narcotics control 
and law enforcement assistance. 
To make miscellaneous and technical H.R. 435 Feb. 2 
changes to various trade laws, and for other 1999 
purposes. 
To establish certain procedures for civil ac-H.R. 775 Feb. 23 
tions brought for damages relating to the (S. 96) 1999 
failure of any device or system to process 
or otherwise deal with the transition from 
the year 1999 to the year 2000, and for 
other purposes. 
To declare it to be the policy of the United H.R. 4 Feb. 4 
States to deploy a national missile defense. 1999 
TI EPW 
Sci 
Com 
IR FR 
WM 
Jud CST 
SB 
Com 
AS-H 
IR 
April 27 
1999 
April 29 .................. 
1999 
.................. 
May 7 Mar. 10 
1999 1999 
Mar. 2 .................. 
1999 
111 ............ 
121 ............ 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
131 10 
39 ............ 
May 4 May 26 
1999 1999 
May 11 May 25 
1999 1999 
April 20 May 27 
1999 1999 
Feb. 9 May 27 
1999 1999 
May 12 June 15 
1999 1999 
Mar. 18 May 18 
1999 1999 
June 7, 33 
1999 
June 8, 34 
1999 
June 15, 35 
1999 
June 25, 36 
1999 
July 20, 37 
1999 
July 22, 38 
1999 
To correct errors in the authorizations of cer-H.R. 2035 June 8 
tain programs administered by the Na1999 
tional Highway Traffic Administration. 
To amend the Clean Air Act to remove S. 880 April 26 
flammable fuels from the list of substances 1999 
with respect to which reporting and other 
activities are required under the risk management 
plan program, and for other purposes. 
To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to S. 604 Mar. 15 
complete a land exchange with Georgia 1999 
Power Company. 
To authorize funds for the payment of sala-S. 1258 June 22 
ries and expenses of the Patent and Trade(
H.R. 1225) 1999 
mark Office, and for other purposes. 
To amend the Trademark Act of 1946 relat-S. 1259 June 22 
ing to dilution of famous marks, and for (H.R. 1565) 1999 
other purposes. 
To make technical corrections in title 17, S. 1260 June 22 
United States Code, and other laws. (H.R. 1189) 1999 
To preserve the cultural resources of the H.R. 66 Jan. 6 
Route 66 corridor and to authorize the 1999 
Secretary of the Interior to provide assistance. 
To clarify the quorum requirement for the H.R. 2565 July 20 
Board of Directors of the Export-Import 1999 
Bank of the United States. 
Com 
EPW 
Agr Agr 
Jud Jud 
Jud Jud 
Jud Jud 
Res 
BFS BHUA 
June 25 .................. 
1999 
.................. June 9 
1999 
June 21 
1999 
June 9 July 1 
1999 1999 
July 22 July 1 
1999 1999 
April 12 July 1 
1999 1999 
May 13 .................. 
1999 
200 ............ 
............ 70 
............ 0 
177 0 
250 0 
84 0 
137 ............ 
............ ............ 
July 12 July 15 
1999 1999 
July 21 June 23 
1999 1999 
July 26 June 28 
1999 1999 
July 26 July 1 
1999 1999 
July 26 July 1 
1999 1999 
July 26 July 1 
1999 1999 
June 30 July 27 
1999 1999 
July 26 Aug. 5 
1999 1999 
July 28, 39 
1999 
Aug. 5, 40 
1999 
Aug. 5, 41 
1999 
Aug. 5, 42 
1999 
Aug. 5, 43 
1999 
Aug. 5, 44 
1999 
Aug. 10, 45 
1999 
Aug. 11, 46 
1999 


To amend the Agricultural Adjustment Act S. 1543 Aug. 5 
of 1938 to release and protect the release 1999 
of tobacco production and marketing information. 
To designate the Federal building and H.R. 211 Jan. 6 
United States courthouse located at West 1999 
920 Riverside Avenue in Spokane, Washington, 
as the ‘‘Thomas S. Foley Federal 
Building and United States Courthouse’’, 
and the plaza at the south entrance of such 
building and courthouse as the ‘‘Walter F. 
Horan Plaza’’. 
To amend the Office of Federal Procurement H.R. 1219 Mar. 23 
Policy Act and the Miller Act, relating to 1999 
payment protections for persons providing 
labor and materials for Federal construction 
projects. 
To provide technical, financial, and procure-H.R. 1568 April 27 
ment assistance to veteran owned small 1999 
businesses, and for other purposes. 
Making emergency supplemental appropria-H.R. 1664 May 4 
tions for military operations, refugee relief, 1999 
and humanitarian assistance relating to the 
conflict in Kosovo, and for military operations 
in Southwest Asia for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1999, and for other 
purposes. 
Making appropriations for military construc-H.R. 2465 July 2 
tion, family housing, and base realignment (S. 1205) 1999 
and closure for the Department of Defense 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2000, and for other purposes. 
To provide for the conservation and develop-S. 507 Mar. 2 
ment of water and related resources, to au(
H.R. 1480) 1999 
thorize the United States Army Corps of 
Engineers to construct various projects for 
improvements to rivers and harbors of the 
United States, and other purposes. 
For the relief of Global Exploration and De-S. 606 Mar. 15 
velopment Corporation, Kerr-McGee Cor1999 
poration, and Kerr-McGee Chemical, LLC 
(successor to Kerr-McGee Chemical Corporation), 
and for other purposes. 
To amend the International Religious Free-S. 1546 Aug. 5 
dom Act of 1998 to provide additional ad1999 
ministrative authorities to the United 
States Commission on International Religious 
Freedom, and to make technical corrections 
to that Act, and for other purposes. 
To amend title 5, United States Code, to in-H.R. 457 Feb. 2 
crease the amount of leave time available 1999 
to a Federal employee in any year in connection 
with serving as an organ donor, 
and for other purposes. 
Making appropriations for the Legislative H.R. 1905 May 24 
Branch for the fiscal year ending Sep(
S. 1206) 1999 
tember 30, 2000, and for other purposes. 
Making appropriations for the Treasury De-H.R. 2490 July 13 
partment, the United States Postal Service, (S. 1282) 1999 
the Executive Office of the President, and 
certain Independent Agencies, for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2000, and for 
other purposes. 

TI 

Jud 
GRO 

SB 
VA 

App 

App 

TI 
Res 

GRO 

App 

App 

SB 
App 

EPW 

Jud 

GA 

.................. .................. ............ ............ Aug. 5 Aug. 5 Aug. 13, 47 
1999 1999 1999 
.................. ............ ............ Aug. 2 Aug. 5 Aug. 17, 48 
1999 1999 1999 
.................. 277 ............ Aug. 2 Aug. 5 Aug. 17, 49 
July 30 1999 1999 1999 
1999 
June 29 Aug. 4 206 136 June 29 Aug. 5 Aug. 17, 50 
1999 1999 1999 1999 1999 
May 4 May 25 125 0 May 6 June 18 Aug. 17, 51 
1999 1999 1999 1999 1999 
July 2 .................. 221 74 July 13 July 14 Aug. 17, 52 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
April 26 Mar. 23 106 34 July 22 April 19 Aug. 17, 53 
1999 1999 1999 1999 1999 
.................. June 10 ............ 0 Aug. 2 July 1 Aug. 17, 54 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
.................. .................. ............ ............ Aug. 5 Aug. 5 Aug. 17, 55 
1999 1999 1999 
June 8 Aug. 27 174 143 July 26 Sept. 8 Sept. 24, 56 
1999 1999 1999 1999 1999 
May 21 .................. 156 75 June 10 Sept. 29, 57 
1999 1999 1999 
July 13 .................. 231 87 July 15 July 19 Sept. 29, 58 
1999 1999 1999 1999 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D11 


D12 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST 

Date 
Title Bill No. introduced 
Committee Date Reported Report No. Date of passage Public Law 
House Senate House Senate House Senate 
106– 106– 
House Senate Date ap-No. 
proved 106– 
To extend through the end of the current S. 1637 Sept. 24 
fiscal year certain expiring Federal Aviation 1999 
Administration authorizations. 
Making appropriations for energy and water H.R. 2605 July 23 
development for the fiscal year ending Sep(
S. 1186) 1999 
tember 30, 2000, and for other purposes. 
Congratulating and commending the Vet-H.J. Res. 34 Feb. 25 
erans of Foreign Wars. 1999 
Making continuing appropriations for the H.J. Res. 68 Sept. 27 
fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
To reauthorize the Congressional Award Act S. 380 Feb. 4 
1999 
To extend energy conservation programs H.R. 2981 Sept. 30 
under the Energy Policy and Conservation 1999 
Act through March 31, 2000. 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year S. 1059 May 17 
2000 for military activities of the Depart(
H.R. 1401) 1999 
ment of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year for the Armed 
Forces, and for other purposes. 
To direct the Secretaries of Agriculture and S. 293 Jan. 21 
Interior to convey certain lands in San Juan 1999 
County, New Mexico, to San Juan College. 
To amend Public Law 105-188 to provide S. 944 May 3 
for the mineral leasing of certain Indian 1999 
lands in Oklahoma. 
To make certain technical and other correc-S. 1072 May 18 
tions relating to the Centennial of Flight 1999 
Commemoration Act (36 U.S.C. 143 note; 
112 Stat. 3486 et seq.). 
Making appropriations for the Department H.R. 2084 June 9 
of Transportation and related agencies for 1999 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, 
and for other purposes. 
To extend for 9 additional months the pe-S. 1606 Sept. 21 
riod for which chapter 12 of title 11, 1999 
United States Code, is reenacted. 
To provide funding for the National Center S. 249 Jan. 19 
for Missing and Exploited Children, to re1999 
authorize the Runaway and Homeless 
Youth Act, and for other purposes. 
To designate the Federal building located at S. 559 Mar. 8 
300 East 8th Street in Austin, Texas, as 1999 
the ‘‘’’J.J. ’’Jake’ Pickle Federal Building’’. 
To provide for interim continuation of ad-H.R. 3036 Oct. 7 
ministration of motor carrier functions by 1999 
the Federal Highway Administration. 
Making appropriations for the Departments H.R. 2684 Aug. 3 
of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 1999 
Development, and for sundry independent 
agencies, boards, commissions, corporations, 
and offices for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2000, and for other purposes. 
Making further continuing appropriations for H.J. Res. 71 Oct. 18 
the fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
App 
VA 
App 
EWf GA 
Com 
AS-H 
Res ENR 
Res IA 
GA 
App 
EWf Jud 
EPW 
TI 
App App 
App 
.................. .................. 
July 23 .................. 
1999 
June 29 .................. 
1999 
.................. 
Mar. 26 
1999 
.................. 
May 24 .................. 
1999 
Mar. 16 
1999 
Sept. 27 Aug. 2 
1999 1999 
.................. July 8 
1999 
June 9 .................. 
1999 
.................. .................. 
Mar. 4 
1999 
.................. May 12 
1999 
.................. 
Aug. 3 
1999 
.................. 
............ ............ 
253 58 
205 ............ 
............ ............ 
............ 38 
............ ............ 
162 50 
............ 17 
338 132 
............ 105 
180 ............ 
............ ............ 
............ 0 
............ 0 
............ ............ 
286 ............ 
............ ............ 
Sept. 27 Sept. 24 
1999 1999 
July 27 July 28 
1999 1999 
June 29 Sept. 28 
1999 1999 
Sept. 28 Sept. 28 
1999 1999 
Sept. 13 April 13 
1999 1999 
Sept. 30 Sept. 30 
1999 1999 
June 14 May 27 
1999 1999 
Sept. 27 Mar. 25 
1999 1999 
Sept. 27 Aug. 5 
1999 1999 
Sept. 27 Aug. 5 
1999 1999 
June 23 Sept. 16 
1999 1999 
Oct. 4 Sept. 30 
1999 1999 
May 25 April 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 5 June 16 
1999 1999 
Oct. 12 Oct. 14 
1999 1999 
Sept. 9 Sept. 24 
1999 1999 
Oct. 19 Oct. 19 
1999 1999 
Sept. 29, 59 
1999 
Sept. 29, 60 
1999 
Sept. 29, 61 
1999 
Sept. 30, 62 
1999 
Oct. 1, 63 
1999 
Oct. 5, 64 
1999 
Oct. 5, 65 
1999 
Oct. 6, 66 
1999 
Oct. 6, 67 
1999 
Oct. 6, 68 
1999 
Oct. 9, 69 
1999 
Oct. 9, 70 
1999 
Oct. 12, 71 
1999 
Oct. 19, 72 
1999 
Oct. 19, 73 
1999 
Oct. 20, 74 
1999 
Oct. 21, 75 
1999 


To redesignate the Black Canyon of the S. 323 Jan. 28 Res ENR 
Gunnison National Monument as a na1999 
tional park and establish the Gunnison 
Gorge National Conservation Area, and for 
other purposes. 
To designate the Federal building located at H.R. 560 Feb. 3 TI EPW 
300 Recinto Sur Street in Old San Juan, 1999 
Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘Jose V. Toledo United 
States Post Office and Courthouse’’. 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, H.R. 1906 May 24 App App 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad(
S. 1233) 1999 
ministration, and Related Agencies for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and 
for other purposes. 
Making appropriations for the Department H.R. 2561 July 20 App 
of Defense for the fiscal year ending Sep(
S. 1122) 1999 
tember 30, 2000, and for other purposes. 
To amend title 4, United States Code, to S. 322 Jan. 28 Jud Jud 
add the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday to (H.R. 576) 1999 
the list of days on which the flag should 
especially be displayed. 
To promote and enhance public safety S. 800 April 14 CST 
through the use of 9-1-1 as the universal 1999 
emergency assistance number, further deployment 
of wireless 9-1-1 service, support 
of States in upgrading 9-1-1 capabilities 
and related functions, encouragement of 
construction and operation of seamless, 
ubiquitous, and reliable networks for personal 
wireless services, and for other purposes. 
To provide for the conveyance of certain H.R. 356 Jan. 19 Sci 
property from the United States to 1999 
Stanislaus County, California. 
To designate as a national memorial the me-H.R. 1663 May 4 VA AS-S 
morial being built at the Riverside Na1999 
tional Cemetery in Riverside, California to 
honor recipients of the Medal of Honor. 
To amend the Revised Organic Act of the H.R. 2841 Sept. 13 Res ENR 
Virgin Islands to provide for greater fiscal 1999 
autonomy consistent with other United 
States jurisdictions, and for other purposes. 
Making further continuing appropriations for H.J. Res. 73 Oct. 27 App 
the fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
To authorize appropriations for the protec-H.R. 659 Feb. 9 Res ENR 
tion of Paoli and Brandywine Battlefields 1999 
in Pennsylvania, to direct the National 
Park Service to conduct a special resource 
study of Paoli and Brandywine Battlefields, 
to authorize the Valley Forge Museum of 
the American Revolution at Valley Forge 
National Historical Park, and for other 
purposes. 
To reauthorize a comprehensive program of H.R. 2367 June 29 IR 
support for victims of torture. 1999 Com 
Making further continuing appropriations for H.J. Res. 75 Nov. 3 App 
the fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
To locate and secure the return of Zachary H.R. 1175 Mar. 18 IR FR 
Baumel, an American citizen, and other 1999 
Israeli soldiers missing in action. 
To grant the consent of Congress to the H.J. Res. 62 July 22 Jud Jud 
boundary change between Georgia and 1999 
South Carolina. 

Sept. 8 

1999 

April 27 
1999 

May 21 
1999 

July 20 
1999 

June 9 
1999 

.................. 

Sept. 30 
1999 

Sept. 27 
1999 

May 13 
1999 

Sept. 8 
1999 

June 8 
1999 
307 69 Sept. 
1999 
27 July 
1999 
1 Oct. 
1999 
Sept. 29 
1999 
108 0 May 
1999 
4 Oct. 
1999 
8 Oct. 
1999 
June 17 
1999 
157 80 June 
1999 
8 Aug. 
1999 
4 Oct. 
1999 
.................. 244 53 July 
1999 
22 July 
1999 
28 Oct. 
1999 
April 29 
1999 
176 0 Oct. 
1999 
12 June 
1999 
14 Oct. 
1999 
Aug. 4 
1999 
............ 138 Oct. 
1999 
12 Aug. 
1999 
5 Oct. 
1999 
.................. ............ ............ Oct. 
1999 
4 Oct. 
1999 
13 Oct. 
1999 
351 ............ Oct. 
1999 
5 Oct. 
1999 
20 Oct. 
1999 
337 ............ Sept. 
1999 
27 Oct. 
1999 
19 Oct. 
1999 
.................. ............ 
139 
............ 
............ 
Oct. 
1999 
June 
1999 
28 
22 
Oct. 
1999 
Oct. 
1999 
28 
14 
Oct. 
1999 
Oct. 
1999 
.................. 
.................. 
June 30 
1999 
............ 
............ 
............ 
............ 
............ 
0 
Sept. 
1999 
Nov. 
1999 
June 
1999 
21 
4 
22 
Oct. 
1999 
Nov. 
1999 
Aug. 
1999 
21 
4 
5 
Nov. 
1999 
Nov. 
1999 
Nov. 
1999 
Oct. 21 
1999 
304 0 Sept. 
1999 
21 Oct. 
1999 
26 Nov. 
1999 

21, 

22, 

22, 

25, 
25, 

26, 

27, 
28, 

28, 

29, 
31, 

3, 
5, 
8, 

8, 

76 

77 

78 

79 
80 

81 

82 
83 

84 

85 
86 

87 
88 
89 

90 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D13 


D14 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST 

Date 
Title Bill No. introduced 
Committee Date Reported Report No. Date of passage Public Law 
House Senate House Senate House Senate 
106– 106– 
House Senate Date ap-No. 
proved 106– 
To designate the United States courthouse S. 437 Feb. 22 
under construction at 333 Las Vegas Bou1999 
levard South in Las Vegas, Nevada, as the 
‘‘Lloyd D. George United States Courthouse’’. 
To designate the Old Executive Office S. 1652 Sept. 28 
Building located at 17th Street and Penn1999 
sylvania Avenue, NW, in Washington, 
District of Columbia, as the Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Executive Office Building. 
Waiving certain enrollment requirements for H.J. Res. 76 Nov. 8 
the remainder of the first session of the 1999 
One Hundred Sixth Congress with respect 
to any bill or joint resolution making general 
appropriations or continuing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2000. 
Making further continuing appropriations for H.J. Res. 78 Nov. 9 
the fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
To amend the Immigration and Nationality H.R. 441 Feb. 2 
Act with respect to the requirements for 1999 
the admission of nonimmigrant nurses who 
will practice in health professional shortage 
areas. 
To amend the Export Apple and Pear Act to H.R. 609 Feb. 4 
limit the applicability of the Act to apples. 1999 
To authorize a cost of living adjustment in H.R. 915 Mar. 2 
the pay of administrative law judges. 1999 
To establish a program to afford high school H.R. 974 Mar. 4 
graduates from the District of Columbia 1999 
the benefits of in-State tuition at State colleges 
and universities outside the District 
of Columbia, and for other purposes. 
To direct the Librarian of Congress to pre-H.R. 2303 June 22 
pare the history of the House of Represent1999 
atives, and for other purposes. 
To permit the enrollment in the House of H.R. 3122 Oct. 21 
Representatives Child Care Center of chil1999 
dren of Federal employees who are not employees 
of the legislative branch. 
Granting the consent of Congress to the H.J. Res. 54 May 12 
Missouri-Nebraska Boundary Compact. 1999 
To enhance competition in the financial S. 900 April 28 
services industry by providing a prudential 1999 
framework for the affiliation of banks, securities 
firms, and other financial service 
providers, and for other purposes. 
To authorize the construction of a monu-H.R. 348 Jan. 19 
ment to honor those who have served the 1999 
Nation’s civil defense and emergency management 
programs. 
TI EPW 
TI EPW 
HA 
App 
Jud Jud 
Agr BHUA 
Jud GA 
GRO 
GRO GA 
WM 
HA RAdm 
HA RAdm 
Jud Jud 
Res 
Mar. 17 
1999 
Sept. 29 
1999 
.................. 
.................. 
May 12 June 24 
1999 1999 
Mar. 2 
1999 
Nov. 4 
Oct. 18 1999 
1999 
May 24 Sept. 9 
1999 1999 
Sept. 8 Nov. 4 
1999 1999 
.................. .................. 
Oct. 27 .................. 
1999 
............ 0 
............ 0 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
135 0 
36 ............ 
387 0 
158 154 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
303 0 
............ 44 
416 ............ 
Oct. 26 Mar. 23 
1999 1999 
Oct. 26 Oct. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 9 Nov. 9 
1999 1999 
Nov. 9 Nov. 10 
1999 1999 
May 24 Oct. 22 
1999 1999 
Mar. 2 Nov. 3 
1999 1999 
Oct. 25 Nov. 8 
1999 1999 
May 24 Oct. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 25 Oct. 29 
1999 1999 
Oct. 25 Nov. 4 
1999 1999 
Sept. 21 Nov. 5 
1999 1999 
July 20 May 6 
1999 1999 
Nov. 1 Nov. 8 
1999 1999 
Nov. 9, 91 
1999 
Nov. 9, 92 
1999 
Nov. 10, 93 
1999 
Nov. 10, 94 
1999 
Nov. 12, 95 
1999 
Nov. 12, 96 
1999 
Nov. 12, 97 
1999 
Nov. 12, 98 
1999 
Nov. 12, 99 
1999 
Nov. 12, 100 
1999 
Nov. 12, 101 
1999 
Nov. 12, 102 
1999 
Nov. 13, 103 
1999 


To amend the Immigration and Nationality H.R. 3061 Oct. 12 Jud 
Act to extend for an additional 2 years the 1999 
period for admission of an alien as a non-
immigrant under section 101(a)(15)(S) of 
such Act, and to authorize appropriations 
for the refugee assistance program under 
chapter 2 of title IV of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act. 
Making further continuing appropriations for H.J. Res. 80 Nov. 16 App 
the fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
Making further continuing appropriations for H.J. Res. 83 Nov. 17 App 
the fiscal year 2000, and for other purposes. 1999 
To improve the effectiveness and perform-S. 468 Feb. 25 
ance of Federal financial assistance pro1999 
grams, simplify Federal financial assistance 
application and reporting requirements, 
and improve the delivery of services to the 
public. 
To assure the long-term conservation of mid-H.R. 2454 July 1 Res 
continent light geese and the biological di1999 
versity of the ecosystem upon which many 
North American migratory birds depend, 
by directing the Secretary of the Interior to 
implement rules to reduce the overabundant 
population of mid-continent light 
geese. 
To make technical corrections to the Water H.R. 2724 Aug. 5 
Resources Development Act of 1999. 1999 
To amend part G of title I of the Omnibus S. 1235 June 17 Jud 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1999 
1968 to allow railroad police officers to attend 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
National Academy for law enforcement 
training. 
To establish designations for United States H.R. 100 Jan. 6 GRO 
Postal Service buildings in Philadelphia, 1999 
Pennsylvania. 
To designate the facility of the United States H.R. 197 Jan. 6 GRO 
Postal Service at 410 North 6th Street in 1999 
Garden City, Kansas, as the ‘‘Clifford R. 
Hope Post Office’’. 
Making appropriations for the government of H.R. 3194 Nov. 2 App 
the District of Columbia and other activi1999 
ties chargeable in whole or in part against 
revenues of said District for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes. 
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to S. 278 Jan. 21 Res 
convey certain lands to the county of Rio 1999 
Arriba, New Mexico. 
To establish the Minuteman Missile Na-S. 382 Feb. 4 Res 
tional Historic Site in the State of South 1999 
Dakota, and for other purposes. 
To clarify certain boundaries on maps relat-S. 1398 July 20 Res 
ing to the Coastal Barrier Resources Sys1999 
tem. 
To amend title 38, United States Code, to H.R. 2116 June 9 VA 
establish a program of extended care serv1999 
ices for veterans and to make other improvements 
in health care programs of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. 

GA .................. 
EPW July 29 
1999 
EPW .................. 
Jud 
GA 
GA 
ENR Oct. 27 
1999 
ENR Oct. 18 
1999 
EPW 
July 16 
1999 

.................. ............ ............ Oct. 26 Nov. 8 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 
.................. ............ ............ Nov. 17 Nov. 17 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 
.................. ............ ............ Nov. 18 Nov. 18 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 
July 1 ............ 103 Nov. 2 July 15 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Oct. 14 271 188 Aug. 2 Nov. 8 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Oct. 13 ............ 183 Aug. 5 Nov. 8 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Oct. 21 ............ 0 Nov. 17 Oct. 26 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Nov. 4 ............ 0 May 24 Nov. 19 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Nov. 4 ............ 0 May 24 Nov. 19 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
.................. ............ ............ Nov. 3 Nov. 3 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 
Mar. 16 418 16 Nov. 17 Mar. 25 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Mar. 17 391 23 Nov. 17 Mar. 25 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
Oct. 6 ............ 171 Nov. 17 Nov. 8 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 1999 
237 ............ Sept. 21 Nov. 5 Nov. 
1999 1999 1999 

13, 

18, 
19, 
20, 

24, 

24, 
24, 

29, 
29, 

29, 

29, 
29, 
29, 
30, 

104 

105 
106 
107 

108 

109 
110 

111 
112 

113 

114 
115 
116 
117 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D15 


D16 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST 

Date 
Title Bill No. introduced 
Committee Date Reported Report No. Date of passage Public Law 
House Senate House Senate House Senate 
106– 106– 
House Senate Date ap-No. 
proved 106– 
To amend title 38, United States Code, to H.R. 2280 June 18 
provide a cost-of-living adjustment in rates (S. 1393) 1999 
of compensation paid for service-connected 
disabilities, to enhance the compensation, 
memorial affairs, and housing programs of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, to improve 
retirement authorities applicable to 
judges of the United States Court of Appeals 
for Veterans Claims, and for other 
purposes. 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to H.R. 20 Jan. 6 
construct and operate a visitor center for 1999 
the Upper Delaware Scenic and Recreational 
River on land owned by the State 
of New York. 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year H.R. 1555 April 26 
2000 for intelligence and intelligence-re1999 
lated activities of the United States Government, 
the Community Management Account, 
and the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement and Disability System, and for 
other purposes. 
To extend the deadline under the Federal H.R. 459 Feb. 2 
Power Act for FERC Project No. 9401, the 1999 
Mt. Hope Waterpower Project. 
To amend the Federal Reserve Act to broad-H.R. 1094 Mar. 11 
en the range of discount window loans 1999 
which may be used as collateral for Federal 
reserve notes. 
To designate certain facilities of the United H.R. 1191 Mar. 18 
States Postal Service in Chicago, Illinois. 1999 
To designate the United States Postal Service H.R. 1251 Mar. 24 
building located at 8850 South 700 East, 1999 
Sandy, Utah, as the ‘‘Noal Cushing Bate-
man Post Office Building’’. 
To designate the United States Postal Service H.R. 1327 Mar. 25 
building located at 34480 Highway 101 1999 
South in Cloverdale, Oregon, as the 
‘‘Maurine B. Neuberger United States Post 
Office’’. 
To require the Secretary of the Treasury to H.R. 3373 Nov. 16 
mint coins in conjunction with the mint1999 
ing of coins by the Republic of Iceland in 
commemoration of the millennium of the 
discovery of the New World by Lief Eric-
son. 
Appointing the day for the convening of the H.J. Res. 85 Nov. 18 
second session of the One Hundred Sixth 1999 
Congress. 
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to S. 574 Mar. 10 
make corrections to a map relating to the 1999 
Coastal Barrier Resources System. 
To amend title IX of the Public Health S. 580 Mar. 10 
Service Act to revise and extend the Agen1999 
cy for Healthcare Policy and Research. 
VA 
Res ENR 
Int 
AS-H 
Com ENR 
BFS BHUA 
GRO GA 
GRO GA 
GRO GA 
BFS 
Res EPW 
LHR 
June 25 July 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 4 Nov. 2 
1999 1999 
May 7 .................. 
1999 
April 28 June 24 
1999 1999 
Nov. 4 
1999 
Nov. 4 
1999 
Nov. 4 
1999 
.................. 
.................. .................. 
Mar. 26 
1999 
.................. 
202 108 
361 211 
130 ............ 
119 97 
............ ............ 
............ 0 
............ 0 
............ 0 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
............ 39 
............ ............ 
June 29 July 26 
1999 1999 
Oct. 12 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
May 13 July 21 
1999 1999 
May 4 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Aug. 2 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
May 24 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
May 24 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
June 29 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 16 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 18 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 18 April 22 
1999 1999 
Nov. 18 Nov. 3 
1999 1999 
Nov. 30, 118 
1999 
Dec. 3, 119 
1999 
Dec. 3, 120 
1999 
Dec. 6, 121 
1999 
Dec. 6, 122 
1999 
Dec. 6, 123 
1999 
Dec. 6, 124 
1999 
Dec. 6, 125 
1999 
Dec. 6, 126 
1999 
Dec. 6, 127 
1999 
Dec. 6, 128 
1999 
Dec. 6, 129 
1999 


To provide for the holding of court at 
Natchez, Mississippi in the same manner 
as court is held at Vicksburg, Mississippi, 
and for other purposes. 

To authorize the Gateway Visitor Center at 
Independence National Historical Park, 
and for other purposes. 

To redesignate Great Kills Park in the Gateway 
National Recreation Area as ‘‘World 
War II Veterans Park at Great Kills’’. 

To protect the permanent trust funds of the 
State of Arizona from erosion due to inflation 
and modify the basis on which distributions 
are made from those funds. 

To amend the Act that established the 
Keweenaw National Historical Park to require 
the Secretary of the Interior to consider 
nominees of various local interests in 
appointing members of the Keweenaw National 
Historical Parks Advisory Commission. 


To amend the National Trails System Act to 
designate the route of the War of 1812 
British invasion of Maryland and Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the route 
of the American defense, for study for potential 
addition to the national trails system. 


To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
provide assistance to the Perkins County 
Rural Water System, Inc., for the construction 
of water supply facilities in Perkins 
County, South Dakota. 

Concerning the participation of Taiwan in 
the World Health Organization (WHO). 

To provide for the conveyance of certain National 
Forest System lands in the State of 
South Dakota. 

To amend the Immigration and Nationality 
Act to provide that an adopted alien who 
is less than 18 years of age may be considered 
a child under such Act if adopted 
with or after a sibling who is a child under 
such Act. 

To amend the Central Utah Project Completion 
Act to provide for acquisition of water 
and water rights for Central Utah Project 
purposes, completion of Central Utah 
project facilities, and implementation of 
water conservation measures. 

To amend the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974 to assist the Congressional Budget 
Office with the scoring of State and local 
mandates. 

Commending the World War II veterans 
who fought in the Battle of the Bulge, and 
for other purposes. 

To authorize an interpretive center and related 
visitor facilities within the Four Corners 
Monument Tribal Park, and for other 
purposes. 

To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
convey to the city of Sisters, Oregon, a certain 
parcel of land for use in connection 
with a sewage treatment facility. 

S. 1418 

July 22 

Jud 

Jud 

Nov. 4 

............ 

0 

Nov. 17 

Nov. 5 

Dec. 6, 

130 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 449 

Feb. 2 

Res 

ENR 

Mar. 17 

June 7 

66 

68 

April 12 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

131 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 592 

Feb. 4 

Res 

ENR 

June 16 

Nov. 2 

188 

212 

June 30 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

132 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 747 

Feb. 11 

Res 

May 13 

.................. 

140 

............ 

Aug. 2 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

133 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 748 

Feb. 11 

Res 

ENR 

Oct. 7 

367 

............ 

Oct. 12 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

134 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 791 

Feb. 23 

Res 

June 17 

.................. 

189 

............ 

June 30 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

135 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 970 

Mar. 3 

Res 

Oct. 20 

.................. 

405 

............ 

Oct. 26 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

136 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 1794 

May 13 

IR 

FR 

Nov. 3 

............ 

0 

Oct. 4 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

137 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 2079 

June 8 

Res 

ENR 

July 26 

261 

............ 

Sept. 21 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

138 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 2886 

Sept. 21 

Jud 

Jud 

Oct. 14 

383 

............ 

Oct. 18 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

139 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 2889 

Sept. 21 

Res 

Oct. 27 

.................. 

417 

............ 

Nov. 1 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

140 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.R. 3257 

Nov. 8 

R 

.................. 

............ 

............ 

Nov. 16 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

141 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

H.J. Res. 65 

Aug. 5 

VA 

Jud 

Sept. 30 

Nov. 2 

352 

0 

Oct. 5 

Nov. 19 

Dec. 7, 

142 

1999 

IR 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

S. 28 

Jan. 19 

ENR 

.................. 

............ 

144 

Nov. 18 

Sept. 9 

Dec. 7, 

143 

1999 

IA 

Aug. 27 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

S. 416 

Feb. 11 

Res 

ENR 

Nov. 5 

June 2 

453 

60 

Nov. 17 

July 1 

Dec. 7, 

144 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

1999 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D17 


D18 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST 

Date 
Title Bill No. introduced 
Committee Date Reported Report No. Date of passage Public Law 
House Senate House Senate House Senate 
106– 106– 
House Senate Date ap-No. 
proved 106– 
To designate a portion of the Otay Mountain H.R. 15 Jan. 6 
region of California as wilderness. 1999 
To establish the Thomas Cole National His-H.R. 658 Feb. 9 
toric Site in the State of New York as an 1999 
affiliated area of the National Park System. 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to H.R. 1104 Mar. 11 
transfer administrative jurisdiction over 1999 
land within the boundaries of the Home of 
Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic 
Site to the Archivist of the United States 
for the construction of a visitor center. 
To reauthorize and amend the National Geo-H.R. 1528 April 22 
logic Mapping Act of 1992. 1999 
To amend the Quinebaug and Shetucket H.R. 1619 April 29 
Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor 1999 
Act of 1994 to expand the boundaries of 
the Corridor. 
To allow the National Park Service to ac-H.R. 1665 May 4 
quire certain land for addition to the Wil1999 
derness Battlefield in Virginia, as previously 
authorized by law, by purchase or 
exchange as well as by donation. 
To amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of H.R. 1693 May 5 
1938 to clarify the overtime exemption for 1999 
employees engaged in fire protection activities. 
To amend title 18, United States Code, to H.R. 1887 May 20 
punish the depiction of animal cruelty. 1999 
To authorize the President to award a gold H.R. 1932 May 25 
medal on behalf of the Congress to Father 1999 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, in recognition of 
his outstanding and enduring contributions 
to civil rights, higher education, the 
Catholic Church, the Nation, and the global 
community. 
To improve protection and management of H.R. 2140 June 10 
the Chattahoochee River National Recre1999 
ation Area in the State of Georgia. 
To amend the U.S. Holocaust Assets Com-H.R. 2401 June 30 
mission Act of 1998 to extend the period 1999 
by which the final report is due and to authorize 
additional funding. 
To designate certain Federal lands in the H.R. 2632 July 29 
Talladega National Forest in the State of 1999 
Alabama as the Dugger Mountain Wilderness. 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to H.R. 2737 Aug. 5 
convey to the State of Illinois certain Fed1999 
eral land associated with the Lewis and 
Clark National Historic Trail to be used as 
an historic and interpretive site along the 
trail. 
To reauthorize the Overseas Private Invest-H.R. 3381 Nov. 16 
ment Corporation and the Trade and De1999 
velopment Agency, and for other purposes. 
To amend title 49, United States Code, to H.R. 3419 Nov. 17 
establish the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 1999 
Administration, and for other purposes. 
Res ENR 
Res 
Res 
Res 
Res ENR 
Res 
EWf 
Jud 
BFS 
Res 
BFS BHUA 
Res 
Agr 
Res 
IR 
TI 
Mar. 17 July 21 
1999 1999 
May 13 .................. 
1999 
May 13 .................. 
1999 
Oct. 18 .................. 
1999 
Sept. 8 Nov. 2 
1999 1999 
Oct. 4 .................. 
1999 
.................. 
Oct. 19 .................. 
1999 
.................. 
Oct. 7 .................. 
1999 
Oct. 28 .................. 
1999 
Nov. 1 .................. 
1999 
.................. 
.................. 
65 116 
138 ............ 
141 ............ 
389 ............ 
306 213 
362 ............ 
............ ............ 
397 ............ 
............ ............ 
369 ............ 
............ ............ 
422 ............ 
427 ............ 
............ ............ 
............ ............ 
April 12 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Sept. 13 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Aug. 2 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 26 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Sept. 13 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 12 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 4 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 19 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 12 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 18 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Oct. 4 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 1 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 1 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 17 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Nov. 18 Nov. 19 
1999 1999 
Dec. 9, 145 
1999 
Dec. 9, 146 
1999 
Dec. 9, 147 
1999 
Dec. 9, 148 
1999 
Dec. 9, 149 
1999 
Dec. 9, 150 
1999 
Dec. 9, 151 
1999 
Dec. 9, 152 
1999 
Dec. 9, 153 
1999 
Dec. 9, 154 
1999 
Dec. 9, 155 
1999 
Dec. 9, 156 
1999 
Dec. 9, 157 
1999 
Dec. 9, 158 
1999 
Dec. 9, 159 
1999 


To amend statutory damages provisions of 
title 17, United States Code. 
H.R. 3456 Nov. 
1999 
18 Jud .................. ............ ............ Nov. 
1999 
18 Nov. 
1999 
19 Dec. 
1999 
9, 160 
Conferring status as an honorary veteran of 
the United States Armed Forces on 
Zachary Fisher. 
H.J. Res. 46 April 
1999 
28 VA .................. ............ ............ Nov. 
1999 
2 Nov. 
1999 
19 Dec. 
1999 
9, 161 
To designate the headquarters building of 
the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development in Washington, District of 
Columbia, as the ‘‘Robert C. Weaver Federal 
Building’’. 
S. 67 Jan. 
1999 
19 EPW .................. Mar. 17 
1999 
............ 0 Nov. 
1999 
18 Mar. 
1999 
23 Dec. 
1999 
9, 162 
To provide for the settlement of the water 
rights claims of the Chippewa Cree Tribe 
of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 438 Feb. 
1999 
22 ENR 
IA 
ENR 
.................. 
July 22 
1999 
............ 0 Nov. 
1999 
18 Nov. 
1999 
4 Dec. 
1999 
9, 163 
To establish the Fallen Timbers Battlefield 
and Fort Miamis National Historical Site 
in the State of Ohio. 
S. 548 Mar. 
1999 
4 Res ENR June 7 
1999 
............ 64 Nov. 
1999 
18 Oct. 
1999 
14 Dec. 
1999 
9, 164 
To amend the Small Business Act with respect 
to the women’s business center program. 
S. 791 April 
1999 
14 SB .................. Nov. 2 
1999 
............ 214 Nov. 
1999 
18 Nov. 
1999 
5 Dec. 
1999 
9, 165 
To designate the United States courthouse at 
401 West Washington Street in Phoenix, 
Arizona, as the ‘‘Sandra Day O’Connor 
United States Courthouse’’. 
S. 1595 Sept. 
1999 
16 TI EPW Sept. 29 
1999 
............ 0 Nov. 
1999 
18 Oct. 
1999 
8 Dec. 
1999 
9, 166 
To redesignate the Coastal Barrier Resources 
System as the ‘‘John J. Chafee Coastal Barrier 
Resources System’’. 
S. 1866 Nov. 
1999 
4 Res .................. ............ ............ Nov. 
1999 
18 Nov. 
1999 
4 Dec. 
1999 
9, 167 
To amend Chapter 30 of title 39, United 
States Code, to provide for the nonmailability 
of certain deceptive matter relating 
to sweepstakes, skill contests, facsimile 
checks, administrative procedures, orders, 
and civil penalties relating to such matter, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 335 Feb. 
1999 
3 GRO GA July 1 
1999 
............ 102 Nov. 
1999 
9 Aug. 
1999 
2 Dec. 
1999 
12, 168 
To amend part E of title IV of the Social Security 
Act to provide States with more 
funding and greater flexibility in carrying 
out programs designed to help children 
make the transition from foster care to self-
sufficiency, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 3443 Nov. 
1999 
18 WM 
Com 
.................. ............ ............ Nov. 
1999 
18 Nov. 
1999 
19 Dec. 
1999 
14, 169 
To amend the Social Security Act to expand 
the availability of health care coverage for 
working individuals with disabilities, to 
establish a Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency 
Program in the Social Security Administration 
to provide such individuals 
with meaningful opportunities to work, 
and for other purposes. 
H.R. 1180 
(S. 331) 
Mar. 
1999 
18 WM 
Com 
Fin 
July 1 
1999 
Mar. 26 
1999 
220 37 Oct. 
1999 
19 Oct. 
1999 
21 Dec. 
1999 
17, 170 

TABLE OF COMMITTEE ABBREVIATIONS 

Agr ........ Agriculture BHUA .... Banking, Housing, and EPW ...... Environment and HA ......... House Administration RAdm .... Rules and 
ANF ....... Agriculture, Nutrition, Urban Affairs Public Works IA .......... Indian Affairs Administration 
and Forestry Bud ........ Budget EWf ....... Education and the Int ......... Intelligence Res ........ Resources 
App ........ Appropriations Com ....... Commerce Workforce IR .......... International Relations Sci ......... Science 
AS-H ...... Armed Services (House) 
AS-S ...... Armed Services 
(Senate) 
BFS ....... Banking and Financial 
Services 
CST ....... Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 
ENR ....... Energy and Natural 
Resources 
Fin ........ Finance 
FR ......... Foreign Relations 
GA ......... Governmental Affairs 
GRO ....... Government Reform 
and Oversight 
Jud ........ Judiciary 
LHR ....... Labor and Human 
Resources 
R ........... Rules 
SB ......... Small Business 
TI .......... Transportation and 
Infrastructure 
VA ......... Veterans’ Affairs 
WM ........ Ways and Means 

NOTE. –The bill in parentheses is a companion measure. 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D19 


D20 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST January 24, 2000 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

11:30 a.m., Tuesday, January 25 
Senate Chamber 

Program for Tuesday: After the recognition of two Senators 
for speeches and the transaction of any morning 
business (not to extend beyond 12:30 p.m.), Senate will 
recess until 2:15 p.m. for their respective party conferences; following 
which, Senate will resume consideration of S. 625, 
Bankruptcy Reform. 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
12 noon, Thursday, January 27 

House Chamber 
Program for Thursday: Quorum Call and State of the 
Union Address. 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE 

Andrews, Robert E., N.J., E3 
Cramer, Robert E. (Bud), Jr., Ala., E2, E3 
Kucinich, Dennis J., Ohio, E1, E2, E3, E4, E5 
Oxley, Michael G., Ohio, E3 
Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E1 
Slaughter, Louise McIntosh, N.Y., E4 
Regula, Ralph, Ohio, E2 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The public proceedings of each House of Congress, as reported by 
the Official Reporters thereof, are printed pursuant to directions 
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate 
provisions of Title 44, United States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very 
infrequent instances when two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed at one time. ¶ Public access to 
the Congressional Record is available online through GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. 
The online database is updated each day the Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the 
beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 1994) forward. It is available on the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) through the 
Internet and via asynchronous dial-in. Internet users can access the database by using the World Wide Web; the Superintendent of 
Documents home page address is http://www.access.gpo.gov/suldocs, by using local WAIS client software or by telnet to 
swais.access.gpo.gov, then login as guest (no password required). Dial-in users should use communications software and modem to call (202) 
512–1661; type swais, then login as guest (no password required). For general information about GPO Access, contact the GPO Access User 
Support Team by sending Internet e-mail to gpoaccess@gpo.gov, or a fax to (202) 512–1262; or by calling Toll Free 1–888–293–6498 or (202) 
512–1530 between 7 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday, except for Federal holidays. ¶The Congressional Record paper 
and 24x microfiche will be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $179.00 for six months, 
$357.00 per year, or purchased for $3.00 per issue, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $141.00 per year, or purchased for $1.50 per issue 
payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per issue prices. Mail orders to: 
Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250–7954, or phone orders to (202) 512–1800, or fax to (202) 512–2250. Remit 
check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, or GPO Deposit Account. 
¶ Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent 
of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of 
material from the Congressional Record. 


