UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.20 08:41:02 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 105th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 143 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 3, 1997 No. 25 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 2 p.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
[Mr. BARRETT of Nebraska]. 

f 


DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, March 3, 1997. 

I hereby designate the Honorable BILL 
BARRETT to act as Speaker pro tempore on 
this day. 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 


PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Rev. James David 
Ford, D.D., offered the following prayer: 


Encourage us, oh, gracious God, to be 
doers of Your word and not hearers 
only. Your word points us in the way of 
truth and justice, illumines our path, 
and we are guided by Your spirit. May 
the words we say with our lips be believed 
in our hearts, and may all that 
we believe in our hearts be practiced in 
our daily lives, this day and every day, 
we pray. Amen. 

f 


THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair has examined the Journal of the 
last day’s proceedings and announces 
to the House his approval thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

f 


PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the 
gentleman from Florida [Mr. 
SCARBOROUGH] come forward and lead 
the House in the Pledge of Allegiance. 

Mr. SCARBOROUGH led the Pledge 
of Allegiance as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 


MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 

A message in writing from the President 
of the United States was communicated 
to the House by Mr. Sherman 
Williams, one of his secretaries. 

f 


COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, February 28, 1997. 

Hon. NEWT GINGRICH, 

The Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 5 of Rule III of the 
Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
the Clerk received the following messages 
from the Secretary of the Senate on Friday, 
February 28, 1997 at 9:50 a.m.: that the Senate 
passed without amendment H.R. 668; and 
that the Senate appointed to the Coordinating 
Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency. 


With warm regards, 

ROBIN H. CARLE, 

Clerk, House of Representatives. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair desires to announce that pursuant 
to clause 4 of rule I, the Speaker 
signed the following enrolled bill on 
Thursday, February 27, 1997: 

H.R. 499, to designate the facility of the 
U.S. Postal Service under construction at 
7411 Barlite Boulevard in San Antonio, TX, 
as the ‘‘Frank M. Tejeda Post Office Building’’; 
And the following enrolled bill on 
Friday, February 28, 1997: 

H.R. 668, to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reinstate the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund excise taxes, and for other 
purposes. 
f 
COMMUNICATION FROM THE OFFICE 
OF THE SERGEANT AT 
ARMS OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Sergeant at Arms of 
the House of Representatives: 

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
Washington, DC, February 27, 1997 

Hon. NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: This is to formally notify 
you pursuant to Rule L (50) of the rules 
of the House that I have been served with a 
subpoena issued by the United States District 
Court of the District of Columbia. 

After consultation with the General Counsel, 
I have determined that compliance with 
the subpoena is consistent with the privileges 
and precedents of the House. 
Sincerely, 

PATRICIA ANN SCHAPP, 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms. 

f 


SECOND SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT 
AMENDING AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES 
AND CANADA WITH RESPECT TO 
SOCIAL SECURITY MESSAGE 
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE 
UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 105– 
49) 

The Speaker pro tempore laid before 
the House the following message from 
the President of the United States; 
which was read and, together with the 
accompanying papers, without objection, 
referred to the Committee on 
Ways and Means and ordered to be 
printed: 

To the Congress of the United States: 

Pursuant to section 233(e)(1) of the 
Social Security Act (the ‘‘Act’’), as 
amended by the Social Security 
Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95–216, 

bb

This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


H703 


H704 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE March 3, 1997 

42 U.S.C. 433(e)(1)), I transmit herewith THE WHITE HOUSE, March 3, 1997. the history of this Republic. When this 

the Second Supplementary Agreement great building was being built, it was

f 


Amending the Agreement Between the 
Government of the United States of 
America and the Government of Canada 
with Respect to Social Security 
(the Second Supplementary Agreement). 
The Second Supplementary 
Agreement, signed at Ottawa on May 
28, 1996, is intended to modify certain 
provisions of the original United 
States-Canada Social Security Agreement 
signed at Ottawa March 11, 1981, 
which was amended once before by the 
Supplementary Agreement of May 10, 
1983. 

The United States-Canada Social Security 
Agreement is similar in objective 
to the social security agreements 
with Austria, Belgium, Finland, 
France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, 
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, 
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 
Such bilateral agreements provide for 
limited coordination between the U.S. 
and foreign social security systems to 
eliminate dual social security coverage 
and taxation, and to help prevent the 
loss of benefit protection that can 
occur when workers divide their careers 
between two countries. 

The Second Supplementary Agreement 
provides Canada with a specific 
basis to enter into a mutual assistance 
arrangement with the United States. 
This enables each Governments’ Social 
Security agency to assist the other in 
enhancing the administration of their 
respective foreign benefits programs. 
The Social Security Administration 
has benefited from a similar mutual assistance 
arrangement with the United 
Kingdom. The Second Supplementary 
Agreement will also make a number of 
minor revisions in the Agreement to 
take into account other changes in 

U.S. and Canadian law that have occurred 
in recent years. 
The United States-Canada Social Security 
Agreement, as amended, would 
continue to contain all provisions mandated 
by section 233 and other provisions 
that I deem appropriate to carry 
out the provisions of section 233, pursuant 
to section 233(c)(4) of the Act. 

I also transmit for the information of 
the Congress a report prepared by the 
Social Security Administration explaining 
the key points of the Second 
Supplementary Agreement, along with 
a paragraph-by-paragraph explanation 
of the effect of the amendments on the 
Agreement. Annexed to this report is 
the report required by section 233(e)(1) 
of the Act on the effect of the Agreement, 
as amended, on income and expenditures 
of the U.S. Social Security 
program and the number of individuals 
affected by the amended Agreement. 
The Department of State and the Social 
Security Administration have recommended 
the Second Supplementary 
Agreement and related documents to 
me. 

I commend the United States-Canada 
Second Supplementary Social Security 
Agreement and related documents. 

WILLIAM J. CLINTON. 

SPECIAL ORDERS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
7, 1997 and under a previous order 
of the House the following Members are 
recognized for 5 minutes each: 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Arkansas [Mr. HUTCHINSON] 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

[Mr. HUTCHINSON addressed the 
House. His remarks will appear hereafter 
in the Extensions of Remarks.] 

f 


PUBLIC DISPLAY OF THE TEN 
COMMANDMENTS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Florida [Mr. 
SCARBOROUGH] is recognized for 5 minutes. 


Mr. SCARBOROUGH. Mr. Speaker, 
tomorrow this body is going to be looking 
at a resolution supporting the public 
display of the Ten Commandments. 
There has been a very interesting case 
in the State of Alabama where Judge 
Roy Moore, who presides over a circuit 
court, maintains in his courtroom a 
wood carved plaque containing the Ten 
Commandments. He has been challenged 
by another judge to take those 
down. The Governor of Alabama, Fob 
James, has stated that he will do whatever 
it takes to keep the Ten Commandments 
up in that courtroom, including 
calling in the National Guard. 

It is sure to be an entertaining debate 
tomorrow, and very interesting, 
and, I believe, a very important debate. 
But sadly, the entertainment is going 
to come from those people who will 
come to the floor to try to twist history, 
try to continue the revision of 
history that would separate one country 
from its heritage. 

We have a very proud heritage of 
faith and freedom in this country. In 
fact, on the issue of the Ten Commandments, 
we had James Madison, the father 
of the Constitution, say the following 
while drafting the Constitution. 
Madison said, ‘‘We have staked the entire 
future of the American civilization 
not upon the power of government but 
upon the capacity of the individual to 
govern himself, control himself, and 
sustain himself according to the Ten 
Commandments of God.’’ 

That was James Madison, the father 
of the Constitution. Yet 220 years later 
we have radical revisionists who are 
trying to tell us that the Constitution 
will not allow us to have the Ten Commandments 
on the wall of a court in 
Alabama. It is a radical notion. 

Look, for instance, at the Supreme 
Court itself, which has two versions of 
the Ten Commandments up on its 
walls. Look at this House Chamber; 
right on the back wall is a picture of 
Moses, one of the great lawmakers in 

Moses that was put front center in this 
Chamber, so every speaker would see 
the face of Moses on the back wall. 

But sadly, over the past 30 years, 
these radical revisionists have been 
doing everything that they could do to 
make the radical seem conventional; 
worse yet, to make the conventional 
seem radical. 

It is what Charles Krauthammer 
calls ‘‘defining deviancy up.’’ For the 
radicals, it is not important enough for 
them to define deviancy down and 
make deviant behavior seem normal; 
but, as Judge Bork has said, their most 
important goal is to make normal behavior 
seem radical. 

For the judges that would like to 
step forward and talk about how Fob 
James has no right to decide what is on 
the walls of his courtrooms in the 
State of Alabama, I can only say that 
they need to read what the founders 
said, attorneys themselves. It was 
Thomas Jefferson who said, ‘‘I consider 
the Government of the United States 
as not allowed by the Constitution 
from intermeddling with religious institutions, 
their doctrines, their disciplines, 
or their exercises. This results 
not only from the provision that no 
law shall be made respecting the establishment 
of free exercise of religion, 
but also that which reserves to the 
States the powers not delegated to this 
Federal Government. Certainly no 
power to prescribe any religious exercise 
or assume authority in any religious 
discipline has been delegated to 
the Federal Government. It must then 
rest with the States.’’ 

Justice Joseph Story, in his commentaries 
on the Constitution, the 
first commentary on the Constitution 
written by a founder, said this: The 
whole power over the subject of religion 
is left exclusively to State governments, 
to be acted upon according to 
their own sense of justice and the State 
constitutions. 

It is a matter well within the right of 
any Governor to determine whether 
the Ten Commandments shall be on the 
wall of courtrooms or not, and whether 
the radical revisionists of the past 30 
years wish to continue to disconnect 
America from the beliefs of Madison 
and Jefferson and Washington, it is up 
to them. 

But, Mr. Speaker, we have got to 
stop revising history, and stand up 
today and say enough is enough. If you 
want to build a bridge to the 21st century 
you do it, but you do not do it by 
cutting America off from its proud, 
faithful past. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The Chair will remind all persons in 
the gallery that they are here as guests 
of the House. Any manifestation of approval 
or disapproval of proceedings is 
in violation of the rules of the House. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H705 

AMERICA’S TRANSPORTATION 
FUNDING NEEDS EXCEED THE 
PRESIDENT’S BUDGET PROPOSALS 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
7, 1997, the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. WOLF] is recognized for 60 
minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader. 

Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, last week 
the House Subcommittee on Transportation 
of the Committee on Appropriations 
and Related Agencies kicked off 
its hearings on the fiscal year 1998 
transportation appropriation legislation. 


For 2 days the subcommittee received 
testimony from Members of 
Congress and public witnesses on transportation 
policy and funding, including 
issues related to public transportation. 
Many, many witnesses representing 
mass transit organizations and properties 
located across the country 
stressed the urgent mass transit needs 
now existing, the greater needs projected 
for the future, and the need for 
additional spending for public transportation. 


Earlier last month the President presented 
his fiscal year 1998 budget proposals, 
and the budget request for public 
transportation falls far short of the 
needs articulated by the witnesses who 
testified last week. In fact, the Clinton 
budget proposes to hold the line on 
public transportation funding at current 
spending levels, calling for a reduction 
of 1 percent from last year’s 
level. 

Clearly the transportation community 
is at an important crossroads. 
Identified mass transit needs far outstrip 
the President’s budget proposals. 
Under even the rosiest of economic projections, 
and 602(b) allocations, Congress 
will never, never be able to fund 
all of these transit needs. 

Further complicating this situation 
is the upcoming expiration of ISTEA. 
As Members know, the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991, known as ISTEA, expires at the 
end of fiscal year 1997. Already, in fact, 
beginning last year, States and their 
Governors and transportation departments, 
Amtrak and commuter rail 
users, environmentalists and 
bicyclists, highway folks and the transit 
community, are staking their positions 
on legislation to succeed ISTEA. 

b1415 
It seems that everyone is an interested 
party in this discussion and every 
interest is in competition with each 
other. Are you interested in protecting 
the status quo, changing formulas, 
seeking major program reforms or otherwise 
merely looking to increase your 
relative take of this massive $150 billion 
authorization bill? There is a place 
for you in the debate. 
I understand there is a tongue in 
cheek expression making its way 
around the Capitol these days. That is 
that the reauthorization bill reported 

by the House Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure will be 
named ‘‘Hot-Tea’’ for Highway Only 
Transportation Efficiency Act, the implication 
being that the general authorization 
for the transit programs 
and many of the flexible funding provisions 
included within ISTEA that benefit 
the transit community will either 
be eliminated or greatly diminished 
while authorization for concrete and 
pavement will increase dramatically. 

I certainly support, strongly support 
highway spending and providing funding 
for concrete and pavement to build 
these necessary roads. However, highway 
programs must continue to be 
only one component of a balanced 
transportation program, one that 
meets the needs of highway users as 
well as those who depend on public 
transportation. 

To ensure balance in our comprehensive 
transportation program, we need 
to pull together to improve the current 
program structure and the delivery of 
services to those that use public transportation 
regularly. Public transportation 
is not just about using a sleek 
subway system when visiting the Nation’s 
capital, nor is it simply about 
riding in San Francisco’s famed street 
cars while vacationing on the West 
Coast, nor is it just about getting an 
earmark for a favored project back 
home, no matter how small the earmark 
may be, to ensure that one more 
transit project is listed in the appropriations 
legislation and thereby legitimized 
for continued funding 
through the lifetime of the project. 

No, public transportation is also 
about, really it is primarily about, getting 
people to work, getting children to 
school, providing the way for people to 
get to the hospital, to the store, to 
visit friends and relatives across town 
and across the country. Public transportation 
represents a vital transportation 
link for many people, including 
millions of Americans with disabilities. 
And without public transportation, 
many people would virtually be stranded, 
unable to venture beyond the confines 
of their neighborhoods. Simply 
stated, we need to change the way we 
view providing for public transportation. 


First, what are we spending on public 
transportation? Second, where is that 
money going? Third, are those funding 
decisions consistent and appropriate 
given budgetary constraints? Last, can 
we develop a comprehensive coherent 
public transportation program? This is 
our challenge and this is our goal. 

Do you know that annually the Federal 
Government spends over $4 billion 
on transit programs alone? These funds 
are provided to modernize older rail 
systems, to purchase and rehabilitate 
buses and rail cars, and to build or improve 
existing bus facilities, rail yards, 
stations and heavy and light rail systems 
in many of our Nation’s cities. 

Where is that money actually going? 
Each year the transportation appropriations 
bill provides funds designated 

specifically for transit properties 
across the country. Last year Congress 
provided $4.4 billion for transit, of 
which over $800 million was provided 
for construction and design of some 54 
transit projects, called new starts, 
throughout the country, and Puerto 
Rico. 

Are these funding decisions appropriate? 
The Federal Transit Administration 
currently has entered into 13 
full funding grant agreements and expects 
to enter into two more very soon. 
These full funding grant agreements 
represent a commitment by the Federal 
Government to fund these transit 
new start projects through to their 
completion. The 13 funding grant 
agreements now in place represent a 
total of $5.4 billion in Federal commitments, 
of which nearly $3 billion remains 
to be funded. The FTA will have 
to maintain a grant portfolio of roughly 
$800 million per year through the 
year 2001 to fund these projects; $800 
million per year for these projects 
alone, yet the President’s budget for 
fiscal year 1998 requests only $634 million 
for all new start projects, nearly 
$170 million below the amounts negotiated 
by FTA for the full funding 
grant agreements. 

What does this mean? It means that 
FTA is further increasing the outyear 
commitments in its already limited 
portfolio and will increase the project 
costs as well. Is this our total commitment 
to public transportation and new 
starts? Not by a long shot. As I mentioned 
earlier, the fiscal year 1997 act 
provides new start funding for 54 
projects. Obviously that is far more 
than the number of projects having full 
funding grant agreements. In short, we 
are providing funds for projects above 
and beyond those that have secured 
full funding grant agreements. 

The FTA also plans to enter into two 
additional full funding grant agreements 
this fiscal year. These agreements 
would add significantly to out-
year commitments. It does not end 
here either. According to the FTA, 
there are currently 53 major investment 
studies now underway throughout 
the country that may lead to requests 
for new starts funding. These 
studies are examining a number of 
transportation alternatives and corridor 
alignments. 

Many of these studies are in their 
early stages but to date of the 53 major 
investment studies that have produced 
capital cost estimates, the total capital 
cost of these fixed guideway alternatives 
exceeds $30 billion. 

These figures are alarming. The new 
start program is increasingly oversubscribed 
and overcommitted. The cost of 
completing all projects in the development 
process at any one time vastly 
exceeds the amount of Federal funds 
that are available now and in the foreseeable 
future. Another interesting 
fact worth noting is that since fiscal 
year 1992, California has received nearly 
a quarter of all the funds in the new 
start program, more than any other 


H706 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE March 3, 1997 

State. In fact, the top three recipient 
States, California, New Jersey and Oregon 
today received more than half of 
the funds in the program during that 
period. 

In fiscal year 1998, the President’s 
budget for new starts looks much the 
same. Of the $634 million proposed for 
the program, California is to receive 
almost one-third of the total funding. 
New Jersey would get 13 percent and 
Oregon would get 10 percent. Again, in 
fiscal year 1998, these three States account 
for more than half of the total 
amount requested of the new start program. 


For those of you considering light 
and heavy rail projects in your areas 
any time in the near future, let me just 
say this, under the current system, 
there are no funds available. 

In addition, one has to wonder 
whether some transit capital grants 
are being spent wisely today. The Congressional 
Budget Office looked at the 
cost effectiveness of various forms of 
public transportation assistance. Using 
Department of Transportation data to 
compute the total annualized cost per 
passenger-mile of these different forms 
of transit, CBO concluded that ordinary 
buses average 35 cents per pas-
senger-mile; commuter rail averaged 65 
cents per passenger-mile; heavy rail at 
$1.40 per passenger-mile; and light rail 
at $3.40 per passenger-mile, nearly a 
tenfold increase over buses. Yet what 
kind of transit have cities and other 
local governments been rushing to 
build with their Federal grants? 

LIGHT RAIL 

Some transit advocates claim that 
only light rail can attract suburban 
commuters and stop the declining use 
of transit by the middle class. But almost 
every city that has built either 
light or heavy rail in the past 25 years 
has a smaller share of commuting by 
transit in 1990 than they did 10 years 
earlier. 

This is true in Portland, San Francisco 
and even here in Washington, DC. 
In fact, the only major city that has 
witnessed growth in mass transit’s 
share over the last decade has been 
Houston, TX, and they are building 
busways in Houston, not a rail system. 

This brings me to my final point, 
which is really a call to action. What 
do we need to do? What can we do to 
develop a comprehensive coherent public 
transportation program which responsibly 
meets critical public transportation 
needs in a manner consistent 
with the reality of constrained resources? 
I do not claim to have the answer. 
But I do know this. The Federal 
Government is already overcommitted 
on transit spending, while new requests 
for funding, many of which would certainly 
meet identified needs, pour in, 
when large increases in spending for 
public transportation are not likely 
and when important programmatic 
changes are anticipated during reauthorization 
of ISTEA. 

Those of us who care about support of 
public transportation must be able to 

offer alternatives to the current methods 
of doing public transportation business. 
I challenge my colleagues to talk 
with transit managers, urban planners, 
as well as State and local officials to 
consider a number of questions, including 
the following: 

First, does the current new starts 
program structure encourage metropolitan 
areas to build fixed-guideway 
systems rather than an alternative 
that may be more appropriate but less 
likely to obtain Federal funding. 

Second, does the current system of 
providing Federal funds specifically for 
fixed-guideway, new start systems induce 
metropolitan areas to pursue 
more costly, less flexible systems compared 
to flexible route transit systems, 
such as buses, which can use rights-ofway 
that are shared by other vehicles? 

Third, should the current program be 
changed to provide more flexibility to 
State and local government and transit 
authorities to enable them to be more 
responsive to the needs of their particular 
communities? 

Fourth, does the current funding formula, 
80 Federal/20 local match, have 
the effect of gold plating projects or 
providing incentive to pursue projects 
that transit districts and municipalities 
otherwise would not because of 
local financial limitations. 

Fifth, should we continue to fund 
projects in the very early stages of engineering 
and major investment studies, 
the cost of which can and perhaps 
should be paid from State and local 
funds to indicate strong local support, 
or limit appropriations to only those 
projects in their final design and construction? 


Sixth, should the current program be 
modified to provide priority funding or 
other preferences to projects supported 
by a greater local match? 

Seventh, should transit capital assistance 
be allocated to the States and 
localities in a way that mirrors Federal 
aid highway assistance to guarantee 
States a minimum return on the 
taxes they send to Washington? 

Eighth, what level of Federal funding 
should be made available for public 
transportation, and what should the 
source of this funding be? 

One thing is certain, public transportation 
is an integral part of the Nation’s 
transportation network and a 
vital life link for many segments of our 
population. As such, there must be a 
continuing, strong Federal role in transit. 
Local transit systems are the beginning 
and ending point for inner city 
transportation and are therefore very 
much a part of our national transportation 
network. And road users should 
help pay for transit programs in some 
circumstances since they benefit from 
them. As public transportation reduces 
the number of automobiles on the road, 
it therefore reduces congestion on 
roads and bridges. 

Beyond this, however, our transit 
programs and policies must be updated. 
Budgetary constraints coupled with 
ISTEA reauthorizations demand that 

we develop new ways of dealing with 
public transportation. It is time to 
think differently, to be more innovative, 
creative and more efficient in the 
transit services we provide and the alternatives 
we present to our local 
boards, States, Federal Government 
and Congress. 

f 


CORRECTION TO THE RECORD OF 
FEBRUARY 26, 1997, PAGE H641 

AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST 

FUND TAX REINSTATEMENT ACT 

OF 1997 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The unfinished 
business is the question of suspending 
the rules and passing the bill, 
H.R. 668. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. ARCHER] 
that the House suspend the rules 
and pass the bill, H.R. 668, on which the 
yeas and nays are ordered. 

This will be a 5-minute vote. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 347, nays 73, 
not voting 12, as follows: 

[Roll No. 27] 
YEAS—347 
Abercrombie Christensen Frank (MA) 
Ackerman Clayton Franks (NJ) 
Allen Clement Frelinghuysen 
Archer Clyburn Frost 
Armey Coble Furse 
Bachus Collins Gallegly 
Baesler Combest Ganske 
Baker Conyers Gejdenson 
Baldacci Cook Gekas 
Ballenger Costello Gephardt 
Barcia Coyne Gilchrest 
Barrett (NE) Cramer Gillmor 
Barrett (WI) Crane Gonzalez 
Bartlett Cummings Goode 
Barton Cunningham Goodlatte 
Bass Davis (FL) Goodling 
Bateman Davis (IL) Gordon 
Becerra Davis (VA) Goss 
Bentsen DeFazio Granger 
Bereuter DeGette Green 
Berman Delahunt Greenwood 
Berry DeLauro Gutierrez 
Bilbray DeLay Gutknecht 
Bilirakis Dellums Hall (OH) 
Bishop Deutsch Hamilton 
Blagojevich Diaz-Balart Hansen 
Bliley Dicks Harman 
Blumenauer Dixon Hastert 
Blunt Doggett Hastings (FL) 
Boehlert Dooley Hastings (WA) 
Boehner Doyle Hayworth 
Bonilla Duncan Hefner 
Bonior Dunn Herger 
Bono Edwards Hinchey 
Borski Ehlers Hinojosa 
Boswell Ehrlich Hobson 
Boucher Emerson Holden 
Boyd English Hooley 
Brady Ensign Horn 
Brown (CA) Eshoo Houghton 
Brown (FL) Etheridge Hoyer 
Brown (OH) Evans Hulshof 
Bryant Everett Hutchinson 
Bunning Ewing Hyde 
Burr Farr Inglis 
Buyer Fattah Istook 
Callahan Fawell Jackson (IL) 
Calvert Fazio Jackson-Lee 
Camp Filner (TX) 
Campbell Flake Jefferson 
Canady Foglietta Jenkins 
Capps Foley John 
Cardin Ford Johnson (CT) 
Castle Fowler Johnson (WI) 
Chambliss Fox Johnson, E. B. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H707 

Johnson, Sam Miller (FL) Serrano 
Kanjorski Minge Sessions 
Kelly Mink Shaw 
Kennedy (MA) Moakley Shays 
Kennedy (RI) Molinari Sherman 
Kennelly Mollohan Shuster 
Kildee Moran (KS) Sisisky 
Kilpatrick Moran (VA) Skaggs 
Kim Morella Skeen 
Kind (WI) Murtha Skelton 
King (NY) Nadler Slaughter 
Kleczka Neal Smith (NJ) 
Klink Nethercutt Smith (TX) 
Knollenberg Ney Smith, Adam 
Kolbe Northup Smith, Linda 
LaFalce Nussle Snyder 
LaHood Oberstar Solomon 
Lampson Obey Spence 
Latham Olver Spratt 
LaTourette Ortiz Stabenow 
Lazio Owens Stark 
Leach Oxley Stenholm 
Levin Packard Stokes 
Lewis (CA) Pallone Strickland 
Lewis (GA) Pascrell Stupak 
Lewis (KY) Pastor Sununu 
Linder Paxon Tanner 
Lipinski Payne Tauscher 
Livingston Pease Thomas 
LoBiondo Pelosi Thompson 
Lofgren Peterson (MN) Thune 
Lowey Peterson (PA) Thurman 
Lucas Petri Tierney 
Luther Pickett Torres 
Maloney (NY) Pitts Towns 
Manton Pomeroy Traficant 
Manzullo Porter Turner 
Markey Portman Vela´ zquez 
Martinez Poshard Vento 
Mascara Price (NC) Visclosky 
Matsui Pryce (OH) Walsh 
McCarthy (MO) Quinn Wamp 
McCarthy (NY) Radanovich Waters 
McCollum Rahall Watkins 
McCrery Ramstad Watt (NC) 
McDade Rangel Watts (OK) 
McDermott Regula Waxman 
McGovern Riggs Weldon (FL) 
McHale Rivers Weldon (PA) 
McHugh Rogers Weller 
McInnis Ros-Lehtinen Wexler 
McIntyre Rothman Weygand 
McKeon Roukema White 
McKinney Roybal-Allard Whitfield 
McNulty Rush Wicker 
Meehan Sabo Wise 
Meek Sanders Wolf 
Menendez Sandlin Woolsey 
Metcalf Sawyer Wynn 
Millender-Saxton Yates 
McDonald Schumer 
Miller (CA) Scott 
NAYS—73 
Aderholt Hostettler Salmon 
Andrews Hunter Sanchez 
Barr Jones Sanford 
Burton Kasich Scarborough 
Cannon Kingston Schaefer, Dan 
Chabot Klug Schaffer, Bob 
Chenoweth Kucinich Schiff 
Coburn Largent Sensenbrenner 
Condit Maloney (CT) Shadegg 
Cooksey McIntosh Shimkus 
Crapo Mica Snowbarger 
Cubin Myrick Souder 
Deal Neumann Stearns 
Dickey Norwood Stump 
Dreier Pappas Talent 
Forbes Parker Tauzin 
Gibbons Paul Taylor (MS) 
Gilman Pickering Taylor (NC) 
Graham Pombo Thornberry 
Hall (TX) Riley Tiahrt 
Hefley Roemer Upton 
Hill Rogan Young (AK) 
Hilleary Rohrabacher Young (FL) 
Hilliard Royce 
Hoekstra Ryun 
NOT VOTING—12 
Carson Dingell Lantos 
Clay Doolittle Reyes 
Cox Engel Smith (MI) 
Danner Kaptur Smith (OR) 
b1251 

On this vote: 

Ms. Danner and Mr. Reyes for, with Mr. 
Smith of Michigan against. 

So (two-thirds having voted in favor 
thereof) the rules were suspended and 
the bill was passed. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


OMISSION FROM THE RECORD OF 
FEBRUARY 26, 1997, PAGE H643 

SOUTH DAKOTANS AND THE 
BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT 

Mr. THUNE. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to address the floor this morning 
by talking a little bit about my recent 
trip to South Dakota, and over the 
course of the President’s recess I had 
the opportunity to spend 9 days in my 
home State, much of which was spent 
traveling around the State and listening 
to the people of our State talk 
about the issues that are important to 
them. One of the things that I attempted 
very much to discuss during 
the course of my travels was the upcoming 
vote on the balanced budget 
amendment. 

Now, it is interesting to note that already 
the radio ads are running in my 
State attacking me for supporting a 
balanced budget amendment and, 
again, trying to scare South Dakota 
seniors against this important issue 
and trying to generate opposition that 
is based upon a divide and conquer type 
of strategy and approach, and it is interesting 
as I was traveling around the 
State, and I would stop in cafes across 
South Dakota and raise this issue, and 
people, as they listened to the radio 
ads, would have questions about how in 
fact this would affect important programs 
like Social Security. It was always 
amazing to me, as I explained to 
them that the balanced budget amendment 
as it is drafted can be overridden 
by a three-fifths vote of the Congress, 
and now takes 60 votes in the Senate to 
do anything, that 60 votes could override 
this amendment, and 290 votes in 
the House, and when I explained to 
them that in fact a balanced budget 
amendment would not in any way depart 
from the current budgetary agreement 
of Social Security; in other 
words, the fact that Social Security 
trust fund surplus is already being applied 
to hide the deficit, they would be 
surprised; and I went on further to explain 
that in this country each year we 
spend $148 billion to pay the interest on 
the amount of money that we borrowed. 


When they heard the facts, they were 
like: ‘‘I didn’t realize that,’’ and, ‘‘This 
really is important. This is something 
that we should do.’’ 

Now I have not been in Washington 
for all that long, but it is clear to me 
from the time that I have been here in 

each other on the back over getting the 
deficit down, and frankly the deficit 
has been coming down as the economy 
has been performing well, but still, a 
$126 billion deficit this year is $126 billion 
that goes on to the $6.6 or $5.4 trillion 
debt, and in fact, even if the President’s 
budget is adopted, which I question 
that it will be, and even if his economic 
assumptions are accurate, the 
debt at the end of the 5-year period in 
the year 2002 is $2.6 trillion. 

Now that is $26,000 for every man, 
woman, and child in America, and furthermore, 
a kid born in America today 
will spend $200,000 over the course of 
their lifetime just to pay the interest 
on the money that we have borrowed. 
And when you put that in that context, 
you realize that this vote is really a 
vote about the future of this country 
and what we are doing to the next generation 
of Americans, and I believe 
profoundly that, as we debate this over 
the next couple of weeks, that this is 
the most important vote that we will 
make for the future of America, and I 
would like to think that this body, the 
Congress, could make those decisions, 
but frankly, it has proven over the 
years that it cannot. In fact, the President’s 
budget, what is supposed to balance 
the budget by the year 2002, in 
fact puts 73 percent of the savings after 
he leaves office. 

We have proven that we do not have 
the political courage to make the decisions 
to get out country on a sound fiscal 
track, and so I would ask the 
Democrats and the Republicans, people 
from both sides of the aisle—I know 
many of the Democrats who ran in this 
last election year, and many of my Republican 
colleagues, as well as freshmen, 
ran on support of a balanced 
budget amendment, and it is too important 
to the future of this country. 

I have a strong commitment to Social 
Security; most of the Members of 
this body do; and I will not do anything 
in my support for a balanced budget 
amendment that does in any way diminish 
that strong support. But this is 
not about Social Security. It is about 
the future of this country. And if we do 
not do something, we not only will not 
have any money for Social Security, 
but for every other program that we 
have in America today. 

And so this is a vote for our kids, this 
is a vote for our families, this is a vote 
for the future, and as the debate begins 
in the next few weeks, and I would certainly 
hope that the Senate will have 
the votes next week to pass a balanced 
budget amendment, and if they do and 
it comes over to the House, that we 
will work together as Republicans and 
Democrats, because this is not a Republican 
issue or a Democrat issue, 
this is an American issue, and it is 
critical to the future of this country 
that we do the right thing for our kids. 

And so, Mr. Speaker, despite all the 
ads that may be running out there, I 
hope that in this vote that we will take 

The Clerk announced the following Washington; you know, we are falling in the next few weeks that this body 
pair: all over ourselves these days, patting will serve our country well and serve 


H708 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE March 3, 1997 

our kids well and enact a balanced 
budget amendment that will bring the 
fiscal discipline to this Congress, to 
this country, that we have lacked since 
1969, which is the last time that we balanced 
our budget. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED 

By unanimous consent, permission to 
address the House, following the legislative 
program and any special orders 
heretofore entered, was granted to: 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. SCARBOROUGH) to revise 
and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material:) 

Mr. HUTCHINSON, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

Mr. PAUL, for 5 minutes, on March 5. 

Mr. SCARBOROUGH, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

f 


EXTENSION OF REMARKS 

By unanimous consent, permission to 
revise and extend remarks was granted 
to: 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. SCARBOROUGH) and to include 
extraneous matter:) 

Mr. TOWNS. 

Mr. PAYNE. 

Mr. VENTO. 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. SCARBOROUGH) and to include 
extraneous matter:) 

Mr. GINGRICH in three instances. 

Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. 

Mr. COBLE. 

Mr. PORTER. 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. WOLF) and to include extraneous 
matter:) 

Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. 

Mr. ALLEN. 

Mr. BENTSEN. 

Mr. PORTER. 

f 


ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, I move that 
the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 2 o’clock and 30 minutes 
p.m.), under its previous order, the 
House adjourned until Tuesday, March 
4, 1997, at 12:30 p.m. for morning hour 
debates. 

f 


RULES AND REPORTS SUBMITTED 

PURSUANT TO THE CONGRES


SIONAL REVIEW ACT 

Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(d), executive 
communications [final rules] submitted 
to the House pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1) during the period of May 22, 
1996, through January 7, 1997, shall be 
treated as though received on March 3, 
1997. Original dates of transmittal, 
numberings, and referrals to committee 
of those executive communications 
remain as indicated in the executive 
communication section of the relevant 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORDS of the 104th 
Congress. 

EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XXIV, executive 
communications were taken from 
the Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 


2008. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Regulatory Management and Information, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting 
the Agency’s final rule—Nevada: Final 
Authorization of State Hazardous Waste 
Management Program Revisions [FRL–5699– 

5] received February 28, 1997, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Commerce. 
2009. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Regulatory Management and Information, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting 
the Agency’s final rule—Designation of 
Areas for Air Quality Planning Purposes: 
Ohio [OH54–2; FRL–5698–4] received February 
28, 1997, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to 
the Committee on Commerce. 

2010. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Regulatory Management and Information, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting 
the Agency’s final rule—Clean Air Act 
Approval and Promulgation of State Implementation 
Plan for Colorado; Carbon Monoxide 
Attainment Demonstrations and Related 
SIP Elements for Denver and 
Longmont; Clean Air Act Reclassification; 
Oxygenated Gasoline Program [CO–001–0011; 
CO–001–0012; CO–001–0013; CO–001–0014; FRL– 
5692–3] received February 28, 1997, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Commerce. 

2011. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Regulatory Management and Information, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting 
the Agency’s final rule—Regulation of 
Fuels and Fuel Additives: Adjustments to Individual 
Baselines for the Reformulated Gasoline 
and Anti-Dumping Programs [AMS– 
FRL–5696–2] received February 28, 1997, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Commerce. 

2013. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting the 1997 ‘‘International Narcotics 
Control Strategy Report,’’ pursuant to 22 

U.S.C. 2291(b)(2); to the Committee on International 
Relations. 
2014. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislative Affairs, the Department of 
State, transmitting the President’s determination 
regarding certification of the 32 
major illicit narcotics producing and transit 
countries, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2291 (H. Doc. 
No. 105–50); to the Committee on International 
Relations and ordered to be printed. 

2015. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting a report of activities under the 
Freedom of Information Act for the calendar 
year 1996, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(e); to the 
Committee on Government Reform and 
Oversight. 

2016. A letter from the Agency Freedom of 
Information Officer (1105), Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting a report of 
activities under the Freedom of Information 
Act for the calendar year 1996, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 552; to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 
2017. A letter from the Chairman, Board of 
Governors, Federal Reserve System, transmitting 
a report of activities under the Freedom 
of Information Act for the calendar year 
1996, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(d); to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 


2018. A letter from the Chairman, National 
Credit Union Administration, transmitting a 
report of activities under the Freedom of Information 
Act for the calendar year 1996, 

pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(d); to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 

2019. A letter from the National Endowment 
for Democracy, transmitting a report 
of activities under the Freedom of Information 
Act for the calendar year 1996, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 552(e); to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

2020. A letter from the Vice President and 
General Counsel, Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation, transmitting a report of 
activities under the Freedom of Information 
Act for the calendar year 1996, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 552(e); to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 
2021. A letter from the Chairman, Securities 
and Exchange Commission, transmitting 
a report of activities under the Freedom of 
Information Act for the calendar year 1996, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b); to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 

2022. A letter from the Deputy Associate 
Director for Compliance, Department of the 
Interior, transmitting notification of proposed 
refunds of excess royalty payments in 
OCS areas, pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1339(b); to 
the Committee on Resources. 

2023. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule—Fisheries of 
the Northeastern United States; Northeast 
Multispecies Fishery; Framework Adjustment 
16 [Docket No. 970214031–7031–01; I.D. 
011697C] received March 3, 1997, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Resources. 
2024. A letter from the Acting Director, Office 
of Sustainable Fisheries, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule— 
Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone 
Off Alaska; Offshore Component Pollock in 
the Aleutian Islands Subarea [Docket No. 
961107312–7021–02; I.D. 022197A] received 
March 3, 1997, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Resources. 

2025. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule—Fisheries of 
the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; 
Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources 
of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic; 
Trip Limit Reduction [Docket No. 950725189– 
6245–04; I.D. 022697B] received March 3, 1997, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Resources. 

2026. A letter from the Secretary of the 
Navy, transmitting the Department’s report 
entitled ‘‘U.S. Navy Ship Solid Waste Compliance 
Plan for MARPOL Annex V Special 
Areas,’’ pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1903; jointly, to 
the Committees on National Security and 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 

2027. A letter from the Assistant Attorney 
General for Administration, Department of 
Justice, transmitting the National Institute 
of Corrections’ plan for Short-Term Improvements 
for the District of Columbia (D.C.) Department 
of Corrections, pursuant to Public 
Law 104–134; jointly, to the Committees on 
Appropriations, the Judiciary, and Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

f 


PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 5 of rule X and clause 4 
of rule XXII, public bills and resolutions 
were introduced and severally referred 
as follows: 

By Mr. COX of California (for himself, 
Mr. RAHALL, Mr. ANDREWS, Mr. HALL 
of Texas, Mr. DELAY, Mr. LIVINGSTON, 
Mr. BLILEY, Mr. SOLOMON, Ms. MOLINARI, 
Mr. PITTS, Mr. LARGENT, Mr. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H709 

MCCOLLUM, Mr. TALENT, Mr. BURTON 
of Indiana, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. BAKER, 
Mr. BARR of Georgia, Mr. BARTLETT 
of Maryland, Mr. BILBRAY, Mr. 
BONILLA, Mr. BONO, Mr. BRYANT, Mr. 
BUNNING of Kentucky, Mr. CALLAHAN, 
Mr. CALVERT, Mr. CANNON, Mr. 
CANADY of Florida, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. 
CHAMBLISS, Mrs. CHENOWETH, Mr. 
CHRISTENSEN, Mr. COBURN, Mr. COLLINS, 
Mr. COOK, Mr. COOKSEY, Mr. 
CRANE, Mr. CRAPO, Mrs. CUBIN, Mr. 
DEAL of Georgia, Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. 
DREIER, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. EHRLICH, 
Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. 
FORBES, Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. GALLEGLY, Mr. GIBBONS, Mr. 
GOODLING, Mr. GRAHAM, Ms. GRANGER, 
Mr. HASTINGS of Washington, Mr. 
HAYWORTH, Mr. HEFLEY, Mr. HERGER, 
Mr. HILL, Mr. HORN, Mr. HOSTETTLER, 
Mr. HULSHOF, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. 
HUTCHINSON, Mr. INGLIS of South 
Carolina, Mr. SAM JOHNSON, Mr. 
JONES, Mrs. KELLY, Mr. KIM, Mr. 
KING of New York, Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. 
KNOLLENBERG, Mr. KOLBE, Mr. 
LATOURETTE, Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, 
Mr. LINDER, Mr. LUCAS of Oklahoma, 
Mr. MCCRERY, Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. MCKEON, Mr. 
MANZULLO, Mr. METCALF, Mr. MORAN 
of Kansas, Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. NORWOOD, 
Mr. PACKARD, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. 
PARKER, Mr. PAUL, Mr. PEASE, Mr. 
POMBO, Mr. RIGGS, Mr. RILEY, Mr. 
ROGAN, Mr. ROHRABACHER, Mr. 
ROYCE, Mr. RYUN, Mr. SAXTON, Mr. 
SCARBOROUGH, Mr. BOB SCHAFFER, 
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. SESSIONS, 
Mr. SHADEGG, Mr. SKEEN, Mr. SMITH 
of Texas, Mrs. LINDA SMITH of Washington, 
Mr. SMITH of Michigan, Mr. 
SMITH of Oregon, Mr. SNOWBARGER, 
Mr. STEARNS, Mr. STUMP, Mr. TAYLOR 
of North Carolina, Mr. WALSH, Mr. 
WATTS of Oklahoma, Mr. WELDON of 
Pennsylvania, Mr. WELDON of Florida, 
and Mr. YOUNG of Alaska): 

H.R. 902. A bill to repeal the Federal estate 
and gift taxes and the tax on generation-
skipping transfers; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
By Mr. COBLE (for himself and Mr. 
GOODLATTE): 

H.R. 903. A bill to amend title 28, United 
States Code, with respect to arbitration in 
U.S. district courts, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA: 

H.R. 904. A bill to amend the definition of 
State in the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to 
include American Samoa within the meaning 
of such term; to the Committee on Banking 
and Financial Services. 
H.R. 905. A bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to provide that U.S. nationals 
should be eligible for advanced training in, 
and for financial assistance as members of, 
the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps; 
to the Committee on National Security. 
By Mr. MCINTOSH (for himself, Mr. 
GOODLATTE, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. DAVIS of 
Virginia, Mr. FROST, Mr. BOUCHER, 
Mr. CONDIT, Mrs. MYRICK, Ms. 
LOFGREN, and Mr. MORAN of Virginia): 


H.R. 906. A bill to provide for a reduced 
rate of postage for certain mailings that 
under Federal or State law, are required to 
be made by local governments; to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 
By Mr. SANFORD (for himself, Mr. 
CLEMENT, Mr. LARGENT, Mr. 
BALLENGER, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. CAMPBELL, 
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. CHAMBLISS, 
Mr. COBURN, Mr. DEAL of Georgia, 
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. HERGER, Mr. 
HILLEARY, Mr. HOEKSTRA, Mr. 
HOSTETTLER, Mr. ISTOOK, Mr. JONES. 
Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. KLUG, Mr. 
LATOURETTE, Mr. LUCAS of Oklahoma, 
Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. MICA, Mrs. 
MYRICK, Mr. NEY, Mrs. NORTHUP, Mr. 
NORWOOD, Mr. PICKERING, Mr. SALMON, 
Mr. SCARBOROUGH, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, 
Mr. SHADEGG, Mr. SOUDER, 
Mr. SPENCE, Mr. SPRATT, Mr. TAUZIN, 
Mr. TAYLOR of North Carolina Mr. 
TAYLOR of Mississippi, Mr. 
THORNBERRY, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. 
WATTS of Oklahoma, and Mr. 
WHITFIELD): 

H.R. 907. A bill to amend title 23, United 
States Code, to modify the minimum allocation 
formula under the Federal-aid highways 
program, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. SHAW (for himself, Mr. MICA, 
Mr. BACHUS, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. WATTS 

of Oklahoma, Mr. TRAFICANT, Mr. 
FOLEY, Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. MCCOLLUM, 
Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania, and 
Mr. LATOURETTE): 

H.J. Res. 58. Joint resolution disapproving 
the certification of the President under section 
490(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 regarding foreign assistance for Mexico 
during fiscal year 1997; to the Committee on 
International Relations. 
By Mr. ADERHOLT (for himself, Mr. 
RILEY, Mr. CANADY of Florida, and 
Mr. BARR of Georgia): 

H. Con. Res. 31. Concurrent resolution expressing 
the sense of Congress regarding the 
display of the Ten Commandments by Judge 
Roy S. Moore, a judge on the circuit court of 
the State of Alabama; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
f 


ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 

Under clause 4 of rule XXII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 8: Mr. RADANOVICH. 
H.R. 108: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. LEWIS of 
Georgia. 
H.R. 166: Mr. STUPAK. 
H.R. 168: Mr. STUPAK. 
H.R. 367: Mr. TIAHRT and Mr. WATTS of 
Oklahoma. 
H.R. 400: Mr. HINCHEY and Mr. LEWIS of 
Georgia. 
H.R. 630: Mr. RADANOVICH and Mr. MARTINEZ. 
H.R. 664: Mr. FROST and Mr. YATES. 
H.R. 673: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts and 
Mr. DELAHUNT. 
H.R. 674: Mr. HILLEARY. 
H.R. 680: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 727: Mr. BILBRAY. 
H.R. 750: Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. MATSUI, and 
Mr. PORTER. 
H.R. 817: Mr. POMBO. 
H.R. 882: Mr. LANTOS. 
H. Con. Res. 18: Mr. BURTON of Indiana and 
Mr. YATES. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 105th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 143 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 3, 1997 No. 25 

The Senate met at 12 noon and was 
called to order by the President pro 
tempore [Mr. THURMOND]. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Lloyd John 
Ogilvie, offered the following prayer: 

Sovereign God, help us to see our 
work here in Government as our divine 
calling and mission. Whatever we are 
called to do today, we want to do our 
very best for Your glory. Our desire is 
not just to do different things, but to 
do the same old things differently: with 
freedom, joy, and excellence. Give us 
new delight for matters of drudgery, 
new patience for people who are difficult, 
new zest for unfinished details. 
Be our lifeline in the pressures of deadlines, 
our rejuvenation in routines, and 
our endurance whenever we feel enervated. 
May we spend more time talking 
to You about issues than we do talking 
to others about issues. So may our 
communion with You give us deep convictions 
and high courage to defend 
them. Spirit of the living God, fall 
afresh on us so we may serve with renewed 
dedication today. 

Father, our hearts go out to those 
who are suffering as a result of the 
floods in Ohio and Kentucky and the 
tornadoes in Arkansas. Especially 
grant comfort and courage to those 
who are enduring grief over the loss of 
family and friends. In all our needs and 
crises, You are a very present help in 
trouble. Through our Lord and Savior. 
Amen. 

f 


RECOGNITION OF THE ACTING 
MAJORITY LEADER 

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
able acting majority leader is recognized. 


SCHEDULE 

Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, the Senate 
will be in session for a period of 
morning business, with no rollcall 
votes conducted during today’s session. 

Under a previous order, the Senate 
will resume consideration of Senate 

Senate 

Joint Resolution 1, the constitutional 
amendment for a balanced budget, tomorrow 
at 9:30 a.m. Following closing 
statements on the balanced budget 
amendment, a vote will occur on the 
passage of Senate Joint Resolution 1 at 

5:15 p.m. tomorrow. I want my colleagues 
to be further advised that the 
time has not been moved. A vote will 
occur tomorrow at 5:15 p.m. 
f 


RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
SMITH of New Hampshire). Under a previous 
order, the leadership time is reserved. 


f 


MORNING BUSINESS 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under a 
previous order, there will now be a period 
for the transaction of morning 
business, with Senators permitted to 
speak therein for not to exceed 5 minutes 
each. The Senator from Texas, 
[Mrs. HUTCHISON], is recognized to 
speak for up to 15 minutes. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Thank you, Mr. 
President, and I thank the distinguished 
Senator from Montana. 

f 


PRAYERS OF TEXANS WITH 
ARKANSAS 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I 
appreciate being able to start the Senate 
this morning, because we had a 
very important anniversary yesterday 
in Texas that I want to talk about. But 
first, I want to say to my colleagues 
and friends from my neighboring State 
of Arkansas how sad we all are at the 
ravage that the State of Arkansas took 
yesterday from the weather, the 
storms and the floods. Lives were lost. 
I want Senators BUMPERS and HUTCHINSON 
to know that the prayers of Texans 
are with them in this time of healing 
for their State. We know that everything 
that can be done for the victims 
of that flood will be done. 

TEXAS INDEPENDENCE DAY 
REMEMBRANCE 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, 161 
years ago yesterday, 54 delegates of the 
Convention of 1836 signed the Texas 
declaration of independence at the village 
of Washington-on-the-Brazos, 
which is near Houston, TX. Each of the 
settlements of Texas were represented. 
Texas was, at the time, a territory of 
Mexico. The delegates hurriedly wrote 
and adopted the declaration of independence, 
prepared a constitution for 
the newly formed Republic of Texas 
and organized an interim government. 

Mr. President, my great-great-grandfather 
was one of the signers of the 
Texas Declaration of Independence. His 
law partner, Thomas Jefferson Rusk, 
was also one of the heroes of Texas’ 
quest for independence. Thomas Rusk 
also went on to serve as a Senator from 
Texas, and was the first Senator to 
hold my Senate seat. 

So I have grown up knowing much 
about Texas history since its days as a 
territory of Mexico. In fact, my greatgreat-
grandfather was the ‘‘alcalde,’’ 
which was the mayor of the territory 
for the country of Mexico. Then, he, 
Thomas Rusk and Sam Houston, all 
hailing from Nacogdoches, TX, where 
my mother grew up, were leaders in the 
effort to wrest their independence from 
Mexico and for Texas to be able to set 
up its own government. 

I am proud, Mr. President, that 
Texas is the only State in America 
that was once an independent nation 
and, in fact, we were a republic for 9 
years before becoming a State. So we 
like to recall the history of our independence, 
just as we do our history of 
American independence, every year. 
Yesterday in Texas we celebrated our 
Texas Independence Day. 

We commemorate the time that we 
became a nation, and we remember the 
brave and wonderful people, not only 
those who signed the declaration of 
independence that day, but those who 
were at the same time girding for war 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 


S1807 


S1808 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

at the Alamo several hundred miles 
away. Former Texas Senator John 
Tower began a tradition among Texas 
Senators. Senator Tower would read 
William Barret Travis’ letter from the 
Alamo. As I alluded to a moment ago, 
as they were declaring independence at 
Washington-on-the-Brazos in 1836, 6,000 
Mexican troops were marching to the 
Alamo. They were marching to the 
Alamo to take on soldiers who had 
come from many States—Kentucky, 
Tennessee, South Carolina, North 
Carolina, Georgia, and so on—to help 
defend Texas in its stand against the 
Mexican Army at the Alamo. 

The declaration of independence said: 

. . . We, therefore . . . do hereby resolve and 
declare that our political connection with 
the Mexican Nation has forever ended, and 
that the people of Texas do now constitute a 
free, sovereign and independent republic . . . 

Several days earlier, William Barret 
Travis had written from the Alamo his 
famous letter to the people of Texas 
and to all Americans. He knew that the 
Mexican Army was coming, and he 
knew that they had few people to help 
them defend the Alamo. Here is the letter 
by Colonel Travis: 

Fellow citizens and compatriots: I am besieged, 
by a thousand or more of the Mexicans 
under Santa Anna—I have sustained a 
continual bombardment and cannonade for 
24 hours and have not lost a man—the enemy 
has demanded a surrender at discretion, otherwise, 
the garrison are to be put to the 
sword, if the fort is taken—I have answered 
the demands with a cannon shot, and our 
flag still waves proudly from the wall—I 
shall never surrender or retreat. Then, I call 
on you in the name of liberty, or patriotism 
and of everything dear to the American character, 
to come to our aid, with all dispatch— 
The enemy is receiving reinforcements daily 
and will no doubt increase to three or four 
thousand in four or five days. If this call is 
neglected, I am determined to sustain myself 
as long as possible and die like a soldier who 
never forgets what is due to his own honor 
and that of his country—Victory or Death. 

WILLIAM BARRET TRAVIS, LT. COL., 

Commander. 

P.S. The Lord is on our side—when the 
enemy appeared in sight we had not three 
bushels of corn—we have since found in deserted 
houses 80 or 90 bushels and got into 
the walls 20 or 30 heads of beeves. 
Despite that declaration, Mr. President, 
we did not win independence from 
Mexico at the Alamo. In the battle of 
the Alamo, known as the ‘‘13 Days of 
Glory,’’ 184 brave men died fending off 
Santa Anna’s huge army. But the 
Alamo was crucial. It gave time to 
Gen. Sam Houston, who was the commander 
in chief of our Armed Forces, 
to get more volunteers and to decide 
when to take on this vast Mexican 
Army again. And because those brave 
men at the Alamo held out for so long, 
Houston had time to muster his forces. 
Gen. Sam Houston was wounded in the 
battle, but was able to take the surrender 
of General Santa Anna. Texas won 
her freedom on April 21, 1836. 

San Jacinto is near Houston, and 
home to the battle we commemorate as 
the ‘‘Great Battle of Freedom.’’ 

So, Mr. President, I like to recall this 
time because it is an important time in 

the history of America as well as in the 
history of Texas. Our independent nation 
lasted for 9 years; for 9 years we 
brought our State together to prepare 
it for admission into the United States 
of America. 

In fact, the debate recorded in the 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD on whether 
Texas would become a State was very 
interesting. 

Texas would join the Union if several 
conditions were met. Those conditions 
were outlined in a treaty. In the treaty, 
Texas was able to keep certain 
rights when she joined the Union— 
rights to her tidelands, rights to her 
public lands, which is why much of our 
public land is State owned rather than 
federally owned. This is why we have 
some different issues in Texas. We were 
able to control the tidelands because 
that was part of the treaty. We also 
had the right to turn into five States if 
the State of Texas decided to break 
away from the Union. Now, that causes 
a little concern here on Capitol Hill 
when they think of having the possibility 
of 10 Senators from Texas instead 
of 2. There are a few cold stares when 
that is brought up. But I must say that 
was all part of the treaty. 

The treaty did not pass because supporters 
couldn’t muster the two-thirds 
vote necessary to ratify it. So President 
John Tyler introduced a bill to 
annex Texas as a State. Texas became 
a State because of a bill, not a treaty. 
The interesting thing was that the bill 
passed by only one vote in each House 
of Congress. Any of those who think it 
might have been a mistake to annex 
Texas almost won a victory. We did 
have a long, hard-fought battle before 
we joined the Union. One of the annexation 
proposal’s most vocal opponents 
at the time was President John Quincy 
Adams, who had returned to Congress 
by that time. He spoke every day on 
the floor against the annexation of 
Texas. The reason he was so far out on 
the limb against Texas is because he 
was afraid Texas would become another 
slave State. He did not want to disrupt 
the balance that existed in the United 
States of America at the time. Once we 
did become a State, I think we began a 
tradition of great contributions to the 
United States. And, of course, just recently 
we have become the second largest 
State in America—second to California, 
overtaking New York State. 

So that is a little bit of Texas history, 
which I am always glad to recall 
on Texas Independence Day. I like to 
read the letter from William Barret 
Travis to remind you of the pride Texans 
share for their independence from 
Mexico and their membership today in 
the United States of America. We are 
proud that we were an independent nation 
for 9 years and then took our 
rightful place in the United States of 
America. I hope that people feel that 
we have earned the right to be proud of 
that, and also hope that people feel 
that Texas has done her part as a 
State. 

We are proud of our heritage. We are 
proud of our history. And most of all, 

today, I want to pay tribute to the 
brave men who died at the Alamo and 
the brave men, numbering among them 
the first Senator to hold my Senate 
seat, the first Senator to hold the 
other Texas Senate seat, Gen. Sam 
Houston, and my own great-greatgrandfather 
who signed the Declaration 
of Independence and later became 
the chief justice of Nacogdoches County. 


These were brave men who forged a 
new nation at great cost. They went 
through many of the same things that 
our forebears in the United States of 
America did in wresting our independence 
from England. So I am proud of 
that. I am proud of the patriots who 
gave their lives for our freedom or who 
risked their lives for our freedom. I 
want to pay tribute to them today, and 
I will do so every year that I am able 
to serve as a Senator from the great 
State of Texas. 

Mr. President, I thank you for your 
indulgence, and I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senator from 
South Dakota [Mr. JOHNSON], is recognized 
to speak for up to 15 minutes. 

f 


BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT 
TO THE CONSTITUTION 

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I rise 
today to express my opposition to Senate 
Joint Resolution 1, a version of a 
balanced budget amendment to the 

U.S. Constitution currently pending 
before the Senate. 
Throughout the more than 10 years 
that I have had the honor and opportunity 
to represent the people of South 
Dakota as a Congressman and now as a 

U.S. Senator, I have consistently supported 
a policy of fiscal prudence and 
restraint. I have supported, among 
other initiatives, a line-item veto and 
enhanced line-item rescission, the 1990 
budget agreement initiated by President 
Bush and the 1993 budget agreement 
initiated by President Clinton. 
The latter two budget agreements having 
played a very significant role in 
capping discretionary spending, placing 
our Government on a must-pay-asyou-
go basis and contributing to over a 
60-percent reduction in the annual Federal 
budget deficit. I am pleased that 
these and other efforts taken by the 
Clinton administration, though almost 
universally opposed by the Republican 
congressional caucuses have led to economic 
growth, prosperity, and now a 
deficit that is smaller relative to our 
economy than in any industrial nation 
on Earth. Even so, we have farther to 
go to bring our Federal expenditures 
and revenue into greater equilibrium. 
To that end, I have also voted in favor 
of various balanced budget amendments 
while serving in the other body. 
I do not take the amendment of our 
Nation’s Constitution lightly. I am 
mindful that this is the legislative 
body that served as the forum for Clay 
and for Webster and many other great 
names of American history. Unlike ordinary 
legislation, a constitutional 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1809 

amendment cannot be easily changed if 
it proves faulty—it must be crafted in 
such a manner that serves the interests 
of our Nation not only now, but for 200 
years and more from now. We must of 
necessity approach such a difficult 
task—that of drafting a constitutional 
amendment for the ages—with some 
humility and with a full recognition of 
the great care that is required if future 
generations are to look to our deliberations 
with the same respect that we 
today hold for the Founders of our Republic. 


Over the past 4 years, we, and in particular 
the Clinton administration, 
have taken an exploding deficit that 
had reached nearly $300 billion annually 
and a cumulative national debt 
that had quadrupled on the watch of 
Presidents Reagan and Bush, and cut 
that annual deficit by over 60 percent. 
Yet, despite this progress, I began my 
service in the Senate at the commencement 
of the 105th Congress with the assumption 
that I would cast a vote in 
favor of a constitutional amendment 
drafted in much the manner that Senate 
Joint Resolution 1 appears before 
us today. However, the findings of the 
nonpartisan Congressional Research 
Service later substantiated by an analysis 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget and the Center on Budget and 
Policy Priorities have cast such grave 
doubts about the wisdom of Senate 
Joint Resolution 1 as it is currently 
drafted, that I cannot cast a vote for 
an unamended version with the confidence 
I need to have that it truly will 
achieve the goals its advocates claim. 

The CRS report makes it clear that 
Senate Joint Resolution 1 would prohibit 
the Federal Government from 
conducting its financial affairs in the 
same prudent manner that every South 
Dakota family attempts to achieve. It 
would effectively prevent the Federal 
Government from setting aside cash reserves 
in good times in order to have 
them available in times of crisis—a 
policy that flies in the face of common 
sense and one that certainly should not 
be imposed on all future generations of 
Americans. 

While the Social Security trust fund 
is the source of the greatest attention 
in this debate, and that is understandable 
since Senate Joint Resolution 1 
would convert the Federal Government’s 
largest effort to set aside resources 
for a future generation into a 
virtual fraud on the taxpayers, the implications 
of denying the Federal Government 
the ability to raise funds now 
for future needs goes far beyond damage 
to Social Security. Such a provision 
diminishes the usefulness of all 
our trust funds, especially those that 
have been designed to gain revenue 
during good times and to be available 
to fall back on during bad times. It 
makes any realistic effort to set aside 
funds now to be available for a future 
countercyclical economic strategy 
much more difficult—a criticism that 
has been the chief reason why Republican 
economic experts such as Alan 

Greenspan, Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve, 11 Nobel laureate economists, 
and even the conservative Wall Street 
Journal have condemned Senate Joint 
Resolution 1. 

While a few Members of this body 
may attempt to lecture me about what 
pledges I have made to the people of 
South Dakota during the past campaign, 
I will refrain from attempting to 
impugn their motives or to engage in 
self-righteous assertions about their 
responsibilities to their constituents or 
to their oath of office. 

I have pledged to the people of South 
Dakota that I would support a balanced 
budget and that I would vote for 
a balanced budget amendment—one 
that works—one that would help 
achieve the goal of balancing the Federal 
budget without destroying Social 
Security or otherwise placing our Nation’s 
economic growth and prosperity 
at great risk. What arrogance for anyone 
to suggest on this floor that a vote 
for any proposed amendment other 
than Senate Joint Resolution 1 constitutes 
a breach of honor. 

I have voted, and it is duly recorded 
in the Senate Journal, for a balanced 
budget amendment and for modifications 
to Senate Joint Resolution 1 
which would promote a balanced budget 
without the disastrous flaws of Senate 
Joint Resolution 1. 

I am a fourth generation South Dakotan. 
My family homesteaded in our 
State and I’m proud that my children 
now represent the fifth consecutive 
generation of our family to claim Clay 
County, SD as home. With that background, 
I have a profound appreciation 
for the concerns and more importantly 
the values of the citizens of my State. 
During this past campaign I pledged to 
them the most important pledge of 
all—that I would exercise my best 
judgment and greatest care in casting 
my vote in the Senate and that in 
doing so, I would ignore the immediate 
winds of political pressure and cast my 
votes in a manner consistent with the 
long-term needs of our State and Nation. 


There is no doubt that the easy thing 
for me to do would be to capitulate to 
the current political pressures ginned 
up and funded by the special interests 
promoting exclusively Senate Joint 
Resolution 1. That would be the path of 
least resistance, and, clearly, the negative 
impact of that particular version 
of balanced budget amendment would 
not be felt until after my next election 
where I too choose to run for another 
term in this body. 

It would take, frankly, several years 
to ratify any amendment and some 
years beyond that before the public 
would fully recognize the enormous 
wrong this body would have done to 
the Constitution. But I told my constituents 
that I would do the right 
thing, not the politically expedient 
thing. While I respect the integrity of 
everyone’s professed views, as I look 
about this Chamber, I have to wonder 
if there would in fact be a close vote on 

Senate Joint Resolution 1 if the ballot 
were secret, and intellect and conscience 
the only driving forces in this 
debate. 

Mr. President, when this debate concludes 
tomorrow, I will have the satisfaction 
of knowing that I have honorably 
lived up to my pledges to the people 
of South Dakota and to my sacred 
responsibilities to this Nation and to 
the U.S. Senate. To cast a vote for this 
specific version of a balanced budget 
amendment knowing what I know 
today, would constitute a betrayal of 
the people of my State, and inasmuch 
as I am a U.S. Senator, it would be a 
betrayal of my commitment and my 
love for our Nation—that I will not and 
cannot do. 

I yield back the remaining time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

f 


CONSERVATION RESERVE 
PROGRAM 

Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, last 
month, the Secretary of Agriculture 
announced the new rules and regulations 
on the Conservation Reserve Program 
in the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
We find that we are starting to 
take a program that has been claimed 
as one of the great success programs, 
as far as soil conservation, watershed 
management, wildlife habitat, in our 
respective States. There is no doubt 
about it, that we have land that was 
taken out of production that was marginal 
land, should never have been in 
row crop or crop production, should 
have been grass all those years, and we 
have noticed an increase, a notable increase 
in upland bird populations, also 
in white tail deer and other wildlife 
that depend on a habitat that the CRP 
would afford. 

There has been a rule change, however. 
This was brought to our attention 
by our good friends and neighbors who 
are living and working on the grain 
farms of Montana, and especially in 
eastern Montana. The announcement 
by U.S. Department of Agriculture to 
start a sign up for an extension, or increased 
acreage received into the program 
going up to 220 million acres 
across this country. Now, it would look 
like the acreage is capped around 36.4 
million acres, but there have been new 
rules made on about half of American 
cropland making it now eligible for 
CRP. It was brought up in this new announcement 
and the timing is flawed. 

The new rules give the worst lands 
the lowest rate, the best lands the 
highest rate. So right now we have figures 
coming in from the different counties 
and it could be on dirt farms as 
low as $17 an acre. What happens when 
you get a bid to take lands out of production 
at $17 an acre—I do not care 
what you do on that land, it will 
produce more than $17 an acre. So, 
what is happening is that the good land 
is going into the CRP—in other words, 
taken out of production—and we will 
farm our worst land, having the exact 


S1810 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

opposite effect that was desired in the 
first place. 

The process is a burden to participants 
if you have between now and this 
month of March to sign up. Just think, 
that has to go to the local level, whenever 
you make those arrangements, 
that application for CRP. It goes from 
the local board to the State board to 
the Federal board before it is approved 
back to the farmer. The farmer does 
not know what he will be planting or 
harvesting this year. 

It could be June or July. In fact, the 
president of the National Association 
of Wheat Growers, Philip McClain, testified 
before the House Forestry Resource 
and Conservation and Research 
Subcommittee and expressed his concern 
that the USDA will not decide 
which offers being made by the growers 
during that March CRP signup will be 
accepted into most areas until June. 
Now, if it is July in our country—in 
other words, the winter wheat people 
are really put at a disadvantage if you 
are in the southern climes. In the 
northern climes, it is too late to plant 
a spring crop. The delayed signup really 
puts a hardship on wheat growers, 
no matter in which part of the country 
you farm—whether it’s Texas, Oklahoma, 
Kansas, Nebraska, or going on 
north to the Canadian border. 

So the National Association of Wheat 
Growers, all at once over the weekend, 
has said, wait a minute here, we need 
immediate congressional action, 
maybe to recommend that we extend 
the present contracts, which expire 
this fall and which qualify for participation 
under the current eligibility criteria. 
I think that is a good recommendation. 
Even the USDA State 
staff feels that the problems that are 
associated with this program make a 
mockery of the intent of the program. 
It does not provide the original intent 
of why CRP was put in in the first 
place. 

So I recommend to the Department 
of Agriculture—and they have time, I 
think, to look at this, and, if not, I 
think Congress should take a very serious 
look at it, because it is just not 
fair if you have a program that will 
work exactly the opposite from what 
was intended and put all the grain producers 
at a disadvantage. I suggest 
that the Secretary extend the current 
program for 1 year. Let’s give it some 
time and take a look at it and try to 
get the desired results and rewrite the 
rules to reflect the intent of the program. 
The intent of the program was to 
take marginal land out of production 
so that we can manage watershed, we 
can manage soil erosion, we can manage 
wetlands, potholes, all of the environmental 
concerns that this country 
has. We can take a look at this, given 
more time to do it. Of course, these 
recommendations are supported by the 
National Association of Wheat Growers. 


So with this in mind, with the good 
record of CRP, a program that has been 
highly successful in doing two things 

that were most desired in rural America, 
I think it is only right to extend 
those rules through the program this 
year. Let’s look at it, and this time we 
might be able to get it right. Right 
now, we are extending some programs 
that would suggest exactly the opposite. 


f 


TAX RELIEF 
Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, today 
there will be legislation that will be introduced 
in the Congress having to do 
with estate taxes. I know estate taxes 
and capital gains are viewed by many 
as tax relief for the rich. Last week, a 
week ago today, I was watching a television 
program and there was a financial 
organization, or a mutual fund, 
who had declared that they had been so 
successful that they have to declare a 
capital gain. The people who had investments 
in that mutual fund would 
be assessed a tax because of those capital 
gains. I didn’t see one rich man in 
that line that came down to complain 
about that. So it is not just that. 
If you are really concerned about 
keeping farmers on the land and letting 
young farmers get started, we 
have to start taking a look at capital 
gains, because I think we have to lower 
the average age of the farmers today, 
and also estate taxes, so that we can 
pass these farms and ranches and small 
businesses on to the next generation. 
Mr. President, I see my time has expired. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. GRAMS addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Minnesota [Mr. GRAMS], is 
recognized. 
Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to be able to speak 
for 10 minutes. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


THE AMERICAN TAXPAYERS DE


SERVE A BALANCED BUDGET 

AMENDMENT 

Mr. GRAMS. Mr. President, I rise 
today to again express my strong support 
for the balanced budget amendment. 


I want to thank the distinguished 
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee 
for providing a forum which has 
encouraged debate on all sides of this 
critically important issue. The public 
has been well served by these many 
hours of discussion. 

Mr. President, let me describe the 
need for the balanced budget amendment 
by comparing it to a situation to 
which many Americans can relate. 

By repeated abuse of a high-interest 
credit card, your debt is rapidly 
mounting until you reach the point of 
maxing out. You’re barely paying 
enough to cover the minimum monthly 
payments—let alone make any dent in 
the principal—and your debts threaten 
to consume the entire family budget. 

With every available dollar being 
funneled into your credit card pay


ments, there is no money left over to 
meet your daily needs or invest in your 
family’s future. 

You, the overextended consumer, are 
left with only two viable options: Either 
file for bankruptcy or drastically 
cut your spending. 

If you’re so far in debt that you see 
nothing in your future but despair, you 
may seek out the help of a credit counseling 
service. I guarantee they’ll take 
one look at the horrendous mess you’ve 
created and demand you come up with 
an immediate plan for climbing out of 
debt. 

They’ll tell you there are only three 
options that will return you to financial 
solvency: Discipline, discipline, 
and discipline. 

Now imagine that scenario multiplied 
several trillion times, where the 
reckless consumer is not an individual 
but the Federal Government itself. 
That’s very much the predicament the 
United States will soon face. 

As Washington continues to spend 
dollars it does not have, each annual 
budget deficit is added to the balance 
of the overall national debt. 

The national debt today stands at 
$5.3 trillion, or $20,000 for every American 
man, woman, and child. 

The debt is increasing by $721 million 
every day, and $1 in every $7 Federal 
tax goes to service just the interest on 
a debt so massive. 

If an individual acted with equal irresponsibility, 
the consequences would be 
severe. 

The Federal Government, however, 
simply writes another IOU in the name 
of our children and grandchildren and 
keeps right on spending, demanding 
services today that it wants our kids to 
pay for tomorrow. 

In recent years, the credit counselors—
in this case, the American taxpayers—
have been scrutinizing Federal 
spending and demanding that the Government 
be accountable for every tax 
dollar. 

But instead of hearing ‘‘discipline, 
discipline, discipline,’’ Washington 
somehow hears it as ‘‘spend, spend, 
spend.’’ And spend it does—even when 
every ounce of common sense demands 
that it should not. 

Despite all the recent talk about controlling 
Federal spending, there is no 
reason to believe Washington has fundamentally 
changed its ways. 

Without the constitutional protections 
of a balanced budget amendment, 
the outlook for our fiscal future is 
grim: The national debt will continue 
to explode, America will eventually 
run out of IOU’s, and a bankrupt nation 
will surely follow. 

For an entire generation—more than 
three decades—Washington has talked 
about eliminating the deficit. ‘‘[My 
program] is the surest and soundest 
way of achieving in time a balanced 
budget,’’ said President John F. Kennedy 
in his State of the Union Address 
in 1963. 

That sentiment has been echoed by 
every President since Johnson, Nixon, 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1811 

Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush, and Clinton. 


The fact that we haven’t balanced 
the budget since 1969 demonstrates 
that talking about balancing the budget 
is far easier than actually doing it. 

Many budget balancing plans have 
been proposed over the years, yet even 
the most well-intentioned of them have 
not brought about balance, just larger 
deficits. 

The pervasive growth of government 
makes it painfully obvious that in a 
government where politicians exhibit 
compassion by spending other people’s 
money, we cannot be assured our budgets 
will ever balance without the moral 
authority of the Constitution to enforce 
it. 

The latest budget proposal from the 
White House illustrates the real need 
for a balanced budget amendment. 

Although President Clinton’s plan is 
billed as being balanced, it really 
isn’t—the deficit would increase next 
year and early reports from the Congressional 
Budget Office say the Clinton 
plan would remain about $80 billion 
short of balance in 2002. Seventy-five 
percent of the President’s deficit reduction 
would not occur until after the 
year 2000, meaning the Clinton administration 
will never have to make the 
tough choices it will take to eliminate 
the deficit. In other words, talk about 
it but leave it up to somebody else to 
do it. And most disturbing, instead of 
cutting spending and asking Washington 
to sacrifice, the President’s budget 
raises taxes by $76 billion and asks, 
once again, that the taxpayers step forward 
and sacrifice. I can think of no 
more compelling justification for enacting 
the balanced budget amendment. 


Despite guarded optimism in Washington 
about reaching agreement this 
year to balance the budget, surveys 
show most Americans do not believe 
the deficit will be eliminated by the 
target date of 2002. They realize that 
all the laws, goals, plans, and pledges 
may not be strong enough to hold back 
the tide of rising deficits. 

Even if the budget were to be balanced 
in 2002, there is nothing to stop 
a future, less-vigilant Congress from 
picking up where the big spenders left 
off. The constitutional protections 
guaranteed by the balanced budget 
amendment remain our best hope of enforcing 
future fiscal restraint. 

Mr. President, I am greatly disappointed 
by the efforts of some of our 
colleagues who have chosen to use Social 
Security as a shield to disguise 
their opposition to the balanced budget 
amendment. Most of us have come to 
the conclusion this is nothing more 
than a transparent political ploy to defeat 
the amendment, while playing to 
the fears of senior citizens by 
demagoguing the Social Security issue. 

I have absolutely no doubt that if the 
Social Security concerns were erased 
today, another problem with the 
amendment would crop up tomorrow, 
and we would once again find ourselves 

in the position of being a single vote 
short of passage. This is already evident 
through the lineup of amendments 
we have been considering the last few 
weeks. 

I wonder if my colleagues are aware 
of the massive tax increase the American 
people would be forced to accept if 
we did indeed factor Social Security 
surpluses out of the budget process. 

Between 2002 and 2007 alone, the tax 
hike required to bring the budget into 
balance would amount to $706 billion. 
Yes, $706 billion.—That dwarfs the 

record-breaking $265 billion tax increase 
President Clinton ushered 
through Congress in 1993. 

As their share, taxpayers in my home 
State of Minnesota could face a total 
Federal tax hike of about $12 billion. 
That is an average household tax increase 
of $1,085 per year. And again, 
that is just from 2002 to 2007. 

Mr. President, Social Security is facing 
serious problems, and reforms are 
needed to ensure that retirement benefits 
will continue to be available to all 
Americans. But taking Social Security 
off budget does nothing to help the 
trust fund remain solvent. 

We all know that, by law, any Social 
Security surpluses must be invested in 
Treasury securities. Without serious 
reform, as long as the Government is 
allowed to grow and to continue its 
deficit-spending ways, it will still borrow 
from the trust fund, leaving nothing 
but IOUs to future beneficiaries. 

Therefore, first and foremost, we 
must overhaul the way Washington 
spends taxpayer dollars by imposing 
some constitutionally mandated fiscal 
discipline. We must pass the balanced 
budget amendment and we must take 
appropriate actions to protect and preserve 
the trust fund. 

While I understand the arguments of 
those who have supported the various 
Social Security amendments during 
this debate, a more reasonable approach 
would be to take Social Security 
off budget after the budget is balanced. 
Congress should begin considering 
legislation that ensures Social Security 
benefits will be payable for the 
current and future generations, stops 
the use of trust fund surpluses on other 
Government programs, and puts real 
assets in the Social Security trust 
fund. 

For now, let us face it: we will never 
achieve a balanced budget if Social Security 
is taken off budget and omitted 
from our deficit calculations. President 
Clinton himself has come to that very 
conclusion. 

Mr. President, a bipartisan coalition 
in Congress is committed to passing a 
balanced budget amendment in 1997 because 
we believe the taxpayers deserve 
a responsible Government that pays its 
bills and saves for the future. 

We also support passing the balanced 
budget amendment in 1997. 

Ending deficits and lowering the national 
debt will free up public and private 
resources for more productive and 
innovative uses in the global economy 

of the 21st century. On a more personal 
level, working Americans will benefit 
directly when a balanced budget leads 
to lower interest rates that could save 
a middle-class family about $125 a 
month in lower mortgage, car, and student 
loan payments. 

The 105th Congress has a historic opportunity 
and obligation to leave a legacy 
of responsible governing for the 
generations to come. The path is well 
marked: To one side leads the road to 
bankruptcy and America’s fiscal ruin; 
to the other, the path of political 
promises which may or not be kept; 
while directly ahead lies the trail of 
discipline, discipline, discipline we 
must—pursue the road to prosperity 
and accountable governing marked by 
passage of the balanced budget amendment. 


Mr. President, I thank you. I yield 
the floor. 

Mr. REID addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Nevada. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that I be allowed to 
speak in morning business for up to 15 
minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered 

PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I also ask 
unanimous consent that Jerry Reed, a 
congressional fellow, be allowed to 
have floor privileges during the pend-
ency of Senate Joint Resolution 1. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


SOCIAL SECURITY AND THE BAL


ANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT TO 

THE CONSTITUTION 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, people continually 
talk about using Social Security. 
‘‘Let’s use Social Security until 
we balance the budget, and then after 
that we will not use it any more.’’ 

That argument says it all, Mr. President, 
because, if you use Social Security, 
it makes it pretty easy to balance 
the budget. If we want to really balance 
the budget let’s do it the right 
way, the hard way, the honest way. 
Let’s not use the surpluses—this year 
alone over $8 billion. That is the easy 
way to balance the budget. But it is 
not the right way. 

Dorothy Ray from Reno, NV, wrote 
to me: 
I urge you to fight all attempts to cap, cut, 
tax, or otherwise cut Social Security benefits 
and to focus on the real causes of the 
Federal deficit. Social Security is an earned 
entitlement that does not contribute 1 cent 
to the Federal deficit. We workers and retirees 
and employers have paid and continue to 
pay special taxes. We fund Social Security. 
The Federal Government has no right to borrow 
our Social Security and deplete all the 
reserves which we contributed for this purpose. 
Please fight all attempts to cut or rob 
us of our earned benefits. 
Sincerely, 
DOROTHY RAY. 
I heard also from Sparks, NV, from 
Bernice Murray. She wrote to me: 


S1812 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

DEAR MR. REID. In reference to your stand 
on Social Security I stand behind your views 
100 percent. I have lived in Nevada since 1946, 
and most of that time in Sparks. I am 72 
years old. My husband just passed away January 
17, ’97. My only income now is his Social 
Security. I agree with what you are trying 
to accomplish, and please keep up the 
good work. Us older Nevadans need you. 

Mr. President, not only do the older 
Nevadans need this, but all Nevadans. 
All Americans need this. 

The Social Security Program is for 
people over age 62 or 65 who are now receiving 
the benefit. But it is the benefit 
for future generations. All across 
America, as we speak, in certain specific 
regions there are huge amounts of 
money being spent on television, on 
radio, and in newspapers against people 
like Senator REID from Nevada. These 
ads say, ‘‘Why won’t REID support a 
balanced budget amendment?’’ I say to 
those people that are spending these 
hundreds, thousands, and millions of 
dollars on these ads all over the country 
that I do support a balanced budget 
amendment. I just do not support 
theirs. I support mine, the one that excludes 
Social Security. This isn’t some 
new-found religion for Senator REID. I 
have been doing this. This is the 4th 
year. I have offered my amendment 
every year, and will continue to do so 
until we prevail because the people 
about whom I speak, Bernice Murray, 
Dorothy Ray, and others cannot afford 
hundreds of thousands of dollars in the 
State of Nevada to run ads. All they 
can do is write their letters hoping 
that right will prevail. It has so far. I 
hope it will continue. 

We need to balance the budget. We 
need to do it though, Mr. President, 
the right way. I have heard people say, 
‘‘We will never be able to balance the 
budget without using Social Security.’’ 
Well, we can balance the budget without 
using Social Security. It is going 
to be harder, and we may not be able to 
do it by the year 2002. But we can do it. 
And, when we accomplish that, we will 
have prevailed in righting one of the 
biggest wrongs in the history of this 
country; that is, depleting these trust 
funds for purposes other than what the 
money was paid in for by employers 
and employees. 

For many people in America today, 
Social Security is the only money they 
get. Only 50 percent of America’s workers 
have access to pensions. That does 
not count Social Security. Most people 
working in America, and especially 
women, have no hope of ever getting a 
pension. To enshrine in the Constitution 
any amendment that would guarantee 
to the American workers that 
these contributions are no longer going 
to be protected I believe is wrong. 

How much of an impact does Social 
Security make on the lives of Americans? 
Nationally, in December 1995, 
benefits were paid to about 44 million 
Americans. This includes 27 million retired 
workers, about 5 million widows, 
a few widowers, 4 million disabled 
workers, and more. 

The monthly average benefit paid to 
a Social Security retired worker is 

$720. A wife gets $354, because it usually 
is a wife at this stage. Most husbands 
have Social Security benefits. 
Wives have not up to this stage. It is 
changing in the future years. 

In the State of Nevada, we have 
about 229,000 people who receive Social 
Security benefits. Said another way, 
that is about 15 percent of the people in 
Nevada depend on Social Security for 
support. In Nevada, 153,000 of these people 
are retired, 21,000 are widows, about 
23,000 are disabled, and then there are, 
of course, some children, about 17,000 
children, whose parents have been 
killed or died in some fashion who receive 
benefits. 

The average benefit in the State of 
Nevada is $5 a month more than the 
national average; $725 a month is what 
Nevadans get on an average from Social 
Security. For $725 a month, they 
are not able to pay for ads in the larger 
newspapers in Nevada, full-page ads at 
a cost of about $5,000. They are not 
going to be able to do that. Ads running 
in radio stations today alone will 
cost tens of thousands of dollars, and 
in television, no telling how much 
money. 

These people cannot pay for the ads, 
but the large corporations are helping 
pay for these ads or are paying for 
these ads. Why? Because they know, 
Mr. President, that if we balance the 
budget the right way and do not use 
Social Security benefits and we really 
want to balance the budget, they are 
probably going to have to chip in a few 
dollars or take longer or they are going 
to have to make more cuts. So they are 
willing to spend money up front to save 
them a few dollars. 

In the State of Nevada, $2.1 billion 
was paid into Social Security last year. 
Drawing out of that was far less than 
$2 billion—about $1.4 billion. The rest 
went to surplus, the surplus the people 
in this body want to use to mask the 
deficit. I say they should not be able to 
do that. These moneys should be set 
aside for Social Security recipients. 

Social Security in every State plays 
a vital role. It is a program that keeps 
people off poverty. It gives people dignity. 
It is not only in Nevada. This is 
the way it is all across the country. In 
fact, the amendment I offered, which 
was defeated by a vote of 55 to 45, had 
two very courageous Republicans from 
different parts of the country who 
voted in favor of it. The senior Senator 
from Arizona voted for it; the senior 
Senator from Pennsylvania voted for 
it. 

In addition to that, we now have held 
up in the House the balanced budget 
amendment. Why? Because some very 
courageous sophomore Republicans are 
saying we will vote for a balanced 
budget amendment but we want to exclude 
Social Security benefits. My office 
has received some phone calls 
about people in this body on that side 
of the aisle who are now considering offering 
amendments of their own. I hope 
that there will be further thought 
given to that, that we will exclude So


cial Security from the calculations of 
the balanced budget amendment. 

Social Security is the major source 
of income for 63 percent of all the beneficiaries. 
For 63 percent of the people 
who draw Social Security benefits, 
that is all the money they get. It is for 
this group that I am most concerned 
and speak on their behalf today. They 
are not going to run ads in the newspapers. 
They are not going to be able 
to pay for television or radio ads. But 
their thoughts are just as important, 
their ideas are just as important as the 
people who are spending hundreds of 
thousands of dollars trying to get out 
the message that they want to be able 
to mask the deficit. 

Currently, about 90 percent of older 
households get Social Security benefits. 
Benefits keep about 15 million 
Americans above the poverty line and 
even more from near poverty. While 
this is nothing to be proud of, I think 
it is something we should reflect upon 
as to how much better we are doing. 
Today, 10.5 percent of our senior population 
falls below the poverty line. 

It was just a few years ago that we 
had poorhouses where people who had 
no money went. Most of the counties— 
the States helped a little bit—had 
poorhouses for these people. The difference 
between poorhouses and no 
poorhouses is this program we call Social 
Security. 

So I am concerned about approximately 
44 million Americans and 
229,000 Nevadans who depend on this 
program to maintain their dignity. 
This is by no means the time to turn 
our backs on the success of this program 
or the citizens who rely on this 
program. We must listen to the people 
who tell us: balance the budget but do 
not do it using Social Security. 

The vast majority of Americans 
agree with my position in spite of the 
ads, in spite of the media blitz. The 
Wall Street Journal, the New York 
Times, NBC, CNN have all run polls 
showing that about 75 percent of the 
American people support balancing the 
budget but without using Social Security. 


Franklin Roosevelt said upon signing 
the Social Security act, ‘‘We can never 
insure one hundred percent of the population 
against one hundred percent of 
the hazards and vicissitudes of life, but 
we have tried to frame a law which will 
give some measure of protection to the 
average citizen and to his family 
against the loss of a job and against a 
poverty-ridden old age.’’ 

This statement, given in August 1935, 
was visionary because we have done 
just that. We have given dignity to the 
old of America. They do not have to 
live in poverty. You can see the impact 
of this program, which I have said on 
this floor is the most successful Social 
Security program in the history of the 
world. It is my hope that Members on 
both sides of the aisle will think long 
and hard about the impact of the balanced 
budget amendment on Social Security 
and vote accordingly. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1813 

News accounts indicate that the Republican 
leadership is open to modifying 
the underlying amendment. I understand 
that as we speak some are 
shopping language they believe would 
address this issue. As long as they 
focus on Social Security, I am willing 
to do that. I have been very narrow in 
my advocacy on this floor. While I 
think some of the other ideas about 
capital budgeting, emergencies and the 
military are good, I am not willing to 
focus on those amendments. I want to 
focus on Social Security and the importance 
I think it plays in our society, 
and therefore I hope those who are 
shopping amendments will shop in a 
very narrow fashion and wind up supporting 
the amendment where we give 
continued dignity to the seniors of this 
country. 

Mr. DEWINE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. DEWINE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROBERTS). 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 


VICTIMS OF NATURAL DISASTERS 
Mr. DEWINE. Mr. President, I rise 
today, on behalf of the people of Ohio, 
to express our deepest sympathy to the 
families of all those who have suffered 
injury and loss of life in this weekend’s 
tornadoes, flooding, and other natural 
disasters. Our hearts certainly go out 
to everyone who has suffered, at this 
time of their need. 
I personally experienced the Xenia 
tornado of 1974, and I know how awful 
such devastation can be. When I saw 
the pictures over the weekend of the 
homes totally torn apart in Arkansas, I 
was reminded of what I saw in 1974 in 
Xenia, OH. I was assistant prosecuting 
attorney at the time. We heard the tornado 
was coming and got down in the 
basement. After the tornado had passed 
over, I literally crawled out of the 
basement of the building, what was left 
of it, and looked at Xenia and saw the 
unbelievable devastation. So I have 
some understanding of what the people 
of Arkansas and the people of other 
States are going through with regard 
to these natural disasters. 
Let me talk for a moment about the 
terrible tragedy that took place in my 
home State of Ohio this weekend, and 
what we possibly can do to give assistance. 
The southern part of our State 
was ravaged by the worst flooding we 
have experienced in at least 33 years. 
At least four people have died so far, 
and 14 counties are now in a state of 
emergency. Bridges have been wiped 
out; houses and cars have been swept 
away. Our thoughts and prayers go to 
the families of those who have lost 
their lives, and to all those who have 
been evacuated from their homes and 
all those who face this disaster. 

Along with Senator GLENN and my 
colleagues from Ohio in the House of 
Representatives, I will be working with 
the administration to make sure the 
Federal Government helps these Ohioans 
get back to their homes. I am encouraged 
by President Clinton’s swift 
response with Federal aid for Arkansas, 
and I encourage him to help Ohioans 
as well. We will be working to 
make sure everyone gets home safely 
as soon as possible. 

Let me also talk about the tremendous 
job the American Red Cross, the 
Ohio National Guard, local volunteer 
groups, local fire departments, and rescue 
squads are doing in my home 
State. They have been working this 
weekend, they are working right now, 
as we speak. My hat is off to them. I 
send my congratulations and thanks 
for the tremendous amount of work 
they are doing. They are offering a desperately 
needed helping hand to some 
families who are having a very, very 
difficult time. 

My wife Fran and I extend our prayers 
to all who have been touched in any 
way by this tragedy. To those who have 
lost their lives and those who have 
been forced from their homes, and to 
their families, I stand ready to work 
with all Ohioans to help their communities 
return to normal just as soon as 
possible. 

f 


PARTIAL-BIRTH ABORTION 
Mr. DEWINE. Mr. President, at this 
point let me turn to something I have 
talked about on this floor on many occasions 
in the past 2 years, the issue of 
the banning of partial-birth abortion. 
When the President of the United 
States justified his veto of the partial-
birth abortion bill last year, this is 
what he said. I will quote now from 
President Clinton as he vetoed our bill: 
There are a few hundred women every year 
who have personally agonizing situations 
where their children are born or about to be 
born with terrible deformities, which will 
cause them to die either just before, during 
or just after childbirth. And these women, 
among other things, cannot preserve the 
ability to have further children. . . .’’ 
That was a quote from the President, 
when he vetoed the partial-birth abortion 
bill. 
In light of those remarks by President 
Clinton, I hope all Americans 
heard the media reports last week 
about the shocking confession of a 
leader in the abortion rights movement. 
It turns out that in every material 
detail the President’s comments 
that I have just quoted, the comments 
he made in defense of his veto, are 
false. And the confession of this leader 
in the abortion rights movement, the 
confession he made last week which I 
am going to talk about in more detail 
in just a moment, that confession 
shows the comments made by our 
President were simply not true because 
the fact is, President Clinton based his 
veto on information that was not true. 
For the last 2 years, a number of us 
here in the Senate have been trying to 

ban this horrible practice of partial-
birth abortion, a practice in which a 
baby is partially removed from the 
mother, partially delivered, and then 
killed. I believe the horror of this practice 
is so clear, so heinous, it should 
truly offer some common ground for 
those of us who oppose abortion and 
those who do, in fact, support abortion 
rights. In my view, one does not have 
to join the pro-life side in order to oppose 
this practice. In fact, if you look 
to some of the Members of the House, 
for example, who voted with us on this 
issue, who voted to ban the partial-
birth abortion, many of them by their 
own definition would be classified as 
pro-choice. 

So, this should be an area where pro-
choice and pro-life come together. The 
sad fact is though, Mr. President, we 
were not, last year, able to get our bill 
banning partial-birth abortion past 
President Clinton’s veto pen, in large 
measure because of the rationale used 
by the President, which was simply 
wrong. The American people were assured 
that partial-birth abortion was 
an extremely rare procedure—one that 
occurs only a few hundred times a 
year—and is only used to save mothers 
whose lives are in extreme danger or 
where the child has been malformed. 

Thomas Jefferson had a good phrase 
for arguments like this. He called 
them, ‘‘false facts.’’ Because these very 
impressive sounding arguments, as 
many of us suspected, turn out to be 
wrong. 

For those of my colleagues—and 
there can’t be very many by now—who 
have not heard about the startling revelations 
by Ron Fitzsimmons, let me 
talk for a moment about them. 

Mr. Fitzsimmons is the national director 
of the National Coalition of 
Abortion Providers. In 1995, when the 
Senate was considering the partial-
birth abortion bill, he was helping lead 
the fight against it. In fact, he went on 
‘‘Nightline’’ to argue that the procedure 
ought to remain legal. 

At that time, Mr. Fitzsimmons said 
that the procedure was rare and was 
primarily performed to save the lives 
or the fertility of the mothers. 

Now, as we found out last week, because 
of Mr. Fitzsimmons’ own comments, 
own revelations, own confession, 
his conscience started gnawing 
him almost immediately after he had 
appeared on ‘‘Nightline.’’ He says now 
that he felt physically ill at the lies 
that he had told. He said to his wife the 
very next day, according to him, ‘‘I 
can’t do this again. I can’t do this 
again.’’ 

Meanwhile, President Clinton was 
using Mr. Fitzsimmons’ false statements 
to buttress his case for vetoing 
the partial-birth abortion bill. And, as 
I said last week, Mr. Fitzsimmons at 
long last came in from the cold. He admitted 
that, to use his own words, he 
‘‘lied through his teeth.’’ 

LIED THROUGH HIS TEETH 

The facts, as he now publicly acknowledges 
them, are clear. Partial



S1814 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

birth abortion is not a rare procedure. 
It happens all the time, and it is not 
limited to mothers and fetuses who are 
in danger. It is performed on healthy 
women and healthy babies all the time, 
and that is what the facts are. 

Mr. President, it is true that everyone 
is entitled to his or her own opinion, 
but people are not entitled to their 
own facts. On partial-birth abortion, 
the facts are out, the facts are clear, 
and I join our distinguished colleague, 
the senior Senator from New York, in 
hoping, as he was quoted this weekend, 
in light of these facts, that the President 
will reverse his decision to veto 
this bill. 

Mr. President, it would seem fairly 
simple that when one makes a decision, 
in this case President Clinton’s decision 
to veto this bill that was passed 
overwhelmingly by the House and overwhelmingly 
by the Senate, that when 
he made his decision to veto the bill 
and when he publicly stated why he 
made that decision to veto the bill, 
when it turns out later that the facts 
are proven to be false, the underlying 
facts, the underlying rationale by 
which he apparently made his decision, 
it would seem that it would not be too 
hard for the President then to change 
his mind, based on a new understanding 
of what the facts truly are. 

We will be debating this issue again 
on the floor, we will be holding hearings 
again in the Judiciary Committee, 
and we will be back out here again 
talking about this very important matter. 
I hope that as we do that, my 
friends and colleagues who opposed us 
on this issue will remember what Mr. 
Fitzsimmons said, what he said when 
he could no longer apparently stand it 
anymore, that he had, in fact ‘‘lied 
through his teeth,’’ that the facts he 
gave the public, the facts he gave Congress, 
the facts he gave the President 
were simply not true. 

I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DASCHLE. I thank the Presiding 
Officer and appreciate the opportunity 
to come to the floor. 

f 


COMPLIMENTING SENATOR JOHN


SON ON HIS MAIDEN SPEECH IN 

THE SENATE 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, let me 
begin by complimenting the junior 
Senator from South Dakota on his 
maiden speech in the U.S. Senate. As 
all of us recall, those are very important 
moments in the career of any Senator, 
and I appreciate very much having 
had the opportunity to listen to 
him. I applaud him for his comments 
and wish him well in his many years of 
service in the U.S. Senate. 

BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT 

TO THE CONSTITUTION 
Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I did 
not have the opportunity to hear our 
majority leader last week discuss matters 
of concern to him, especially as 
they related to the balanced budget 
amendment. But I was disappointed to 
read press reports, and then read the 
RECORD this morning, with regard to 
some of his comments relating to some 
of our colleagues. 
He has noted on the floor that in the 
past, this has been a positive debate, 
an instructive debate and a debate that 
clarifies differences among us. I think 
that characterization is accurate. Oftentimes 
on the Senate floor, in heated 
debate, we say and espouse things we 
wish we could take back later. But this 
debate has largely been devoid of that. 
I think that has been productive and 
ought to be the way we conduct ourselves. 
So it was somewhat surprising to me 
to hear the majority leader so personally 
attack some of our colleagues and 
express himself as he did. It was, in my 
view, uncharacteristic of the majority 
leader. I hope that we can retain the 
level of decorum and the level of civility 
on the Senate floor that will lend 
itself to a good debate on this and 
many other very controversial and extraordinarily 
contentious issues in the 
future. We, as leaders, need to set the 
example. We, as leaders, need to demonstrate 
that there is a threshold of civility 
and a standard which we should 
follow that, in my view, ought to be 
demonstrated first and foremost by the 
leadership. 
I know of many cases where colleagues 
on the Senate floor, Republican 
and Democratic, have taken positions 
on any one of a number of issues and 
concluded, having been presented with 
more information, that the original position 
they took was not one they 
could accept now. That has happened 
in cases involving constitutional 
amendments, involving statutory law, 
and involving other legislation. I hope 
it would be the way we conduct ourselves 
in considering many of the issues 
affecting our country and its future. 
Obviously, with new information, and 
under different circumstances, one 
comes to different conclusions. I, myself, 
faced a similar set of circumstances 
early on. I have always 
wanted to be on the side of those supporting 
a constitutional amendment to 
balance the budget. 
On reflection, much of the language 
that we have resorted to in the past, 
that we have used in the past, is language 
that, in retrospect, is not as appropriate 
for the Constitution as we 
had originally thought it might be. 
I am very concerned about the implications 
of any amendment to the U.S. 
Constitution, but especially one involving 
our economy, especially one involving 
our own fiscal responsibility, especially 
one involving our ability to cope 
with a myriad of circumstances that 

this country is going to confront at 
some point in the future. 

So clearly, as my colleagues have indicated, 
new information has been presented 
to us this year. We have received 
new information from the Congressional 
Research Service, new information 
from the Office of Management 
and Budget, and new information from 
the Treasury Department, all reporting 
that the circumstances involving the 
Social Security trust fund are vastly 
different than what we were originally 
led to believe during the 1980’s. 

There is a difference in the interpretation 
of the Social Security trust fund 
than what I was originally presented as 
fact in years past. What we are now 
told, not by some partisan organization 
but by the nonpartisan Congressional 
Research Service, and by the Office of 
Management and Budget, is that funds 
used for Social Security purposes are 
going to have to be offset with other 
funds, such as tax increases or spending 
cuts, in order to be paid out at an 
appropriate time in the future. 

Now, if we worked for a company and 
we were told that we had invested a 
certain amount of dollars—say 
$100,000—in our own retirement fund 
and then told that, before we could 
draw those funds out, the company 
would have to replenish those funds 
with other funds in order for that to be 
available, Mr. President, I think every 
single prospective retiree would feel 
very cheated. They would feel robbed. 

Yet, that is exactly the circumstances 
now with the Social Security 
trust fund. Workers are paying 
into that fund with the expectation 
that it would be paid out in time to 
those who paid in. That will not be the 
case if we enshrine in the Constitution 
the utilization of the Social Security 
trust fund for purposes other than Social 
Security. 

The same can be said for the capital 
budget. I know that we could have a 
good debate for days about whether or 
not we have a capital budget in this 
country. We all recognize that most 
States have them. We recognize that 
most businesses have them. There is 
not a family I know of, that pays off its 
mortgage in any one year. Families, 
businesses, and States currently have 
capital budgets or a very similar budgeting 
concept that allow them to differentiate 
between long-term investment 
and operating expenses. My family 
does that. My father’s business used 
to do that. 

The question is, Should we as a country 
do that at some point in the future? 
I think the answer is resoundingly, yes, 
we should. We need to differentiate between 
long-term investment and capital 
costs. 

Mr. President, we are not doing that. 
But whether we subscribe to that concept 
or not, the question should be, 
Should we forevermore preclude this 
country from even considering a capital 
budget? We are now told by the 
Congressional Research Service that 
we will preclude the consideration of a 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1815 

capital budget if this amendment 
passes in its current form. 

So, Mr. President, both on the basis 
of Social Security as well as the analysis 
of the Congressional Research Service—
also confirmed by the Treasury 
Department—that we would be precluded 
from even considering a capital 
budget, I think these are issues that 
ought to weigh very heavily prior to 
the time our colleagues vote tomorrow 
afternoon. 

I am also very concerned about the 
implications for recession. When there 
is an economic downturn, there is no 
doubt that we need to respond in ways 
that will allow us adequate time, adequate 
resources, and adequate flexibility 
to ensure that the downturn does 
not get any worse. We must ensure 
that we have some sort of a reflexive 
countercyclical approach to the economic 
consequences that we could be 
facing were we to do nothing. This legislation 
undermines our ability to do 
that. 

I have heard it said many times that 
if it is a national emergency, clearly by 
the very definition of ‘‘national’’ you 
are going to have a sympathetic Senate 
responding to the circumstances and a 
sympathetic House responding to these 
circumstances in ways that would easily 
allow us to reach that threshold. 

Well, I ask, what about a regional recession? 
During the early 1990’s and 
late 1980’s, there were seven or eight 
very deep regional recessions. The fact 
is that on many occasions were we to 
have presented some sort of a countercyclical, 
antirecessionary legislative 
remedy, I think it would have been 
very difficult, if not impossible, to 
reach that 60-vote threshold simply because 
of the circumstances that involve 
the regional implications of a recession. 


So, I think it is very disconcerting to 
be locking into place forevermore the 
requirement that a supermajority be 
the threshold by which a countercyclical 
recession package be considered. 


In addition, a poorly crafted balanced 
budget amendment deprives us of the 
automatic stabilizers that cushion the 
blows of a weakening economy. As an 
economic downturn begins, Government 
spending automatically increases 
just as tax revenues decline. Such a 
time would prove the worst moment to 
increase taxes or cut spending. Yet, a 
balanced budget amendment could require 
exactly that result, with potentially 
devastating consequences. A recession 
could be turned into a depression 
under those circumstances. 

The risk of default and shutdowns 
are also very disconcerting. The fact is 
that a supermajority requirement 
under this constitutional amendment 
may preclude our ability to reach the 
threshold necessary to increase the 
statutory debt limit at times in the future. 
A minority of our colleagues 
could hold U.S. creditworthiness hostage 
were we to pass an amendment 
that allows the minority in this coun


try to dictate whether or not we are 
going to increase the debt limit. How 
many times have we been on the floor 
and struggled to find a simple majority 
to do what has been required? I think 
it is going to be extraordinarily difficult 
for us with the supermajority requirement 
to do it at any time in the 
future. 

National security is also a very serious 
matter. Section 5 of the pending 
amendment jeopardizes our ability to 
prepare for situations that we know 
will require intervention, such as the 
Persian Gulf effort. For Congress to 
waive the balanced budget amendment, 
the United States must be engaged in 
military conflict—must be engaged. 

In Desert Shield we needed to build 
up before the conflict. In Desert Shield 
we stipulated that the conflict was imminent, 
and, as a result, we needed to 
prepare to be as aggressively engaged 
as that resolution provided. To say 
that there has to be conflict before we 
can issue or provide for any legislative 
support, in my view, is extraordinarily 
poorly worded and ill-founded. 

Finally, Mr. President, with regard 
to the budget itself, I think our record 
over the last 5 years demonstrates that 
where there is a will there is a way. 
There has been a will. We have reduced 
the deficit from $295 billion to $107 billion 
since 1993. We have reduced the 
deficit by 60 percent through congressional 
action. 

Obviously, we need to go the rest of 
the way. But clearly, if we are going to 
achieve our goals in balancing the 
budget, we can do so if we continue to 
commit as successfully and as aggressively 
in the next 5 or 6 years as we 
have in the past. 

But I am troubled in that regard as 
well, Mr. President, because there are 
proposals, including the one offered by 
the majority leader, that would create 
a deficit of more than $500 billion in 
new tax breaks were we to pass the bill 
that he has proposed—$500 billion over 
10 years and $750 billion, three-quarters 
of a trillion dollars, in the second decade 
that that tax bill would go into effect. 


So, it is very difficult for me to understand 
how some of my colleagues on 
one hand can argue that we need to 
pass a constitutional amendment to 
balance the budget, but then offer legislation 
which exacerbates the problem 
by a substantial margin of $500 to $750 
billion in additional deficits if that legislation 
were to pass. 

I might remind my colleagues, even 
if we balance the budget, we have a $5.5 
trillion accumulated debt that we have 
not yet paid down. 

The difference between the deficit 
and the debt is that the deficit, of 
course, is what we accumulate in new 
debt every year; the debt is what we 
have already accumulated. And we 
have accumulated a lot. When are we 
going to start buying that debt down? 
And how are we going to do that if we 
continue to exacerbate the problem, 
continue to complicate our situation 

by offering tax measures that allow a 
deficit of that magnitude to be added 
on to the troubles that we are facing 
over the next couple of years? Mr. 
President, for all those reasons, I hope 
my colleagues will take great care as 
they make their choices tomorrow 
afternoon. 

The leader had suggested that he has 
a couple of potential surprises in his 
pocket. Well, I guess I have to announce 
to my colleagues that I have a 
couple of surprises that I do not wish 
to talk about right now to ensure that 
the vote will be as we expect it will. 
But I do not think it ought to be a 
question or a contest of surprises or 
parliamentary maneuvers or amendments 
that may or may not be in our 
best interest. 

The question can be and will be and 
should be: Can we have a good debate 
about any one of a number of divisive 
issues like we know we have to face in 
this Senate, on a number of very, very 
difficult matters that will keep coming 
back? Can we do it in a civil way? Can 
we do it in a way that does not in some 
way question the motives or the positions 
taken by some of our colleagues? 
Can we do it with an expectation that 
will resolve that matter and go on to 
yet another and another day? 

I hope we can do that. I hope the 
leadership will set the example as we 
do that. I hope that after the vote tomorrow 
we can move on to other 
things. We are prepared to debate this 
longer if we need to do that. I hope 
that will not be the case. We should 
move on and get work done in the body 
and move on with some expectation 
that bipartisanship is still alive and 
well and flourishing here in this body. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Virginia is recognized. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I first 
thank my distinguished colleague who 
so kindly allowed me to precede him on 
the floor for a few minutes. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO REMMEL T. 
DICKINSON 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I pay 
tribute to my most senior staff member 
who is departing after a well-
earned career to take on other pursuits. 
I do so with a sense of sadness, 
but indeed, a great sense of recognition 
for an individual upon whom I have relied, 
as have many other Senators. 
Rem is meritorious among his peer 
group of staff in the Senate and is recognized 
as the type of individual who is 
the very foundation upon which we, the 
100 Senators, have to rely every day. 
His support and advice enables us to 
represent our respective constituencies 
and to do what we individually think is 
in the best interests of our Nation. 

Remmel T. Dickinson’s service in my 
office began February 12, 1979, and he is 
to complete his Senate career on 
Wednesday, March 5, an impressive 18 
years, on my staff, and serving 20 years 
in the U.S. Senate. 


S1816 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

He proudly hails from Little Rock, 
AR, but developed early on in his career 
in the Senate an equal if not 
greater loyalty to the Commonwealth 
of Virginia. I must hail him for that. 

From the campaign on which I was 
first elected, in 1978, he came on to the 
Senate, and like so many, he did not 
want to start anywhere but right down 
at the threshold level where he could 
learn the system all the way up. Indeed, 
he started in that all-essential institution 
known in the Senate as the 
mail room, which in many respects is 
the heartbeat of every Senate office. 

With meticulous attention to detail 
and congenial personality, and I want 
to underline that, Rem gained the admiration 
of his peers in the Senate 
wherever they may work, and his peers 
throughout the Commonwealth of Virginia, 
because he was very loyal to 
many, many people in Virginia. He was 
a true friend, and is today and always 
will be, to those that are disadvantaged 
in our society—be it with physical 
problems, educational problems, health 
problems, or whatever it is. The bigger 
the problem, the bigger the challenge, 
the harder Rem Dickinson worked to 
solve it. 

The Federal employees are often a 
very beleaguered group. He was there 
no matter what the challenge, to step 
up and advise me and other Members of 
the Senate, and indeed, staffers 
throughout this institution, on what he 
felt was best and equitable for the Federal 
employee. And not just those in 
the greater Metropolitan Washington 
area, but all across the United States 
he was recognized for his knowledge as 
it related to the essential services provided 
to the Federal employee by our 
country. Equal access for quality education 
opportunities and equal access 
in our health care system were his 
goals, and indeed we have achieved 
that and will go on to try and improve 
on those achievements here in the Senate. 


In past years, Rem worked tirelessly 
on the Republican Health Care Task 
Force striving for solutions to the dilemma 
confronting millions of Americans 
who simply did not have health 
insurance and the millions more attempting 
to cope with the ever-increasing 
problems associated with increasing 
health costs. 

In the area of education, Rem has 
helped in supporting our States to provide 
educational service for students 
with disabilities, known as IDEA. His 
attention has also focused on impact 
aid, a program which local school districts, 
those local districts colocated 
with military bases all across our Nation, 
and helping to get those funds 
which will enable the children of military 
families to receive their education 
in the local school districts without 
too severely impacting the costs of 
others who contribute, by and large, 
through local real estate taxes. 

Rem believes, as I do, that education 
is the key to a better quality of life for 
all Americans. He has earned a reputa


tion for honesty and professionalism 
both in the Senate and, as I said, 
throughout Virginia. My constituents 
have had an open door to the Senate’s 
work through Rem’s expertise in these 
areas. 

As the years have passed, I am impressed 
by his dedication to duty, his 
loyalty to this Senate, to those on my 
staff, and to those on other Senate 
staffs, and indeed on a one-on-one basis 
with many Senators. Above all, he is a 
gentleman of honor in the finest traditions 
of the South which he loves. 

Indeed, Rem has earned the loyalty, 
respect, admiration, recognition, and 
gratitude of virtually everyone with 
whom he has come in contact during 
his lifetime. 

And I can only presume that the 
manner in which he has carried himself, 
and the care he has exercised in 
the performance of his duties will continue 
in whatever Rem chooses to do 
when he departs the Senate. 

We will miss Rem’s daily good counsel. 
I commend Rem for a career well 
spent and well conducted, and I congratulate 
him on the contribution he 
has made to our Nation, to Virginia, 
and we wish him the best in his future 
pursuits. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico is recognized. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. I ask unanimous 
consent I be allowed to speak for up to 
12 minutes in morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


RECENT REPORTS AND GROWING 

AGREEMENT ON THE NEED FOR 

HIGH ACADEMIC STANDARDS 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, first 
I would like to call attention to several 
recent reports that have come out on 
the issue of high academic standards 
and the need for high standards and national 
standards in our schools, and 
refer to those reports and perhaps put 
them in context. 

I think it is clear from the reports 
that I am going to refer to here that 
there is a need for accelerating the 
progress that our country is making in 
developing world class academic standards. 
It is also clear that the States 
and local school districts are having 
great difficulties in determining for 
themselves what those standards ought 
to be, which is a large and costly task. 

First, I will refer to the comprehensive 
Third International Math and 
Science Study that was recently released. 
It shows that math standards 
have not yet been implemented at the 
classroom level in many of our schools, 
and our students score at or below the 
average on math and science compared 
to students in other nations. 

Mr. President, you will remember 
that one of the goals which the Governors 
and President Bush established 
in Charlottesville in 1989 was that the 
United States would be first in the 
world in math and science by the year 
2000. In fact, the reality is very dif


ferent from that lofty goal that was set 
8 years ago. 

This first chart here indicates the average 
math scores of eighth graders on 
international tests. We can see in the 
group of nations that are considered 
top performers that the United States 
is not listed. Those nations are Singapore, 
South Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, 
and Belgium-Flemish. 

In the middle range, the United 
States is at the very bottom, far behind 
the Russian Federation. After us, 
there are the bottom performers, and 
the most we can say with pride is that 
we are not in that category. 

But, Mr. President, I think most parents 
in this country would aspire to 
our doing better than we are showing 
we have done on this test. And I hope 
very much that we can. 

Here is a second chart that makes 
somewhat the same point. This chart 
indicates that of students scoring 
among the top 10 percent of eighth 
graders on international tests, 45 percent 
of these were from Singapore, and 
34 percent from South Korea. It goes on 
down to where, in math the United 
States had only 5 percent of the world’s 
top students in math, and only 13 percent 
in science. So, clearly, again, we 
find ourselves very far down on the list 
of nations in this comparison. 

There is also a new national report 
card on education that has been published 
by Education Week, which is a 
respected publication in our country. It 
confirms the findings of several previous 
reports that the standards many 
States have now established may not 
be rigorous enough compared to other 
nations’ standards, and, also, that 
there are all too few States that plan 
to hold students or teachers accountable 
for measurable results. 

Let me show you these two charts to 
make this point, Mr. President. The 
first of these is a chart entitled, 
‘‘Who’s Accountable?’’ What this essentially 
says is that only those few 
States that come up on the map here 
as colored yellow are States that have 
standards for their graduates from high 
school. Clearly, most of the country— 
and, unfortunately, my State included—
do not have accountability 
standards that students have to meet 
in order to graduate from high school. 
Clearly, this is a problem that we need 
to address as a nation. 

Another chart, ‘‘8th Grade Math 
Course-Taking.’’ This indicates very 
clearly that most of our eighth-graders 
are simply taking general math and 
only 19 percent, according to this analysis, 
are, in fact, taking algebra at the 
time they go into the eighth grade. 
This is one of the reasons we do so 
poorly on the international comparisons 
of mathematics scores. 

Finally, the 1996 National Assessment 
of Educational Progress math 
scores, which were just released last 
week, show that over 30 percent of 4th, 
8th, and 12th-graders lack basic math 
skills, despite recent progress. 

Let me show you that chart, Mr. 
President. When you look at this, you 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1817 

can see a very modest upward trend 
from 1990 to 1992 to 1996 at the three 
different grade levels, 4th, 8th, and 
12th. As you can see, we are nowhere 
near approaching the level of improvement 
that is necessary if we are going 
to meet any of the national goals that 
we have set out for ourselves. 

Delays in developing standards have 
been made worse by the fact that, despite 
the abundance of tests and report 
cards published by State and local education 
agencies, very little of the information 
is comparable from district to 
district, or very little of the information 
is set at a high enough standard 
for us to make reasonable comparisons 
to these international tests. 

As Education Week recently pointed 
out, ‘‘If the data that we depend on to 
monitor the economy were as incomplete, 
as unreliable, and as out of date 
as the data we depend on to monitor 
education in the United States, we 
might as well have the economy of a 
Third World country.’’ 

Instead, we have a hodgepodge of different 
tests and standards, most of 
them testing basic skills rather than 
world-class materials, a lot of data 
that only describes how students in one 
area are doing compared to how they 
did in the previous year. 

Differences in student ‘‘pass rates’’ 
on State and national testing indicate 
enormous gaps in what we are testing 
for. Let me show you the final chart 
that I have here, Mr. President, to 
make that point. You can see from this 
chart entitled ‘‘State NAEP Scores for 
4th Grade Reading Compared to the 
State’s Own Assessment’’ that, for example, 
in the State of Wisconsin, it 
shows here that 35 percent of the students 
are shown to reach the standard 
that NAEP sets on their National 
Fourth Grade Reading Test. In their 
State standard test, Wisconsin shows 
88 percent of their students meeting 
the standards. So you can see there is 
very little comparability between what 
the States are testing for and the level 
of performance that they are expecting 
and what the NAEP, the national assessment, 
is testing for. 

As a result, we still have schools that 
are doing superbly, and we also have 
schools that are doing miserably. Many 
times they are in the very same areas 
and in the same school districts. Parents 
and educators often do not even 
know which of those types of schools 
their own children are in. 

In response to this situation, many 
have come to agree that we need to set 
our standards much higher and we need 
to gather more accurate information in 
order to improve achievement, as has 
been done with great success in several 
parts of the private sector. 

The National Association of Business, 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 
and the Business Round Table have 
now focused their joint efforts on raising 
standards and promoting more accountability 
in our schools. 

The National Education Association 
president, Bob Chase, spoke out about 

the need for his 2.2-million-member 
union to support key changes such as 
these. 

Frequent education critics Checker 
Finn and Diane Ravitch recently offered 
surprising enthusiasm for standards. 
Let me quote: ‘‘how powerful it 
will be for parents and teachers to 
compare the math prowess of 8th graders 
in, say, Phoenix and Minneapolis, 
to the performance of their peers in 
Korea and the Czech Republic.’’ 

In addition to national polls showing 
strong support for high standards, a 
Public Agenda poll last month showed 
that high school students themselves 
know that our expectations for them 
are low, and those very high school 
students respond accordingly. 

Raising academic standards has proven 
to be an immense and costly job for 
States and for school districts, who 
have been left to do the job largely on 
their own. They have been struggling 
to make the necessary progress but 
have been unable to do so. For these 
reasons, we need renewed national efforts 
toward making standards a reality 
in the near future. 

f 


ALBERT SHANKER 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
would like to say a few words about the 
recent death of a great education leader, 
Albert Shanker, who was as committed 
and effective in the fight for 
National standards as anybody in our 
country. For those of us who believe 
that the Federal Government should do 
more to improve the quality of education 
in the country, Al Shanker’s 
death was a great loss. More than anyone 
else in the Nation, Al Shanker was 
the visionary pushing for higher standards 
and national standards for teachers 
and students alike. 

In a recent piece in the Washington 
Post, E.D. Hirsch, Jr., said it very well: 

If a single person could be said to be responsible 
for the shift in sentiment that 
prompted the President to call, in his State 
of the Union Address, for national educational 
standards—a proposal that would 
have been unthinkable a few years back—it 
would be Al Shanker. 

Albert Shanker had an abiding belief 
that collectively we in America could 
improve the lives of all of our citizens. 
He dedicated his life to that belief. He 
also believed passionately that public 
schools were the great strength of our 
country and were the means by which 
we could improve the lot of Americans. 

A recent essay by Albert Shanker 
was contained in the New York Times. 
I would like to read two paragraphs 
from that. This is an essay that he 
wrote in a publication a few years ago. 
He said: 

Why do I continue when so much of what 
I’ve worked for seems threatened? To a large 
extent because I believe that public education 
is the glue that has held this country 
together. Critics now say that the common 
school never really existed, that it’s time to 
abandon this ideal in favor of schools that 
are designed to appeal to groups based on 
ethnicity, race, religion, class, or common 

interests of various kinds. But schools like 
these would foster divisions in our society; 
they would be like setting a time bomb. 

* * * * * 

Public schools played a big role in holding 
our nation together. They brought together 
children of different races, languages, religions, 
and cultures and gave them a common 
language and sense of common purpose. He 
was not outgrown our need for this; far from 
it. Today, Americans come from more different 
countries and speak more different 
languages than ever before. Whenever the 
problems connected with school reform seem 
especially tough, I think about this. I think 
about what public education gave me—a kid 
who couldn’t even speak English when I entered 
first grade. I think about what it has 
given me and can give to countless numbers 
of other kids like me. And I know that keeping 
public education together is worth whatever 
effort it takes. 

Al Shanker believed that the National 
Government needed to commit 
itself to improving our Nation’s 
schools. Should we have national education 
goals? Al Shanker believed 
strongly that we should. Should we 
have educational standards? Al Shanker 
believed we should so that every parent 
could determine whether their 
child was getting the education that 
they deserved. 

Mr. President, I was privileged to 
work with Al Shanker on several issues 
but, most importantly, on the issue of 
improving standards for our schools. 
His vision and his strength of commitment 
were always an inspiration. 

With his death, the American Federation 
of Teachers lost a superb president 
and all of us in America lost a tireless 
champion for public education and for 
a better America. 

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the 
floor. 

f 


A TRIBUTE TO ROY D. NEDROW 

Mr. ASHCROFT. Mr. President, I rise 
today to honor a lifetime commitment 
to law and order in the United States. 
On March 1, 1997, Mr. Roy D. Nedrow 
retired as the Director of the Naval 
Criminal Investigative Service, ending 
33 years of law enforcement service to 
the community at the local, State, and 
Federal levels. 

Mr. Nedrow began his law enforcement 
career in 1964 with the Berkeley, 
CA, Police Department and served 
there for 6 years, first as a patrolman 
and later as a training sergeant and detective. 
In 1970, Mr. Nedrow was appointed 
a special agent with the U.S. 
Secret Service where he distinguished 
himself during assignments in the field 
and at the Service’s Headquarters. As a 
result of his outstanding performance 
and talents, Mr. Nedrow earned a number 
of promotions culminating in his 
appointment to the Senior Executive 
Service and assignment as the Service’s 
Deputy Assistant Director for the 
Office of Investigations where he 
oversaw the investigations and protective 
support activities conducted by 
the Service’s 1,200 special agents at its 
more than 100 field locations. 

On December 28, 1992, Mr. Nedrow retired 
from the Secret Service to accept 


S1818 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

the appointment as the Director of the 
Naval Criminal Investigative Service. 
His induction came a critical time in 
the Agency’s history. His strong leadership 
restored stability to an agency 
which needed greater independence and 
a change of direction. Assembling a 
team of highly qualified professionals, 
Director Nedrow overhauled the Service, 
reorganizing it to diminish its bureaucracy, 
and to provide greater accountability 
and responsiveness to its 
consumers. He provided his people with 
a new vision, the necessary resources 
and support, and the inspiration to 
achieve positive change. Under his 
leadership, the Naval Criminal Investigative 
Service gained national recognition 
for its innovation in the field 
of homicide investigation. Its approach 
to the investigation of previously unresolved 
or cold case homicides, some as 
old as 28 years, was lauded in October 
1996 by the International Chiefs of Police 
[IACP] during its prestigious 
Webber Seavey Award for Quality in 
Law Enforcement Ceremony for innovation 
and excellence in law enforcement 
programs. The NCIS cold case 
methodology has since been adopted by 
numerous law enforcement agencies 
throughout the United States. Director 
Nedrow also recognized the problems 
and anxieties endured by families of 
deceased service men and women whose 
deaths occurred under other than natural 
circumstances. He revitalized and 
championed a Family Liaison Program 
to assure responsiveness to the needs 
of, and issues raised by, surviving family 
members during the death investigation 
process. His legacy of additional 
achievements with and for the 
Service include a well-respected Critical 
Incident Debriefing Team, a proven 
Alternative Dispute Resolution system, 
and a cutting edge Computer 
Crimes Investigation Group. 

‘‘The final test of a leader,’’ renowned 
journalist Walter Lippman 
wrote in 1945, ‘‘is that he leaves behind 
him in other men the conviction and 
will to carry on.’’ The testimony to 
Roy Nedrow is that the Naval Criminal 
Investigative Service is indeed a better 
agency today and that he leaves it in 
most capable and inspired hands. 

Mr. President, in closing I wish to 
commend Roy Nedrow for outstanding 
leadership and service and thank him 
for his dedication to the Nation as a 
guardian of our peace. I wish him, and 
his wife, Claudia, Godspeed in his retirement. 


Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

(Mr. HAGEL assumed the Chair.) 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. COLLINS). 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


MEASURE READ FOR THE FIRST 

TIME—SENATE JOINT RESOLU


TION 19 

Mr. COVERDELL. Madam President, 
I send a joint resolution to the desk on 
behalf of myself and Senators FEINSTEIN 
and HELMS, a joint resolution relative 
to Presidential certification of 
Mexico regarding drugs, and ask that 
the joint resolution be read for the 
first time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

To disapprove the certification of the 
President under section 490(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 regarding foreign assistance 
for Mexico during fiscal year 1997. 

Mr. COVERDELL. Madam President, 
I now ask for its second reading and object 
to my request on behalf of Democratic 
Members on the other side of the 
aisle. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The objection 
is heard. 

The bill will be read the second time 
on the next legislative day. 

(The remarks of Mr. COVERDELL and 
Mrs. FEINSTEIN pertaining to the introduction 
of Senate Joint Resolution 19, 
Senate Joint Resolution 20, and Senate 
Joint Resolution 21 are located in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Statements on Introduced 
Bills and Joint Resolutions.’’) 

Mr. COATS addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ALLARD). 
The Senator from Indiana. 

f 


BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT 
TO THE CONSTITUTION 

Mr. COATS. Mr. President, over the 
last 15 years, the balanced budget 
amendment has been debated over and 
over again in this Chamber. Members 
of one or both Chambers of Congress 
actually have voted on this proposal 
six times. The arguments, by this 
point, are familiar. We have heard 
them over the last several weeks and 
the last several years in these debates. 
So there is the disturbing process by 
which the vested interests of this institution 
are protected against the clear 
will of our democracy. 

We are not, of course, debating about 
passage of a balanced budget amendment. 
We are debating whether or not 
to send that decision to the States and 
to the people of America. Often that 
gets confused. People think that the 
entire decision, the entire vote, rests 
with the 100 Members of this Senate 
body, when in fact the only thing that 
rests with us is whether or not we will 
make the decision to give the people of 
America, to give democracy, an opportunity 
to decide whether or not we 
ought to have a balanced budget directing 
our fiscal affairs here in Washington. 


We are debating whether to prefer 
our interests above their wisdom, and 
it appears we will once again by the 
narrowest of margins decide to sustain 
this corrupt and corrupting Federal 
power of unlimited debt. 

Once again our debate on this matter 
has been conducted to maximize public 
cynicism—not intentionally but that is 
certainly the result—with twisted 
arms, violated promises, pressure tactics, 
and broken commitments. We 
have seen it all surround this issue 
time and time again. And, once again, 
as we are debating this, people are 
switching their position, people pledging 
to their constituents during the 
campaign: ‘‘I will be there when the 
balanced budget call is taken; when the 
roll is called, I will be on the plus 
side.’’ And, of course, now we hear the 
excuses as to why since the election is 
over that is no longer the case. Even 
those who have voted for the balanced 
budget amendment in the past now find 
convenient reasons not to do so in the 
present. 

So I guess we cannot really blame 
the American people for being cynical, 
for being apathetic about what takes 
place here in this body, in the Congress, 
in Washington. All of this in a 
desperate attempt to prevent the 
American citizen from having a voice 
and having a vote, all to prop up, if 
just for a few more years, the ability of 
Congress to cripple the success and the 
prosperity of the future. 

There are many divisive issues debated 
in this Chamber, but this issue is 
unique in one way. The defeat of a balanced 
budget amendment represents 
the raw exercise of political power 
against the desires of over 80 percent of 
the American public. In my experience 
in politics, no proposal with support so 
strong and so consistent has ever been 
frustrated for so long by the Congress. 

Make no mistake. A balanced budget 
amendment will eventually be sent to 
the States for ratification. I think that 
is guaranteed by the breadth of public 
commitment which will not go away 
and will only grow in strength. We can 
delay this process, as apparently we 
will do once again, but not deny it. 
Every year of delay increases our danger 
and ought to add to our shame and 
guilt. 

Rather than rehearse the detailed arguments 
of this debate, let me take, if 
I could, a long review of what I think 
we have learned. First, the history of 
the last few decades and the nature of 
the political process itself argues that 
the Congress is incapable of self-restraint. 
We have a system in place, a 
system that allows us to vote public 
benefits to the very people who keep us 
in office. We have a system that allows 
us to place the burden of those benefits 
on the future while we gain political 
support from the present. We have 
found an efficient way to betray future 
generations in favor of the present. 
And it is easy and relatively painless 
because our generation can vote while 
future generations cannot and our silence 
and their anger is distant. We do 
not feel or hear their anger at the next 
election because they do not have a 
vote at the next election. So we please 
those who benefit us now at the expense 
of those in the future. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1819 

The only thing we sacrifice in this 
process—Mr. President, I would say it 
is a great sacrifice—is our integrity 
and our historical reputation. In a distortion 
of the Constitution, we promote 
the general welfare for ourselves 
at the expense of our posterity. As it 
stands, there is no weight on the other 
side of this balance. There is no reliable 
check on this process of 
intergenerational theft. It is politically 
prudent, even popular, and this 
political calculation will not change, 
will never permanently change without 
some kind of systematic institutional 
counterweight, without some measure 
to give posterity a voice in our affairs. 
Nothing, in my view, will permanently 
change until the accumulation of popular 
debt is a violation of our oath to 
the Constitution. Perverse incentives 
of the current system will not be altered 
until the system itself is altered, 
until our political interests are balanced 
by the weighty words of a constitutional 
amendment. 

The second lesson I believe we have 
learned in the last few decades is that 
despite all the talk we hear in Congress, 
despite all the posturing, despite 
all the rhetoric, we are simply ignoring 
the coming entitlement crisis. We are 
not facing up to the hard question. We 
have chosen cheerful oblivion over public 
responsibility. The train wreck is a 
precise, measurable distance away. 
Trustees predict that the Medicare 
part A will be bankrupt by the year 
2002. Trustees of Social Security believe 
that the system will begin to run 
a deficit in 2013 and could collapse by 
2029. 

Former Commerce Secretary Pete 
Peterson recently wrote that if entitlements 
are not reformed, the cost of Social 
Security and Medicare by the year 
2040 will take between 35 and 55 percent 
of every worker’s paycheck. It is a crisis 
propelled by demographics and propelled 
by Federal irresponsibility. 
Every year we avoid real reform we 
make real reform more painful. 

Oh, and the attitude here is, well, 
2002, 2013, 2029, I will probably be out of 
office by then, or hopefully something 
will change by then, or let us not think 
beyond 1998. That is the next election, 
isn’t it. Let us see what we can do to 
slip by one more election. But it is always 
one more election, one more election, 
one more election. 

When I came here in 1980, we were 
charged with the responsibility of dealing 
with deficit spending. We were 
charged with the responsibility of getting 
a handle on the entitlements and 
being straightforward and real with the 
American people, but each time it 
slipped one more election, one more 
election, one more election. Now we 
are looking at 1998. 

There does not appear to be any 
movement out of this administration 
to address entitlements in a serious 
structural way—some tinkering at the 
edges suggesting but not proffered, 
some concerns about the political implications 
of making the hard choices, 

making the difficult decisions, but 
nothing concrete before us as a body. 
And so we will pass again for 2 more 
years. 

Opponents of the balanced budget 
amendment talk a great deal about Social 
Security, but they do not talk 
about solving its most fundamental 
problems. Instead, their efforts are designed 
to move it off budget, creating 
the illusion that this action will somehow 
save the system. 

This is a distraction, as I think everyone 
in this Chamber knows. It is 
not a solution. It is a distraction from 
the fact that our current budget rules 
are deceptive. We are borrowing from 
the Social Security trust fund and replacing 
real money with T-bills. There 
is not some giant pot of money out 
here waiting for Social Security recipients. 
It is a pay-as-you-go system. 
Some have called it the ultimate pyramid 
system. We are borrowing from it 
and putting pieces of paper into it to 
pay it back someday. That payback has 
to come from the general revenue. 
Those T-bills are a promise to pay benefits 
in the future, yet this borrowing 
is not reflected in our deficit calculations 
each year. 

As a matter of budgeting integrity, 
we should stop the shell game. We need 
an accurate accounting of the yearly 
deficit and the Federal debt. In fiscal 
1996, we reported a budget deficit of 
$107 billion, but we failed to report an 
additional $66 billion borrowed from 
and owed to Social Security. Where 
does that money come from? It comes 
from the American taxpayer. It comes 
from taxes imposed against their paychecks. 
It is money that is going to 
have to be paid back. 

To say we can solve this problem by 
conveniently taking it off budget is a 
shell game. It is a deception of the 
American people. What it really 
amounts to is keeping two sets of 
books. These kinds of budget tricks 
make the job of balancing the budget 
easier in the short term—and of course 
it is the short term here that everyone 
is concerned about, the next election— 
but they compound the problems of future 
generations. 

I urge my colleagues to put aside this 
phony debate over Social Security. It 
is impossible to disentangle Social Security 
revenues and expenditures from 
the budget. Congress should address 
the national debt by passing the balanced 
budget amendment and then 
turn quickly to real solutions, real reform 
of Social Security. 

It is unfortunate and it is undeniable 
that President Clinton’s budget currently 
on the table understands none of 
these lessons, and actually deepens our 
problems. It is a symbol of the Federal 
Government’s failure of will and nerve. 

When I came to the Congress in 1981, 
our total Federal debt was just under 
$1 trillion. In the plan the President 
submitted recently to this Congress, 
his budgets will contribute another $1 
trillion to the debt before those budgets 
are supposed to come into balance. 

This is hardly an act of courage. In 
fact, the President’s plan demands that 
nearly all the courage be shown by others, 
since it postpones real spending 
cuts until after he leaves office. Moreover, 
if the President’s own optimistic 
estimates about future deficits do not 
prove accurate, he relies on triggers— 
automatic cuts in spending and increased 
taxes—to bring the budget into 
balance. All of this occurring, again, 
after he has left office, after he no 
longer will be held to account. 

Harry Truman’s famous injunction, 
‘‘the buck stops here,’’ apparently now 
reads: The buck stops at the desk of 
the next person to occupy this office. 

Now we will apparently learn from 
CBO later this week that even the 
President’s budget numbers are not accurate. 
They are not even close. We 
will, in fact, be about $70 billion short 
of balance in 2002. This year’s budgets 
alone will see a 20 percent increase in 
the deficit. 

This budget is the embodiment of the 
point I am trying to make. Deferring 
responsibility is easy. Shifting hard 
choices to the future is easy. Deficit 
spending is easy. Everybody plays the 
game unless a constitutional amendment 
changes the ground rules, unless 
fiscal discipline is imposed from above, 
not from within. Unless the system is 
changed, exposing and ending all of our 
tricks and excuses, that is the only 
way we can be honest with the American 
people. That is the only way we 
can end the cynicism toward our efforts 
here in the Congress, which are 
falling, I am afraid, ever more on deaf 
ears. 

There is a great deal at stake here. 
As others have argued at length, increasing 
debt has an economic cost in 
higher interest rates. For businesses, 
this means slowed or stalled expansion, 
and for families it means that buying 
that new house or sending that child to 
college becomes more difficult each 
year. 

Another cost is measured in lost opportunities 
to meet justified public 
needs. By fiscal year 1998, interest payments 
on the national debt will approach 
$250 billion—$250 billion in interest 
payments. That figure is 21 
times more money on interest than on 
the entire Federal expenditure for agriculture; 
17 times more than the entire 
Federal expenditures for international 
affairs; 11 times more than on natural 
resources and the environment combined; 
and 4 times more than on education, 
training, and employment. We 
stand on this floor and argue, and we 
work in committee, just to try to 
scratch a little bit more money out for 
job training, for education, to deal 
with problems of the environment and 
our natural resources, to deal with 
international affairs and pressing problems 
in agriculture. We try to scratch 
a few million dollars here, a few hundred 
million dollars there. Yet $250 billion 
simply goes to pay interest. 

What could we do with that $250 billion 
if we did not have to pay any interest? 
A big healthy return to the 


S1820 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

American people would be the first 
start, a big tax cut to give them back 
some more of their hard-earned money. 
And there may be priorities, there may 
be roads that need to be repaired or 
built, there may be education expenditures 
that are appropriate, there may 
be natural resource and environmental 
concerns that ought to be addressed, 
there may be agricultural items that 
ought to be funded, and a whole raft of 
other appropriate spending efforts. Yet 
those are squeezed ever more, as more 
and more of our budget goes to pay interest. 


Beyond this, there is a moral cost of 
continued debt, a price paid in the 
character of our Nation. I have quoted 
Thomas Jefferson in this debate before, 
but let me quote him once more. It is 
an injunction that this Congress has 
ignored time after time: 

The question of whether one generation 
has the right to bind another by the deficit 
it imposes is a question of such consequence 
as to place it among the fundamental principles 
of government. We should consider 
ourselves unauthorized to saddle posterity 
with our debts and be morally bound to pay 
for them by ourselves. 

Those were words of a great American 
a long time ago. I wonder what he 
would say today, looking at over $5.4 
trillion of national debt and continuing 
budget deficits year after year after 
year after year. ‘‘We should consider 
ourselves unauthorized to saddle posterity 
with our debts and be morally 
bound to pay them ourselves,’’ said 
Thomas Jefferson, one of the most fundamental 
principles of government. 

In this debate we are accustomed to 
thinking in terms of dollars and cents. 
We should also be thinking in terms of 
right and wrong. It is simply wrong to 
accumulate power in the present by 
placing burdens on the future. And that 
is exactly what we are doing. We are 
accumulating power in the present, the 
power of spending, and the way we are 
doing it is placing burdens on the future. 
It is an important part of our 
moral tradition, to sacrifice for posterity. 
It is rank selfishness to demand 
that posterity sacrifice for us. And 
there is only one way to ensure that 
this strong and constant temptation is 
defeated, by making a balanced budget 
a fundamental institutional commitment 
of our Government. 

After 25 years of budget deficits, the 
call to voluntary restraint is hollow. 
Too many promises have been made 
and broken. Congress has spent the full 
measure of public trust. Meaningful 
budget restraint, if we find it, will 
come from above, not from within. 
This fundamental principle of government 
should be, and hopefully someday 
will be, and I predict it will be, in 
America’s fundamental law. That day 
cannot come too soon. We should be 
ashamed if that process does not begin 
tomorrow. 

Tomorrow we will vote once again. 
Two years ago I sat in my seat, one row 
down, listening to the final debate on 
the balanced budget amendment, lis


tening to the call of the roll. As every 
Senator sat at his or her desk, each 
stood to record his or her vote, and as 
we went through the roll we tallied the 
numbers and we stopped at 66. We came 
one vote short. One vote short, not of 
adopting a constitutional amendment 
to balance the budget, one vote short 
of exercising the right in a democracy 
of the people to determine that matter 
for themselves. It appears that we will 
stop one vote short again. I hope that 
is not the case. I pray that is not the 
case. 

We desperately need to arrest the 
power of the purse that has so corrupted 
our ability to represent the will 
of the people. I hope tomorrow we will 
demonstrate the courage to finally say: 
Power to the people. Let them decide 
the fiscal course for this Nation. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

f 


SAY ‘‘NO’’ TO A BALANCED 
BUDGET AMENDMENT 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
would like to take some time to talk 
about the vote that is pending tomorrow 
and the subject of the balanced 
budget amendment. We are coming to 
the close of yet another marathon debate 
on this subject, and I hope that I 
can crystallize the perspective and detail 
some of the major concerns of 
those of us who oppose this amendment. 


Mr. President, it is tempting, as the 
debate goes on, to accept right being 
on our side; the other side claims right 
and the moral imperative that says we 
should pass this balanced budget 
amendment, put it into the Constitution, 
open it up, have the courage to 
step forward. 

The courage is to be in the minority 
and say, ‘‘No,’’ though the most popular 
view is to amend the Constitution 
because the folks we represent, each of 
us in our States, really have not been 
made aware of what the penalty is if 
we lock ourselves into an amendment 
to the Constitution. 

We will be saying to people that in 
the future, programs that you relied on 
to sustain your family, to take care of 
your health care, to take care of your 
child’s education, to take care of your 
unemployment insurance, may not be 
available, and if this country starts to 
slide into a recession, we may go the 
whole route. 

So, as we listen to the debate, it is 
very hard not to get to feeling rather 
sanctimonious about the side that we 
are on. I simply point out, as we talk 
about bipartisanship, and note that the 
Democrats are all of the votes in opposition, 
the 34 contemplated votes in opposition 
to the balanced budget amendment. 
Not the majority. The majority 
says, ‘‘We can’t manage our own behavior; 
we have to be controlled by other 
strictures, we have to be told that we 
are not allowed to do these things,’’ 
not that we were sent here, elected to 

this honorific body, one of 100 out of 
260 million people, who say we have the 
guts to stand up and make the decisions 
or pay the consequences. 

We talk about courage. The courage 
is to say, ‘‘No; we will accept the voters’ 
decision in the future when we run 
for election if we insist on maintaining 
the posture as it is.’’ Good news 
brought us to this point, to where the 
budget deficit has been reduced by over 
60 percent in the last 4 years, where job 
growth is up to 11 million new jobs, as 
major company after major company 
shrinks down, closes its doors, sends its 
jobs overseas. The good news is inflation 
is under control, that our percentage 
of deficit to GDP is the smallest 
among the advanced nations of the 
world and the envy of all the other 
countries. 

So, Mr. President, I would like to discuss 
four points that go to the heart of 
the debate and hope that we will stay 
the course as it is and say no to a balanced 
budget amendment and say yes 
to the American people, that we have 
the backbone to stand up to this debate 
and we are obliged to carry on your 
wishes. 

First, the evidence is mounting and 
the public tide is turning against this 
amendment. Economist after economist, 
newspaper after newspaper, academic 
after academic believes this 
amendment is bad for the Nation, and 
for good reasons. 

Two, we will balance the budget 
without a balanced budget amendment. 

Third, the balanced budget amendment 
could wreak havoc with the economy 
and the economic security of millions 
of Americans. 

And four, it would be almost impossible 
to undo the damage of a balanced 
budget amendment once the harm is 
done. 

On the first point, the mounting opposition 
to the balanced budget amendment 
is not confined to one group of 
Senators or Members of the House. It is 
also not limited, when we consider 
both bodies, to a particular party or 
segment of the political spectrum. 

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan 
Greenspan, former CBO Director Rudy 
Penner, former Solicitors General Robert 
Bork and Charles Freid, not to 
mention our former and esteemed colleague, 
Senator Mark Hatfield, have all 
weighed in against the balanced budget 
amendment. Even last year’s Vice 
Presidential candidate, Jack Kemp, appearing 
on ‘‘Meet the Press’’ called the 
amendment ‘‘a recipe for future disaster 
in this country.’’ 

In the November 25, 1996, edition of 
Newsweek, conservative columnist 
George Will wrote: 

The Constitution should not be amended, 
unless there is a compelling reason to do so. 

He goes on to say: 

Current conditions do not constitute a 
compelling reason. 

In its November 15, 1996, lead editorial 
entitled ‘‘An Amendment is Poor 
Substitute for Backbone,’’ USA Today 
said: 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1821 

Drafting a balanced budget amendment is 
a waste of parchment. The history of balanced-
budget measures show that. 

The Wall Street Journal, not exactly 
a bastion of liberal thought, labeled 
the amendment a ‘‘constitutional 
boondoggle,’’ calling the amendment a 
‘‘flake-out.’’ The Journal went on to 
say: 

The notion of amending the Constitution 
to outlaw budget deficits is silly on any 
number of counts. 

The Washington Post, too, had a 
scathing review of the balanced budget 
amendment. In its January 30, 1997, 
editorial, ‘‘No to a Bad Amendment,’’ 
the Post concluded: 

This is a fake show of strength and abuse 
of the Constitution whose effect would be to 
harm the system of government it purports 
to help. 

The New York Times called it ‘‘an 
idea that looked good in the abstract 
but is dangerous in the reality.’’ 

And one of my home State newspapers 
in New Jersey, the Bergen 
Record, tagged the balanced budget 
amendment as ‘‘a misguided measure’’ 
and a ‘‘bad idea.’’ 

On the economic policy front, Federal 
Reserve Chairman Dr. Alan Greenspan, 
who is known for choosing his 
words carefully, recently expressed his 
reservations about the balanced budget 
amendment. At a January 21 Budget 
Committee hearing, in response to a 
question that I asked on the balanced 
budget amendment, Dr. Greenspan 
said: 

I have not been sympathetic to the specific 
details of most balanced budget amendments 
largely because I think they are very difficult 
to enforce, and I am terribly much 
concerned about the issue of employing detailed 
economic policy within the Constitution 
itself. 

Mr. President, on January 30, along 
with some of my colleagues, I joined 
with a message from over 1,000—it was 
printed in the paper—leading economists, 
including 11 Nobel Prize winners 
in economics, in speaking out against 
this amendment. At the press conference 
releasing this statement, one of 
the participants asked a very good 
question. He said: ‘‘Where are all of the 
conservative economists in favor of the 
balanced budget amendment?’’ 

The answer is that most of them are 
keeping a safe distance from it, and 
with good reason. The balanced budget 
amendment is fatally flawed economic 
policy. 

Mr. President, my second point is 
that we do not need this amendment. 

During the 1980’s and the early 1990’s, 
those who supported the amendment 
could point to historic increases in our 
annual deficits and the persistent unbalanced 
budgets submitted by both 
Republican and Democratic Presidents. 
Their concerns were understandable. In 
1979, the deficit was $41 billion. In 1979 
—almost 20 years ago—it was $41 billion 
or 1.7 percent of GDP. When President 
Clinton took office, the deficit 
was $292 billion and was expected to 
crest at $347 billion in 1997. The deficit 

as a percentage of gross domestic product 
stood at a whopping 4.9 percent. 

This staggering rise in the deficit led 
many to conclude that only a constitutional 
amendment could force the Federal 
Government to be fiscally responsible. 
The proponents pointed to the 
tide of red ink flooding the Nation and 
argued for this stop-me-before-I-spendany-
more amendment. 

But that sense of hopelessness has 
been now proven wrong. 

Since President Clinton took office, 
the deficit has gone down consistently 
and dramatically. Last year, it fell to 
$107 billion and 1.4 percent of GDP. It is 
now the lowest deficit, as a percentage 
of GDP, of any major industrialized 
country. President Clinton has a plan 
to make it balance in the year 2002, and 
it will be a real balanced budget, not 
this raincheck of an amendment that 
may be—and it is a big ‘‘may be’’—redeemed 
at a later date. 

We have proven that the Congress 
and the President can be fiscally responsible. 
I want to state in the strongest 
possible terms that we do not need 
an outdated and dangerous constitutional 
gimmick to do the job. We can 
do the job on our own, and we will. 

Mr. President, my third point is that 
the balanced budget amendment is a 
catastrophe waiting to happen. Perhaps 
most importantly, it would substantially 
aggravate economic downturn 
and it could turn a slowdown into 
a recession and a recession into a great 
depression. For example, during the 
Bush recession, real GDP fell 2 percent. 
If the balanced budget amendment had 
been in place, real GDP might have declined 
by 4 percent or more. 

Last year, the Treasury Department 
issued a very interesting report on how 
a balanced budget amendment would 
have worsened the Bush recession. I 
want to quote from it. They said: 

A balanced budget amendment would force 
the government to raise taxes and cut spending 
in recessions—at just the moment that 
raising taxes and cutting spending will do 
the most harm to the economy and aggravate 
the recession. 

That is what the Treasury Department 
said. 

During a recession, we need every 
tool at our disposal to deal with the 
economic downturn. The Government 
must be nimble and responsive, but the 
balanced budget amendment autopilot 
could send the economy into a tailspin. 
One President tried to balance the 
budget during a recession. His name 
was Herbert Hoover, and the recession 
quickly became the Great Depression. 

I am also very concerned that the 
balanced budget amendment could 
eliminate many of the automatic stabilizers, 
like unemployment insurance 
that protects people during a downturn 
and cushions some of the pain. Under 
current law, if unemployment goes up, 
so do unemployment insurance payments. 
That not only helps the workers 
and their families, but it moderates the 
impact of a recession on industry. 

Secretary Rubin estimates that without 
our automatic fiscal stabilizers, 

unemployment in 1992 may have 
crested at 9 percent, instead of 7.7 percent, 
which would have meant more 
than a million additional jobs could 
have been lost. 

It is possible that eventually we 
could have found the three-fifths super-
majority needed to waive the provisions 
to the amendment. But Congress 
moved slowly even without a super-
majority requirement, and most likely 
by the time we had reacted to the unfolding 
slowdown, the damage would 
have been done. 

Another major problem with this balanced 
budget amendment is that it increases 
the likelihood that the Government 
will default on its debt. The 
amendment includes language that requires 
a three-fifths majority vote in 
both Houses in order to raise the debt 
limit. This little-known provision is 
extremely dangerous, as one can imagine, 
to have a small minority denying 
the ability to raise the debt limit when 
it could very well be essential. 

Mr. President, the Nation was taken 
to the brink of default in 1995. Fortunately, 
cooler heads prevailed in that 
feverish atmosphere, and we were able 
to raise the debt ceiling by a simple 
majority vote. But what would have 
happened in 1995 if the supermajority 
rule had been in place? A minority, as 
I said, in Congress could have caused a 
default on our financial obligations. 

A default would have disastrous consequences. 
The Treasury would be prevented, 
at least temporarily, from issuing 
checks for Social Security, Medicare, 
and veterans benefits. Our creditworthiness 
would be shot. The Nation 
would suffer a profound and long-lasting 
increase in interest rates, harming 
all those who borrow. Homeowners 
making payments on adjustable rate 
mortgages would be especially hard 
hit. And these higher interest rates 
would make it even harder to balance 
the budget thereafter as the Nation 
would have to devote an even larger 
share of the budget to interest on the 
national debt. 

Mr. President, my fourth and last 
point is that there is no fail-safe, sunset 
or automatic review built into this 
amendment. Congress has passed far 
lesser measures that contain at the 
very least a sunset, a time when this 
automatically stops for review. A case 
in point is the line-item veto that was 
enacted into law last year and contains 
a 9-year sunset. 

But this balanced budget amendment, 
that is by far one of the most 
sweeping and dangerous pieces of legislation 
ever to come before the Congress, 
has none. This is most troubling 
to this Senator, as it should be to all 
Americans. 

What would happen if the balanced 
budget amendment caused the type of 
problems that I just outlined? Remember, 
this is not a simple piece of legislation. 
This is a constitutional amendment. 
Imagine our Nation, wracked by 
recession or, even worse, depression. 
Millions are out of work. Factories are 


S1822 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

shuttered. Bankruptcy and foreclosures 
are rampant. Because a constitutional 
amendment is in force, Congress could 
not take the quick and responsive action 
that may be necessary, as we did 
during the Bush recession. The only 
legal course of action left to us would 
be yet another constitutional amendment 
to repeal this bad one and undo 
the damage. 

But hang on a minute. The last time 
that happened was in 1933, over 60 years 
ago, when the 21st amendment was 
ratified repealing the 18th amendment 
to the Constitution. The 18th amendment 
was prohibition. It, too, was supposed 
to save us from ourselves and 
legislate backbone. It took 14 years to 
repeal it. 

During a depression we could not 
wait that long. The American people, 
who depend on our sound judgment and 
rely on our fiscal stewardship, certainly 
cannot wait that long. And neither 
should we. We should vote against 
this amendment. 

Mr. President, let me again emphasize 
that I agree with the need to be 
fiscally responsible, and I am committed 
to working toward a balanced budget. 
The President of the United States 
proposed a budget that balances in the 
year 2002. We have a challenge. Let us 
examine it. As the ranking Democratic 
Member of the Budget Committee, I believe 
we can reach a balanced budget 
agreement this year. But we can do it 
without this flawed constitutional 
amendment. 

The former majority leader of the 
Senate, Mike Mansfield, said that he 
owed the people of his State more than 
an echo; he owed them his judgment. It 
is my best judgment, Mr. President, 
that this amendment is bad for the 
people of New Jersey, as it is bad for 
the people all across our Nation. I urge 
my colleagues to do the right thing and 
oppose this amendment. 

I yield the floor and see my colleague, 
who is the right stuff, from 
Ohio about to take the floor. We will 
listen with interest. 

Mr. GLENN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Ohio. 

f 


BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENT 
TO THE CONSTITUTION 

Mr. GLENN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to add my comments to the 
many others who have voiced their opposition 
to Senate Joint Resolution 1, 
the balanced budget constitutional 
amendment. 

Mr. President, like the others before 
me, let me preface my comments by 
stating clearly that I support balancing 
the Federal budget. I have for a 
long time. I wanted to balance the Federal 
budget clear back when it was 
only $1 trillion way back in the days 
when Jimmy Carter was still President. 
I note that the total Federal debt 
at that time was still under $1 trillion, 
totaled up for every President between 
George Washington and the end of the 
Carter years. 

So I do not come lately to this idea 
of balancing the Federal budget. I 
wholeheartedly agree we need to exercise 
discipline to both balance the 
budget and eliminate the deficit. But, 
Mr. President, I do not believe that 
changing our Constitution to require a 
balanced budget is in this country’s 
best interests. For reasons I will outline, 
I believe that a constitutional 
amendment requiring a balanced budget 
is far more likely to cause more 
trouble, more harm, than good. 

The amendment before the Senate 
would dramatically change the way our 
political process has worked for over 
200 years. While there have been times 
when partisan fighting may have 
caused what many term gridlock, I do 
not believe it is necessary or desirable 
to turn the fundamental concept of our 
system of Government on its head. 

Moreover, this amendment would ensure 
that gridlock is the rule rather 
than the exception. By requiring super-
majorities in order to conduct the routine 
business of the Congress, this 
amendment overthrows the concept of 
majority rule and empowers minority 
factions to hold the Congress and the 
country hostage. I submit that this 
type of minority control of our Government 
is the exact evil the framers 
sought to eliminate in the drafting of 
our Constitution. For this reason alone 
I oppose the balanced budget constitutional 
amendment. 

It is not hyperbole when I say it is 
dangerous to our form of Government. 
Compounding the problem, Mr. President, 
is the fact that the proponents of 
this amendment would topple one of 
the basic tenets of our Government, as 
I see it, for no reason at all. 

First, from a historical perspective, 
the constitutional amendment is not 
needed. The only time in this country’s 
history outside of times of war, the 
Great Depression, or recession that we 
have run up a significant deficit, one 
viewed as unmanageable, is in the preceding 
two decades through our time 
right now on the floor. We had the experiments 
in supply-side economics 
back during the last 12 years before 
President Clinton came in, which ran 
our debt from $1 trillion up to nearly $5 
trillion. 

But we are no longer debating how 
we got into this situation we find ourselves 
in, pointing fingers, or placing 
blame for a deficit so staggering that it 
is beyond our comprehension or imagination. 
Instead, a more productive political 
consensus does now exist to 
bring the budget into balance and 
eliminate our deficit. So I do not think 
we need a constitutional requirement 
to balance the budget. Congress and 
the President, working together, have 
the ability, and now, I believe, the will 
to bring our budget into balance. 

Now, everybody describes this as 
being a political climate that is overly 
divisive. I agree. Congress in both 
Houses, on both sides of the aisle, and 
the President, all profess to want a balanced 
budget, and I do not doubt that. 

I think everyone does, and they want 
to eliminate the huge deficit that is 
the legacy of the 1980s. Now we have 
different ways we are looking at this 
thing, but we have made substantial 
strides in at least getting unanimous 
consent or unanimous opinion that this 
is something that we do have to deal 
with and do have to deal with now. But 
there are still some very basic disagreements 
on how to achieve the balance 
and how to reduce the deficit. 

The Democrats and Republicans 
alike have proposed balancing the 
budget by the year 2002, and the deficit 
has been reduced from 5.1 percent of 
our gross domestic product in fiscal 
year 1986 to only 1.4 percent in fiscal 
year 1996. Mr. President, 5.1 of GDP in 
1986 down to 1.4 percent just 10 years 
later in 1996. Right here and right now 
we are working toward achieving the 
very goal of the balanced budget constitutional 
amendment without sacrificing 
our democratic form of Government 
to get there. 

I might put those figures in a different 
term. When President Clinton 
came in, our national budget deficit 
was running at $290 billion a year. We 
passed on this very floor one of the 
toughest votes that many of us have 
made since being in the Senate. We 
passed during the Reconciliation Act in 
August of 1993 the President’s program, 
without having one single Republican 
vote—not a one in either the Senate or 
the House of Representatives; not a 
one—and there were all sorts of predictions 
about what horrible things 
were going to happen to the economy 
and the millions of unemployed that 
would be added to the rolls. What happened? 
Well, that did not happen and 
we have gone on with a very, very, 
strong economy, and we have gone 
from a budget deficit of $290 billion 
down to $107 billion for the latest estimate 
for what 1996 will turn out to be. 

We are in the middle of doing something 
right here. We are doing it right 
now with action that we have taken in 
this Congress. This is not something 
we are waiting for and hoping for some 
magic wand like a balanced budget 
amendment. This is something that we 
are doing right now and we are headed 
toward a balanced budget. I grant anyone 
that wants to discuss this, we, in 
fact, are looking forward to some times 
out here where it will be tougher to do 
that, tougher to balance the budget. 
We know that. But that will require 
some equally tough votes on this floor. 

I hope when we make those tough 
votes on this floor we have support 
from the other side of the aisle that we 
did not have when we made that vote 
the summer of 1993. Now, in Treasury 
Secretary Rubin’s words, a balanced 
budget constitutional amendment 
‘‘could turn slowdowns into recessions, 
and average recessions into more severe 
ones,’’ and he added, ‘‘it would seriously 
increase the risk of default on 
our national debt.’’ 

Those are quotes taken from Secretary 
Rubin’s February 2, op-ed in the 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1823 

the Washington Post. I ask unanimous 
consent that his Washington Post oped 
piece be printed at the end of my remarks. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

(See exhibit 1.) 

Mr. GLENN. It is a thoughtful piece 
that makes a very powerful argument 
against this amendment. 

Economists consider a balanced 
budget requirement to be what they 
would call procyclical. In other words, 
adding to the cycle instead of correcting 
the cycle. It makes it worse. It is 
an economic autopilot. When revenues 
are slow coming into the Federal coffers 
because the economy is slow, deeper 
spending cuts have to be made to 
make up for the revenue shortfall in 
order to keep the budget in balance. 

We have AFDC, food stamps, unemployment 
insurance, trade adjustments 
assistance, all of these things cut in 
during the beginning of a recessionary 
period, and the farther we get into that 
approach to a depression the more 
these programs sort of prime the pump 
or level things off. There is no way 
that can be shown better than the 
chart that has been on the floor here 
many, many times in the past. I will 
hold this up to illustrate, but we have 
seen this real economic growth, and 
you can see what happened on this 
chart. Way back in the 1880’s and 1900’s 
on the wide cyclical swings and what 
happened post World War II, and we got 
some of the countercyclical programs 
in place. 

Look how the economy has just leveled 
out in that period of time. The 
economy has leveled out with no great 
huge swings down like we had during 
the Great Depression when I was a boy 
back home in New Concord, OH. These 
are things that would happen again, we 
would get back into the wild swings, if 
we, indeed, had the balanced budget 
amendment passed, because there is no 
other way to get the money to take 
care of the requirements of a balanced 
budget amendment unless you either 
cut many of those programs back or 
raise taxes. That is the other source of 
revenue. If you did that, either one of 
those things would be exactly the 
wrong thing to do and would add to the 
inclination, the trend, toward a cycle 
that we want to stamp out, not make 
worse. 

It is sort of a perverse, Look, Ma, no 
hands approach to budget, the exact 
wrong thing for a slow economy. That 
is why Secretary Rubin says the balanced 
budget amendment ‘‘can take an 
economic slowdown and turn it into a 
recession and then take a recession and 
make it even worse.’’ 

I submit that is probably exactly an 
analysis that most economists would 
show happened back during the days of 
Herbert Hoover when he tried to raise 
taxes to make sure we were not going 
into more of a deficit position. 

I cannot believe the proponents intend 
to force us into this kind of an 
economic straitjacket. I know the peo


ple across the country want a balanced 
budget. So they say, ‘‘Balanced budget 
amendment, oh, that sounds great, 
that sounds magical after the last 12 or 
14 years when we had budgets run sky-
high and deficits running sky-high.’’ So 
that sounds very attractive. 

I think when the people of this country 
know what will be cut, they are informed 
about what will be cut, informed 
they will have difficulty within 
their communities with AFDC and food 
stamps and unemployment insurance 
and things like that that are administered 
by the States, but partly with 
Federal dollars, then I think they 
would realize this is more of a danger 
than anything they have come up 
against for some time. 

Mr. President, I grew up during the 
Great Depression. I was about 10 or 12 
years old in the depths of the Great Depression. 
During those 4 years we had 
20 percent of the country unemployed 
and 1 year when almost 25 percent were 
unemployed. What happened? The 
country had hit a situation it had 
never been able to handle before. 

We always were proud in this country 
of families taking care of families, of 
communities taking care of themselves. 
They didn’t look for outside 
help. In those days of the Great Depression, 
in the town of New Concord, OH, 
my hometown, everybody planted big 
gardens. My dad rented an extra couple 
of acres, in addition to our big garden, 
and we grew our own food and took it 
down and gave it to neighbors. We 
shared in those days. That’s how we 
got by. 

But everybody wasn’t that fortunate. 
In some of our cities, we had soup 
kitchens on the corner where people 
could get something to eat in order to 
keep them going. We used to see what 
we called the ‘‘bums’’ going by on 
Route 40, and that went right by our 
house, as a matter of fact. We called 
them the ‘‘bums’’ because they were 
people who were, quite often, walking 
or getting a ride in a railroad boxcar 
across country someplace. They would 
get off sometimes and come up to the 
house and knock on the back door and 
ask my mother if she could give them 
something to eat. She never turned 
anyone down that came to that back 
door, I can guarantee you that. They 
were good people, down on their luck. 
I’m sure some were deadbeats that 
weren’t much to begin with. But they 
were Americans and they were hungry, 
and it was the Great Depression and it 
was tough. 

The movie reels of those days show 
the Okies heading west out of the dust 
pit in Oklahoma with the mattress on 
top of the car, because communities 
had lost control. What happened? Programs 
were put in by Roosevelt—programs 
that we still argue about on the 
floor of the Senate to this day—and 
they primed the pump. That is the 
point I want to make. They primed the 
pump. They may have been very wasteful 
for 1 or 2 years, but they primed the 
pump and got our economy going 

again. You can make a million jokes 
about those time periods, but they are 
not a joke, as far as I am concerned, 
because I remember them very well. 

I remember one conversation between 
my dad and mother that I will 
never forget as long as I live. We had 
finished dinner and I went in the other 
room. I heard them quietly talking at 
the kitchen table, and they were discussing 
whether the mortgage was 
going to be foreclosed on our home. 
You talk about striking terror in the 
heart of a 10-year-old boy—that was 
me. I didn’t know where we were going 
to go. That was a bad one. Do you 
know what happened? FHA was put in, 
and it was possible to negotiate a 
mortgage then with that kind of a Government 
guarantee that helped people 
like my dad and mom have a shot at 
keeping the home. Lots of mortgages 
were foreclosed and people could not 
keep their homes. Those are the days 
we were living in then. 

The point I’m making is that the 
pump-priming efforts at that time 
worked. They largely put our economy 
back to work again and got it going 
again. It wasn’t perfect and never had 
been completely healed until we got 
through World War II, I guess. That 
was the ultimate primer of pumps, 
World War II. Anyway, the program of 
having countercyclical funds that cut 
in when a recession starts or when a 
downturn really gets serious is something 
that works. It works just as well 
as it did back in those days of the 
Great Depression. It worked, obviously, 
from the time, since 1946, that we 
started the first of these programs, and 
we have built on similar programs 
since that time that really do work. 

A balanced budget amendment would 
force us, in a time when we are in deficit, 
to dig into those things and cut 
down on those funds, or raise taxes, either 
of which would be exactly the 
wrong thing to do at that cycle of depression 
or near depression. 

Another truly frightening consequence 
of the adoption of a balanced 
budget requirement is the fact that it 
puts the creditworthiness of the United 
States of America at risk. Mr. President, 
this is a concept that I admit I 
find to be almost unimaginable. By requiring 
a supermajority to raise the 
debt ceiling, this constitutional 
amendment would allow 41 Members of 
this body—not a majority, but a minority 
of the Senate—to trade the creditworthiness 
of this country for the passage 
of legislation that otherwise 
would not pass the Senate. In other 
words, it is what has been termed in 
the past as the ‘‘tyranny of the minority.’’ 


Try and imagine what default by the 
Government of the United States of 
America would do to the world’s financial 
markets. I can’t. I am not saying 
this will happen necessarily, Mr. President, 
but I cannot support an amendment 
to our Constitution that would 
allow a minority to dictate legislation 
to a majority of the Senate or place 
our creditworthiness at risk. 


S1824 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

I want to take a minute to talk 
about what this amendment would do 
to our ability to make expenditures in 
order to respond to emergencies, natural 
disasters, or even military operations, 
like Desert Shield, where we 
were not technically engaged in a military 
conflict. I will only take a minute. 
This amendment prevents us from 
doing anything in these situations 
without the agreement of a super-
majority, for all intents and purposes— 
even for military. The practical implications 
of this amendment are that 
Congress may be able to offer assistance 
to tornado or hurricane victims, 
or victims of any other natural disaster, 
if that disaster happens early in a 
fiscal year because only a majority 
vote would probably be necessary while 
we are still on budget, while things are 
looking well. But if a disaster happens 
in the third or fourth quarter of the fiscal 
year, those disaster victims are on 
their own, unless three-fifths of the 
Congress agrees to provide some sort of 
assistance. 

These same accounting practicalities 
will not be lost on our potential adversaries, 
either. I don’t think it is too big 
a leap of logic to say that Saddam Hussein 
would not have to be a financial 
genius to figure out that if he wants to 
make another run at Kuwait, it is better 
to move the republican guard units 
in the third or fourth quarter of a fiscal 
year, because it will take the action 
of three-fifths of both Houses of 
Congress to approve funding for any 
military operations, which would bring 
the budget out of balance. 

Mr. President, that is a completely 
unacceptable way for the United States 
of America to act, I feel. That is the 
straitjacket that this balanced budget 
amendment would put us into if it were 
passed. 

So, to me, these are some very serious 
flaws in the constitutional requirement. 
There are also separation of powers 
concerns raised by this amendment. 
Let us take the situation in which it is 
discovered during a fiscal year that the 
budget will not balance and that outlays 
will exceed expenditures. If the 
Congress fails to approve additional 
spending by the required three-fifths 
majority, the President might feel 
compelled to impound funds in order to 
bring the budget into balance. Now, the 
President would decide what to fund 
and what not to fund. Mr. President, 
let me state that again. The President, 
in that situation, would decide what to 
fund and what not to fund, because 
that is what he would be required to do 
by law. This represents a shift in power 
to the President that once rested with 
a simple majority in the Congress. 

A similar troubling situation would 
be where the budget goes out of balance 
or never gets into balance, and 
the President does not correct the situation. 
Say the President doesn’t want 
to do anything about this. He says, OK, 
we are not going to correct it. What do 
we do? In that circumstance, do you 
know what would happen? The courts 

would step in and decide which programs 
would be funded and which programs 
would not be funded, again, taking 
away what has heretofore been a 
congressional prerogative. 

Then there are equity issues that 
argue against passage of the balanced 
budget constitutional amendment. 
This amendment is a policy decision 
not just about how to keep the books, 
but also about who will benefit from 
Federal spending programs. It cannot 
be denied, and should not be overlooked, 
that the Tax Code’s tax breaks 
to individuals and corporations are a 
type of Government spending. Not everyone 
realizes it, but when an individual’s 
or corporation’s tax burden is reduced 
by a tax break, that is Government 
spending, and we should not forget 
that. Eliminating these tax breaks 
is considered increasing revenues. 
Under the balanced budget amendment 
before us, Congress can increase revenues 
only by a majority vote of both 
Houses. 

In contrast, cutting funding for programs 
requires only a majority vote by 
those present and voting or could even 
be passed on a voice vote. This is not 
an esoteric point, Mr. President, because 
in program terms, this amendment 
creates a presumption in favor of 
cutting funding for programs because 
it is easier to do. I argue that this presumption 
favors the more affluent in 
our society, because their Federal 
spending programs, known as the Tax 
Code, are more difficult to cut than the 
spending programs of the less affluent. 

That kind of an imbalance just plain 
is not fair. 

Finally, Mr. President, I must mention 
the relationship that exists between 
this balanced budget amendment 
and Social Security. As the baby boom 
generation reaches retirement age, Social 
Security expenditures will increase 
dramatically. 

And despite the fact that some action 
has been taken in anticipation of this 
demographic shift in the population, 
this balanced budget amendment would 
have us pay for baby boom Social Security 
out of current year revenues and 
will likely break the bank. 

Right now, we are paying more into 
Social Security so that we can generate 
surpluses to pay for the baby 
boomers when they reach retirement 
age. This approach is far sounder than 
expecting to pay this enormous expense 
out of a single year’s revenues. 
I’m afraid that the only way we would 
get there under a balanced budget requirement 
is either to reduce substantially 
the benefit baby boomers receive 
or cut radically other Government programs. 


This is just another example of 
where, in my view, a constitutional requirement 
to balance the budget in the 
manner proposed will do more harm 
than good. 

Mr. President, we all want to eliminate 
the enormous deficits of the recent 
past. We all want to bring the 
budget into balance and keep it in bal


ance when it makes sense to do so. 
And, it would be a lot easier to stand 
here and have the American taxpayer 
believe that supporting this legislation 
is a simple way to solve all of our problems. 


But it’s not the right thing to do, Mr. 
President. This legislation forces this 
country into a budgetary straight-
jacket and it limits democracy as we 
have known it for more than 200 years. 

It’s unsound from an economic perspective 
and it is unfair to the less 
wealthy. It puts this Nation’s security 
at risk and it prevents us from responding 
to disasters. 

And it could result in the elimination 
of virtually all Government programs 
except Social Security once the baby 
boom reaches retirement age. 

As I said, Mr. President, it would be 
easy to say that I support the legislation 
before us because the concept of 
requiring a balanced budget appeals to 
the average American—but only on a 
superficial level. 

Regrettably, for the reasons I’ve outlined, 
the solution isn’t so simple and I 
cannot support this legislation. 

Mr. President, let me just summarize 
once again. 

We are on the way to a balanced 
budget now with the existing Federal 
budgeting processes. We have been 
since the summer of 1993. I do not 
think most Americans yet have gotten 
this fact driven home to them. They 
are so accustomed to deficits coming 
out of Washington that they can’t believe 
that we really are heading toward 
a balanced budget. We can’t do it all in 
1 year or we would destroy the economy. 
But what we have done is, with 
the budget reconciliation bill that was 
passed in August 1993, we are proceeding 
step by step toward a balanced 
budget. It has gone from a budget deficit 
of $290 billion a year when President 
Clinton came into office down to 
an estimated $107 billion for the year 
1996. That is certainly measurable 
progress. It was estimated earlier that 
would go down this year to about $40 
billion. That may be revised up a little. 
We have to take some action to do 
that. 

But to go the drastic step of a balanced 
budget amendment that would 
deal so unfairly with so many people I 
think is something that we do not want 
to do. 

Mr. President, we have programs 
that are called countercyclical. Those 
programs cut in as the economy gets 
worse. They automatically cut in and 
dampen that slide and bring it back up 
again. It prevents things like the deep 
Depression of the early thirties and all 
of the wild swings that used to occur 
back before we had some of these countercyclical 
programs. 

There is no way that you can get by 
it with a balanced budget amendment. 
You are going to be cutting some of 
these programs like AFDC, Social Security, 
food stamps, unemployment insurance, 
maybe Medicaid, and trade adjustment 
assistance. Those are all 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1825 

things that would be targets for potential 
cuts. The money has to come from 
somewhere. With the balanced budget 
amendment you have no choice but to 
cut, or, if you want to keep the balance, 
raise taxes, either one of which 
would be absolutely wrong on an economic 
cycle basis. 

Mr. President, for all of those reasons, 
and others that I have not even 
mentioned here today but which Mr. 
Rubin refers to in his Outlook piece in 
the Washington Post that I asked to be 
placed in the RECORD, I think it would 
be unwise to go for a balanced budget 
amendment that puts us in an economic 
straitjacket. I think we need to 
continue our efforts here on a bipartisan 
basis, on both sides, here and over 
in the House, and do the things that we 
see are working right now with our 
budget. Continue those, and we can 
have a balanced budget if we all work 
together on this without violating the 
Constitution or without going back 
into the Constitution, which will enable 
us to do it. 

EXHIBIT 1 

[From the Washington Post, Feb. 2, 1997] 

THE BALANCED BUDGET BRAWL 

(By Robert E. Rubin) 

I spent 26 years on Wall Street before joining 
the Clinton administration and came to 
believe deeply in the profound importance of 
fiscal responsibility to our national economy. 
I have now spent four years working in 
government to implement this conviction, 
which members of both parties share. 

However, I have an equally strong conviction 
that a balanced budget amendment is a 
threat to Social Security and our economic 
health. it will expose our economy to unacceptable 
risks and should not be adopted. 
Like the 11 Nobel Prize-winning economists 
and 1,000 other economists who signed a letter 
on Thursday to ‘‘condemn’’ the amendment, 
I believe it is strongly against our national 
interest. 

A balanced budget amendment would reduce 
our ability to cope with recessions, risk 
putting budgetary decisions in the hands of 
the courts and create risks with respect to 
Social Security. Should we balance the budget? 
Yes. Do we need a new constitutional 
amendment? No. 

Throughout our history, with the exception 
of wartime and the Depression, budget 
deficits—when they existed at all—were generally 
small. In the 1970s and 1980s, they 
began to rise and the cumulative federal debt 
grew sharply. But after experiencing this period 
of fiscal indiscipline. I believe the atmosphere 
in Washington has changed. 

In 1993, we took an enormous step forward 
with the deficit reduction program, which 
has cut the deficit from 4.7 percent to 1.4 percent 
of gross domestic product. Last year, 
both the administration and Congress proposed 
budgets that would eliminate the deficit 
by 2002, and both are expected to do so 
again this year. 

There is also a new enforcement factor at 
work, which is the emergence of global markets 
attuned to fiscal responsibility. Those 
markets will punish a national that does not 
address fiscal matters by imposing high interest 
rates that can severely impair its 
economy. 

Today, politically, historically and economically, 
the forces are in place to balance 
the budget. And I believe we will. However, 
there is a distinction between that and passing 
a constitutional amendment. I believe 

the balanced budget amendment proposal 
would subject the nation to unacceptable 
economic risks in perpetuity. 

First, it could turn slowdowns into recessions 
and average recessions into more severe 
ones. 

Second, it could prevent us from dealing 
expeditiously with emergencies such as natural 
disasters or military threats. 

Third, it would seriously increase the risk 
of default on our national debt. 

Fourth, the escape clauses it provides are 
likely to be far from fully effective. The escape 
clauses would also enable a minority in 
either the House or Senate to use its leverage 
to subject the nation to unacceptable 
economic risks. 

Fifth, a balanced budget amendment poses 
immense enforcement problems that might 
well lead to the involvement of the courts in 
budget decisions, unprecedented impoundment 
powers for the president or the temporary 
cessation of all federal payments, including, 
for example, Social Security. Alternatively, 
the balanced budget amendment 
might be unenforceable and therefore have 
no effect at all, contributing to cynicism 
about the process of government. 

For these and other reasons, a balanced 
budget amendment poses unacceptable risks. 
Let me elaborate. 

More severe recessions. As secretary of the 
treasury, I am deeply concerned that a balanced 
budget amendment could worsen recessions 
or downturns, first by eliminating 
automatic stabilizers that protect people 
during a downturn and, second, by forcing 
tax increases or spending decreases precisely 
in the midst of a slowdown or recession when 
the economy is already suffering from lack 
of demand. 

Since World War II, we have made substantial 
progress in reducing the toll of the 
boom-and-bust cycle through the introduction 
of automatic fiscal stabilizers and effective 
use of counter-cyclical fiscal policy. For 
example, if unemployment rises, unemployment 
insurance payments rise as well, moderating 
the economic impact of recessions 
and job losses on companies workers and 
their families. 

A balanced budget amendment would undo 
this progress and put more people out of 
work during downturns by turning off these 
stabilizers and foreclosing action to soften a 
recession. 

Even if Congress wanted to put back the 
stabilizers (an act that would require a 
three-fifths vote), slowdowns and recessions 
are hard to recognize or anticipate. Congressional 
action would almost surely come, at 
the very best, months later, by which time 
critical damage to the economy would already 
have been done. 

Inability to cope with crises. A balanced 
budget amendment would also prevent us 
from dealing quickly and effectively with 
major problems, from a second savings and 
loan crisis to a second Hurricane Hugo to an 
escalating military threat. 

For example, in September 1989, Hurricane 
Hugo struck the Carolinas, causing billions 
of dollars of damage. After President Bush 
declared a disaster, Congress immediately 
appropriated $2.7 billion in emergency assistance. 
Under the balanced budget amendment, 
if the budget were otherwise in balance, 
this could not be done until after a 
vote of 60 percent in both houses. 

Increased risk of default. As secretary of 
the treasury, I am also concerned that limits 
on our flexibility would increase the risk of 
default on the federal debt. The possibility of 
default should never be on the table. Our 
credit-worthiness is an invaluable national 
asset that should not be subject to question. 

Default on payment of our debt would undermine 
our credibility with respect to 

meeting financial commitments, and that in 
turn would have adverse effects for decades 
to come. A failure to pay interest on our 
debt could raise the cost of borrowing not 
only for government, but for private borrowers 
including small businesses and homeowners. 


Finally, as we saw in 1995 and 1996, the history 
of debt limits shows that raising the 
statutory debt limit is never an easy process. 
Yet right now it is possible to raise the debt 
limit with a simple majority vote in both 
houses. By requiring a three-fifths super-
majority vote, the amendment would make 
it far more difficult. 

Potential for gridlock. Proponents argue 
that when necessary, Congress would waive 
the provision of this amendment with a 
three-fifths vote. But, in fact, the history of 
Congress shows that it can be extremely difficult 
to obtain such a majority, and would 
be even more difficult when the issue is the 
momentous one of waiving a provision of the 
Constitution. 

While 60 votes are usually required in the 
Senate for cloture—that is, ending debate 
and bringing a matter to a vote—and the 
members have long honored the rights of a 
minority, the Senate also recognizes that 
certain matters should not be held up. It 
therefore permits a reconciliation bill, which 
can be a vehicle for passing a budget or increasing 
the debt limit, to be passed by a 
simple majority. 

Under this amendment, 41 Senators or 175 
House members could hold our economy hostage 
to a special agenda. 

Enforcement difficulties. A balanced budget 
amendment poses immense enforcement 
problems. If the budget is not in balance, 
there is no way to compel Congress and the 
president to enact legislation to cut spending 
or raise taxes to make it so. Yet there is 
also no way to compel enactment of legislation 
to waive the provisions of the amendment. 
It is not hard to imagine a situation in 
which a two-fifths minority of Congress opposes 
tax increases, a different two-fifths minority 
opposes spending cuts, and another 
two-fifths minority opposes a waiver of the 
balanced budget amendment or a raise of the 
debt limit. The amendment provides no 
method for resolving such an impasse and it 
could well end up being decided by the 
courts. 

Some proponents have suggested that 
under these circumstances, the president 
would stop issuing checks, including those 
for Social Security. Alternatively, judges 
might become deeply involved in determining 
budget policy, including whether Social 
Security or Medicare checks should be 
stopped. The president might also impound 
funds of his choosing, including Social Security. 
Of course, the amendment might just 
prove to be unenforceable, reducing respect 
for the Constitution. All of these potential 
outcomes are extremely undesirable. 

A balanced budget amendment would 
embed economic policy inflexibility into the 
Constitution in the face of unknowable economic 
and political conditions 10, 20, 30 or 40 
years from today. 

I have a deep commitment to the importance 
of deficit reduction and fiscal discipline 
to our nation’s economic health, and 
I believe that we can put in place balanced 
budget legislation this year. But I have an 
equally strong conviction that a balanced 
budget amendment poses real risks for our 
nation’s economy. Congress should not adopt 
it. 

Mr. GLENN. Mr. President, I yield 
the floor. I suggest the absence of a 
quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 


S1826 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

The assistant legislative clerk pro-tuckians when I tell Dan’s family how Pursuant to section 233(e)(1) of the 
ceeded to call the roll. very sad we are for their loss. Social Security Act (the ‘‘Act’’), as 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unan-amended by the Social Security

f 


imous consent that the order for the Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95–216, 

quorum call be rescinded. THE VERY BAD DEBT BOXSCORE 42 USC 433(e)(1)), I transmit herewith 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


THE DEATH OF DAN MANGEOT 
Mr. FORD. Mr. President, millions of 
people watch the Kentucky Derby because 
it is a spectacular moment of 
chance. 
When the 123rd Run for the Roses 
takes place May 3, that’s what the 
spectators will see—a riveting 2 minutes 
when anything can happen. What 
they won’t see are the thousands of 
small details that go into making that 
moment one that goes down in sport’s 
history. 
While thousands of people work to 
make the Kentucky Derby and the festival 
events a success, Kentuckians 
know that for the past 17 years one 
man has stood out in his commitment 
and drive to nailing down every last 
derby festival detail. 
That man was Dan Mangeot, the Kentucky 
Derby Festival’s long-time president. 
He died in February, leaving behind 
a legacy and equally important, 
many, many devoted friends and colleagues. 
Described by some as a ‘‘legend’’ and 
by others as a ‘‘father figure,’’ Dan did 
the impossible. He took a legendary 
event and somehow made it even better. 
Under his management, attendance 
at derby festival events doubled to 1.5 
million, while the economic impact on 
the community grew from $17 million 
to $53 million. 
When Dan decided to focus on something, 
the outcome was inevitably a 
huge success. Whether it was selling 
more derby pins—going from a few 
thousand a year to 600,000 a year—or 
instituting a derby festival poster—a 
regular award winner—he knew how to 
deliver. 
But Dan was about more than ringing 
up financial successes. He knew how to 
create a sense of community ownership 
in an event. Every year the entire community 
not only had a sense of pride in 
the festival activities surrounding the 
derby, but a stake in seeing them succeed. 
Dan couldn’t imagine doing things 
differently. Community ownership 
translated into a board of directors 
truly representative of Louisville’s diversity. 
And when it came to awarding 
contracts, he worked to ensure that 
minority-owned firms weren’t shut out. 
It’s true the derby is about the fastest 
horses in the world. But for Kentuckians 
it’s also about showing the 
world the Commonwealth at her finest. 
And thanks to Dan that’s what the 
world saw. 
Mr. President, let me close by expressing 
my deepest thanks to Dan’s 
family for sharing such a great man 
with us. I know I speak for all Ken-

Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, at the 
close of business Friday, February 28, 
the Federal debt stood at 
$5,349,937,360,942.68. 

One year ago, February 28, 1996, the 
Federal debt stood at $5,016,626,000,000. 

Five years ago, February 28, 1992, the 
Federal debt stood at $3,829,059,000,000. 

Fifteen years ago, February 28, 1972, 
the Federal debt stood at 
$426,934,000,000 which reflects a debt increase 
of nearly $5 trillion— 
$4,923,003,360,942.68—during the past 15 
years. 

f 


CONGRATULATIONS TO GLADYS 

RAYMORE WILSON CELEBRATING 

HER 100th BIRTHDAY 

Mr. ASHCROFT. Mr. President, I rise 
today to encourage my colleagues to 
join me in congratulating Gladys 
Raymore Wilson of Independence, MO, 
who will celebrate her 100th birthday 
on March 16, 1997. Gladys is a truly remarkable 
individual. She has witnessed 
many of the events that have shaped 
our Nation into the greatest the world 
has ever known. The longevity of Gladys’ 
life has meant much more, however, 
to the many relatives and friends 
whose lives she has touched over the 
last 100 years. 

Gladys’ celebration of 100 years of 
life is a testament to me and all Missourians. 
Her achievements are significant 
and deserve to be recognized. I 
would like to join her many friends and 
relatives in wishing Gladys health and 
happiness in the future. 

f 


MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 

Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Williams, one of his 
secretaries. 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 

As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 
from the President of the United 
States submitting a treaty and sundry 
nominations which were referred to the 
appropriate committees. 

(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 


REPORT ON THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
THE UNITED STATES 
AND CANADA WITH RESPECT TO 
SOCIAL SECURITY—MESSAGE 
FROM THE PRESIDENT—PM 19 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United 
States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee 
on Finance. 

To the Congress of the United States: 

the Second Supplementary Agreement 
Amending the Agreement Between the 
Government of the United States of 
America and the Government of Canada 
with respect to Social Security 
(the Second Supplementary Agreement). 
The Second Supplementary 
Agreement, signed at Ottawa on May 
28, 1996, is intended to modify certain 
provisions of the original United 
States-Canada Social Security Agreement 
signed at Ottawa March 11, 1981, 
which was amended once before by the 
Supplementary Agreement of May 10, 
1983. 

The United States-Canada Social Security 
Agreement is similar in objective 
to the social security agreements 
with Austria, Belgium, Finland, 
France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, 
Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, 
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 
Such bilateral agreements provide for 
limited coordination between the U.S. 
and foreign social security systems to 
eliminate dual social security coverage 
and taxation, and to help prevent the 
loss of benefit protection that can 
occur when workers divide their careers 
between two countries. 

The Second Supplementary Agreement 
provides Canada with a specific 
basis to enter into a mutual assistance 
arrangement with the United States. 
This enables each Governments’ Social 
Security agency to assist the other in 
enhancing the administration of their 
respective foreign benefits programs. 
The Social Security Administration 
has benefited from a similar mutual assistance 
arrangement with the United 
Kingdom. The Second Supplementary 
Agreement will also make a number of 
minor revisions in the Agreement to 
take into account other changes in 

U.S. and Canadian law that have occurred 
in recent years. 
The United States-Canada Social Security 
Agreement, as amended, would 
continue to contain all provisions mandated 
by section 233 and other provisions 
that I deem appropriate to carry 
out the provisions of section 233, pursuant 
to section 233(c)(4) of the Act. 

I also transmit for the information of 
the Congress a report prepared by the 
Social Security Administration explaining 
the key points of the Second 
Supplementary Agreement, along with 
a paragraph-by-paragraph explanation 
of the effect of the amendments on the 
Agreement. Annexed to this report is 
the report required by section 233(e)(1) 
of the Act on the effect of the agreement, 
as amended, on income and expenditures 
of the U.S. Social Security 
program and the number of individuals 
affected by the amended Agreement. 
The Department of State and the Social 
Security Administration have recommended 
the Second Supplementary 
Agreement and related documents to 
me. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1827 

I commend the United States-Canada 
Second Supplementary Social Security 
Agreement and related documents. 

WILLIAM J. CLINTON. 

THE WHITE HOUSE, March 3, 1997. 

f 


MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 7, 1997, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on February 28, 
1997, during the adjournment of the 
Senate, received a message from the 
House of Representatives announcing 
that the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bills: 

H.R. 668. An act to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to reinstate the Airport 
and Airway Trust Fund excise taxes, and for 
other purposes. 
The enrolled bill was signed subsequently 
on February 28, during the adjournment 
of the Senate, by the President 
pro tempore [Mr. THURMOND]. 

f 


EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
which were referred as indicated: 


EC–1249. A communication from the Acting 
Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
a rule entitled ‘‘Ohio Regulatory Program’’ 
received on February 27, 1997; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–1250. A communication from the Executive 
Director of the District of Columbia Financial 
Responsibility and Management Assistant 
Authority, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the Metropolitan 
Police Department; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–1251. A communication from the District 
of Columbia Auditor, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report entitled ‘‘Review 
and Analysis of the Fiscal Year 1997 Budget 
for the Office of Banking and Financial Institutions’’, 
to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–1252. A communication from the Director 
of Defense Procurement, Office of the 
Under Secretary of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a rule entitled ‘‘Automatic 
Data Processing Equipment Leasing Costs’’ 
received on February 27, 1997; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–1253. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report concerning the Foreign 
Comparative Testing Program for fiscal year 
1996; to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–1254. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulatory Management 
and Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, six 
rules including a rule entitled ‘‘National Primary 
Drinking Water Regulations’’ (FRL– 
5689–9, 5591–5, 5699–5, 5698–4, 5692–3, 5696–2); to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–1255. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
Notice 97–21 received on February 27, 1997; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–1256. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit of the Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
relative to Revenue Ruling 97–10 received on 
February 26, 1997; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–1257. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel of the Office of Foreign Assets Control, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a rule entitled ‘‘Narcotics 
Trafficking Sanctions Regulations’’ 
received on February 27, 1997; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–1258. A communication from the Assistant 
to the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a rule entitled ‘‘Membership of State 
Banking Institutions in the Federal Reserve 
System’’ received on February 28, 1997; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–1259. A communication from the Managing 
Director of the Federal Housing Finance 
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of salary rates for 1997; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–1260. A communication from the National 
Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
directed fishing for pollock, received on February 
27, 1997; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–1261. A communication from the National 
Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
Atlantic Mackerel, (RIN0648–AJ06) received 
on February 27, 1997; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–1262. A communication from the Acting 
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
relative to directed fishing for pollock, received 
on February 26, 1997; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–1263. A communication from the Acting 
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
relative to directed fishing for flatfish, received 
on February 27, 1997; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–1264. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
king mackerel, received on March 3, 1997; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–1265. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
scallop fishery, received on February 27, 1997; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–1266. A communication from the Assistant 
Administrator for Fisheries, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 

to law, the report of a rule relative to the 
Western Pacific bottomfish fishery, received 
on February 27, 1997; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–1267. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
other flatfish, received on February 27, 1997; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–1268. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management 
Plan, received on February 27, 1997; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–1269. A communication from the Assistant 
Administrator for Fisheries, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to the 
Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management 
Plan, (RIN0648–AJ34) received on February 
27, 1997; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–1270. A communication from the Deputy 
Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule relative to 
Fishery Management Plans, (RIN0648–XX80) 
received on February 27, 1997; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–1271. A communication from the Acting 
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
relative to the Exclusive Economic Zone Off 
Alaska, (RIN0648–AJ05) received on February 
27, 1997; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–1272. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
sixteen rules including one rule relative to 
Class E Airspace, (RIN2120–AF93, AA64, 
AA66, ZZ04) received on February 27, 1997; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–1273. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule relative to seafarers, (RIN2115–AF26) 
received on March 3, 1997; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–1274. A communication from the Acting 
Secretary of Labor, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report relative to the Regular 
Trade Adjustment Assistant Program; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–1275. A committee from the Executive 
Director of the Committee for Purchase from 
People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
additions to the Procurement List received 
on March 3, 1997; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–1276. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a rule entitled 
‘‘Poultry Inspection’’ (RIN0583–AB91) received 
on March 3, 1997; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–1277. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Regulations Management, 


S1828 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

Department of Veterans’ Affairs, transmit-to assistance that results from the dis-professions, is to evaluate Federal politing, 
pursuant to law, a rule entitled ‘‘Rule-approval; to the Committee on Foreign Rela


cies on telehealth and how to use tele


making Procedures’’ (RIN2900–AI33) received 
on March 3, 1997; to the Committee on Veterans’ 
Affairs. 

EC–1278. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Department 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a rule entitled ‘‘Direct Grant Programs’’ 
(RIN1880–AA74) received on February 
27, 1997; to the Committee on Labor and 
Human Resources. 

EC–1279. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations Policy, Food and Drug 
Administration, Department of Health and 
Human Services, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, two rules including a rule entitled 
‘‘Lowfat and Skim Milk Products’’ received 
on February 27, 1997; to the Committee on 
Labor and Human Resources. 

f 


INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second time by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. CONRAD (for himself, Mr. 
KERREY, Mr. HARKIN, Mr. WELLSTONE, 
Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. COCHRAN, and Mr. 
INOUYE): 

S. 385. A bill to provide reimbursement 
under the medicare program for telehealth 
services, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Finance. 
By Mr. WYDEN: 

S. 386. A bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to protect and improve 
the medicare program, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. BAUCUS, 
Mr. NICKLES, Mr. BREAUX, Mr. 
GORTON, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MURRAY, 
and Mrs. BOXER): 

S. 387. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide equity to exports 
of software; to the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. LUGAR: 

S. 388. A bill to amend the Food Stamp Act 
of 1977 to assist States in implementing a 
program to prevent prisoners from receiving 
food stamps; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 
By Mr. ABRAHAM (for himself, Mr. 
BOND, Mr. NICKLES, Mr. HUTCHINSON, 
Mr. HELMS, and Mr. SESSIONS): 

S. 389. A bill to improve congressional deliberation 
on proposed Federal private sector 
mandates, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on the Budget and the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs, jointly, pursuant 
to the order of August 4, 1977, as modified 
by the order of April 11, 1986, with instructions 
that if one Committee reports, 
the other Committee have thirty days to report 
or be discharged. 
By Mr. COVERDELL (for himself, Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN, and Mr. HELMS): 

S.J. Res. 19. Joint resolution to disapprove 
the certification of the President under section 
490(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 regarding foreign assistance for Mexico 
during fiscal year 1997; read the first time. 
S.J. Res. 20. Joint resolution to disapprove 
the certification of the President under section 
490(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 regarding foreign assistance for Mexico 
during fiscal year 1997; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 
S.J. Res. 21. Joint resolution to disapprove 
the certification of the President under section 
490(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 regarding assistance for Mexico during 
fiscal year 1997, and to provide for the termination 
of the withholding of and opposition 
tions. 

f 


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. CONRAD (for himself, Mr. 
KERREY, Mr. HARKIN, Mr. 
WELLSTONE, Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. 
COCHRAN and Mr. INOUYE): 

S. 385. A bill to provide reimbursement 
under the Medicare Program for 
telehealth services, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Finance. 
THE COMPREHENSIVE TELEHEALTH ACT OF 1997 

· Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, today, I 
am pleased to be joined by Senator 
KERREY, Senator HARKIN, Senator 
WELLSTONE, Senator BAUCUS, Senator 
COCHRAN, and Senator INOUYE to introduce 
legislation to help improve health 
care delivery in rural and underserved 
communities throughout America 
through the use of telecommunications 
and telehealth technology. 

Telehealth encompasses a wide variety 
of technologies, ranging from the 
telephone to high-technology equipment 
that enables a surgeon to perform 
surgery from thousands of miles away. 
It includes interactive video equipment, 
fax machines and computers 
along with satellites and fiber optics. 
These technologies can be used to diagnose 
patients, deliver care, transfer 
health data, read x-rays, provide consultation, 
and educate health professionals. 
Telehealth also includes the 
electronic storage and transmission of 
personally identifiable health information, 
such as medical records, test results, 
and insurance claims. 

The promise of telehealth is becoming 
increasingly apparent. Throughout 
the country, providers are experimenting 
with a variety of telehealth approaches 
in an effort to improve access 
to quality medical and other health-related 
services. Those programs are 
demonstrating that telecommunications 
technology can alleviate the 
constraints of time and distance, as 
well as the cost and inconvenience of 
transporting patients to medical providers. 
Many approaches show promising 
results in reducing health care 
costs and bringing adequate care to all 
Americans. For the first time, technological 
advances and the development 
of a national information infrastructure 
give telehealth the potential to 
overcome barriers to health care services 
for rural Americans and afford 
them the access that most Americans 
take for granted. But it is clear that 
our Nation must do more to integrate 
telehealth into our overall health care 
delivery infrastructure. 

Because I believe telehealth holds incredible 
promise for rural America, I 
formed the Ad Hoc Steering Committee 
on Telemedicine and Health Care 
Informatics to explore telehealth and 
related issues in 1994. The purpose of 
the steering committee, which includes 
telehealth experts from government, 
private industry, and the health care 

communications technology more effectively 
to increase access to health 
care throughout America. 

Throughout the last few years, as the 
steering committee held meetings and 
policy forums, it became increasingly 
apparent that there is enormous energy 
and financial effort being devoted 
to telehealth today, both by government 
and private industry. 

Because so many rural and under-
served communities lack the ability to 
attract and support a wide variety of 
health care professionals and services, 
it is important to find a way to bring 
the most important medical services 
into those communities. Telehealth 
provides an important part of the answer. 
It helps bring services to remote 
areas in a quick, cost-effective manner, 
and can enable patients to avoid traveling 
long distances in order to receive 
health care treatment. 

Telehealth is already making a difference 
in my State. The University of 
North Dakota has a fiber optic two-
way audio and video interactive network 
that has been used to train students 
in areas like social work and 
medical technology. Recently, I had 
the opportunity to spend some time 
with two of the premier telehealth systems 
in the State of North Dakota. I 
was amazed at the capabilities of these 
systems. They currently supply speciality 
care to rural North Dakota clinics, 
manage chronic disease, lower administrative 
costs, and reduce the isolation 
felt by rural and frontier practitioners. 


Because telehealth is in many respects 
an emerging health care application, 
it is particularly important to 
constructively capitalize on efforts 
like these. My proposal attempts to facilitate 
this in a number of ways. 

The first element of my proposal 
builds on current demonstration 
projects to require the Health Care Financing 
Administration to put in place 
a reimbursement system for telehealth 
activities under Medicare. Medicare reimbursement 
policy is an essential 
component of helping to integrate telehealth 
into the health care infrastructure, 
and must be explored. It is particularly 
important in rural areas, 
where many hospitals do as much as 80 
percent of their business with Medicare 
patients. While rural areas are the 
most in need of telehealth services, I 
also realize there are other groups that 
would greatly benefit from an expansion 
of this service. That is why I am 
also asking the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services to submit a report 
that will examine the impact of expanding 
telehealth reimbursement for 
nonrural Medicare beneficiaries who 
are home-bound or nursing home-bound 
and for whom being transferred for 
health care services imposes a serious 
hardship. 

The second element of this proposal 
asks the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services to submit a report to 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1829 

the Congress on the status of efforts to 
ease licensing burdens on practitioners 
who cross State lines in the course of 
supplying telehealth services. Currently, 
consultation by almost any licensed 
health professional in this situation 
requires that the practitioner be 
licensed in both States. 

In talking with telehealth providers 
in my State, and with experts on the 
ad hoc committee, I have been told repeatedly 
that this is one of the most 
significant barriers to developing broad 
integrated telehealth systems. More 
importantly, they tell me States have 
actively been using licensure to close 
their borders to innovative telehealth 
practice. In the past 21/2 years, 11 
States have taken legislative action to 
ensure that out-of-State practitioners 
must be fully licensed in their State in 
order to provide telehealth services, 
even if they are fully licensed in their 
own State. During a recent discussion 
with a telehealth practitioner from my 
home State of North Dakota, I was told 
about a group of telehealth specialists 
who, among their small group practice, 
were licensed in more than 30 different 
States. That means they pay 30 different 
fees, are responsible for 30 different 
continuing education requirements, 
and are overseen by 30 different 
regulatory bodies. This is a costly and 
burdensome procedure for many practitioners, 
but the burden falls particularly 
heavily on rural practitioners, 
who face long travel times to acquire 
continuing education, and who frequently 
run on lower profit margins 
than urban practitioners. 

While I am not prepared at this time 
to propose that the Federal Government 
get involved with professional licensure, 
I have asked the Secretary to 
study the issue and report to Congress 
yearly on the status of efforts by 
States and other interested organizations 
to address this issue. This will 
allow us to reach out to the States and 
work together to find solutions to 
cross-State licensure concerns. As part 
of this report, I have asked the Secretary 
to make recommendations to 
Congress, if appropriate, about possible 
Federal action to lower the licensure 
barrier. 

A third element of my proposal involves 
coordination of the Federal telehealth 
effort. Vice President GORE has 
been making outstanding contributions 
in the area of the information superhighway. 
The Department of Health 
and Human Services, in large part at 
the urging of the Vice President, has 
created an informal interagency task 
force that is examining our Federal 
agency telehealth efforts. This group 
recently completed a report on telehealth 
that highlights current Federal 
activities and also provides a thorough 
examination of many of the important 
issues in telehealth. 

My bill attempts to use that task 
force to inventory Federal activity on 
telehealth and related technology, determine 
what applications have been 
found successful, and recommend an 
overall Federal policy approach to telehealth. 
Many departments and agen


cies of the Federal Government are engaged 
in telehealth activity, including 
the Veterans’ Administration, Department 
of Defense, Department of Agriculture, 
Office of Rural Health Policy, 
and many others. The more these agencies 
work together to coordinate the 
Federal effort and consolidate Federal 
resources, the more effective the Federal 
Government will be in contributing 
to telehealth in a positive way. I 
believe this is especially important in 
light of the recent GAO report calling 
for an expanded role for this group and 
more coordination of telehealth issues 
across the Federal agencies. The efforts 
of this group, along with the ongoing 
activities of the congressional ad hoc 
steering committee, will provide a renewed 
focus for telehealth across the 
Federal Government. Such coordination 
will also help protect the American 
taxpayer from unnecessary duplication 
of effort. 

The fourth part of my proposal helps 
communities build homegrown telehealth 
networks. It attempts both to 
build a telehealth infrastructure and 
foster rural economic development and 
incorporates many of the most important 
lessons learned from other grant 
projects and studies on telehealth from 
across the Federal Government. 

Clearly, the scarcity of resources in 
many rural communities requires that 
the coordination and use of those resources 
be maximized. My bill encourages 
cooperation by various local entities 
in an effort to help build sustainable 
telehealth programs in rural communities. 
It plants seed money to encourage 
health care providers to join 
with other segments of the community 
to jointly use telecommunications resources. 
Using a unique loan forgiveness 
program, it rewards telehealth 
systems that supply appropriate, high-
quality care while reducing overall 
health care costs. 

Most importantly, it does not create 
a system where various technological 
approaches are imposed upon communities. 
Rather it enables potential 
grantees to determine user-friendly approaches 
that work best for them. This 
homegrown approach to developing 
user-friendly telehealth systems, as 
well as the preference for coordinating 
resources within communities, will 
help ensure the long-term viability of 
such programs after the grant expires. 

Mr. President, my proposal is a sound 
first step in our national efforts to integrate 
telecommunications technology 
into the rapidly evolving health 
care delivery system. This bill is very 
similar to legislation, S. 2171 I introduced 
late in the 104th Congress. I am 
very encouraged by the positive feedback 
I have received from telehealth 
networks across the country. Over the 
past few months, I have attempted to 
reach out to different groups and incorporate 
their ideas into this proposal. 
As a result, I have made several 
changes in the bill that I believe will 
make this a stronger proposal. But, as 
with any complex issue, I understand 
that some may prefer different approaches. 
By introducing this legisla


tion early in the 105th Congress, I hope 
to send a message to all interested parties 
that now is the time to come forward 
with creative solutions to these 
important issues. It is my hope that 
comprehensive telehealth legislation 
can be attached to any Medicare reform 
legislation enacted in this Congress 
so we can improve access to needed 
health care services for rural and 
underserved populations. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 385 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘Comprehensive Telehealth Act of 1997’’. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes. 
Sec. 3. Definitions. 

TITLE I—MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT 
FOR TELEHEALTH SERVICES 

Sec. 101. Medicare reimbursement for telehealth 
services. 

TITLE II—TELEHEALTH LICENSURE 

Sec. 201. Initial report to Congress. 
Sec. 202. Annual report to Congress. 

TITLE III—PERIODIC REPORTS TO CONGRESS 
FROM THE JOINT WORKING 
GROUP ON TELEHEALTH 

Sec. 301. Joint working group on telehealth. 

TITLE IV—DEVELOPMENT OF 
TELEHEALTH NETWORKS 

Sec. 401. Development of telehealth net


works. 
Sec. 402. Administration. 
Sec. 403. Guidelines. 
Sec. 404. Authorization of appropriations. 

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds the following: 
(1) Hospitals, clinics, and individual health 
care providers are critically important to 
the continuing health of rural populations 
and the economic stability of rural communities. 
(2) Rural communities are underserved by 
specialty health care providers. 
(3) Telecommunications technology has 
made it possible to provide a wide range of 
health care services, education, and administrative 
services between health care providers, 
patients, and administrators across 
State lines. 
(4) The delivery of health services by licensed 
health care providers is a privilege 
and the licensure of health care providers 
and the ability to discipline such providers is 
necessary for the protection of citizens and 
for the public interest, health, welfare, and 
safety. 
(5) The licensing of health care providers 
to provide telehealth services has a significant 
impact on interstate commerce and any 
unnecessary barriers to the provision of telehealth 
services across State lines should be 
eliminated. 
(6) Rapid advances in the field of telehealth 
give Congress a need for current information 
and updates on recent developments 
in telehealth research, policy, technology, 
and the use of this technology to 

S1830 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

supply telehealth services to rural and underserved 
areas. 

(7) Telehealth networks can provide hospitals, 
clinics, health care providers, and patients 
in rural and underserved communities 
with access to specialty care, continuing 
education, and can act to reduce the isolation 
from other professionals that these 
health care providers sometimes experience. 
(8) In order for telehealth systems to continue 
to benefit rural and underserved communities, 
the medicare program under title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395 et seq.) must reimburse the provision of 
health care services from remote locations 
via telecommunications. 
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this Act 
are as follows: 
(1) To mandate that the Health Care Financing 
Administration reimburse the provision 
of clinical health services via telecommunications. 
(2) To determine if States are making 
progress in facilitating the provision of telehealth 
services across State lines. 
(3) To create a coordinating entity for Federal 
telehealth research, policy, and program 
initiatives that reports to Congress annually. 
(4) To encourage the development of rural 
telehealth networks that supply appropriate, 
cost-effective care, and that contribute to 
the economic health and development of 
rural communities. 
(5) To encourage research into the clinical 
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of telehealth 
diagnosis, treatment, or education on individuals, 
health care providers, and health 
care networks. 
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS. 

In this Act: 

(1) HEALTH CARE PROVIDER.—The term 
‘‘health care provider’’ means anyone licensed 
or certified under State law to provide 
health care services who is operating 
within the scope of such license. 
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services. 
TITLE I—MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT 
FOR TELEHEALTH SERVICES 
SEC. 101. MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR 
TELEHEALTH SERVICES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1, 
1998, the Secretary shall make payments 
from the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund under part B of title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395j et seq.) in accordance with the methodology 
described in subsection (b) for professional 
consultation via telecommunications 
systems with an individual or entity 
furnishing a service for which payment may 
be made under such part to a beneficiary 
under the medicare program residing in a 
rural area (as defined in section 1886(d)(2)(D) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(2)(D))) or an 
underserved area, notwithstanding that the 
individual health care provider providing the 
professional consultation is not at the same 
location as the individual furnishing the 
service to that beneficiary. 
(b) METHODOLOGY FOR DETERMINING 
AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS.—Taking into account 
the findings of the report required under section 
192 of the Health Insurance Portability 
and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 
104–191; 110 Stat. 1988), the findings of the report 
required under paragraph (c), and any 
other findings related to the clinical efficacy 
and cost-effectiveness of telehealth applications, 
the Secretary shall establish a methodology 
for determining the amount of payments 
made under subsection (a), including 
the cost of the consultation service, a reasonable 
overhead adjustment, and a malpractice 
risk adjustment. 
(c) SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT.—Not later than 
January 1, 1998, the Secretary shall submit a 
report to Congress which shall contain a detailed 
analysis of— 
(1) how telemedicine and telehealth systems 
are expanding access to health care 
services; 
(2) the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness 
of telemedicine and telehealth applications; 
(3) the quality of telemedicine and telehealth 
services delivered; and 
(4) the reasonable cost of telecommunications 
charges incurred in practicing telemedicine 
and telehealth in rural, frontier, 
and underserved areas. 
(d) EXPANSION OF TELEHEALTH SERVICES 
FOR CERTAIN MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1, 
1999, the Secretary shall submit a report to 
Congress that examines the possibility of 
making payments from the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund 
under part B of title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395j et seq.) for professional 
consultation via telecommunications 
systems with an individual or entity furnishing 
a service for which payment may be 
made under such part to a beneficiary described 
in paragraph (2), notwithstanding 
that the individual health care provider providing 
the professional consultation is not at 
the same location as the individual furnishing 
the service to that beneficiary. 
(2) BENEFICIARY DESCRIBED.—A beneficiary 
described in this paragraph is a beneficiary 
under the medicare program who does not reside 
in a rural area (as so defined) or an underserved 
area, who is home-bound or nursing 
home-bound, and for whom being transferred 
for health care services imposes a serious 
hardship. 
(3) REPORT.—The report described in paragraph 
(1) shall contain a detailed statement 
of the potential costs to the medicare program 
under title XVIII of that Act of making 
the payments described in that paragraph 
using various reimbursement schemes. 
TITLE II—TELEHEALTH LICENSURE 
SEC. 201. INITIAL REPORT TO CONGRESS. 

Not later than January 1, 1998, the Secretary 
shall prepare and submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report concerning— 


(1) the number, percentage and types of 
health care providers licensed to provide 
telehealth services across State lines, including 
the number and types of health care 
providers licensed to provide such services in 
more than 3 States; 
(2) the status of any reciprocal, mutual 
recognition, fast-track, or other licensure 
agreements between or among various 
States; 
(3) the status of any efforts to develop uniform 
national sets of standards for the licensure 
of health care providers to provide telehealth 
services across State lines; 
(4) a projection of future utilization of 
telehealth consultations across State lines; 
(5) State efforts to increase or reduce licensure 
as a burden to interstate telehealth 
practice; and 
(6) any State licensure requirements that 
appear to constitute unnecessary barriers to 
the provision of telehealth services across 
State lines. 
SEC. 202. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1, 
1999, and each July 1 thereafter, the Secretary 
shall prepare and submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, an annual report 
on relevant developments concerning 
the matters referred to in paragraphs (1) 
through (6) of section 201. 
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS.—If, with respect to 
a report submitted under subsection (a), the 
Secretary determines that States are not 
making progress in facilitating the provision 
of telehealth services across State lines by 
eliminating unnecessary requirements, 
adopting reciprocal licensing arrangements 
for telehealth services, implementing uniform 
requirements for telehealth licensure, 
or other means, the Secretary shall include 
in the report recommendations concerning 
the scope and nature of Federal actions required 
to reduce licensure as a barrier to the 
interstate provision of telehealth services. 

TITLE III—PERIODIC REPORTS TO CONGRESS 
FROM THE JOINT WORKING 
GROUP ON TELEHEALTH 

SEC. 301. JOINT WORKING GROUP ON TELEHEALTH. 


(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Joint Working 
Group on Telemedicine, established by the 
Secretary, shall hereafter be known as the 
‘‘Joint Working Group on Telehealth’’ with 
the chairperson being designated by the Director 
of the Office of Rural Health Policy. 
(2) MISSION.—The mission of the Joint 
Working Group on Telehealth is— 
(A) to identify, monitor, and coordinate 
Federal telehealth projects, data sets, and 
programs, 
(B) to analyze— 
(i) how telehealth systems are expanding 
access to health care services, education, and 
information, 
(ii) the clinical, educational, or administrative 
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of 
telehealth applications, and 
(iii) the quality of the services delivered, 
and 
(C) to make further recommendations for 
coordinating Federal and State efforts to increase 
access to health services, education, 
and information in rural and underserved 
areas. 
(3) PERIODIC REPORTS.—The Joint Working 
Group on Telehealth shall report not later 
than January 1 of each year (beginning in 
1998) to Congress on the status of the Group’s 
mission and the state of the telehealth field 
generally. 
(b) REPORT SPECIFICS.—The annual report 
required under subsection (a)(3) shall provide— 
(1) an analysis of— 
(A) how telehealth systems are expanding 
access to health care services, 
(B) the clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness 
of telehealth applications, 
(C) the quality of telehealth services delivered, 
(D) the Federal activity regarding telehealth, 
and 
(E) the progress of the Joint Working 
Group on Telehealth’s efforts to coordinate 
Federal telehealth programs; and 
(2) recommendations for a coordinated 
Federal strategy to increase health care access 
through telehealth. 
(c) TERMINATION.—The Joint Working 
Group on Telehealth shall terminate immediately 
after the annual report filed not later 
than January 1, 2002. 
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as are necessary for the operation of 
the Joint Working Group on Telehealth on 
and after the date of the enactment of this 
Act. 
TITLE IV—DEVELOPMENT OF 
TELEHEALTH NETWORKS 
SEC. 401. DEVELOPMENT OF TELEHEALTH NETWORKS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting 
through the Director of the Office of Rural 
Health Policy (of the Health Resources and 
Services Administration), shall provide financial 
assistance (as described in subsection 
(b)(1)) to recipients (as described in 

March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1831 

subsection (c)(1)) for the purpose of expanding 
access to health care services for individuals 
in rural and frontier areas through the 
use of telehealth. 

(b) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Financial assistance shall 
consist of grants or cost of money loans, or 
both. 
(2) FORM.—The Secretary shall determine 
the portion of the financial assistance provided 
to a recipient that consists of grants 
and the portion that consists of cost of 
money loans so as to result in the maximum 
feasible repayment to the Federal Government 
of the financial assistance, based on 
the ability to repay of the recipient and full 
utilization of funds made available to carry 
out this title. 
(3) LOAN FORGIVENESS PROGRAM.— 
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—With respect to cost 
of money loans provided under this section, 
the Secretary shall establish a loan forgiveness 
program under which recipients of such 
loans may apply to have all or a portion of 
such loans forgiven. 
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—A recipient described 
in subparagraph (A) that desires to have a 
loan forgiven under the program established 
under such paragraph shall— 
(i) within 180 days of the end of the loan 
cycle, submit an application to the Secretary 
requesting forgiveness of the loan involved; 
(ii) demonstrate that the recipient has a financial 
need for such forgiveness; 
(iii) demonstrate that the recipient has 
met the quality and cost-appropriateness criteria 
developed under subparagraph (C); and 
(iv) provide any other information determined 
appropriate by the Secretary. 
(C) CRITERIA.—As part of the program established 
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
shall establish criteria for determining 
the cost-effectiveness and quality of programs 
operated with loans provided under 
this section. 
(c) RECIPIENTS.— 
(1) APPLICATION.—To be eligible to receive 
a grant or loan under this section an entity 
described in paragraph (2) shall, in consultation 
with the State office of rural health or 
other appropriate State entity, prepare and 
submit to the Secretary an application, at 
such time, in such manner, and containing 
such information as the Secretary may require, 
including— 
(A) a description of the anticipated need 
for the grant or loan; 
(B) a description of the activities which 
the entity intends to carry out using 
amounts provided under the grant or loan; 
(C) a plan for continuing the project after 
Federal support under this section is ended; 
(D) a description of the manner in which 
the activities funded under the grant or loan 
will meet health care needs of underserved 
rural populations within the State; 
(E) a description of how the local community 
or region to be served by the network or 
proposed network will be involved in the development 
and ongoing operations of the 
network; 
(F) the source and amount of non-Federal 
funds the entity would pledge for the project; 
and 
(G) a showing of the long-term viability of 
the project and evidence of health care provider 
commitment to the network. 
The application should demonstrate the 
manner in which the project will promote 
the integration of telehealth in the community 
so as to avoid redundancy of technology 
and achieve economies of scale. 

(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—An entity described 
in this paragraph is a hospital or other 
health care provider in a health care network 
of community-based health care providers 
that includes at least— 
(A) two of the following: 
(i) community or migrant health centers; 
(ii) local health departments; 
(iii) nonprofit hospitals; 
(iv) private practice health professionals, 
including rural health clinics; 
(v) other publicly funded health or social 
services agencies; 
(vi) skilled nursing facilities; 
(vii) county mental health and other publicly 
funded mental health facilities; and 
(viii) providers of home health services; 
and 
(B) one of the following, which must demonstrate 
use of the network for purposes of 
education and economic development (as required 
by the Secretary): 
(i) public schools; 
(ii) public library; 
(iii) universities or colleges; 
(iv) local government entity; or 
(v) local nonhealth-related business entity. 
An eligible entity may include for-profit entities 
so long as the network grantee is a 
nonprofit entity. 

(d) PRIORITY.—The Secretary shall establish 
procedures to prioritize financial assistance 
under this title considering whether or 
not the applicant— 
(1) is a health care provider in a rural 
health care network or a health care provider 
that proposes to form such a network, 
and the majority of the health care providers 
in such a network are located in a medically 
underserved, health professional shortage 
areas, or mental health professional shortage 
areas; 
(2) can demonstrate broad geographic coverage 
in the rural areas of the State, or 
States in which the applicant is located; 
(3) proposes to use Federal funds to develop 
plans for, or to establish, telehealth systems 
that will link rural hospitals and rural 
health care providers to other hospitals, 
health care providers and patients; 
(4) will use the amounts provided for a 
range of health care applications and to promote 
greater efficiency in the use of health 
care resources; 
(5) can demonstrate the long-term viability 
of projects through use of local matching 
funds (cash or in-kind); 
(6) can demonstrate financial, institutional, 
and community support for the longterm 
viability of the network; and 
(7) can demonstrate a detailed plan for coordinating 
system use by eligible entities so 
that health care services are given a priority 
over non-clinical uses. 
(e) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE TO INDIVIDUAL 
RECIPIENTS.—The Secretary may 
establish the maximum amount of financial 
assistance to be made available to an individual 
recipient for each fiscal year under 
this title, and establish the term of the loan 
or grant, by publishing notice of the maximum 
amount in the Federal Register. 
(f) USE OF AMOUNTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Financial assistance provided 
under this title shall be used— 
(A) with respect to cost of money loans, to 
encourage the initial development of rural 
telehealth networks, expand existing networks, 
or link existing networks together; 
and 
(B) with respect to grants, as described in 
paragraph (2). 
(2) GRANTS AND LOANS.—The recipient of a 
grant or loan under this title may use financial 
assistance received under such grant or 
loan for the acquisition of telehealth equipment 
and modifications or improvements of 
telecommunications facilities including— 
(A) the development and acquisition 
through lease or purchase of computer hardware 
and software, audio and video equipment, 
computer network equipment, interactive 
equipment, data terminal equipment, 
and other facilities and equipment that 
would further the purposes of this section; 

(B) the provision of technical assistance 
and instruction for the development and use 
of such programming equipment or facilities; 
(C) the development and acquisition of instructional 
programming; 
(D) demonstration projects for teaching or 
training medical students, residents, and 
other health professions students in rural 
training sites about the application of telehealth; 
(E) transmission costs, maintenance of 
equipment, and compensation of specialists 
and referring health care providers; 
(F) development of projects to use telehealth 
to facilitate collaboration between 
health care providers; 
(G) electronic archival of patient records; 
(H) collection and analysis of usage statistics 
and data that can be used to document 
the cost effectiveness of the telehealth services; 
or 
(I) such other uses that are consistent with 
achieving the purposes of this section as approved 
by the Secretary. 
(3) EXPENDITURES IN RURAL AREAS.—In 
awarding a grant or cost of money loan 
under this section, the Secretary shall ensure 
that not less than 50 percent of the 
grant or loan award is expended in a rural 
area or to provide services to residents of 
rural areas. 
(g) PROHIBITED USES.—Financial assistance 
received under this section may not be used 
for any of the following: 
(1) To build or acquire real property. 
(2) Expenditures to purchase or lease 
equipment to the extent the expenditures 
would exceed more than 40 percent of the 
total grant funds. 
(3) To purchase or install transmission 
equipment (such as laying cable or telephone 
lines, microwave towers, satellite dishes, 
amplifiers, and digital switching equipment). 
(4) For construction, except that such 
funds may be expended for minor renovations 
relating to the installation of equipment. 
(5) Expenditures for indirect costs (as determined 
by the Secretary) to the extent the 
expenditures would exceed more than 20 percent 
of the total grant funds. 
(h) MATCHING REQUIREMENT FOR GRANTS.— 
The Secretary may not make a grant to an 
entity State under this section unless that 
entity agrees that, with respect to the costs 
to be incurred by the entity in carrying out 
the program for which the grant was awarded, 
the entity will make available (directly 
or through donations from public or private 
entities) non-Federal contributions (in-cash 
or in-kind) in an amount equal to not less 
than 50 percent of the Federal funds provided 
under the grant. 
SEC. 402. ADMINISTRATION. 

(a) NONDUPLICATION.—The Secretary shall 
ensure that facilities constructed using financial 
assistance provided under this title 
do not duplicate adequate established telehealth 
networks. 
(b) LOAN MATURITY.—The maturities of 
cost of money loans shall be determined by 
the Secretary, based on the useful life of the 
facility being financed, except that the loan 
shall not be for a period of more than 10 
years. 
(c) LOAN SECURITY AND FEASIBILITY.—The 
Secretary shall make a cost of money loan 
only if the Secretary determines that the security 
for the loan is reasonably adequate 
and that the loan will be repaid within the 
period of the loan. 
(d) COORDINATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.— 
The Secretary shall coordinate, to the extent 
practicable, with other Federal and State 

S1832 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

agencies with similar grant or loan programs 
to pool resources for funding meritorious 
proposals in rural areas. 

(e) INFORMATIONAL EFFORTS.—The Secretary 
shall establish and implement procedures 
to carry out informational efforts to 
advise potential end users located in rural 
areas of each State about the program authorized 
by this title. 
SEC. 403. GUIDELINES. 

Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
issue guidelines to carry out this title. 

SEC. 404. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

There are authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this title, $25,000,000 for fiscal year 
1998, and such sums as may be necessary for 
each of the fiscal years 1999 through 2004.· 

By Mr. WYDEN: 

S. 386. A bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to protect and 
improve the Medicare Program, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on 
Finance. 
THE MEDICARE MODERNIZATION AND PATIENT 
PROTECTION ACT OF 1997 

· Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, as this 
Congress moves forward to strengthen 
and secure the Medicare Program for 
future generations, three issues are 
crystal clear. 

First, we must have the political will 
to modernize Medicare to reflect both 
the quality and the efficiency of private 
health care plans now serving 
most working Americans, and in particular 
the Federal Employees Health 
Benefits Program which many Members 
of Congress, their staff and families, 
and other Federal employees 
enjoy. 

Second, we must maintain our commitment 
to current and future Medicare 
beneficiaries by preserving a 
basic, high-quality portfolio of health 
services for all enrollees, irrespective 
of their income, where they live, or 
their particular health circumstances. 

Third, we must begin the transformation 
of Medicare financial foundations 
in a way that is first fair to all 
beneficiaries, and second insures that 
Medicare will be there for our children 
and their children, and that it will not 
bust the Federal budget in the bargain. 

I believe that the legislation I introduce, 
today, The Medicare Modernization 
and Patient Protection Act of 
1997, meets all three of these primary 
goals. While fully preserving traditional, 
fee-for-service Medicare, this 
legislation also will create an array of 
new, high-quality, cost-efficient health 
plans for Medicare beneficiaries, and 
offer those enrollees positive incentives 
to try them. It will provide new 
protections and consumer rights to 
Medicare beneficiaries in capitated 
health plans. It will mandate new penalties 
and enforcement mechanisms to 
eradicate fraud and abuse now stripping 
billions of dollars per year from 
the program. And it will create new 
support systems for some of Medicare’s 
most desperately ill and poor beneficiaries, 
and their families. 

Finally, through new cost-conscious 
management systems and a firm fiscal 
control mechanism, this plan will reduce 
Medicare cost growth by approximately 
$100 billion over the next 5 
years, and with financial constraints 
that will continue to control runaway 
spending growth after fiscal year 2002. 

The Medicare Modernization and Patient 
Protection Act will offer seniors 
more health plan choices by eliminating 
the huge variability in capitated 
payments to health plans in counties 
around the nation. At the same time, it 
will raise the minimum payment to 80 
percent of the national average payment, 
leveraging higher reimbursements 
and I believe more plan offerings 
in up to 20 percent of our counties. 

This proposal also establishes an 
outlier fund, an account fueled by 
withholding up to five percent of payments 
to Medicare health maintenance 
organizations. Medicare managers 
would have discretion to withhold 
those payments from plans which are 
being over-compensated by the HMO 
payment formula, and disburse those 
funds in the form of extra payments to 
plans which have avoided risk selection 
in their beneficiary recruitment and as 
a result are providing services to sicker 
enrollees with above-average health 
care costs. Compared to the meat-
cleaver approach of reducing all plan 
payments from the current 95 percent 
of local average health care costs, to 90 
percent, this is a surgical solution to 
two significant Medicare managed care 
plan problems: (a) plan overpayments 
and (b) plans which avoid enrolling 
older, frailer beneficiaries because they 
cut profit margins. 

At the end of the year, any funds remaining 
in this account would be 
rolled back into the Medicare hospital 
insurance budget. 

At the same time, this bill reforms 
current rules for Medicare supplemental 
insurance, or Medigap policies, 
requiring that such policies must be issued 
to any eligible beneficiary at any 
time. This change will encourage more 
seniors to try capitated plans, because 
they know the Medigap safety net always 
will be available to them. 

Seniors would be protected from unfair 
denial of service decision and other 
health plan abuses through a strengthened 
and streamlined appeals process. 
Also, seniors would receive more informative 
and easily comparable information 
on health plans in their communities, 
and through the mail on a 
regular basis through annual enrollment 
fairs. 

The legislation also would require 
the collection of customer service and 
satisfaction data, and performance information 
to be used in qualitative 
analysis by Medicare to produce published 
report cards on plan performance, 
and help consumers make kitchen-
table assessments of their plan options. 


By Federal statute, plans also would 
be barred from muzzling doctors and 

other health care practitioners in their 
conversations with patients about 
their medical condition and all treatments 
appropriate to their case. 

New criminal and civil penalties are 
created for practitioners and plans who 
rip off the system. 

Programs for hospice care, Alzheimer’s 
respite care, and prospective 
payment for both home care and 
skilled nursing care are added to Medicare. 
The legislation requires Medicare 
to study and make recommendations 
on the more extensive and appropriate 
use of community pharmacy, telemedicine 
and so-called social health maintenance 
organization plans for dual eligibles 
in its portfolio of services to 
beneficiaries. 

The fiscal integrity portion of this 
bill would set overall part A and part B 
spending limits for each of the next 5 
years. These overall spending limits 
would include target spending allotments 
for each of the several major 
areas of Medicare activity: doctors, 
hospitals, diagnostic services, nursing 
homes, and the like. 

Typically, Medicare has sought to 
control costs in these areas in the past 
by rolling back reimbursement rates 
for goods and services. Providers, however, 
have watered down Medicare’s attempts 
at thrift by increasing volume 
in the face of lower per-service payments. 
Too often this has led to waste 
and inefficiency, with providers ordering 
procedures and services that beneficiaries 
really don’t need, crippling 
Medicare with unnecessarily high 
costs. 

With $100 billion in cumulative savings 
expected in 5 years, my proposal 
would require that Medicare practitioners 
live within the budget’s ceiling 
by mandating reduced reimbursements 
if cumulative billings otherwise would 
bust an individual service sector’s annual 
spending plan. 

Despite these restraints, Medicare 
fee-for-service providers will enjoy generally 
healthy annual increases under 
this proposal. Beneficiaries should see 
no change in the level or quality of 
care they receive. Expensive, unnecessary 
care, however, could be sharply 
curtailed. 

Mr. President, I believe that this 
Congress should not as a first step relinquish 
Medicare restructuring to a 
special commission. I think most of us 
have an acute awareness of what is 
needed to fix the program for the long 
term. Some steps will be harder than 
others. But as the old Chinese proverb 
reminds us, a trip of a thousand miles 
begins with the first step. 

I hope my colleagues will agree with 
me that the Medicare Modernization 
and Patient Protection Act is that 
good first step, and join with me in cosponsoring 
this legislation. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that additional material be printed 
in the RECORD. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1833 

THE MEDICARE MODERNIZATION AND PATIENT 

PROTECTION ACT OF 1997—SECTION-BY-SEC


TION ANALYSIS 

TITLE I: PROMOTING COMPETITION, QUALITY, 
AND BENEFICIARY CHOICE IN MEDICARE 
Section 1: Short title; table of contents, defi


nitions. 
Section 2: Findings 
Section 101: Establishment of Plan Inprovement 

and Competition Office 
Subsection (a), establishes an office within 
Health Care Financing Administration to 
carry out several of the pro-quality, pro-
consumer mandates of the legislation. 
Subsection (b), defines duties. 
Subsection 102: HMO and Competitive Pricing 
Demonstration Projects 
Subsection (a), directs the Secretary to conduct 
demonstration projects for competitive 
bidding between HMO contractors in counties 
in which the AAPCC rate is 120 percent 
of the national average AAPCC rate, or higher. 
Subsection (b), directs reports to Congress. 
Subsection (c), waives certain requirements 
under the Social Security Act. 
Subsection (d), requires that the projects be 
conducted within existing department funding. 


Subsection 103: Medigap amendments 

Subsection (a), guarantees issues of Medicare 
supplemental insurance regardless of 
preexisting health conditions. 

Subsection also requires community rating 
of Medigap policies. Further, this subsection 
guarantees offer of Medigap coverage to persons 
who leave Medicare risk plans for any 
one of several reasons, including voluntary 
disenrollment at any time during the first 12 
months of enrollment in a risk plan (and had 
not been in a risk plan, earlier). 

Subsection (b), limits exclusion from coverage 
due to pre-existing health conditions. 

Subsection (c), clarifies non-discrimination 
requirements during initial enrollment periods. 


Subsection (d), extends the six-month initial 
enrollment period to non-elderly Medicare 
beneficiaries. 

Subsection (e), sets effective dates. 

Subsection (f), defines transition rules including 
a directive that the National Association 
of Insurance Commissioners amend 
its Model Regulation to reflect Medicare 
supplemental insurance policy changes required 
by the section. 

TITLE II: INCREASING MEDICARE COVERAGE 

OPTIONS 

Subtitle A: Risk Plan Improvements 

Section 201: Changes in medicare managed care 
program 

Subsection (a), HMO payments, amends the 
current formula for determining local HCFA 
annual reimbursement rate increases for persons 
insured by risk-sharing plans providing 
both Part A and Part B benefits (Medicare 
Risk plans). The reformulation would, beginning 
in 1998, set a new minimum payment 
‘‘floor’’ requiring that HCFA pay no plan less 
than 80 percent of the national average for 
payments to all plans in 1997. For each community, 
payment increases in subsequent 
years would be determined by selecting the 
highest figure from three alternative formulas; 
(1) 102 percent of the previous year’s 
rate, (2) in 1999, 80 percent of the 1998 national 
average, and in 2000 and in subsequent 
years increasing the rate by the previous 
year’s national average growth rate for Medicare 
managed care plan reimbursements, or 

(3) an increase determined by a ‘‘melded’’ 
rate of local and national managed care average 
reimbursements, according to the following 
formula: 
1998: area specific percentage of increase is 
determined by the sum of 80 percent of the 

local average increase in the average adjusted 
per capita cost (AAPCC) in previous 
year, and 20 percent of the national AAPCC 
increase. 

1999: area specific percentage determined 
by the sum of 75 percent of the local AAPCC 
increase in the previous year, and 25 percent 
of the national AAPCC increase. 

2000: area specific percentage determined 
by the sum of 70 percent of local AAPCC increase 
in previous year, and 30 percent of the 
national AAPCC increase. 

2001: area specific percentage determined 
by the sum of 65 percent of the local AAPCC 
increase in previous year, and 35 percent of 
the national AAPCC increase. 

2002: area specific percentage determined 
by the sum of 60 percent of the local AAPCC 
increase in previous year, and 40 percent of 
the national AAPCC increase. 

2003, and in each subsequent year: area specific 
percentage determined by the sum of 60 
percent of the local AAPCC increase in previous 
year, and 40 percent of the national 
AAPCC increase. 

This section also contains certain budgetary 
protections for beneficiaries receiving 
treatment for end-stage renal disease, and 
for high-cost-growth metropolitan counties. 

Subsection (b) creates additional quality 
standards for section 1876(c)(6) of the Act, requiring 
Medicare managed care plans to 
meet new standards established by the Secretary 
of HHS in consultation with private 
accreditation organizations, and addressing 
such issues as ongoing quality assurance programs 
stressing (1) health outcomes, and (2) 
providing review by physicians and other 
certified health professionals. 

Plans meeting these additional standards 
may waive the requirement of at least 50 percent 
non-Medicare beneficiary enrollment 
for participation as a Medicare Risk contractor. 


Subsection (c) requires coordinated enrollment 
and disenrollment periods for Medicare 
managed care plans, similar to so-called 
‘‘open season’’ periods for Federal Employee 
Health Benefit Program plans. 

Subsection (d) sets service area requirements 
for participating plans, including requirements 
that plans provide enrollment 
within all of a metropolitan statistical area 
if such organization provides enrollment in 
any part of the metropolitan area. Some limited 
exclusions may be allowed. 

Subsection (e) provides other enhanced enrollee 
protections involving provision of 
emergency room care and services, renal dialysis, 
and reimbursement of services outside 
the plan’s services area (specific to renal 
disease). 

Subsection (f) allows the Secretary in certain 
instances to make additional payments 
to plans insuring certain individuals, for reasonable 
costs related to anomalies in specific 
service areas. 

Subsection (g) provides for intermediate 
sanctions against plans for program violations, 
short of termination. These intermediate 
sanctions may include civil penalties of 
not more than $25,000 per offense, and suspension 
of new enrollment. The section also 
provides for reasonable notice to the organization 
and a right of appeal. 

Subsection (h) requires that Medicare managed 
care plans must submit to standardized 
quality review through independent organizations 
to determine and demonstrate that 
they have maintained the new, higher quality 
performance levels required under this 
legislation. The section also requires a review 
of plans’ quality performance by the 

U.S. General Accounting Office, no later 
than July 1998. 
Subsection (i) sets an effective date for Section 
101 as the contract years beginning with 
1998. 

Section 202: Quality report cards and comparative 
reports 

Subsection (a) requires that beginning in 
calendar year 1998, the Secretary will begin 
distribution of quality report cards to beneficiaries 
on eligible managed care plans and 
on Medicare supplemental policies, including 
a comparison of benefits, costs and quality 
indicators developed under this section. 

Subsection (b) directs the Secretary to develop 
quality indicators on (1) disenrollents 
statistics, (2) care outcomes, (3) population 
health status, (4) appropriateness of care, (5) 
consumer satisfaction, (6) access to care, including 
waiting time for scheduled appointments 
and access to emergency room care, 
and (7) preventative care programs. 

Subsection (c) directs the Secretary to develop 
standardized reports comparing plans 
on the basis of (1) monthly premiums, (2) 
choice of doctors, (3) choice of hospitals, (4) 
service area, (5) emergency room care coverage, 
(6) hospital charges, (7) physician 
charges, (8) prescription drug coverage, (9) 
ambulance coverage, (10) coverage of routine 
eye exams and eyeglasses, (11) coverage of 
skilled nursing facilities and home health 
care, (12) coverage of hearing exams and 
hearing aids, (13) coverage of mental health 
therapy, (14) the number of beneficiaries in 
the plan, and several other indicators of plan 
coverage. 

Subsection (d) requires that plans divulge to 
the Secretary information required to complete 
this comparative analysis. The Secretary 
also is empowered to collect, on a pro 
rata basis, costs from plans to carry out the 
requirements of this section. 

Subsection (e), definitions. 
Section 203: Preemption of state laws restricting 
managed care 
Subsection (a) preempts states from establishing 
care mandates for health insurance 
coverage in Medicare. 
Subsection (b) preempts state laws restricting 
managed care arrangements. This preemption 
would lift state laws which (1) prohibit 
or limit carriers from offering incentives 
to enrollees to use services of participating 
providers, (2) prohibit or limit carriers 
from limiting services to participating 
providers, and other state restrictions on 
managed care plans. 
This subsection also includes a number of 
definitions. 
Subsection (c) preempts state laws restricting 
utilization review programs. However, 
the section specifies that this preemption exempts 
laws preventing denial of lifesaving 
medical treatment pending transfer of enrollees 
to another health care provider. 
Subsection (d), effective date, January 1, 
1998. 

Section 204: Appeals 

Subsection (a) requires all Medicare Risk 
contractors to designate an independent ombudsman 
to assist enrollees in exercising 
rights to dispute plan decisions, and in other 
grievances. 

This section also directs the Secretary to 
establish no later than January 1, 1998, an office 
for the collection of data one each plan 
pertaining to decisions on the disallowance 
of services to beneficiaries, in full or in part. 

Subsection (b) requires that plans provide 
enrollees with clear and understandable description 
of grievance and appeal procedures. 

Subsection (c) creates an expedited HCFA 
grievance and appeals procedure. 

Section 205: Medicare HMO Enrollment Fair 

Subsection (a), mandates that the Secretary 
require and coordinate annual enrollment 
fairs in each Medicare payment area to inform 
beneficiaries of plans offered by health 
care organizations. 


S1834 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

Subtitle B: Maintaining Fee-for-Service Section 305: Repeals; effective date; and applica-Section 405: Hospice benefits 

Program 

Section 211: Failsafe budget mechanism 

Subsection (a) requires payment adjustments 
to achieve specified Medicare targets. 
Sets annualized, five-year spending targets 
for Medicare, Parts A and B, according to 
budget estimated under Clinton Administration 
plan. 

Includes a ‘‘fail-safe’’ budget mechanism 
allowing the Secretary to undertake proportional 
reductions in provider reimbursements 
if spending targets otherwise would be 
exceeded by billing volume. 

Section 212: Maintenance of part B premium at 
current percentage of part B program costs 

Subsection (a) maintains monthly premium 
setting formula at the current percentage of 
actual Part B program costs. 

Subsection (b) sets effective date, applying 
to premiums paid for months beginning with 
January 1997. 

TITLE III—PROMOTION OF PROGRAMS OF ALL-INCLUSIVE 
CARE FOR THE ELDERLY (PACE) AND 
OF SOCIAL HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS 
(SHMOS) 

Section 301: Definitions 
Section 302: Expanding the availability of quali


fied organizations for frail elderly commu


nity projects (program of all-inclusive care 

for the elderly (pace)) 

Subsection (a) directs the Secretary to establish 
PACE provider status for public or 
nonprofit organizations to provide comprehensive 
health care services, on a 
capitated basis, to frail elderly patients who 
are at risk of institutionalization in skilled 
nursing facilities, and who would qualify for 
benefits under both Medicare and Medicaid. 
Such organizations would qualify for three-
year periods, with re-qualification procedures. 
Requirements for assuming financial 
risk are specified. 

The subsection, the Secretary would be required 
to act on applications within 90 days. 

Subsection (b) provides for terms and conditions 
of approval, equivalent to those contained 
in conditions of approval for an On 
Lok waiver, section 603C of the Social Security 
Amendments of 1983, as extended by 
OBRA 1985. The section also defines other 
entry requirements, and certain responsibilities 
of the Secretary to assure quality and 
feasibility of the plan. 

Subsection (c) defines eligibility for participation 
by PACE plans. 

Subsection (d) sets reimbursement to the 
organization through a capitation basis. 

Subsection (e) applies Section 302 statutes 
to plans currently operating under an On 
Lok waiver. 

Subsection (f) applies current Social Security 
Act statutes relating to income and resources 
of institutionalized spouses to any 
individual receiving services from an organization 
operating as a PACE provider. 

Subsection (g) allows participating plans to 
also offer services to frail populations other 
than the elderly, except where the Secretary 
finds provision of such services may impair 
the ability of the organization’s performance 
as a SHMO. 

Section 303: Application of spousal impoverishment 
rules 

Applies protections against spousal impoverishment 
to couples receiving services 
through PACE organizations. 

Section 304: Permitting expansion and making 
permanent SHMO waivers 

The section lifts limitations on how many 
SHMOs may be approved by the Secretary, 
as well as limitations on how many individuals 
may be enrolled in any such project. 

tion to existing waivers 
Subsection (a) repeals certain federal statues 
which are non-conforming to the intent 
and purpose of this legislation. 
Subsection (b) requires that the Secretary 
within nine months of enactment make effective 
interim final regulations on the provisions 
of this title. Until then, all existing 
PACE providers and OnLok waivers will remain 
in effect. After implementation of new 
regulations, SHMOs which at that point have 
completed three years of activity will attain 
PACE provider status without need for reapplication. 
Demonstration sites operating less than 
three years will be accorded PACE provider 
status, but will be required to undergo annual 
review for three years. 
TITLE IV—OTHER MEDICARE CHANGES 

Section 401: Application of competitive acquisition 
process for part B Items and services 

Subsection (a) authorizes the Secretary to 
describe appropriate competitive acquisition 
procedures for awarding contracts for items 
or services. Selected areas of acquisition to 
be governed by competitive bidding will be 
left to the Secretary’s discretion. The section 
applies to the acquisition of durable 
medical equipment, clinical lab services, 
prosthetic devices, diagnostic tests, surgical 
dressings, and other items and services 
which may be identified by the Secretary. 

Section 401 sets a number of requirements 
to assure the health and safety of Medicare 
beneficiaries. 

Subsection (b) sets limitations and requirements 
with respect to exclusive and non-exclusive 
competitions. 

Subsection (c) sets an effective date of January 
1, 1997. 

Section 402: Simpler procedure for inherent reasonableness 
determinations 

Subsection (a) and Subsection (b) revise, 
strike or extend existing status to reform 
Medicare acquisitions procedures for both 
goods and services, and improve efficiency 
within those activities. 

Subsection (c) makes those changes effective 
on January 1, 1997. 

Section 403: Promoting advanced directives 

Subsection (a) requires that persons who 
have executed advanced directives are ensured 
that such documents are included in 
hospital medical charts. 

Subsection (b) would require development 
and dissemination of standard national 
forms by the Secretary. 

Subsection (c) encourages health plans in 
Medicare to encourage use of advanced directive 
forms through education and dissemination 
of promotional material. 

Subsection(d) directs the Secretary to develop 
and implement a promotional campaign 
with respect to advanced directives. 

Section 404: Antifraud efforts 

Subsection (a) increases penalties for Medicare 
fraud, and includes definitions. 

Subsection (b) establishes new definitions of 
punishable offenses. 

Subsection (c) requires a study on standardization 
of claims administration focused on 
determining the feasibility and desirability 
of establishing a standardized Medicare 
claims administration process, implementing 
other measures to improve record keeping, 
and taking other appropriate steps to reduce 
waste, fraud and abuse in making payments 
in the Medicare program. 

Subsection (d) directs the Commission on 
Reinventing Government to report to Congress 
on the effectiveness of current efforts 
to combat waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare, 
and whether these efforts would be enhanced 
by establishing a coordinated, all-
payer, multijurisdiction antifraud program. 

Subsection (a) restrucutes the benefit period 
for hospice care, extending such benefits 
to an unlimited number of 60-day periods. 
This section includes a number of conforming 
amendments. 

Subsection (b) provides new language for reimbursement 
of related services including 
ambulance, diagnostic tests, chemotherapy 
and radiation therapy within the hospice environment. 


Subsection (c) allows for contracting with 
independent physicians and physician groups 
for hospice care services. 

Subsection (d) waives certain staffing requirements. 


Subsection (e) limits liability of beneficiaries 
and providers with regard to certain 
hospice coverage denials. 

Subsection (f) extends the period for a physician 
to medically certify an individual’s 
terminal illness. 

Subsection (g) sets effective date. 
Section 406: Study providing pharmacy services 
to medicare beneficiaries 
Subsection (a), directs the Secretary to 
identify cost savings which may be achieved 
through expanding the role of pharmacy 
services under the program. 
Subsection (b) describes services which 
should be analyzed in the study. 
Subsection (c) and (d), require development 
of recommendations and a report to Congress. 


Section 407: Respite Benefit 

Subsection (a) describes entitlement structure 
for service not exceeding 32 each year. 

Subsection (b) further describes conditions 
and limitations on payment. 

Subsection (c) definitions. 

Subsection (d) defines payments from supplementary 
insurance trust fund for individuals 
with only hospital insurance coverage. 

Subsection (e) effective date. 

TITLE V—PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT FOR HOME 

HEALTH SERVICES 

Section 501. Payment for home health services 

Subsection (a) amends the Social Security 
Act to mandate that home health services be 
reimbursed through a prospective payment 
system. This provision describes discrete 
areas of services. 

(b) directs establishment of a per visit rate 
for home care services. 
(c) sets aggregate limits for services and 
for patients. 
(d) sets a medical review process for the 
system of payments described in the act, and 
supervision to insure that individuals receive 
appropriate care. 
(e) provides for adjustments to payments 
and for the tracking of patients who may 
switch home health agencies. This section 
also provides for monitoring features that 
determine changes in the quality and level of 
health care. The provision also requires that 
the Secretary report annually to Congress 
regarding recommendations for ensuring access 
to appropriate home health services. 
(f) provides for payment to Christian 
Science providers. 
(g) requires an annual report to Congress 
during the first three years of this payment 
plan by the Medicare Prospective Payment 
Review Commission on the effectiveness of 
the payment methodology. 
(h) mandates development of an ‘‘episodic’’ 
prospective payment system for home health 
care. 
(i) requires the Secretary to develop a data 
base upon which managers may develop a 
fair and accurate case mix adjustor as required 
elsewhere in this act for the determination 
of prospective payment. 
Subsection (b) appeals process. 
Subsection (c) sunsets reasonable cost limitation. 



March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1835 

Subsection (d) effective date. 
Section 502. Review by peer review organization 
of home health services 
Subsection (a) requires utilization and quality 
review of home health services by an appropriate 
peer review organization. These reviews 
would occur under conditions including 
a health agency’s determination that a 
patient did not meet conditions for care, 
that the patient no longer requires care, that 
the patient’s level of care is inconsistent 
with the prescription of the attending physician. 
This provision also requires written notification 
to the patient by the agency and the 
peer review organization. 
Subsection (b) describes hearing rights. 
Section 503. Retroactive reinstatement of presumptive 
waiver of liability. 

Reconciles OBRA 1986 and other statutes 
to allow implementation of prospective payment 
for home health services. 

TITLE VI: PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEM FOR 
NURSING FACILITIES 

Section 601: Definitions for acuity payment, 
aggregated resident invoice, allowable costs, 
case mix weight and other items to be cited 
in the determination of prospective payment. 


Section 602: Sets payment objectives, including 
maintaining a fair and equitable balance 
between cost containment and quality 
of care. 

Section 603: Defines powers and duties of 
the Secretary. 

Section 604: Reconciles provisions of this 
title with the Social Security Act. 

Section 605: Establishes a resident classification 
system to be used to adjust payment 
rates to practical care requirements. 

Section 606: Establishes a ‘‘cost-center’’ 
system for establishing appropriate reimbursement 
to facilities based on overhead expenses 
and general operating costs. 

Section 607: Resident assessment. Requires 
facilities to assess needs of each resident in 
accordance with the reimbursement requirements 
of the title. 

Section 608: Establishes a system for formulating 
per diem rates of reimbursement for 
enrolled residents. 

Section 609: Establishes a per diem reimbursement 
system for compensating facility 
administrative and general costs. 

Section 610: Establishes payment system for 
fee-for-service ancillary costs. 

Section 611: Provides for reimbursement of 
selected ancillary services and other costs. 

Section 612: Establishes per diem payment 
for property costs related to rentals required 
by facilities. 

Section 613: Creates a procedure for midyear 
rate adjustments. 

Section 614: Creates payment rate exceptions 
for new and low-volume nursing facilities. 


Section 615: Creates a process for appealing 
decisions by HCFA regarding payments in 
the amount of $10,000 or more. 

Section 616: Phases in prospective payment 
for skilled nursing facilities over a three-
year period. First year would have payments 
based on 25 percent of new system, 75 percent 
of old system. Second year goes to a 50–50 
split. Third year is 75 percent new system, 25 
percent old system. Fourth year fully exercises 
all payment requirements under the 
title. 

TITLE VII: TELEMEDICINE 

Section 701: Internet access for health care providers 
for rural areas. 

Subsection (a) amends the Communications 
Act of 1934 by adding minimum requirements 
for Internet access for health care providers 
for rural areas. Requires carriers to provide 

access ‘‘necessary for the provision of health 
care services’’ and at rates described in the 
title. Sets threshold requirements for infrastructure 
and bandwidth, to be determined 
by ‘‘commission.’’ 

Subsection (b) definitions. 

Subsection (c) conforming amendments. 

Section 702: Establishes a congressional Commis


sion on Telemedicine to undertake require


ments of the title. 

Subsection (a) defines membership, term of 
office, payment. 

Subsection (b) describe duties, including ‘‘a 
thorough study and develop(ment) of recommendations 
on all matters relating to 
which Telemedicine service should be covered 
under Medicare.’’ 

Title also requires a report on these issues 
not later than one year following enactment. 

Subsection (c) through (f) describe powers, 
personnel, termination and appropriations 
for the commission.· 

By Mr. HATCH (for himself, Mr. 
BAUCUS, Mr. NICKLES, Mr. 
BREAUX, Mr. GORTON, Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MURRAY, and 
Mrs. BOXER): 

S. 387. a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide equity 
to exports of software; to the Committee 
on Finance. 
THE SOFTWARE EXPORT EQUITY ACT 

Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce the Software Export 
Equity Act. I am pleased to be joined 
in this bipartisan effort by my colleagues 
on the Senate Finance Committee, 
Senators MAX BAUCUS, DON 
NICKLES, JOHN BREAUX, as well as 
PATTY MURRAY, SLADE GORTON, DIANNE 
FEINSTEIN, and BARBARA BOXER. Identical 
legislation has been introduced in 
the House by Representative JENNIFER 
DUNN and a strong bipartisan group of 
her House colleagues. 

This bill highlights an issue that I 
have mentioned many times in the Finance 
Committee. Currently, the section 
of the Internal Revenue Code outlining 
what qualifies for foreign sales 
corporation [FSC] treatment and tax 
benefits is unclear and has left out 
software that is exported overseas. Our 
bill would clarify the treatment of 
software. 

What is a foreign sales corporation? 
It is a corporate entity established by 
Congress to help facilitate the export 
of American made goods to foreign 
markets. The FSC rules allow a corporation 
a tax benefit on a portion of 
its earnings generated by the sale or 
lease of export property. It is consistent 
with sound U.S. policy to promote 

U.S. exports. 
When the foreign sales corporation 
statute was enacted in 1971, the computer 
software industry was relatively 
new. The original FSC statute was 
drafted with the intent that only U.S. 
job-creating property manufactured or 
produced in the United States and sold 
or leased outside the United States 
qualifies for export benefits. The FSC 
rules are designed to assist U.S. exporters 
in competing with products made in 
other countries that have more favorable 
rules for taxing exports. 

Mr. President, it is in our best interests 
to encourage the export of Amer


ican goods and services. The United 
States is currently the world leader in 
software development, employing approximately 
2 million people in software 
development jobs. As this industry 
continues to grow, much of the expansion 
of the industry is due to the 
growth of exports. However, as the 
software industry has grown in response 
to global markets, the tax laws 
have not kept up. 

Currently, the statute allows films, 
tapes, records or similar reproductions 
to qualify for FSC benefits. However, 
because of a narrow interpretation of 
the FSC rules, software does not generally 
receive this export incentive. 

Let me provide an example that I 
have shared before with my colleagues 
on the Finance Committee. Suppose 
you have two CD–ROM’s—one containing 
a musical recording, the other containing 
dictionary software with musical 
recordings included. The two look 
the same and are very similar except 
for the software. If the you export a 
master CD–ROM of the musical recording 
to another country for reproduction, 
the export qualifies for FSC benefits. 
However, if you export a master 
copy of the software CD–ROM with a license 
to make additional copies, you 
will be denied FSC benefits. This is 
simply wrong and unfair. In an age 
where many computer products are 
multipurpose—with music and soft-
ware—this makes no sense. 

Now this problem is not beyond repair. 
The Treasury Department does 
not believe that it has the authority to 
issue regulations to correct this problem. 
However, they support the legislative 
fix I am introducing today. The 
FSC statute must be clarified to allow 
exported software with the right to reproduce 
to receive fair and equitable 
treatment. 

Mr. President, this problem hits 
home in my State of Utah. There are a 
number of software manufacturers in 
Utah that have developed a worldwide 
presence. Watching musical and other 
intangible items receive FSC treatment 
while highly sophisticated software 
is left out, is simply discouraging 
for these sometimes small software 
companies. This legislation corrects 
this inequity and reestablishes our 
commitment to promoting American 
competitiveness. 

I am please to introduce the Software 
Export Equity Act today. I urge all of 
my colleagues to support this bipartisan 
effort and cosponsor this bill. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 387 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Software 
Export Equity Act’’. 


S1836 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICATION OF FOR


EIGN SALES CORPORATION RULES 

TO SOFTWARE. 

Subparagraph (B) of section 927(a)(2) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to 
property excluded from eligibility as FSC export 
property) is amended by inserting ‘‘, 
and software, whether or not patented’’ after 
‘‘for commercial or home use’’. 

Mr. NICKLES. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to join Senator HATCH, Senator 
BAUCUS, and Senator BREAUX in the introduction 
today of the Software Export 
Equity Act, a bill to provide that 
software exports receive the same tax 
treatment as other products made in 
the United States. Our bill will help ensure 
that the U.S. software industry, 
the current world leader, maintains 
their competitive edge. 

The Software Export Equity Act simply 
clarifies that software produced in 
the United States for export fully 
qualifies for foreign sales corporation 
[FSC] export incentives the same as 
most other U.S. products. The bill proposes 
no special or unique benefit for 
the software industry, just equal and 
fair treatment under existing law. 

The FSC statute and its predecessor, 
the domestic international sales corporation 
statute, were enacted by Congress 
to help U.S. companies compete 
abroad. The FSC statute provides a tax 
exemption of up to 5 percent of a company’s 
income attributable to export 
sales of U.S.-made products. Only those 
products manufactured or produced in 
the United States for export to a foreign 
market qualify for FSC benefits to 
ensure domestic economic growth and 
job creation. 

Unfortunately, the fledgling software 
industry was not specifically considered 
by Congress when the FSC statute 
was enacted, and subsequent Treasury 
Department rules disqualified them for 
FSC benefits. Indeed, Treasury’s narrow 
interpretation allows nearly identical 
products, exported in an identical 
manner, such as movies and compact 
disc recordings, to fully qualify for 
FSC benefits, but not software. 

Repeated attempts to convince the 
Treasury Department to modify their 
rules have failed, Mr. President, leaving 
only the alternative of amending 
the law. Fortunately, this issue has 
broad bipartisan support in the House 
and Senate and was recently included 
in President Clinton’s fiscal year 1998 
budget request. 

Employing over 2 million people and 
exporting more than $26 billion in software 
each year, the U.S. software industry 
is an important and growing 
part of our economy. They lead the 
world in the development of innovative 
products and cutting-edge technology. 
In today’s competitive global economy, 
incentives to encourage firms to develop 
products here for export abroad 
are vitally important. The enactment 
of this legislation will assure that we 
provide these incentives to all U.S. 
products equally. 

I encourage all my colleagues to join 
us in supporting this legislation. 

Mr. BREAUX. Mr. President, I am 
pleased today to join Mr. HATCH, Mr. 

NICKLES, and Mr. BAUCUS in introducing 
the Software Export Equity Act. 
This legislation is extremely important 
to maintaining the U.S. software 
industry’s competitiveness and the 
growth of high-skilled, high-paying 
software industry jobs in the United 
States. The Software Export Equity 
Act has broad bipartisan support and 
was included in the fiscal year 1998 
budget that the President submitted to 
Congress. I urge my colleagues to join 
with us in support of swift enactment 
of this legislation. 

The U.S. software industry is a vital 
and growing part of the U.S. economy, 
creating many new high-paying, high 
technology jobs in the United States. 
Much of the expansion of the software 
industry is due to the growth of export 
sales. The Software Export Equity Act 
clarifies the application of the foreign 
sales corporation [FSC] rules to exports 
of U.S. software. 

The FSC rules were enacted to address 
the competitive disadvantages 
faced by U.S. exporters vis-a-vis exports 
from other countries that have 
more favorable tax systems, particularly 
those that effectively exempt export 
sales from home country tax. The 
goal of the FSC provisions was to prevent 
manufacturing and production 
jobs from moving out of the United 
States. Unfortunately, a narrow IRS 
interpretation of these rules precludes 
exports of U.S. software from fully 
qualifying for the FSC incentive. I am 
very concerned that this problem could 
cause U.S. software companies to begin 
examining such options as moving 
high-skilled, high-paying software development 
jobs overseas where highly 
skilled labor is available at much lower 
wages. The FSC incentive will help offset 
higher U.S. labor costs by providing 
benefits on the export of products developed 
in the United States. Moreover, 
there is no justification to deny 

U.S. software exports the FSC incentive. 
Virtually every other U.S. exporter 
fully qualifies for these incentives. 
I believe it is vital to quickly 
enact legislation that would clarify 
these rules to reflect the Congress’ intent 
with respect to software, not only 
to protect U.S. software development 
jobs, but also to preserve ownership of 
this technology in the United States. 
Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I am 
pleased today to join Senator HATCH in 
cosponsoring the Software Export Equity 
Act. I believe the continued vitality 
of the U.S. software industry is extremely 
important to the U.S. economy. 
The Software Export Equity Act 
will not only help us to retain high-
paying U.S. software development jobs 
with successful U.S. software companies, 
but also will help smaller U.S. 
software companies to enter the export 
market by helping to offset the high 
costs of exporting. 

The Software Export Equity Act ensures 
that U.S. software exports qualify 
for the benefits of the foreign sales 
corporation [FSC] rules, which are very 
important to maintaining a high level 

of U.S. exports. The foreign sales corporation 
rules were enacted to provide 
an incentive for U.S. companies to 
manufacture their products in the 
United States for export overseas, thus 
retaining U.S. development and manufacturing 
jobs. It is clearly as important 
to Congress to retain U.S. software 
development jobs, which are 
among the highest paying jobs in the 
United States, as it is to retain other 
manufacturing and development jobs. 
Nonetheless, the IRS has questioned 
the application of the FSC rules to 
software because independent software 
products did not exist when this incentive 
was originally enacted in 1971. Our 
tax laws must keep up with changes in 
technology and recognize that FSC 
rules should apply to software. 

This legislation is about fairness, but 
more importantly, this legislation is 
about jobs and preserving the ownership 
of technology in the United 
States. The Department of Commerce 
estimates that every $1 billion of export 
trade is worth domestic jobs. 
Today there are nearly 600,000 U.S. employees 
working directly in the software 
industry, with at least another 1.5 
million software developers employed 
in related industries. These are high-
paying jobs, with average compensation 
in 1992 of $55,000 per employee. The 
Software Export Equity Act will prevent 
U.S. software companies from 
moving those high-paying software development 
jobs overseas, where highly 
skilled labor is available for much 
lower wages. The Software Export Equity 
Act will also help smaller software 
companies to enter the export market 
by helping to offset the high cost of exporting, 
which was one of the principal 
purposes for creating the FSC rules. 
FSC treatment is as important to exports 
of software as it is to exports of 
other U.S. products that are clearly 
covered by these rules. 

Finally, the Software Export Equity 
Act will protect U.S. ownership of 
technology. If software development 
jobs were moved outside the United 
States, ownership of the technology 
created would also move outside the 
United States. Today the software industry 
has revenues of $200 billion a 
year and a growth rate of 13 percent 
per year. To lose U.S. ownership of the 
future of this industry would mean not 
only a tremendous direct loss to the 
GDP, but also would mean a loss of the 
spillover benefits that U.S.-developed 
technology has on other U.S. industries. 
In summary, the loss of ownership 
of this technology would be devastating 
to the growth potential of the 

U.S. economy. 
I appreciate the fact that the administration 
supports our position and has 
recommended FSC treatment for computer 
software in the budget. Enactment 
of this legislation will make that 
recommendation reality. I urge my colleagues 
to join Senators HATCH, 
BREAUX, NICKLES, and myself in support 
of swift action on the Software 
Export Equity Act. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1837 

· Mr. GORTON. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to join Senator HATCH today in 
introducing the Software Export 
Equality Act. In 1971, Congress created 
foreign service corporations [FSC] in 
order to encourage U.S. exports and increase 
U.S. competitiveness in the 
international marketplace. Under current 
law, FSC legislation gives U.S. 
manufacturers a tax incentive for exports 
of domestically produced goods. 
Today, virtually every U.S. product 
manufactured for export abroad qualifies 
for FSC benefits. Yet current tax 
laws continue to discriminate against 
one of the America’s fastest growing 
exports: software. 

Due to the IRS’s narrow interpretation 
of FSC rules, the software industry 
is precluded from qualifying for 
any FSC benefits despite the fact that 
approximately 85 percent of products 
sold by U.S. software companies are developed 
in the United States and it currently 
ranks seventh in U.S. industry 
exports. This bill will clarify that computer 
software qualifies as export property 
and is eligible for FSC benefits. 
Continuing to deny the benefits of FSC 
rules to the software industry is not 
only unfair, it poses a serious impediment 
to the competitiveness of U.S. 
manufactured software. 

Software is one of the America’s fastest 
growing industries, with revenues 
of more than $200 billion and a growth 
rate of 13 percent per year on average. 
As the world leader in software development, 
the United States is home to 
more than 8,000 software companies 
that provide, directly and indirectly, 
millions of high-paying, high-skilled 
American jobs in many States. 

Software is a vital and growing part 
of many State economies, including 
my own State of Washington. In Washington 
State, the software industry accounted 
for $3.5 billion worth, and 12 
percent, of Washington State exports 
and employed over 22,509 people in 1995. 
Microsoft, the State’s largest software 
producer, alone supported 1.5 percent of 
the State’s economy in 1995. But these 
impressive numbers do not even take 
into account the significant impact the 
numerous small and middle-sized software 
companies that make up the majority 
in Washington State have on the 
State’s economy. 

The worldwide market for software is 
exploding and global competition is 
quickly on the rise. In this increasingly 
competitive world economy, incentives 
to encourage firms to develop 
and export from the United States are 
more important than ever to job creation 
and economic stability. This bill 
provides a simpe way to ensure the 

U.S. software industry remains the 
world leader in software manufacturing 
and American software jobs are protected. 
I encourage my colleagues to join me 
in support of this very important legislation 
and urge its quick passage in the 
Senate.· 

By Mr. LUGAR: 

S. 388. A bill to amend the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 to assist States in 
implementing a program to prevent 
prisoners from receiving food stamps; 
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 
FOOD STAMP ACT AMENDMENTS 

· Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce a bill that will stop 
prisoners from getting food stamp benefits. 
My bill will assist States in implementing 
a program to ensure that 
prisoners are not counted as members 
or heads of food stamp households, 
thus either increasing the households’ 
benefits or allowing an individual to illegally 
receive benefits in the prisoner’s 
name. 

I was disturbed to read in the newspaper 
about a draft General Accounting 
Office report showing over $3 million 
in food stamp benefits being overpaid 
to households in which a member 
has been incarcerated. Current law prohibits 
prisoners from receiving food 
stamp benefits and requires that households 
notify their local welfare office 
of any changes in the makeup of the 
household. I am concerned to see that 
there is a breakdown in the system, allowing 
millions of dollars to be paid 
out illegally. 

Briefings by USDA’s Food and 
Consumer Service and the General Accounting 
Office have confirmed that although 
a few States are performing 
computer matches of data on States’ 
food stamp participants and verified 
inmates, most are not. All States 
should be doing these computer 
matches. This bill requires the Secretary 
of Agriculture to collect information 
from States already doing computer 
matches to prevent prisoners 
from receiving food stamp benefits, 
then evaluate, summarize, and disseminate 
this information to all States not 
later than 180 days after the bill’s enactment. 
The Secretary must then provide 
the States with technical assistance 
to implement a computer matching 
system. 

The problem of prisoners illegally receiving 
Federal benefits is not limited 
to the Food Stamp Program. Another 
recently released General Accounting 
Office report shows that the Social Security 
Administration has made erroneous 
payments to prisoners who were 
incarcerated in the jail system at the 
time of the study. In response to this 
study, the Personal Responsibility and 
Work Opportunity Act of 1996 included 
language authorizing the Commissioner 
of the Social Security Administration 
to enter into agreements with 
institutions to prevent these erroneous 
payments. We should make a similar 
effort to prevent these erroneous payments 
in the Food Stamp program. 

The Food Stamp Program provides a 
safety net for millions of people. We 
cannot allow fraud and abuse to undermine 
the Food Stamp Program. Integrity 
is essential to ensure a program 
that can serve those in need. It is Congress’ 
responsibility to play a role in 

ending fraud and abuse in all federally 
funded programs. This legislation is an 
important step in ending fraud and 
abuse in the Food Stamp Program. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 388 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. DENIAL OF FOOD STAMPS 
FOR PRISONERS. 

Section 11 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 

U.S.C. 2020) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(q) DENIAL OF FOOD STAMPS FOR PRISONERS.— 
‘‘(1) COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION OF IN-
FORMATION.—Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this subsection, the 
Secretary shall— 

‘‘(A) collect information on policies and 
procedures used by States that conduct computer 
matches or other systems to prevent 
prisoners from receiving food stamp benefits; 
and 

‘‘(B) evaluate, summarize, and disseminate 
to each State the information collected 
under paragraph (1) that describes the best 
practices of the States (including information 
related to verifying prisoners’ social security 
numbers with the Social Security Administration). 


‘‘(2) ASSISTANCE TO STATES.—The Secretary 
shall assist States, to the extent practicable, 
in implementing a system to conduct computer 
matches or other systems to prevent 
prisoners from receiving food stamp benefits.’’.
· 

By Mr. ABRAHAM (for himself, 
Mr. BOND, Mr. NICKLES, Mr. 
HUTCHINSON, Mr. HELMS and Mr. 
SESSIONS): 

S. 389. A bill to improve congressional 
deliberation on proposed Federal 
private sector mandates, and for other 
purposes. 
THE MANDATES INFORMATION ACT OF 1997 

Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce the Mandates Information 
Act of 1997. This bill in my view 
furthers the cause of careful deliberation 
in this, the greatest deliberative 
body in the world. It will force Members 
of Congress to carefully consider 
all aspects of potential legislation containing 
mandates affecting consumers, 
workers, and small businesses. 

I am proud to say that my colleagues 
and I aided the cause of careful deliberation 
during the last Congress. We 
passed the Unfunded Mandates Reform 
Act of 1995. That legislation required 
the Congressional Budget Office to 
make two key estimates with respect 
to any bill reported out of committee: 
First, whether the bill contains intergovernmental 
mandates with an annual 
cost of $50 million or more; and, 
second, whether the bill contains private 
sector mandates with an annual 
cost of $100 million or more. The 1995 
act also established a point of order 
against bills meeting the $50 million 


S1838 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

cost threshold for intergovernmental 
mandates. Although the point of order 
can be waived by a simple majority 
vote, it encourages Congress to think 
carefully before imposing new intergovernmental 
mandates. 

The 1995 act did not apply its point of 
order to private sector mandates. This 
was understandable, given the bill’s 
focus on intergovernmental mandates. 
But States and localities are not alone 
in being affected by Federal mandates. 
Consumers, workers, and small businesses 
also are affected when the Federal 
Government passes along the costs 
of its policies. This is why the Mandates 
Information Act of 1997 will 
apply a point of order to bills meeting 
the $100 million cost threshold for private 
sector mandates, while also directing 
the CBO to prepare a 
‘‘Consumer, Worker, and Small Business 
Impact Statement’’ for any bill reported 
out of committee. 

These reforms are necessary in my 
view, Mr. President, because the 1995 
act, while effective in its chosen sphere 
of intergovernmental mandates, does 
not contain the necessary mechanisms 
to force Congress to think seriously 
about the wisdom of proposed mandates 
on the private sector. This leaves 
our private sector faced with the same 
dilemma once faced by our States and 
localities: Congress does not give full 
consideration to the costs its mandates 
impose. Focusing almost exclusively 
on the benefits of unfunded mandates, 
Congress pays little heed to, and sometimes 
seems unaware of, the burden 
that unfunded mandates impose on the 
very groups they are supposed to help. 

Unfunded mandate costs by definition 
do not show up on Congress’ balance 
ledger. But, as President Clinton’s 
Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence 
Summers has written, ‘‘[t]here is no 
sense in which benefits become ‘free’ 
just because the government mandates’’ 
them. Congress has merely 
passed the costs on to someone else. 

And that ‘‘someone’’ is the American 
people. As economists from Princeton’s 
Alan Krueger to John Holohan, Colin 
Winterbottom, and Sheila Zedlewski of 
the Urban Institute agree, the costs of 
unfunded mandates on the private sector 
are primarily borne by three 
groups: consumers, workers, and small 
businesses. 

What forms do these costs take? For 
consumers, mandate costs take the 
form of higher prices for goods and 
services, as unfunded mandates drive 
up the cost of labor. 

For workers, the costs of unfunded 
mandates often take the form of significantly 
lower wages. According to 
the Heritage Foundation, a range of 
independent studies indicates that 
some 88 percent of the cost of private 
sector mandates are shifted to workers 
in the form of lower wages. 

And mandates can cause workers to 
lose their jobs altogether. Faced with 
uncontrollable increases in employee 
costs, our job creators too often find 
that they can no longer afford to retain 

their full complement of workers. The 
Clinton health care mandate, for example, 
would have resulted in a net loss of 
between 200,000–500,000 jobs, according 
to a study conducted by Professor 
Krueger. 

Small businesses and their potential 
employees also suffer. Mandates typically 
apply only to businesses with at 
least a certain number of employees. 
As a result, small businesses have a 
powerful incentive not to hire enough 
new workers to reach the mandate 
threshold. As the Wall Street Journal 
recently noted, ‘‘The point at which a 
new [mandate] kicks in * * * is the 
point at which the [Chief Financial Officer] 
asks ‘Why grow?’ ’’ 

That question is asked by small businesses 
all over the country, but let me 
cite one example from my State. 
Hasselbring/Clark is an office equipment 
supplier in Lansing, MI. Noelle 
Clark is the firm’s treasurer and secretary. 
Mindful of the raft of mandates 
whose threshold is 50 employees, Ms. 
Clark reports that lately ‘‘we have 
hired a few temps to stay under 49.’’ 
Thus, unfunded mandates not only 
eliminate jobs, but also prevent jobs 
from being created. 

Much as Members of Congress may 
wish it were not so, mandates have a 
very real cost. This does not mean that 
all mandates are bad. But it does mean 
that Congress should think very carefully 
about the wisdom of a proposed 
mandate before imposing it. 

Such careful thinking, Mr. President, 
is the goal of the Mandates Information 
Act of 1997. Just as the Unfunded 
Mandates Reform Act of 1995 protects 
State and local governments from 
hasty decisionmaking with respect to 
proposed intergovernmental mandates, 
the Mandates Information Act would 
protect consumers, workers, and small 
businesses from hasty decisionmaking 
with respect to proposed private sector 
mandates. It would do so, in essence, 
by extending the reforms of the 1995 
act to private sector mandates. 

The bill I introduce today would 
build on the 1995 act’s reforms in two 
ways. First, to give Congress more 
complete information about the impact 
of proposed mandates on the private 
sector, my bill directs CBO to prepare 
a ‘‘Consumer, Worker, and Small Business 
Impact Statement’’ for any bill reported 
out of Committee. This statement 
would include analyses of the 
bill’s private sector mandates’ effects 
on the following: First, consumer 
prices and [the] actual supply of goods 
and services in consumer markets; second, 
worker wages, worker benefits, 
and employment opportunities; and 
third, the hiring practices, expansion, 
and profitability of businesses with 100 
or fewer employees. 

But providing Congress with more 
complete information about the impact 
of proposed private sector mandates 
will not guarantee that it pays any attention 
to it. This we know from experience. 
In 1981, Congress enacted the 
State and Local Government Cost Esti


mate Act, sponsored by Senator Sasser. 
Pursuant to that act, CBO provided 
Congress with estimates of the cost of 
intergovernmental mandates in bills 
reported out of committee. But Congress 
routinely ignored this information. 
It did so because the 1981 act had 
no enforcement mechanism to force 
Congress to consider the CBO estimates. 
As Senator Sasser himself explained 
in introducing a follow-up bill 
in 1993, ‘‘[t]he problem [with the 1981 
act], it has become clear, is that this 
yellow caution light has no red light to 
back it up.’’ 

To supply that ‘‘red light,’’ Senator 
Sasser’s Mandate Funding Act of 1993 
contained a point of order. Of course, 
the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 
1995 likewise contained a point of 
order, which is why it succeeded where 
Senator Sasser’s 1981 act had failed. 

The Mandates Information Act of 
1997 will provide this red light for proposed 
private sector mandates. It contains 
a point of order against any bill 
whose private sector mandates exceed 
the $100 million threshold set by the 
1995 act. Like the 1995 act’s point of 
order against intergovernmental mandates, 
the 1997 bill’s point of order can 
be waived by a simple majority of 
Members. Thus it will not stop Congress 
from passing bills it wants to 
pass. 

But the point of order will serve a 
vital purpose. It will ensure that Congress 
does not ignore the information 
contained in the consumer, worker, 
and small business impact statement. 
It will do so by allowing any Member 
to focus the attention of the entire 
House or Senate on the impact statement 
for a particular bill. 

The Mandates Information Act of 
1997 will provide Congress with more 
complete information about proposed 
mandates’ effects on consumers, workers, 
and small businesses. It will also 
ensure that Congress actually considers 
this information before reaching a 
judgment about whether to impose a 
new mandate. The result, Mr. President, 
will be focused, high-quality deliberation 
on the wisdom of private 
sector mandates. 

Because of the success of the 1995 act, 
Congress is now much more careful to 
consider the interests of State and 
local governments in making decisions 
about unfunded mandates. But Congress 
must be just as careful to consider 
the interests of consumers, workers, 
and small businesses in making 
such decisions. This bill will ensure 
that care, helping produce better legislation; 
legislation that imposes a lighter 
burden on working Americans. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the following sample of letters 
from small business groups supporting 
the bill be introduced in the 
RECORD, along with a list of groups 
that have expressed their support for 
it. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1839 

ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTING THE MANDATES ices and reduced workers benefits. Moreover, MICHIGAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, 
INFORMATION ACT OF 1997 these mandates are likely to escalate as Lansing, MI, January 31, 1997. 
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS scarce budgetary resources will place even Hon. SPENCER ABRAHAM, 

Chamber of Commerce of the United 
States; National Association of Wholesaler-
Distributors; National Federation 
of Independent Businesses; National 
Retail Federation; Small Business Survival 
Committee; National Restaurant 
Association; National Association for 
the Self-Employed. 

MICHIGAN ORGANIZATIONS 

Associated Underground Contractors, 
Inc.; Grand Rapids Area Chamber of 
Commerce; Michigan Association of 
Timbermen; Michigan Chamber of 
Commerce; Michigan Farm Bureau 
Family of Companies; Michigan NFIB; 
Michigan Retailers Association; Michigan 
Soft Drink Association; Small 
Business Association of Michigan. 

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF 
INDEPENDENT BUSINESS, 

Washington, DC, February 11, 1997. 

Hon. SPENCER ABRAHAM, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR ABRAHAM: On behalf of the 
more than 600,000 members of the National 
Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), I 
want to express support for the Mandate Information 
Act of 1997 

In 1995 with the passage of the Unfunded 
Mandates Act, Congress acknowledged the 
significant problem that federal government 
mandates have on the operation of states 
and localities. Government mandates create 
equally burdensome problems on the private 
sector and especially small employers. These 
federal mandates discourage small business 
start-ups, growth and job creation. 

Our members have consistently ranked unreasonable 
government regulation as one of 
their top concerns. The Mandate Information 
Act works to address the problem of federal 
mandates on small businesses by applying 
the reforms put in place by the Unfunded 
Mandates Act of 1995 for state and local government 
to the private sector. This would require 
Congress to weigh more carefully the 
impact of proposed legislation on small businesses 
and their employees. 

We commend you on your efforts to reduce 
the government mandated burdens a small 
business must shoulder and look forward to 
working with you to ensure that this positive 
reform becomes law. 

Sincerely, 

DAN DANNER, 

Vice President, 
Federal Governmental Relations. 

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, 

Washington, DC, January 7, 1997. 

Hon. SPENCER ABRAHAM, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR ABRAHAM: I am pleased to 
offer the support of the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce Federation for your proposed legislation, 
the Mandates Information Act of 
1997. 

One of the key success stories of the 104th 
Congress was the adoption of bipartisan unfunded 
mandates reform requiring Congress 
to consider the cost and consequences of federal 
requirements on state and local government. 
Another important component of this 
law was the requirement that significant federal 
mandates on the private sector be measured 
and made public. Such mandates have 
an enormous impact on consumers, small 
businesses and workers in the form of higher 
prices, fewer jobs, declining good and serv


greater pressure on utilizing federal regulations 
as a means of implementing government 
programs and initiatives. 

[The Mandates Information Act would provide 
the next necessary step to promote 
greater public and congressional accountability 
regarding the impact of federal mandates.] 
It builds upon the success of the unfunded 
mandates law by requiring Congress 
to have more information on who will be affected 
and ultimately pay the costs associated 
with these mandates. It would allow 
Member of Congress to vote on each man-
date—considering not only its benefits but 
its effect on the private section as well as 
the economy, jobs and consumers. 

[It is good government policy for Congress 
to engage in the practice of legislating with 
the necessary information concerning the 
impact of their actions. Policymakers have 
the responsibility and obligation to make informed 
decisions and to be accountable for 
the consequences of those decisions.] Such a 
proposal would help ensure that when resources 
are diverted from jobs, wages and 
families into government rules, the impact 
are fully considered. 

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Federation, 
the world’s largest federation of business, 
chambers of commerce and business organizations 
representing every size and sector 
of the nation’s economy, looks forward 
to working with you in seeking adoption of 
this common sense, good government proposal. 


Sincerely, 

R. BRUCE JOSTEN. 
NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION, 

Washington, DC, February 12, 1997. 

Hon. SPENCER ABRAHAM, 

U.S. Senator, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR ABRAHAM: On behalf of the 
National Retail Federation, the world’s largest 
retail trade association, I am writing to 
support your legislation, the Mandates Information 
Act of 1997. 

Too often Congress passes new mandates 
on entrepreneurs without understanding the 
actual cost. Many times, mandates look good 
on paper, but can have a disastrous effect 
once implemented. Your legislation will correct 
that once and for all. 

The costs associated with mandates, as 
you well know, are more than direct cash 
outlays, these costs mean less economic 
growth, fewer jobs created and higher costs 
to consumers. Congress’ worthy goal of balancing 
the budget, combined with desires of 
some to ‘‘deliver more things’’ to voters that 
the government doesn’t have to pay for, will 
put more pressure than ever on Members of 
Congress to burden business. 

New mandates automatically won’t be 
stopped, only automatically considered 
under this bill. That’s right in line with 
Main Street. The Abraham legislation 
assures retailers and other entrepreneurs 
that Congress will consider the impact of 
proposed mandates set forth in the CBO 
Consumer, Worker and Small Business Impact 
Statement before they are simply enacted 
into law. 

Again, thank you for your leadership 
against new mandates. We look forward to 
working with you to pass this legislation. 

Sincerely, 

JOHN J. MOTLEY, 

Senior Vice President, 
Government and Public Affairs. 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SPENCE: Your proposed ‘‘Mandates 
Information Act of 1997’’ is a great idea! 

As you know, the Michigan Chamber and 
many other taxpayer groups supported—and 
voters approved—the Headlee Amendment to 
the State Constitution in 1978 that required 
state mandates on local government to be 
funded by the State. This has caused greater 
legislative and executive branch evaluation 
of state program mandates and related costs 
on local units of government and resulted in 
funding of any mandates by the state. The 
Michigan Chamber also supported adoption 
of unfunded mandates reform during the 
104th Congress. 

It’s important that Congress now consider 
protection for the private sector from new 
unfunded mandates. Careful consideration of 
the impact of federal mandates on state and 
local government should be extended to job 
providers and consumers. 

The Michigan Chamber of Commerce and 
our 6,500 member firms are pleased to support 
this needed legislation. 

Sincerely, 

JIM BARRETT, 

President. 

SMALL BUSINESS 
ASSOCIATION OF MICHIGAN, 

Lansing, MI, January 31, 1997. 

Hon. SPENCER ABRAHAM, 

U.S. Senate, Dirksen Senate Office Building, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR ABRAHAM: The Small Business 
Association of Michigan (SBAM is 
pleased with your decision to introduce the 
‘‘Mandates Information Act.’’ Your bill will 
help protect small businesses from the financial 
impact of Congressional mandates. 

Congressional mandates imposed on the 
private sector are already driving down 
worker wages, increasing consumer costs and 
reducing the availability of goods and services. 
These mandates could multiply as a result 
of the effort for a balanced budget. As 
funding becomes increasingly scarce, advocates 
of increased government intrusion in 
the private sector will try to shift program 
costs to small businesses in the form of new 
mandates. 

A key provision of your legislation is the 
small business impact statement—to inform 
Congressional members about mandates and 
their impact on the private sector. The bill 
will direct the CBO to estimate the impact of 
a bill’s mandates on consumer cost, worker 
wages, the availability of goods and services 
and small business job creation. 

SBAM is Michigan’s latest state based 
small business association representing 8,000 
businesses in all of Michigan’s 83 counties. 
We look forward to working with you on this 
important small business issue. 

Sincerely, 

BARRY S. CARGILL, 

Vice President, 
Government Relations. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I rise 
today in support of the Mandates Information 
Act of 1997. I am pleased to be 
an original cosponsor of this important 
legislation, and I applaud my distinguished 
colleague from Michigan, Mr. 
ABRAHAM, for his leadership in this effort. 


The bill we are introducing today 
continues the work begun in the 104th 
Congress with the enactment of the 
‘‘Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 
1995—the 1995 act—authored by Mr. 


S1840 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

KEMPTHORNE to ensure that Congress is 
well advised of the cost unfunded mandates 
would impose on State and local 
governments. I was a cosponsor of the 
1995 act, and I believe the time has 
come for us to expand its provisions to 
require similar detailed information 
and accountability on unfunded mandates 
affecting the private sector—so 
we can protect consumers, workers, 
and small businesses. 

As chairman of the Senate Committee 
on Small Business, I am all too 
aware of the disproportionate burden 
Federal regulations impose on our Nation’s 
small businesses. A 1995 study 
found that an average firm with less 
than 20 employees spent approximately 
$5,500 per employee in 1992 to comply 
with Federal regulations—compared 
with $3,000 per employee by firms with 
500 or more employees. The overall cost 
to the economy is between 6 and 9 percent 
of gross domestic product—between 
$420–670 billion—in 1995 dollars— 
in regulatory compliance. Before we 
permit the Federal Government to 
adopt any new mandate that would add 
to this burden, the Congress needs to 
be fully informed of the new costs to be 
imposed on the economy so we can 
make an informed judgment. 

The reforms proposed in this bill are 
needed to ensure that the Congress 
gives careful and thoughtful consideration 
to the impact unfunded mandates 
impose on the private sector. The ability 
of small businesses to compete and 
create new jobs can be hindered by unfunded 
mandates, we need to be aware 
of the magnitude of any future adverse 
effects. The Committee on Small Business 
will continue its work to ensure 
that the Government’s actions here in 
Washington foster the growth of small 
businesses located on Main Street. This 
bill will help to ensure that all Members 
of Congress are equally informed 
of the effects a bill would have on the 
customers, employees, and owners of 
America’s small businesses, the engine 
of our Nation’s economic growth. 

The legislation Senator ABRAHAM and 
I are introducing today will ensure 
that the private sector impact of unfunded 
mandates is addressed during 
deliberations on legislation imposing 
those mandates. Consumers, workers, 
and small businesses will benefit from 
the reforms to enhance congressional 
deliberations on unfunded mandates affecting 
the private sector. The Mandates 
Information Act of 1997 establishes 
a new parliamentary point of 
order against any bill that will impose 
private sector mandates exceeding a 
$100 million cost threshold. The measure 
directs the Congressional Budget 
Office to estimate the impact of the 
proposed unfunded mandates on 
consumer costs, worker wages, and the 
availability of goods and services. 

As with the Unfunded Mandate Reform 
Act of 1995, the point of order authorized 
by the bill would bar the 
House or Senate from further action on 
a proposed measure unless a majority 
agrees to move forward with the initia


tive. By authorizing a point of order 
triggered by private sector impacts, 
the legislation introduced today puts 
teeth into the law to ensure that Congress 
addresses the costs that would be 
imposed by the unfunded mandates on 
small businesses, consumers, and workers. 
This change requires Members of 
Congress to go on record as either supporting 
or opposing an unfunded mandate 
that would add costs to the private 
sector. 

With the aid of a consumer, worker, 
and small business impact statement, 
Members of Congress will have the information 
required to make an informed 
decision on the merit of imposing 
a mandate without also providing 
funding for compliance. The impact 
statement would be prepared by the 
Congressional Budget Office—which 
the bill directs to estimate the economic 
impact of a proposed mandate 
on consumers, wages, and the availability 
of goods and services. 

All in all, this bill is about good governance. 
It provides information to ensure 
that Congress is fully informed on 
the impact of an unfunded mandate on 
the economy and the private sector in 
particular. By tasking the Congressional 
Budget Office with preparing an 
impact statement, the bill also provides 
important information to educate 
Congress on the effect of pending legislation. 
This, in itself, is an important 
step toward ensuring that the needs 
and concerns of small businesses, and 
the workers and customers that depend 
on small businesses, are given the attention 
they deserve by Congress. As 
with the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996—or 
the Red-Tape Reduction Act as I prefer 
to call it—today’s bill seeks to ensure 
that the Government treats small business 
fairly. The Mandates Information 
Act has the support of the National 
Federation of Independent Business, 
the National Restaurant Association, 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the 
National Retail Association, the National 
Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, 
and the Small Business Survival 
Committee—I urge my colleagues 
to join our efforts to enact this bill and 
enhance our efforts to ensure good governance. 


By Mr. COVERDELL (for himself, 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr. 

HELMS): 

S.J. Res. 19. A joint resolution to disapprove 
the certification of the President 
under section 490(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 regarding foreign 
assistance for Mexico during fiscal 
year 1997; read the first time. 
S.J. Res. 20. A joint resolution to disapprove 
the certification of the President 
under section 490(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 regarding foreign 
assistance for Mexico during fiscal 
year 1997; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 
S.J. Res. 21. A joint resolution to disapprove 
the certification of the President 
under section 490(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 regarding assistance 
for Mexico during fiscal year 1997, 
and to provide for the termination of 
the withholding of and opposition to 
assistance that results from the disapproval; 
to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

DISAPPROVAL LEGISLATION 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, I 
have introduced today three separate 
joint resolutions to disapprove the 
President’s decision to certify Mexico 
as fully cooperating in our war on 
drugs. The first joint resolution will 
eventually be placed on the calendar by 
way of rule XIV of the Standing Rules 
of the Senate. The second resolution is 
identical to the first joint resolution; 
however, it will be referred to the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee for 
their consideration. 

Finally, Mr. President, the third 
joint resolution I have just introduced 
would disapprove the President’s certification 
and instead decertify Mexico 
but authorize a national interest waiver. 


Mr. President, I have been joined 
today by a coauthor of these resolutions, 
Senator FEINSTEIN of California, 
who will make remarks in a moment. I 
will take just a few minutes to visit 
this subject and then yield the floor to 
Senator FEINSTEIN. 

First, let me say, Mr. President, that 
this is a most difficult issue, and it has 
very broad ramifications. Mr. President, 
I stand here as a friend of Mexico 
and the Mexican people, but I believe 
the actions on the part of the administration 
were a resounding endorsement 
of the status quo. Mr. President, the 
status quo is unacceptable. The status 
quo sees the Government of Mexico 
under siege by perpetrators of fraud 
and corruption and destabilization. Mr. 
President, the status quo sees millions 
of new victims being ravaged by the assault 
of drugs within our community. I 
suspect that the actions on the part of 
the administration, of President Clinton, 
were an effort to be supportive of 
President Zedillo. I can understand 
that, but I believe this decision to certify 
without condition, versus to decertify 
and waive as our resolution calls 
for, misleads both nations. It suggests 
that things are going along fairly well 
and we just need to keep doing what we 
have been doing. 

The President of Mexico himself said 
the greatest single threat to the security 
of his republic are the drug cartels. 
Mr. President, we are losing this 
war. That is what the status quo represents. 
We are losing. The people of 
Mexico are losing through destabilization 
of their government at all levels, 
the American people are losing through 
the victimization of millions of American 
citizens, and the democracies of 
the hemisphere are losing because this 
is a pervasive cloud over our future as 
we enter the new century. 

All the opportunity one can envision 
about this hemisphere, the fact that 40 
percent of our trade occurs in this 
hemisphere, the abounding opportunities 
that one can easily look at when 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1841 

you see what commerce can produce in 
the uplifting of all of our peoples, the 
single most serious threat to all those 
opportunities are the drug cartels. It 
hangs as a cloud, Mr. President. I believe 
the actions on the part of the administration 
do a disservice to all of 
our people on both sides of the border. 
And I hope that we can come at this 
question more honestly and admit that 
we have deep problems here, and that 
the good will that exists between our 
peoples is vibrant enough and strong 
enough that it can face an honest problem 
head on. No one is served by sweeping 
it under the rug for yet another 
year. Every day that goes by, we lose a 
little bit more and we come closer and 
closer to a time when this becomes 
unresolvable. 

Mr. President, we will hold hearings 
on these resolutions in the very near 
term. I compliment my colleague from 
California for her extended work in 
this area for a considerable period of 
time. 

At this point, I yield the floor to my 
colleague from California, Senator 
FEINSTEIN. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California is recognized. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I thank the Chair 
and I thank the Senator from Georgia. 
I am pleased to join with him in this 
joint resolution, disapproving the certification 
of Mexico. 

Mr. President, my disappointment in 
the administration’s decision to certify 
Mexico’s antidrug efforts last week, I 
think, was known to all. I believe that 
decision was a mistake, and I said so. 

The decision to certify Mexico in the 
face of what I consider to be an overwhelming 
lack of cooperation undermines 
the integrity of the certification 
process itself, as well as damaging the 
credibility of the United States in our 
dealings with other countries with 
whom we seek cooperation. 

I rise today to join with the Senator 
from Georgia and a number of my colleagues 
in introducing this resolution. 
But I do so with some regret. I regret 
the need for the resolution for two reasons. 
First, Mexico is a neighbor, a 
friend, and an ally of our country. Second, 
I very much regret the need to disagree 
with my President on this issue. 
I believe he made what he believes to 
be the right decision, but I respectfully 
disagree with him. 

Our intention is clear: We believe 
that the evidence overwhelmingly supports 
decertification of Mexico, and 
then if the President sees fit, invoking 
a vital national interest waiver. For 
that reason, Senator COVERDELL has introduced 
a second resolution that allows 
the President to waive the sanctions 
on grounds of vital national interest 
after we enact our resolution of 
disapproval. 

Last week, a bipartisan group of 39 
Senators sent a letter to the President 
urging that this be his decision. 

I ask unanimous consent that this 
letter be printed in the RECORD following 
my remarks. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(See exhibit 1.) 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, section 
490 of the Foreign Assistance Act 
requires the President to certify that 
Mexico has cooperated fully with the 
United States, or taken adequate steps 
on its own to combat drug trafficking. 
It’s just not tenable to claim that Colombia 
did not meet that standard, but 
Mexico did. Let me read one sentence 
from the decertification of Colombia in 
1996. It reads: 

Critical to the U.S. judgment that the Government 
of Colombia did not fully cooperate 
on counternarcotics in 1995 is the assessment 
that corruption remains pervasive, despite 
the efforts of some dedicated Colombians to 
root it out. 

That is no different from the situation 
in Mexico today. There are dedicated 
efforts in Mexico, but the corruption 
is pervasive. 

I think the events of last week are an 
example in point. 

Just hours before the President’s decision 
on certification of Mexico was to 
be announced, Mexican officials were 
touting the arrest of a reputed cartel 
leader, Humberto Garcia Abrego, 
brother of Juan Garcia Abrego, who 
was expelled from Mexico during last 
year’s certification process. 

Then, just a few hours after the decision 
to certify was announced, guess 
what? Garcia Abrego simply walked 
away from Mexican custody a free 
man. The Mexican Attorney General’s 
office claimed responsibility for setting 
him free. His release was ‘‘inexplicable,’’ 
they said. 

Mr. President, this is just one example 
of the kind of cooperation the United 
States has received. It has tightened 
up just before certification and then, 
just after certification, it’s business as 
usual. 

With 70 percent of the cocaine, a 
quarter of the heroin, 80 percent of the 
marijuana, and 90 percent of the ephedrine 
used to make methamphetamine 
entering the United States from our 
southern border, Mexico’s drug problem 
is America’s drug problem, and the 
problem is getting worse, not better. 

Last year at this time, Senator 
D’AMATO and I compiled a list of actions 
we considered necessary for the 
Mexican Government to take in order 
to show progress on their antidrug efforts. 
Regrettably, I believe the evidence 
shows there has been little or no 
progress on nearly all of the items on 
this list. 

Some of these failures are due to inability; 
others are due simply to a lack 
of political will. 

For example, some questions: Has 
Mexico extradited one Mexican national 
on outstanding drug charges? 
The answer is no. I was puzzled because 
the Secretary of State, in her statement 
on certification, made this statement: 
‘‘Mexico has set a precedent by 
extraditing its own nationals.’’ One 
might conclude that this includes 
Mexicans wanted on drug charges. Yet, 

to the contrary, both the Department 
of Justice and the DEA tell me that 
not a single Mexican national has been 
extradited to this country on drug-related 
charges. 

If the State Department has information 
that Mexican nationals are being 
extradited on drug-related charges— 
and there are 52 of them on the extradition 
list—I ask them now to make 
that list public. Tell us which Mexican 
nationals have been extradited on 
drug-related charges. 

Francisco Arellano-Felix of the notorious 
Tijuana cartel is currently in 
custody in a Mexican prison and wanted 
on narcotics charges here in the 
United States. I say to Mexico, why 
not show good faith and extradite him? 

Mexican authorities tell us that 
there has been an agreement in principle 
on extraditing Mexican nationals, 
but there has been no change in their 
actions. 

Question 2: Has Mexico implemented 
new laws aimed at curbing the rampant 
laundering of drug money? No. 

Nearly a year ago, the Mexican Parliament 
passed criminal money laundering 
laws. But the new laws are a far 
cry from the stronger legislative action 
sought by U.S. officials. The new laws 
do not even require banks to report 
large or suspicious currency transactions. 
Promises to enact such regulations 
have, so far, gone unfulfilled. 

To my knowledge, not one money exchange 
house in Mexico has changed its 
operations. 

Have Mexican authorities significantly 
increased their seizure rate of 
cocaine or their arrest of drug traffickers? 
Let’s take a look at it. The answer 
to that clearly is no. Cocaine seizures 
by Mexico, which increased slightly 
last year, are barely half of what was 
seized in 1993. 

Here are seizures in 1993—46.2 tons. 
Here they are in 1995—22.2 tons. And 
they are just slightly above that in 
1996. Actually, instead of 22.2 tons, in 
1996 they are 23.5. 

So that is the record. It has been effectively 
downhill, and then a straight 
line, and a small little jog up. 

Let’s take a look at drug-related arrests 
in Mexico. Drug-related arrests 
last year are less than half of what 
they were in 1992. Here are the figures. 
In 1992, 27,369; down in 1993; down in 
1994; and way down in 1995, all the way 
to 9,700. We don’t have 1996 on this 
chart yet, but the 1996 figures are 
11,245. That is a startling drop since 
1992. 

So here is a country being certified 
as fully cooperative, and drug seizures 
have gone down and drug arrests have 
gone down in the last 3 years. 

One has to ask then: What is ‘‘full 
cooperation²? 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, will 
the Senator yield? 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I certainly will. 

Mr. COVERDELL. I have a comment 
on the statistics just demonstrated, because 
I was reading in the New York 
Times, and they begin the data in 1994. 


S1842 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

So it shows a slight increase. But the 
dramatic case that the Senator made is 
absolutely correct. You have to go 
back to 1992 and 1993 to see what really 
is happening with arrests and seizures 
of narcotics. 

I just point out that it is good that 
the Senator is making the point because 
our adversaries like to start 
measuring statistics in 1994. We can’t 
do that. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. The Senator is correct. 
I thank him very much for that 
comment because he is absolutely 
right. The jog up is so small when you 
compare it with the drop which is so 
steep and pronounced. So I thank the 
Senator very much. 

It leads me to the conclusion that 
the situation with Mexico has never 
been worse. DEA has suspended American 
agents going into Mexico because, 
just last month, Mexico forbade United 
States drug agents from carrying weapons 
on the Mexican side of the border. 

I understand that there may be some 
agreement again to enable our agents 
to be armed, and then they will go in 
again. However, it should be pointed 
out that death threats against our 
agents are up. 

I would like to ask that all Members, 
if they would be willing, to simply read 
the testimony provided by Thomas 
Constantine, Administrator of the 
Drug Enforcement Administration, before 
the House Government Reform and 
Oversight Committee, the National Security, 
International Affairs, and 
Criminal Justice Subcommittee, last 
week. It was played about three times 
on C-SPAN over the weekend. I heard 
it. I also read the remarks. And the remarks 
are really very, very profound. 

In this report, Mr. Constantine 
points out again: 

Since 1993, 23 major drug-related assassinations 
have taken place in Mexico. Virtually 
all of these murders remain unsolved. Many 
of them have occurred in Tijuana, or have involved 
victims from Tijuana in the last year. 
Twelve law enforcement officers, or former 
officials, have been gunned down in Tijuana, 
and the vast majority of the 200 murders in 
that city are believed to have been drug related. 


The Administrator also points out 
that of the 1,200 firings firings of Government 
officials for corruption made 
by President Zedillo, no successful 
prosecutions of these individuals have 
ever taken place. So of the 1,200 Government 
officials fired for corruption, 
there has not been a single successful 
prosecution. 

The arrest last month of Gen. Jesus 
Gutierrez Rebollo brings, I think, the 
level of drug-influenced corruption in 
Mexico into some glaring relief. It is 
frightening. But, as I have pointed out, 
it is just the tip of the iceberg. 

In September, a federal police commander, 
Ernesto Ibarra, who had vowed 
to take down the Tijuana cartel, was 
murdered, and some of the assailants 
were his own officers. 

That should tell us a great deal about 
the level of corruption. 

The celebrated army raid of a wedding 
last month of the sister of Amado 

Carillo-Fuentes, Mexico’s most powerful 
cartel leader, seems to be an elaborate 
charade. The raid, which was organized 
by General Gutierrez, who we 
now know was on the Carillo-Fuentes 
payroll and the target of the raid, was 
tipped off in advance and either never 
did come to the wedding or escaped. 
Federal police were found to be protecting 
the drug traffickers at that 
wedding. The federal police were protecting 
drug traffickers. I find that 
just amazing. 

As former DEA Administrator Robert 
Bonner said, ‘‘It would be hard for anyone 
to say with a straight face that the 
Mexican Government is taking effective 
action against the major drug traffickers 
at this juncture.’’ 

Yet, they were just certified as so 
doing. 

The purpose of section 490 was not to 
deliver merit badges to nations whose 
leaders have good intentions. The 
world is filled with leaders who have 
good intentions. The act was designed 
to measure uniformly the actions 
taken by countries to assist the United 
States in antidrug efforts. 

Colombia was decertified last year 
and again this year because their efforts 
were ineffectual. 

How Mexico cannot be held to the 
same standards I have a hard time understanding. 
To certify Mexico in the 
face of overwhelming evidence to the 
contrary undercuts the certification 
process. 

So I ask all of my colleagues to join 
the distinguished Senator from Georgia 
and myself in voting to disapprove the 
President’s decision on certification of 
Mexico but to allow him, if he sees fit, 
to enact a national-interest waiver. 

Then we should work with the President 
to devise conditions under which 
Mexico would be eligible for recertification. 


EXHIBIT 1 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, February 26, 1997. 

The PRESIDENT, 

The White House, Washington, DC 

DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: We are writing to 
urge you to deny certification that Mexico 
has taken sufficient actions to combat international 
narcotics trafficking when you report 
to Congress on the anti-narcotics efforts 
of major drug producing and drug-transit 
countries. We believe a reasonable examination 
of the facts leads to no other decision. 

Regrettably, we have concluded that there 
has been insufficient progress, or no 
progress, on a wide range of key elements of 
an effective counternarcotics program in 
Mexico. Some of these failures are due to inability; 
others are due to a lack of political 
will. But all have set back the urgent effort 
to end the plague of drugs on our streets. 

We want to bring to your attention a number 
of the most significant examples of Mexico’s 
inability and unwillingness to deal with 
the drug trafficking problem effectively: 

Cartels: There has been little or no effective 
action taken against the major drug 
cartels. The two most powerful—the Juarez 
Cartel run by Amado Carillo Fuentes, and 
the Tijuana Cartel, run by the Arellano Felix 
brothers—have hardly been touched by Mexican 
law enforcement. Those who have been 
arrested, such as Hector Palma, are given 

light sentences and allowed to continue to 
conduct business from jail. As DEA Administrator 
Thomas Constantine says, ‘‘The Mexicans 
are now the single most powerful trafficking 
groups’’—worse than the Colombian 
cartels. 

Money Laundering: Last year, the Mexican 
parliament passed criminal money laundering 
laws for the first time, but the new laws 
are incomplete and have not yet been properly 
implemented. These laws do not require 
banks to report large and suspicious currency 
transactions, or threaten the banks 
with sanctions if they fail to comply. Promises 
to enact such regulations—which prosecutors 
need to identify money-launderers— 
have so far gone unfulfilled. Mexican officials 
said that such regulations would be developed 
by January, but they were not produced. 


Law Enforcement: While there have been 
increases in the amounts of heroin and marijuana 
seized by Mexican authorities, cocaine 
seizures remain low. Although slightly higher 
than last year’s figures, the 23.6 metric 
tons seized in 1996 is barely half of what was 
seized in 1993. A modest increase in drug-related 
arrests brought the total to 11,245 in 
1996—less than half of the 1992 figure. 

Cooperation with U.S. Law Enforcement: 
Our own drug enforcement agents report 
that the situation on the border has never 
been worse. Last month, the Mexican government 
forbade U.S. agents to carry weapons 
on the Mexican side of the border, putting 
their lives in grave danger. Recent news 
reports indicate that death threats against 

U.S. narcotics agents on the border have 
quadrupled in the past three months. Some 
U.S. agents believe that all their cooperative 
efforts are undone almost instantly by the 
corrupt Mexican agents with whom they 
work. 
Extraditions: Mexico also has made very 
little progress in the area of extraditions. In 
the past year, they have failed to capture 
and extradite a single high-ranking member 
of any of the major drug cartels. There are 52 
outstanding U.S. extradition requests for 
drug dealers, and Mexico has failed to comply 
with a single one of them. No Mexican 
national has ever been extradited to the 
United States on drug charges. In the last 
year, Mexico has fired two directors of its 
National Institute to Combat Drugs, one Attorney 
General, and several high-ranking officials 
in the federal police for their corrupt 
involvement with the drug lords. We should 
expect Mexico to pursue the cartel leaders 
with the same level of intensity used to expose 
and punish corruption by government 
officials. 

Corruption: Mexico’s counternarcotics effort 
is plagued by corruption in the government 
and the national police. Among the 
evidence are the eight Mexican prosecutors 
and law enforcement officials who have been 
murdered in Tijuana in recent months. There 
has been considerable hope that the Mexican 
armed forces would be able to take a more 
active role in the counternarcotics effort 
without the taint of corruption. But the revelation 
that Gen. Jesus Gutierrez Rebollo, 
Mexico’s top counternarcotics official and a 
42-year veteran of the armed forces, had accepted 
bribes from the Carillo Fuentes cartel, 
casts grave doubts upon that hope. 

Recent news reports indicate that U.S. law 
enforcement officials suspect judges, prosecutors, 
Transportation Ministry officials, 
Naval officers, and Governors of corruption 
and actively facilitating the work of drug 
traffickers. The National Autonomous University 
of Mexico estimates that the drug 
lords spend $500 million each year to bribe 
Mexican officials at all levels, and many consider 
that figure to be a gross under-estimation. 



March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1843 

Mr. President, we believe that the evidence cial Security Act, and for other pur-olution proposing an amendment to the 
is overwhelming and can lead to no decision 

poses. Constitution of the United States re-

other than the decertification of Mexico. It 

S. 148 lating to contributions and expendiwould 
send a strong signal to Mexico and the 

At the request of Mr. DASCHLE, the tures intended to affect elections.

world that the United States will not tolerate 
lack of cooperation in the fight against name of the Senator from Massachu


f 


narcotics, even from our close friends and allies. 
Accordingly, we urge you to establish a 
clear set of benchmarks by which you will 
judge if and when to recertify Mexico for 
counternarcotics cooperation. These benchmarks 
must include, but not be limited to: 
effective action to dismantle the major drug 
cartels and arrest their leaders; full and ongoing 
implementation of effective money-
laundering legislation; compliance with all 
outstanding extradition requests by the 
United States; increased interdiction of narcotics 
and other controlled substances flowing 
across the border by land and sea routes; 
improved cooperation with U.S. law enforcement 
officials including allowing U.S. agents 
to resume carrying weapons on the Mexican 
side of the border; and a comprehensive program 
to identify, weed out, and prosecute 
corrupt officials at all levels of the Mexican 
government, police, and military. 

You may feel, as many of us do, that U.S. 
interests in Mexico, economic and otherwise, 
are too extensive to risk the fall-out that 
would result from decertification. That is 
why Congress included a vital national interest 
waiver provision in Section 490 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act. But other vital interests 
are not a valid reason to certify when 
certification has not been earned. If you feel 
that our interests warrant it, we urge you to 
use this waiver. But an honest assessment of 
Mexico’s cooperation on counternarcotics 
must fall on the side of decertification. 

Sincerely, 

Wayne Allard, Jeff Bingaman, Barbara 

Boxer, John Breaux, Richard Bryan, 

Max Cleland, Susan M. Collins, Kent 

Conrad, Paul Coverdell, Larry Craig, 

Alfonse D’Amato, Pete Domenici, 

Byron Dorgan, Dick Durbin, Russ 

Feingold, Dianne Feinstein, Wendell 

Ford, Slade Gorton, Judd Gregg, Chuck 

Hagel, Jesse Helms, Kay Bailey 

Hutchison, Tim Hutchinson, Dirk 

Kempthorne, Bob Kerrey, Jon Kyl, 

Mary Landrieu, Frank Lautenberg, 

Connie Mack, Patty Murray, Frank 

Murkowski, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, 

Carol Moseley-Braun, Jack Reed, 

Harry Reid, Rick Santorum, Ted Ste


vens, Robert Torricelli, and Ron 

Wyden. 

f 


ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 102 

At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
name of the Senator from North Carolina 
[Mr. FAIRCLOTH] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 102, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to improve 
Medicare treatment and education 
for beneficiaries with diabetes 
by providing coverage of diabetes outpatient 
self-management training services 
and uniform coverage of blood-
testing strips for individuals with diabetes. 


S. 146 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the names of the Senator from Missouri 
[Mr. BOND], and the Senator from 
South Carolina [Mr. HOLLINGS] were 
added as cosponsors of S. 146, a bill to 
permit Medicare beneficiaries to enroll 
with qualified provider-sponsored organizations 
under title XVIII of the So-

setts [Mr. KERRY] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 148, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to provide a 
comprehensive program for the prevention 
of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome. 

S. 211 

At the request of Mr. WELLSTONE, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia [Mr. 
CLELAND] was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 211, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to extend the period of 
time for the manifestation of chronic 
disabilities due to undiagnosed symptoms 
in veterans who served in the 
Persian Gulf war in order for those disabilities 
to be compensable by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs. 
S. 242 

At the request of Mr. MCCAIN, the 
name of the Senator from Nebraska 
[Mr. HAGEL] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 242, a bill to require a 60-vote 
supermajority in the Senate to pass 
any bill increasing taxes. 

S. 317 

At the request of Mr. CRAIG, the 
name of the Senator from Kentucky 
[Mr. FORD] was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 317, a bill to reauthorize and amend 
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 
1992. 
S. 341 

At the request of Mr. ROTH, the name 
of the Senator from Utah [Mr. HATCH] 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 341, a 
bill to establish a bipartisan commission 
to study and provide recommendations 
on restoring the financial integrity 
of the Medicare Program under 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act. 

S. 355 

At the request of Mr. GRAMM, the 
name of the Senator from Mississippi 
[Mr. COCHRAN] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 355, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to make the 
research credit permanent. 

S. 381 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the names of the Senator from New 
Hampshire [Mr. GREGG), and the Senator 
from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE] were 
added as cosponsors of S. 381, a bill to 
establish a demonstration project to 
study and provide coverage of routine 
patient care costs for Medicare beneficiaries 
with cancer who are enrolled 
in an approved clinical trail program. 

SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 6 

At the request of Mr. KYL, the name 
of the Senator from Indiana [Mr. 
COATS] was added as a cosponsor of 
Senate Joint Resolution 6, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States to 
protect the rights of crime victims. 

SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 18 

At the request of Mr. HOLLINGS, the 
name of the Senator from Kentucky 
[Mr. FORD] was added as a cosponsor of 
Senate Joint Resolution 18, a joint res-

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

TRIBUTE TO SHIRLEY SMITHPOINTER 


· Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
rise today to recognize Shirley Smith-
Pointer who is retiring from the Social 
Security Administration after 34 years 
of Federal service. 

Ms. Smith-Pointer held the positions 
of claims development clerk, data review 
technician, and claims representative—
the position she held upon retiring. 
Her duties as a claims representative 
involved assisting the public in filing 
claims for retirement, survivors, 
disability, and Medicare, and also determining 
entitlement and making 
final adjudication for those claims. 

In addition to her good work as a Social 
Security employee, Ms. Smith-
Pointer was very active in, and helpful 
to, her community. She served as secretary, 
usher, and Sunday school 
teacher for her church. She has also 
been a member of the National Council 
of Negro Women and served the Chestnut 
Street YMCA’s Black Achievers’ 
Program. 

Mr. President, I ask you and my colleagues 
to join me in recognizing Shirley 
Smith-Pointer for 34 years of dedicated 
service to the Federal Government.
· 

f 


CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE AND 

THE CHICAGO MERCANTILE EX


CHANGE 

· Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
today’s Chicago Sun-Times contained 
an editorial headlined, ‘‘Loosen 
reins on CBOT, Merc.’’ The editorial, 
talking about the Chicago Board of 
Trade, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, 
made the point that: 

‘‘Congress must loosen the regulatory 
reins on the Chicago Board of 
Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 
Otherwise, officials argue convincingly, 
Chicago will lose business 
and jobs to the unregulated over the 
counter markets or overseas exchanges.’’ 


The Sun-Times had it exactly right. 
As in so many other areas of financial 
policy, the law has not kept up with 
economic reality. The world has 
changed. There is a revolution underway 
in finance, and, if the United 
States sits back and ignores the new 
realities of the marketplace, the result 
will be to seriously damage American 
financial marketplaces vis-a-vis their 
global competition, and to increasingly 
warp and distort the competition between 
and among various American financial 
markets. 

We must respond; we must respond 
vigorously; and we must respond now. 
Chicago’s future and option exchanges 


S1844 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

are an American treasure; their innovations 
literally created this industry 
and are in no small part responsible for 
American leadership in finance. And 
the creativity of the Chicago exchanges 
has had a huge payoff for the 
Chicago area. As the Sun-Times editorial 
pointed out: 

‘‘The stakes are high. For example, 
the exchanges calculate that have created 
151,000 jobs in the Chicago area.’’ 

It is imperative, therefore, that we 
act quickly to reform the Commodity 
Futures Trading Act as quickly as possible, 
and that we do so in a way that 
enhances the ability of the American 
futures and options industry to meet 
both their less regulated competition 
here in the United States, and their evermore 
formidable competition abroad. 
I intend to work for quick enactment 
of the legislation put forward by the 
distinguished chairman of the Senate 
Agriculture Committee, Senator 
LUGAR. I urge my colleagues to join 
me, and to ensure that a procompetitive, 
commonsense approach that 
allows the futures exchanges to meet 
and compete with all comers passes 
this body before the snow melts in Illinois. 


Mr. President, I ask that the full text 
of the Sun-Times editorial be printed 
in the RECORD. 

The editorial follows: 
[From the Chicago Sun-Times] 
LOOSEN REINS ON CBOT, MERC 
The futures markets have made Chicago a 
powerful player in world finance. Now that 
role is threatened by a regulatory system 
hamstringing the ability of the Chicago exchanges 
to compete in the rapidly changing 
global financial marketplace. 
Congress must loosen the regulatory reins 
on the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange. Otherwise, officials 
argue convincingly, Chicago will lose 
business and jobs to the unregulated overthe-
counter markets or to overseas exchanges. 
The stakes are high. For example, 
the exchanges calculate that they have created 
151,000 jobs in the Chicago area. 
Exchange officials want Congress to lift all 
but a few reasonable restrictions for markets 
that are used solely by professional traders, 
money managers, mutual fund operators and 
the like. Asking for a level playing field is a 
reasonable request. 
For example, anyone who sells futures on 
the Chicago exchanges must make regular 
reports on all trading activity regardless of 
size. This costly paper trail could be replaced 
with an on-call system. Also, anyone who 
sells futures is fingerprinted, an unwelcome 
burden on exchange customers. Over-thecounter 
markets require neither. 
The futures market is an arcane, volatile 
world, inhabited mostly by people making 
their living taking huge risks and big businesses 
seeking to hedge their risks. It is a 
dangerous place for amateurs. 
But market professionals, without looser 
restrictions, will move business out of Chicago 
to over-the counter or overseas exchanges 
as the financial futures marketplace 
grows. Congress should act on pending legislation 
to update the rules for the CBOT and 
the Merc. 
The futures markets were to a large degree 
developed by finance pioneers in Chicago. 
The city—and the nation—can ill afford to 
see their role in world finance diminished.· 

TRIBUTE TO J.P. BLEVINS 

· Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
rise today to congratulate a truly outstanding 
young man on the realization 
of his dream. J.P. Blevins, son of John 

P. and Martha Blevins, of Edmonton, 
KY, has been awarded a scholarship to 
play basketball for the national champion 
University of Kentucky Wildcats. 
To date, this 17-year-old junior at 
Metcalfe County High School has had 
an outstanding basketball career. It all 
began in kindergarten when he was selected 
to play with third-graders during 
gym class. As a seventh grader he 
played point guard for the varsity team 
in the district final. And as a high 
school freshman he scored his 1,000th 
point. When he was 5 years old he disciplined 
himself to dribble with both 
hands by wearing cutoff jean shorts 
and then shoving his right hand into 
his right pocket. The result? This season 
a 26 point scoring average. These 
achievements were the result of many 
hours of discipline and hard work and— 
most of all—an intense passion for the 
game. Remarkably, his zeal for basketball 
did not cause him to neglect his 
studies; he is a straight A student. 

Perhaps what is most remarkable of 
all is that J.P. Blevins has remained 
modest throughout the attention and 
praise lavished on him. This is especially 
refreshing and encouraging in an 
age where many of our athletic stars 
demonstrate a profound disregard for 
others, an appalling arrogance, and 
gross self-indulgence. In a Courier-
Journal article, Blevin’s father was 
quoted as saying: ‘‘I really believe he 
has continued to stay humble, even 
though this is the greatest thing that 
has happened in his life.’’ 

In Metcalfe County, and indeed, 
throughout the State, basketball occupies 
a special place in the lives of Kentuckians. 
It is not just entertainment, 
but rather a source of pride and glory. 
The community which helped to raise 
Mr. Blevins is justifiably proud of their 
native son. Despite numerous offers 
from out-of-State universities, some 
having sent 4 or 5 letters a day, Blevins 
has decided there’s just no place like 
home. 

According to a recent article, each 
night, as J.P. is falling asleep, the last 
thing he sees is a blue flag emblazoned 
with a white ‘‘K’’ which hangs on his 
bedroom wall. On the white ‘‘K’’ is an 
autograph from the Wildcats’ coach, 
Rick Pitino. In his scrapbook, according 
to the Courier-Journal, Blevins 
wrote ‘‘Pitino’s autograph to me is 
more important than the President’s.’’ 

You may recall the University of 
Kentucky’s recent NCAA championship 
victory. I am sure that this fine young 
man will help them to secure many further 
triumphs. Mr. President, I ask 
that a recent article from the Courier-
Journal be included in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. 

The article follows: 

[From the Courier-Journal, Jan. 25, 1997] 
BIG BLUE DREAM COMES TRUE FOR TOWN AND 

TALENTED TEEN 
(By Mark Woods) 
EDMONTON, KY.—The first autograph request 
came two years ago. 

J.P. Blevins, then a freshman at Metcalfe 
County High School, was sitting on the bus 
after a basketball game at Marion County 
when his coach, Tim McMurtrey, told him he 
had left his shoes in the locker room. 
‘‘I knew I hadn’t, so I wasn’t sure what was 
going on,’’ Blevins said. 

He went into the locker room and found a 
man and a young boy standing there. 

The boy was crying. The father explained 
that his son thought Blevins had already 
left. 

‘‘We’re big Kentucky fans,’’ the father 
said. ‘‘And we hear they’re going after you. 
My son is dying for an autograph. Could you 
sign this?’’ 

It would be one thing if Edmonton, a rural 
town east of Bowling Green a couple miles 
off the Cumberland Parkway, had produced 
another kind of prodigy. 

For instance, suppose John Paul Blevins 
were a violinist who had been invited to play 
Carnegie Hall. 

That would be noteworthy, but, let’s be 
honest, it wouldn’t create quite the same 
fuss as this . . . a point guard who has been 
asked to play Rupp Arena. 

This is a boy who at age 5 devised a system 
for learning to dribble with both hands— 
wear cutoff jean shorts, shove the right hand 
in the back pocket, spend all summer in the 
backyard dribbling with only the left hand. 

This is a boy who in kindergarten was put 
with the third-graders in gym class, who as 
a seventh-grader played point guard for the 
varsity team in the district final, who as a 
freshman scored his 1,000th point and who a 
month ago, as only a junior, heard University 
of Kentucky coach Rick Pitino saying 
seven magical words: 

‘‘We want you to be a Wildcat.’’ 

What does this mean to Edmonton that 17year-
old Blevins has said, yes, he will take a 
scholarship to play for UK in 1998? 

Put it this way: The blue sign on Randolph 
Road says Edmonton’s population is 1,630; 
the gym at the high school holds 2,000 and is 
usually near capacity for games. 

Put it another way: They say the phone 
lines in Edmonton could go down during a 
Kentucky basketball game and nobody would 
know. 

‘‘The phone never rings during UK games,’’ 
said John P. Blevins, Metcalfe County attorney 
and father of the future Wildcat player. 
‘‘Everybody is either watching or listening. 
The game is on in all the restaurants. It’s on 
in the nursing homes. It’s on in all the 
households.’’ 

Put it one more way: No Metcalfe County 
player has ever been offered a scholarship to 
play for UK. 

In the early ’60s, Doug Clemmons did get a 
basketball scholarship. But that was at Eastern 
Kentucky University. Heidi Coleman 
playing for Wake Forest. 

And then there are the local boys who 
formed the country band ‘‘The Kentucky 
Headhunters’’ and made it in Nashville. 

But this is different. 

This about making it at UK. 

It isn’t the Commonwealth’s version of the 
Damon Bailey story. It’s even more wonderfully 
far-fetched. 

Bailey, who during his junior years of high 
school made a verbal commitment to play 
for Indiana University, came from a small 
town, but he had plenty of help catching the 
eyes of college coaches. He went to a larger 
high school. He had media attention. 

Blevins’ school graduates about 11 students 
each year. Trips to the state tournament are 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1845 

once in a lifetime (1985 is the only one) and 
media coverage is nearly as rare. 

As you enter the place, you see a banner 
that seems fitting these days. ‘‘Our school 
. . . a place where HOPE begins and 
DREAMS come true.’’ 

Although Metcalfe County High has made 
plenty of other dreams come true—for instance, 
one of J.P.’s two older brothers, 
John, is a sophomore at Yale University 
right now—it will be tough to top what his 
story means to this town. 

‘‘We’re all very proud,’’ said Harold Chambers, 
the assistant principal and athletic director. 
‘‘I’m sure it won’t be repeated in my 
lifetime.’’ 

It wouldn’t be right to call this a one stoplight 
town. There are two of them—both 
flashing red hanging over one intersection on 
the corner of a town square that brings to 
mind make-believe places like Mayberry and 
Bedford Falls. 

In the middle of the square sits the courthouse, 
a two-story white building. One the 
four streets that surround it are the library, 
the bank, the funeral home, the post office, 
an office for the county attorney, one for the 
judge, Nunn’s Drugs, Rexall’s Drugs, Red 
Wing Shoes, Cliff and Judy’s Coffee Shop. 

If it’s not a sleepy little town, it certainly 
was nodding off. 

‘‘About the only excitement we had around 
here in a while is when someone shot my 
jukebox with a 9mm,’’ says Cliff Shew, owner 
of the coffee shop. 

There are equal numbers of parking meters 
and liquor stores in sight Zero. This is a dry 
county. But if you’re looking for a church, 
Metcalfe County can offer 39 options. 

The county’s 8,963 residents are spread out 
over rolling land, 200 square miles of it. Most 
vote Republican. Most farm. Most have never 
been in Rupp Arena for a Wildcat game. 

But, if there’s any doubt about whether 
this is UK country, it disappears with a walk 
around the square. 

UK DREAM COMES TRUE FOR SMALL TOWN AND 
TALENTED TEEN 

Three doors down from Blevins’ office is 
Murrell’s clothing store. A sign in the corner 
of one window says ‘‘Tuxedo Rental.’’ The 
rest of the window is filled with Wildcat and 
Metcalfe County Hornets souvenirs. 

The store has plenty of everyday clothing. 
Jeans. Dress pants. Sweaters. But the woman 
at the counter is purchasing the tiny 
sweatshirt and sweatpants that say. ‘‘I’m a 
Little Wildcat.’’ 

Lourene Hurt, 65, has barely finished ringing 
up the sale when the phone rings. 

‘‘Someone else placing an order (for the 
sweats),’’ she says afterward. 

Maybe Blevins’ commitment has nothing 
to do with this. but it certainly makes it 
easier to believe it’s possible to go from 
being a little Wildcat in Edmonton to a real 
one in Lexington. 

‘‘We had a cheerleader up there a few years 
ago,’’ Hurt says. ‘‘But I believe this is a first. 
. . . We’re all real proud.’’ 

A couple doors down is the coffee shop. It 
has pool tables in back. And in front, behind 
the counter, the shelves are stocked with 
candy bars, Skoal and shotgun shells. 

Ask a few of the regulars if they know J.P. 
Blevins and they look at you like it’s a silly 
question. 

‘‘I knew his granddaddy,’’ says Bill 
Cooksey, 77. ‘‘I used to drive him in my cab.’’ 

In one corner of the square sits a memorial 
erected by Edmonton Post No. 154 of the 
American Legion. It lists the names of the 
soldiers who lost their lives in our wars: 
eight in World War I, 17 in World War II, two 
in Vietnam. 

The people here say they share in each other’s 
losses. 

They also say they share in each other’s 
victories. 

When the big announcement came, said 
Carol Perkins, one of Blevins’ teachers, ‘‘We 
were all teary-eyed, hugging the coach, hugging 
J.P. When something good happens to 
one of us, it happens to all of us.’’ 

Straight A’s. A face and haircut that look 
kind of like Ron Howard in the Richie 
Cunningham days. And a head that everyone 
insists hasn’t swollen one centimeter with 
the news that he will be going to Kentucky 
on a basketball scholarship. 

‘‘He’s not flamboyant about his talents, 
athletically or academically,’’ said Perkins, 
who had Blevins in her English honors class 
last semester. ‘‘You might think he would 
saunter in and say, ‘Look at me.’ But he’s 
not like that at all. He makes a point to 
blend.’’ 

Not always, though. Take that time in seventh 
grade when after dinner he asked a couple 
of the older varsity teammates if they 
could give him a lift home. 

Sure, they said, get in the back of the 
truck. 

They ended up driving around town for 45 
minutes, honking the horn and yelling, ‘‘J.P. 
Blevins, homecoming candidate.’’ 

An embarrassed Blevins eventually just 
lay down in the flatbed. 

That incident seems to epitomize Blevins’ 
demeanor. He wouldn’t mind being the homecoming 
king, the basketball star, the valedictorian. 
But he’s not going to be the one 
looking to call too much attention to it. 

Blevins never went around bragging that 
he had been invited to three of UI’s Midnight 
Madnesses. He didn’t bother telling classmates 
that he was getting letters from basically 
every big-time college in the country. 
Even on the day after he made the verbal 
commitment to UK he seemed like the same 
old J.P. 

‘‘I have to say that’s one of his most admirable 
traits,’’ his father said. ‘‘I really believe 
he has continued to stay humble . . . 
even though this is the greatest thing that 
has happened in his life. 

‘‘It was his dream since he was a little boy. 
And you figure it’s OK to let him dream, OK 
to let him aim high. But no one knew it 
would become reality.’’ 

How did it become a reality? 

McMurtrey tried to answer that question 
as he watched over an elementary school 
gym class patiently handling interruptions 
such as one group of young girls running 
over and yelling, ‘‘Mr. Mac, Mr. Mac, those 
boys are making faces at us.’’ 

Later in the afternoon, before practice, Mr. 
Mac would be driving a city bus. 

This is life in the small city. 

Yet, somehow McMurtrey and Edmonton 
managed to produce this 6-foot-2 guard with 
the 26-point scoring average and the amazing 
ease with a basketball in his hands. 

Although McMurtrey has worked with 
Blevins since kindergarten, he doesn’t try to 
take credit. Nor do Blevin’s parents. Nor his 
two older brothers. All of them point back to 
the determination of the little boy in the 
cut-off shorts. 

That was the start. 

He wasn’t even in kindergarten when his 
oldest sibling, half-brother David Garmon, 
came home from college and told him he 
should work on his left hand. 

He might be giving a lecture, thinking all 
the balls were put away, when he would see 
Blevins playing with one. 

‘‘He’d always wind up with a ball in his 
hands,’’ McMurtrey said. ‘‘And even though 
you weren’t happy he had the ball, you 
couldn’t get too mad.’’ 

To understand what happened from there, 
perhaps it is best to take a tour of the 
Blevins’ two-story brick house. 

His mother pulls out a scapbook-like 
‘‘autobiography’’ that J.P. had to put together 
as a class project in eighth grade. 

On one of the first pages, there is a picture 
of J.P. taking a jump shot in his ‘‘favorite 
basketball shoes.’’ His first ones. A pair of 
red and black Air Jordans. 

There’s a team photo from second grade— 
the year he made the two game-winning free 
throws. 

‘‘We couldn’t get his uniform off him afterward,’’ 
she said. ‘‘He slept on it.’’ 

There aren’t any shots of Blevins wearing 
an ‘‘I’m a Little Wildcat’’ sweatshirt. But in 
the basement, surrounded by all the basketballs 
he has won through the years at UK 
basketball camps, is a photo of him climbing 
in a tree, wearing a somewhat prophetic T-
shirt. 

‘‘Hang on Joe, I’m on my way,’’ it says. 

Joe B. Hall, of course, didn’t hang on, and 
Eddie Sutton came and went. 

But then Pitino arrived in time for young 
J.P.’s first UK basketball camp. It was there 
in the summer of 1989 that The Picture was 
taken. 

It is on the shelf in the basement. It is in 
his bedroom. It is in the autobiography. 
Under the photo, of J.P. at age 9 and a certain 
basketball coach at age 37, Blevins 
wrote: ‘‘Pitino’s autograph to me more important 
than president’s.’’ 

On the last page of that project, it reads: 
‘‘Big Blue Dream. I can.’’ 

By this time, he already was a starter on 
the varsity team. He had begun his seventh-
grade season on the freshman team, but 
quickly began seeing more time with the 
junior varsity team and eventually the varsity. 


‘‘We found out that he was one of our best 
seven, eight players,’’ McMurtrey said. ‘‘In 
the district final, our point guard, a senior, 
got three fouls. J.P. ended up playing 22 minutes, 
scoring eight points. He played very, 
very well. Even at that age, people couldn’t 
take the ball away from him.’’ 

‘‘He’d go out to the court behind our house, 
stick his right hand in the back pocket and 
dribble for 30 to 40 minutes, take a break to 
get a drink of water and then do it all over,’’ 
his father said. 

When he got to kindergarten, he already 
was a better ballhandler than children years 
older. So he was put in a group of third-graders. 


It was about this time that McMurtrey 
began to notice the ever-present ball. 

‘‘We would have had to do some redecorating 
if he had gone somewhere else,’’ his 
mother says on the way to the room. 

On one side of the bed, there is a poster of 
Rupp Arena and a license plate that says, 
‘‘I’m 4 UK.’’ Above the headboard is a print 
of ‘‘the Unforgettables.’’ On the wall opposite 
the foot of the bed is a poster autographed 
by his favorite player—former UK 
star Rex Chapman. 

A UK bean bag chair sits on the floor, not 
far from a UK championship floor mat. And 
hanging on the wall next to the bedside reading 
lamp is the most prized possession: a 
blue flag with a white K. 

Inside the K is a fading Rick Pitino signature 
from the camp he attended at age 9. 
Blevins points at it and says, ‘‘The last thing 
I see before going to bed is this flag.’’ 

It’s not hard to figure out why Blevins 
bleeds blue. It’s a matter of heredity. Dad 
can recall listening to UK games B.C. (before 
Cawood). Mom—Martha, a fifth-grade teach-
er—can debate which UK player had the 
sweetest jump shot ever (Jack Givens is her 
pick). 

Shortly after Christmas, he got the offer 
from UK. 

‘‘He had to wait a couple days to make his 
decision,’’ McMurtrey said. ‘‘But I think his 


S1846 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 3, 1997 

mind was made up before the phone was of the People’s Republic of China on tween the hours of 12:30 and 2:15 p.m. 

hung up.’’ 

July 1, 1997. Given the absence of an ex-tomorrow in order for the weekly party

Blevins could have waited until his senior 

tradition treaty with the People’s Re-caucuses to meet. 

season. He could have weighed the options a 

public of China, this Treaty would pro-The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without

little more. But why bother? All that prac


vide the means to continue an extra-objection, it is so ordered.

ticing—sometimes sneaking into the gym 
with borrowed keys, once even climbing 

dition relationship with Hong Kong 

f 


through a window—was done with one thing after reversion and avoid a gap in law 

in mind: enforcement. It will thereby make a PROGRAM 

‘‘To play for Kentucky . . .,’’ he said. 
‘‘When I put on that blue jersey, I’ll know 
what that means.’’· 

f 


REMOVAL OF INJUNCTION OF SE


CRECY—TREATY DOCUMENT NO. 

105–3 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, as in executive 
session, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Injunction of Secrecy be removed 
from the following treaty submitted 
to the Senate on March 3, 1997, 
by the President of the United States: 
Agreement with Hong Kong for the 
Surrender of Fugitive Offenders (Treaty 
Document No. 105–3). I further ask 
that the treaty be considered as having 
been read the first time, that it be referred 
with accompanying papers to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations 
and ordered to be printed, and that the 
President’s message be printed in the 
RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The President’s message is as follows: 


To the Senate of the United States: 

With a view to receiving the advice 
and consent of the Senate to ratification 
as a treaty, I transmit herewith 
the Agreement Between the Government 
of the United States of America 
and the Government of Hong Kong for 
the Surrender of Fugitive Offenders 
signed at Hong Kong on December 20, 
1996 (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the 
Agreement’’). In addition, I transmit 
for the information of the Senate, the 
report of the Department of State with 
respect to the Agreement. As a treaty, 
this Agreement will not require implementing 
legislation. 

This Agreement will, upon entry into 
force, enhance cooperation between the 
law enforcement communities of the 
United States and Hong Kong, and will 
provide a framework and basic protections 
for extraditions after the reversion 
of Hong Kong to the sovereignty 

significant contribution to international 
law enforcement efforts. 

The provisions in this Agreement follow 
generally the form and content of 
extradition treaties recently concluded 
by the United States. In addition, the 
Agreement contains several provisions 
specially designed in light of the particular 
status of Hong Kong. The 
Agreement’s basic protections for fugitives 
are also made expressly applicable 
to fugitives surrendered by the two 
parties before the new treaty enters 
into force. 

I recommend that the Senate give 
early and favorable consideration to 
the Agreement and give its advice and 
consent to its ratification as a treaty. 

WILLIAM J. CLINTON. 

THE WHITE HOUSE, March 3, 1997. 

f 


ORDER FOR RECORD TO REMAIN 
OPEN 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the RECORD remain 
open until 5 p.m. for the introduction 
of legislation and submission of statements. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 
1997 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that when the Senate 
completes its business today, it stand 
in adjournment until the hour of 9:30 

a.m. on Tuesday, March 4. I further ask 
that immediately following the prayer, 
the routine requests through the morning 
hour be granted and the Senate 
then resume consideration of Senate 
Joint Resolution 1, the constitutional 
amendment requiring a balanced budget. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. LOTT. I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate stand in recess be-

Mr. LOTT. For the information of all 
Senators, tomorrow the Senate will, 
under previous order, as I just stated, 
resume consideration of Senate Joint 
Resolution 1. From 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m., time will be equally divided between 
the two managers for closing remarks 
on Senate Joint Resolution 1. 

Mr. President, following the weekly 
recess for the lunches, the Senate will 
resume consideration of the constitutional 
amendment at 2:15 p.m., with 
the manager on the Democratic side 
controlling the first hour of debate, 
with Senator BYRD being recognized for 
20 of those minutes. The following hour 
will be under the control of Senator 
HATCH. The Democratic leader or his 
designee will control the next 30 minutes. 
Debate on Senate Joint Resolution 
1 will conclude with 30 minutes 
under the control of the majority leader 
or his designee, and at 5:15 p.m. the 
Senate will vote on the passage of Senate 
Joint Resolution 1. 

f 


ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, if there is 
no further business to come before the 
Senate, I now ask unanimous consent 
the Senate stand in adjournment under 
the previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 5:31 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, 
March 4, 1997, at 9:30 a.m. 

f 


NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate, March 3, 1997: 

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 

Robert S. LaRussa, of Maryland, to be an 
Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice 
Susan G. Esserman. 

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 

Joel I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, 
to be an Assistant Attorney General, Anne 
Bingaman, resigned. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E355 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

EARLY RESULTS OF WELFARE 
REFORM 

HON. NEWT GINGRICH 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. GINGRICH. Mr. Speaker, even though it 
has been in effect for less than a month, the 
historic welfare reform bill passed by Congress 
and signed into law last year by the 
President has already yielded dramatic results. 
The February 11, 1997, Wall Street Journal 
details how one county in Oklahoma has seen 
its welfare caseload drop 30 percent in the 
last year. According to the Journal ‘‘The story 
is much the same in the rest of the United 
States.’’ 

The Journal details that just the news of 
changes in welfare have spurred recipients to 
changing behavior in numerous ways, including 
finishing education, reporting for training, 
and finding jobs. This story confirms what proponents 
of welfare reform long believed: The 
old system left people trapped and gave them 
no incentive to improve their lives. Reform has 
already given individuals a spark for real 
change. 

I submit the full article into the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. 

[From the Wall Street Journal, Feb. 11, 1997] 

OKLAHOMA’S POOR GET THE MESSAGE, OPT 

OUT OF THE WELFARE SYSTEM 

(By Dana Milbank) 

SAPULPA, OKLA.—In the Oklahoma land 
grabs of a century ago, a few sneaky settlers 
grabbed old Indian territory for themselves 
before the law allowed, thus earning the 
nickname ‘‘Sooners.’’ These days, thousands 
of Sooners are again jumping the gun, this 
time by denying themselves welfare benefits 
far ahead of the government cutoff. 

Oklahoma’s welfare rolls have declined by 
more than 30% since March of 1994. In Creek 
County, of which Sapulpa is the seat, the 
caseload fell 30% last year. The healthy 
economy accounts for much of the drop. But 
in Oklahoma and throughout much of the 
country, something else is happening: Poor 
people are ‘‘absolutely petrified,’’ says 
Raydene Walker, who trains welfare recipients 
at her vocational school in Sapulpa. 
Talk of cutbacks, she says, ‘‘has put some 
fire behind them. Some who were absolutely 
resistant have come in and said, ‘What am I 
going to do?’’’ 

A NATIOWIDE REDUCTION 

The story is much the same in the rest of 
the U.S. Nationally, the number of people on 
the core welfare program, Aid to Families 
with Dependent Children, declined 18% from 
a peak of 14.4 million in March 1994 to 11.8 
million in October 1996. 

What makes these figures surprising is 
that the tough new federal welfare law— 
which mandates lifetime limits of five years 
for those on public assistance and a cutoff 
after two years for most of those who don’t 
work—won’t begin to jettison welfare recipients 
until late 1998. Oklahoma hasn’t even 
passed a welfare law to comply with the new 
federal legislation. Creek County started a 
publicity campaign months ago to warn peo


ple about possible changes. But it hadn’t 
kicked any legitimate recipients off the rolls 
until last week, and that sanction was limited 
to one person, who had failed to seek 
job-training or contact prospective employers. 


The growing economy can’t explain the 
whole drop-off. The national caseload decline 
is the largest, in absolute numbers and on a 
percentage basis, since AFDC began six decades 
ago. More-powerful expansions than the 
current one have failed to produce the same 
level of caseload reductions. 

‘‘THE BIG MISCONCEPTION’’ 
Because only a handful of states have been 
expelling welfare recipients, officials in 
many states point to another explanation: a 
fundamental change in the attitude of their 
clientele. Spurred by the welfare-reform debate, 
some recipients are finding work long 
before the law requires. Many prospective recipients 
aren’t bothering to secure benefits 
in the first place, even when they qualify. 
‘‘The big misconception about welfare reform 
is that they are shutting down the welfare 
system, cutting everyone off,’’ says 
Tanya Warner, a senior caseworker in Wilmington, 
Del. ‘‘People come in afraid this is 
the last public assistance check they will 
get.’’ Peggy Torno, who runs the welfare program 
in Kansas City, Mo., says the message 
has sunk in: ‘‘Last week I went to our jobs 
center to find someone who did not know 
about the tougher laws. I couldn’t find anyone 
who didn’t know the law had changed.’’ 
Advocates for the poor worry that some 
people eligible for public assistance are being 
driven away by scare stories and false rumors. 
They also note that some recipients 
are forgoing promising training to look for 
work immediately—a step that may land 
them in dead-end jobs and short-circuit a 
long-term escape from poverty. But others in 
Oklahoma and elsewhere hail the change as 
evidence of social progress. 
The changes came quickly to Creek County, 
a slice of the Bible Belt stretching southwest 
from Tulsa over 930 square miles. The 
county of 60,000 is mostly rural and, despite 
a relatively low unemployment rate of 4.2%, 
bears few outward signs of prosperity. According 
to 1994 estimates, the county’s per 
capita income was $15,075, compared with 
Oklahoma’s $17,610. 
ONE-ON-ONE MEETINGS 
When it comes to welfare overhaul, Creek 
County has relied largely on the bully pulpit. 
In October 1995, caseworkers began telling 
all recipients to apply for jobs—usually eight 
to 10 a week—before they could apply for 
benefits. Recipients also were warned that 
time limits were on the way, but that was a 
bluff, because the limits didn’t even become 
law for an additional 10 months. After the 
federal law passed, the state mailed letters 
to recipients warning that ‘‘if you refuse to 
participate in work activities. . . your case 
will be closed.’’ 
County officials summoned every welfare 
recipient for a one-on-one meeting about the 
new get-tough policy, including the likelihood 
of time limits. A large, handwritten 
sign was installed at the agency’s reception 
desk. ‘‘Notice,’’ it says, ‘‘AFDC applicants 
will be required to participate in job search 
Immediately.’’ 
Local media joined the chorus. ‘‘The timer 
starts running Oct. 1 for welfare recipients,’’ 

the Tulsa World warned last fall in a front-
page story, referring to federal time limits 
on eligibility. ‘‘For welfare recipients in 
Oklahoma, the clock is ticking,’’ echoed the 
Sapulpa Herald. 

In the first two months after Creek County 
started its tough talk, the number of new applicants 
for AFDC dropped by about half. 
During the past 15 months, 45% of first-time 
AFDC applicants didn’t return to the office 
after hearing about the new time limits and 
the local requirement for recipients to contact 
prospective employers while getting 
benefits. 

Melinda Jones heard about the new federal 
law from her mother, who regularly watches 
the evening news. Since last year, the 39year-
old Ms. Jones, who cares for her two 
grandchildren, had discussed welfare reform 
with friends. She is scared. 

‘‘If I don’t find a job, they cut you off,’’ she 
says, snapping her finger. She thinks other 
benefits are doomed, too. ‘‘I heard by word of 
mouth they’re just cutting out food stamps 
totally,’’ she says. Even subsidies for day 
care, she hears, will be terminated. 

Her fears, particularly those about child 
care and food stamps, are exaggerated. The 
children wouldn’t lose food stamps even if 
Ms. Jones does, and the new law calls for increased 
spending on day care. But the talk 
had its effect: Ms. Jones, who has a fourth-
grade education and failed twice to get a 
high school general equivalency diploma, or 
GED, has returned to training with new 
vigor. 

The new attitudes quickly became evident 
in welfare offices. Rolls began shrinking so 
fast, ‘‘we wondered if we’d have a job,’’ recalls 
Connie Turner, who interviews applicants. 
Wanda Watson, another interviewer, 
recalls handing an applicant a list of 10 employers 
he would have to apply to before receiving 
his check. ‘‘He stood up,’’ uttered 
some epithets ‘‘and walked right out,’’ she 
says. 

THE RUMOR MILL 
Welfare rumors, often unfounded, spread 
quickly among those in public housing in 
Creek County. ‘‘A lot of people I know have 
been cut off,’’ government-housing resident 
Cheryl Bowman says. That statement wasn’t 
accurate, for it was made before Feb. 1, when 
the county began culling its rolls of those 
who refused to apply for jobs. But Ms. Bowman 
stepped up her job training anyway and 
found work as a physical-therapy assistant. 
‘‘I don’t want to be stuck at McDonald’s,’’she 
explains. She is due to leave the welfare roll 
in a month. 
In a recent application session, welfare 
prospect Kim Nance seemed surprised as a 
county interviewer rattled off the new restrictions: 
the time limits mandated by Congress, 
and the county’s requirement to apply 
for 10 jobs a week. ‘‘You begin tomorrow’’ 
looking for work, the caseworker orders. Ms. 
Nance responds repeatedly with ‘‘OK.’’ But 
when the interviewer leaves, she is deflated. 
‘‘It will be hard to get used to,’’ Ms. Nance 
says. On the list of employers in her hand, 
she sees only two in her hometown. ‘‘Hopefully, 
I can get hired right there.’’ 
Ms. Nance did get a job with a nursing 
home in her town, one of the employers on 
the list. She called the welfare office to tell 
them about her job, and her case was never 
put on the roll. 
Some advocates for the poor say that confusion 
over the new regulations has scared 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E356 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks March 3, 1997 

off some who are eligible—and needy. But in pressure of time limits, she says, she prob-apply for a ROTC scholarship program, to file 

Creek County, officials say, many of those, ably would still be in school. She would still 

an application to become a naturalized citizen

like Ms. Nance, disqualified themselves after be on welfare, but she might also have a bet-

within 60 days of being accepted into the pro-

finding jobs. Others already had ‘‘under-ter chance of staying off permanently. ‘‘The 

gram. The legislation would also require U.S.

ground’’ jobs—baby-sitting, housecleaning, option,’’ she says, ‘‘was not there.’’ 

nationals who are not residents of a State of

working a booth at the flea market—and 

f 


the United States, to become a resident of a 
place. Officials here figure as many as half of SALUTING MONIQUE ALITA State, and to file an application to become a

may not have deserved benefits in the first 

all recipients have such off-the-books jobs; 
the $307 monthly payment for a parent of 
two children, after all, isn’t much to live on. 
‘‘We’re discouraging the marginal, extra-
money folks, a lot of those who didn’t need 
it,’’ says Wayne Thiltgen, a creek County 
caseworker. 

As recipients’ attitudes are changing, so is 
the administrators’ thinking. Dee Anne 
Ruggs, who oversees the former AFDC program 
(now called Temporary Assistance for 
Needy Families) for Creek County, even set 
up a ‘‘Super Bowl’’ competition to see which 
caseworker could get the most people into 
school, job-training programs or work. The 
winner, Mr. Thiltgen, got an ice-cream sundae. 


‘‘WHY WOULDN’T THEY BE SCARED?’’ 
Though he says he doesn’t try to scare his 
clients, Mr. Thiltgen is aware of the underlying 
fear. ‘‘I’m using that to my advantage,’’ 
he says. ‘‘The idea in the community is that 
we’re going to kick everybody off.’’ Ironically, 
he says, some of those responsible for 
the panic are welfare activists who direly 
predict a wave of misery following reform. 
‘‘Listening to these sound bites on the news, 
my God, why wouldn’t they be scared?’’ Mr. 
Thiltgen says of his clients. 
Despite the declining rolls, Creek County 
still faces the challenge of hardcore cases, 
including those with multigenerational dependency, 
without education or addicted to 
drugs or alcohol. The new federal law allows 
20% of the caseload to be exempt from time 
limits because of such problems, but that 
may not cover all the hard-luck cases. 
Tarlina Turner, 31, knows about the new 
law. She was reared in a family on welfare, 
has received AFDC in her own right for the 
past 10 years, and lives with her diabetic 
mother and three children in a home that is 
little more than a shack beside a dirt road 
outside Bristow, Okla. 
‘‘Don’t mind the chicken poop,’’ she says, 
leading a visitor past the chickens, dog and 
cat on the porch and into her home, where 
tape plugs ceiling leaks. Her ailing mother 
needs to have her nearby, and Ms. Turner 
doesn’t have a car. Meanwhile, county officials 
support her claim that there is neither 
work nor public transportation nearby. 
Ms. Turner has already come within days 
of being cut off, agreeing at the last minute 
to join a job-training program. ‘‘I better get 
up and get work; I don’t have a choice,’’ she 
says. But she has little confidence in her 
prospects. 
Another unanswered question about the 
rapid caseload reduction is how many of 
those who have moved off welfare are working 
in secure jobs. If some of these former recipients 
can’t hold their jobs, the case reductions 
could prove temporary. 
Even those working aren’t always confident. 
Karen Michael, on AFDC for two 
years, says she was ‘‘extremely worried’’ 
about the time limits and used the deadline 
to motivate herself to finish training as a licensed 
practical nurse. She now makes $9.75 
an hour as a nurse. Yet, faced with the loss 
of Medicaid, food stamps and child-care benefits 
because of her earned income, she finds 
herself only marginally better off than when 
she was on welfare. 
Ms. Michael had to forgo plans to get her 
registered-nurse degree, which would allow 
her to earn more than $20 an hour and perhaps 
leave poverty for good. If not for the 

GREENWOOD 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I am happy to introduce 
my House colleague to Monique Alita 
Greenwood, a superb editor and entrepreneur 
in my congressional district. 

Monique was the first editor-in-chief and 
publisher of color at Fairchild Publications, 
where she conceived Children’s Business, a 
monthly trade magazine. Her direct efforts 
greatly helped to open the doors of the modeling 
industry to children of color. 

Since February 1996, she has served as the 
editorial style director of Essence magazine. 
During her tenure she has revamped the fashion 
pages, giving them more impact and making 
them more serviceable to Essence readers. 


Monique is the owner of Akwaaba, a bed 
and breakfast mansion in Bedford-Stuyvesant. 
Her Afrocentric business opened in 1995, and 
it has been the subject of considerable press 
coverage. 

A devoted mother and wife, Monique is a 
pillar of the community. She is married to Glen 
Pogue and they have a 5-year-old son, Glynn. 
Despite her hectic schedule, Monique is active 
in local organizations and is the cofounder and 
national president of a literary society of African-
American women. She is a magna cum 
laude graduate of Howard University, and is a 
former recipient of a Points of Light Award 
from former President Bush. 

f 


RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING 
CORPS FOR AMERICAN SAMOANS 

HON. ENI F.H. FALEOMAVAEGA 

OF AMERICAN SAMOA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to introduce legislation which will afford 

U.S. nationals the opportunity to participate in 
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps scholarship 
programs. 
Under current law, American Samoans born 
in American Samoa are considered U.S. nationals. 
These are persons who owe their allegiance 
to the United States, but are not U.S. 
citizens. Persons born in American Samoa are 
the only persons in the world who are given 
this status, as persons born on all other United 
States soil may become United States citizens 
by right of birth. 

Also under current law, only U.S. citizens 
are authorized to enlist in the Reserve Officers’ 
Training Corps, or ROTC for short, 
scholarship programs, and only U.S. citizens 
are eligible to become military and naval officers. 


The legislation I am introducing today would 
require U.S. national residents residing in a 
State of the United States and desiring to 

naturalized citizen within 60 days of becoming 
a resident as defined in our immigration laws. 

Mr. Speaker, I believe this legislation strikes 
a fair balance between two competing interests. 
On the one hand, it gives the residents 
of American Samoa the same opportunities to 
become military and naval officers as the residents 
of the States and the other territories. 
On the other hand, while keeping the requirement 
that all military and naval officers be 

U.S. citizens, it requires U.S. nationals to 
prove their willingness to serve our country in 
a timely manner, thereby ensuring that taxpayer 
dollars are not spent on someone who 
will later prove ineligible for service. 
Mr. Speaker, I am submitting a copy of the 
legislation with my statement. 

H.R. — 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. ELIGIBILITY OF UNITED STATES NATIONALS 
FOR ADVANCED TRAINING 
IN THE SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS’ 
TRAINING CORPS. 

Section 2104(b) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or national’’ 
after ‘‘citizen’’; 
(2) at the end of paragraph (6), by striking 
‘‘and’’; 
(3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
‘‘(8) if he is a national but not a citizen of 
the United States, agree in writing that he 
will— 

‘‘(A) if he is not a resident of a State (within 
the meaning of chapter 2 of title III of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act; 8 U.S.C. 
1421–1459), become a resident of a State 
(within such meaning) before commencing 
the program for advanced training; and 

‘‘(B) file an application for naturalization 
within 60 days after the later of— 

‘‘(i) the date that he meets the requirements 
for naturalization in section 316(a)(1) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1436); or 

‘‘(ii) the date that he is accepted into the 
program for advanced training.’’. 

SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY OF UNITED STATES NATIONALS 
FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AS 
MEMBERS OF THE SENIOR RESERVE 
OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS. 

(a) GENERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.—
Section 2107(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or national’’ 
after ‘‘citizen;’’ 
(2) at the end of paragraph (4), by striking 
‘’and’’; 
(3) in paragraph (5), by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(6) if he is a national but not a citizen of 
the United States, agree in writing that he 
will— 

‘‘(A) if he is not a resident of a State (within 
the meaning of chapter 2 of title III of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act; 8 U.S.C. 
1421–1459) become a resident of a State (within 
such meaning) before commencing the financial 
assistance program; and 

‘‘(B) file an application for naturalization 
within 60 days after the later of— 
‘‘(i) the date that he meets the requirements 
for naturalization in section 316(a)(1) 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E357 

of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1436); or 

‘‘(ii) the date that he is accepted into the 
financial assistance program.’’. 

(b) ARMY RESERVE AND ARMY NATIONAL 
GUARD FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.— 
Section 2107a(b) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or national’’ 
after ‘‘citizen’’; 
(2) at the end of paragraph (5), by striking 
‘‘and’’; 
(3) in paragraph (6), by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(7) if he is a national but not a citizen of 
the United States, agree in writing that he 
will— 

‘‘(A) if he is not a resident of a State (within 
the meaning of chapter 2 of title III of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act; 8 U.S.C. 
1421–1459), become a resident of a State 
(within such meaning) before commencing 
the financial assistance program; and 

‘‘(B) file an application for naturalization 
within 60 days after the later of— 

‘‘(i) the date that he meets the requirements 
for naturalization in section 316(a)(1) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1436); or 

(‘‘(ii) the date that he is accepted into the 
financial assistance program.’’. 

SEC. 3. CONFORMING AMENDMENT. 

Section 12102(b)(1) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ the first place such 
term appears; 
(2) by inserting a comma after ‘‘United 
States’’ the first place such term appears; 
and 
(3) by inserting ‘‘, or is a national of the 
United States eligible (as provided in sections 
2104(b), 2107(b), or 2107a(b) of this title) 
for advanced training in, or financial assistance 
as a member of, the Senior Reserve Officers’ 
Training Corps’’ after the close parenthesis. 
f 


CHILDREN’S HEALTH CARE 

HON. THOMAS H. ALLEN 

OF MAINE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support 
the Democratic leadership’s proposal to add 
children’s health care to the priorities we address 
this session. 

Today more than 10 million American children 
have no health insurance coverage. 

On Tuesday, the New York Times reported 
that over the past 5 years the number of children 
without insurance has risen twice as fast 
as the number of adults. 

Most of these are the children of working 
families earning between $15,000 and 
$45,000 per year. 

In my State, the Maine Health Care Commission 
estimated that in 1996, 36,000 Maine 
children had no health insurance coverage. 

Ninety-one percent of Maine’s uninsured 
children live in families with at least one working 
parent. 

Ten million American children relying on 
emergency room treatment instead of a family 
doctor is wrong—and expensive. 

We can and must do better. 

This Congress should encourage kids only 
insurance policies and expand basic Medicaid 
coverage to uninsured children. 

PRESS FREEDOM IN HONG KONG 

HON. JOHN EDWARD PORTER 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, last week I reintroduced 
a bill that is intended to provide a 
special immigration status for journalists working 
in Hong Kong, in the event that there is a 
crackdown on the press after this British colony 
reverts to Chinese sovereignty on midnight, 
June 30, 1997. 

The human rights community and the business 
community may have different views 
about the future of Hong Kong, but everyone 
agrees that maintaining freedom of the press 
and the free flow of information in Hong Kong 
is essential to protecting its way of life. The 
economic miracle of Hong Kong is fed by the 
free flow of information, not only about market 
activities and economic trends, but about what 
is going on in the world. As we all know, in 
mainland China, the press is not free to report 
on whatever it sees fit. The state tightly controls 
the media and does not hesitate to imprison 
or otherwise censure legitimate journalists 
who are attempting to report on important 
events within and outside China. This rough 
treatment is not limited to the domestic Chinese 
media, but extends to foreign media as 
well. But while foreign journalists have the protection 
of their own governments, the domestic 
press corps does not have this luxury. 

Today in Hong Kong, the press is one of the 
freest in the world. Hong Kong proudly boasts 
that they have more newspapers per capita 
than anywhere on Earth. Yet this freewheeling, 
open society will soon become part of an 
authoritarian regime which views the media 
with distrust, if not outright animosity. When 
these two views of the press collide, unfortunately, 
problems may arise. While it is my 
strongest hope that China will realize the important 
role that the media plays in Hong 
Kong and live up to its obligations under the 
Sino-British Joint Declaration, I am not so optimistic 
to believe that Beijing will graciously tolerate 
critical media coverage. 

There have already been disturbing statements 
by high-ranking Chinese officials concerning 
limits on the press. Blacklisting of journalists, 
restrictions on what can be reported, 
and the arrest of Hong Kong journalists in 
China have sent shockwaves through the journalistic 
community in Hong Kong. My discussions 
with journalists during previous trips to 
Hong Kong in 1989 and 1992 prompted me to 
first introduce this legislation in the 103d Congress. 
While I was there this January, I again 
met with a group of journalists and they expressed 
their concerns about the type of pressure 
they already see coming from Beijing. 
Economic blackmail and loss of access are 
real problems for these persons whose livelihood 
depends on getting a story. 

Freedom of the press is something that we 
take for granted here in the United States. We 
know how important a free press is to preserving 
our democratic institutions and fueling the 
engine of economic growth. This legislation 
will send a strong message that the Congress 
and the people of the United States are 
watching what happens to journalists in Hong 
Kong and that what happens to them is important 
to us, not only because of the impact it 
has on United States economic interests 

there, but because freedom of the press is 
something that we deeply believe in. It will 
also send the journalists of Hong Kong a message 
that they have a safety valve, that they 
can continue to do their jobs with a measure 
of protection, and contribute to the unique and 
remarkable way of life that Hong Kong has enjoyed 
for so many years. 

I commend this important legislation to my 
colleagues and ask for their support. 

f 


OFF WELFARE: THE MENTAL 
MIGRATION 

HON. NEWT GINGRICH 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. GINGRICH. Mr. Speaker, to all colleagues 
concerned about welfare, I commend 
to you the February 14, 1997, article by Washington 
Post writer William Raspberry. He 
points out that welfare will not change, in fact, 
cannot change unless there is a spiritual and 
mental dimension to any assistance provided 
to the recipient. 

Raspberry quotes Robert Woodson, Sr., 
head of the National Center for Neighborhood 
Enterprise, 

What we need is to establish a new migratory 
pattern . . . The people who went from 
rural Mississippi to Detroit did so because 
they kept getting positive feedback from 
those who’d already made the trip. The photographs, 
the sophistication, the Cadillacs 
rented for trips back home—all these produced 
a culture of expectation. People 
looked and said, ‘‘Hey, he’s no smarter than 
I am. I could do it, too.’’ 

Woodson and Raspberry are not talking 
about a geographic migration for those on welfare, 
but a mental one—from one attitude to 
another. This article demonstrates that the responsibility 
lies not merely with the welfare recipients, 
but with all of us. We must all be prepared 
to spread the news when welfare reform 
works; we must share the success stories, to 
encourage those who are still hesitant and unsure 
of themselves. 

I enter Mr. Raspberry’s column into the 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 

[From the Washington Post, Feb. 14, 1997] 

OFF WELFARE: THE MENTAL MIGRATION 

(By William Raspberry) 

Years ago, somebody figured it out. Trying 
to make it on a tiny family farm is desperate 
work; share-cropping is worse, and there’s 
not much employment to be had in the nearby 
towns. But I’ve heard (from relatives, 
friends or news reports) that there are good 
union jobs to be had in the steel industry. I 
think I’ll save up bus fare, ask my cousin to 
put me up for a while, and head to Pittsburgh. 


That calculus, multiplied thousands of 
times, produced a South-to-North, farm-tocity 
migration that continued even after the 
decline both of unions and of the steel industry 
took away much of the logic. 

It frequently happens that way. Decisions 
reached with some deliberation by a few become 
cultural patterns for the many, building 
habits that survive even after the reasons 
for them have been forgotten. 

It will almost certainly happen that way 
with welfare reform. It may be inappropriate 
to compare long-term welfare recipients 
with refugees from the tenant farms. But 
they do have in common that they availed 


E358 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks March 3, 1997 

themselves of the best options they were 
able to perceive—and that the choices of 
some became habits for others. 

The logic of welfare reform—welfare repeal, 
some call it—is that the best way to 
force better choices is to reduce the number 
of bad options. If it becomes a matter of 
work or starve, the reasoning goes, everybody 
will work. 

But for many long-term recipients, non-
work has been more the product of habit 
than of calculation. Thousands of people, I’m 
convinced, are afraid of work, in the sense 
that they doubt their ability to survive in a 
world that demands skills and attitudes they 
may not possess. They may talk of being unwilling 
to work for the ‘‘chump change’’ of 
entry-level work, but it may be the demands 
of the workplace and not the low pay that 
frightens them. 

What can be done? 

‘‘What we need is to establish a new migratory 
pattern,’’ Robert L. Woodson Sr. said 
when I put the question to him. ‘‘The people 
who went from rural Mississippi to Detroit 
did so because they keep getting positive 
feedback from those who’d already made the 
trip. The photographs, the sophistication, 
the Cadillacs rented for trips back home—all 
these produced a culture of expectation. People 
looked and said, ‘Hey, he’s no smarter 
than I am. I could do it, too.’’’ 

Actually, says Woodson, president of the 
National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise, 
the necessary migration has been underway 
for sometime—not from one place to 
another but from one attitude to another. 
‘‘Five women who might have grown fat and 
indolent in public housing started a tentative 
migration toward tenant management, 
responsible behavior and college for 
their children, sparking an important national 
movement. Thousands of others have 
quietly decided to leave the life of dependency 
and take a tentative step into the world 
of work.’’ 

Unfortunately, the media and the policy 
establishment tend to focus on those who 
don’t join the migration rather than on 
those who do. As a result, the feedback isn’t 
there. Many poor people don’t know that 
they could start at the bottom and gradually 
work their way up, and the rest of us see 
only laziness, not doubt or fear. 

Woodson thinks we should take advantage 
of the two-years-and-out provision of welfare 
reform to help present welfare recipients 
overcome their fears. How? By using as a resource 
those friends and neighbors who’ve already 
begun the migration away from dependency. 
‘‘We need to look to people in 
those same neighborhoods who’ve made the 
move, whose children are not dropping out of 
school or dealing dope or getting in trouble, 
to show the others what is possible. We need 
to tell them maybe they could quit their job 
at the phone company or as a hotel maid and 
work full-time helping their peers find their 
way out. It would be well worth whatever we 
had to pay them.’’ 

Gradually, the reasoned behavior of the 
few could become patterns for the many, and 
most would be far better off than before. 

But not all. It is altogether predictable 
that some will go on making behavioral 
choices as though the welfare safety net is 
still in place long after it has been taken 
down and quietly packed away. They and 
their children will suffer, at least until the 
new habits take hold. What should we do 
about them in the meantime? 

Woodson doesn’t know. He only knows that 
it makes more sense to build public policy on 
the vast majority than on the intractable 
few. 

TRIBUTE TO JULIA L. JAMES 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I want to highlight 
the contributions of Julia James, the sixth 
of nine children born to Reverend and Mrs. 
Henry R. James, who encouraged her to be 
independent and courageous. 

In her life, Julia has chosen a professional 
path in the field of accounting, and is a Certified 
Public Accountant [CPA] in the State of 
New York. She earned an M.B.A. from New 
York University and is a member of the American 
Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
and the Institute of Management Accountants. 
Mrs. James has established an accounting 
practice that provides accounting expertise to 
local businesses and community organizations. 


A dedicated community worker, Julia serves 
as a member of Community School Board District 
No. 18, which represents the East 
Flatbush and Canarsie areas of Brooklyn. She 
is also the chairperson of the East Brooklyn 
Community Organization which is a community 
based organization dedicated to improving 
the quality of life of residents in East Flatbush. 
I am pleased to recognize her personal 
achievements and community involvement. 

f 


ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLU


TION AND SETTLEMENT EN


COURAGEMENT ACT 

HON. HOWARD COBLE 

OF NORTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. COBLE. Mr. Speaker, today, I am 
pleased to introduce a bill which will provide 
concrete steps to restore accountability, efficiency, 
and fairness to our Federal civil justice 
system, the Alternative Dispute Resolution and 
Settlement Encouragement Act. This legislation 
will implement a more complete, fair, and 
effective policy than exists at present to favor 
alternative means of resolving disputes and to 
encourage compromise by parties to Federal 
litigation. The effect of these changes will be 
to: First, provide for a quicker, more efficient 
way to resolve some Federal cases when the 
parties so choose; second, lessen the incentive 
to litigate and consequently the caseload 
burdens faced by the Federal judiciary; and 
third, assure that only meritorious and justiciable 
cases supported by scientific facts be adjudicated 
in Federal courts. 

This legislation would require all Federal 
district courts to establish an arbitration program, 
which in the discretion of the court 
could be either voluntary or mandatory. In 
1988 Congress enacted chapter 44 of title 28 

U.S.C. in order to authorize 10 pilot programs 
of mandatory court annexed arbitration that 
were in operation in the Federal courts, as 
well as to authorize 10 additional districts, 
which were to be selected later by the U.S. 
Judicial Conference, for voluntary programs. 
The legislation further required that the Federal 
Judicial Center [FJC] submit a report on 
the implementation of the act, which it transmitted 
to Congress on October 4, 1991. Based 
upon this study, the Federal Judicial Center 
recommended to Congress that it enact a provision 
authorizing all Federal courts to adopt, 
in their discretion, local rules for arbitration to 
be mandatory or voluntary in the discretion of 
various courts. This bill does just that. 

The goal of court-annexed arbitration is to 
provide more options for litigants, while reducing 
cost, delay, and court burden. In addition, 
it is the only option that provides to litigants in 
cases where smaller amounts are in controversy 
the opportunity for an early advisory 
adjudication on the merits of the case. 

In addition to creating more opportunities for 
alternative dispute resolution, this bill will also 
encourage parties to settle their cases by offering 
an incentive to accept good offers of 
settlement. This section of the legislation, developed 
in the last Congress by Representative 
BOB GOODLATTE of Virginia, a senior 
member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on 
Courts and Intellectual Property, would amend 
28 U.S.C. section 1332, the provision granting 
diversity jurisdiction in U.S. district courts, by 
creating an incentive triggered by an offer of 
settlement. The intent of this procedure is to 
encourage and facilitate the early settlement 
of lawsuits and reduce protracted litigation. 
The offer of settlement procedure would allow 
a party to make, by filing with the court in writing 
and serving on an adverse party, at any 
time up to 10 days before trial, a formal offer 
to settle any or all claims in a suit for a specified 
amount. If the offer of settlement is accepted, 
the claim or claims are resolved pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement. If the 
offer is rejected, however, and the offeree 
does not obtain a judgment, order, or verdict 
more favorable than that offered on the applicable 
claims, the offeree is liable for the costs 
and attorney’s fees of the offeror for those 
claims from the date the last offer was made 
by the adverse party. Usually this will be for 
an amount including costs of up to 10 days 
before trial. 

There are two exceptions to the requirement 
that a court award costs and attorneys fees. 
The first exception would allow the court to exempt 
certain individual cases based upon express 
findings that the case presents novel 
and important questions of law or fact and that 
it substantially affects nonparties. The second 
instance where a court would not be required 
to award costs and attorney’s fees or may reduce 
such costs or fees would be when it 
finds that it would be manifestly unjust to do 
so. 

This bill would not necessarily require an 
offeree to pay the entire amount of the 
offerer’s attorney’s fees. Rather, it would limit 
the offeree’s liability for the offeror’s attorney’s 
fees to an amount not exceeding the amount 
the offeree paid its own attorney. If the offeree 
hired its attorney on a contingency basis—an 
agreement in which a plaintiff does not pay 
unless it prevails—and, because it lost, paid 
its attorney nothing, then it would be liable for 
the offeror’s attorney’s fees up to the amount 
that would have been incurred by the offeree 
for an attorney’s noncontingency fee. This will 
encourage accurate reporting and maintenance 
of hourly work and costs by attorneys 
hired under a contingency agreement, since a 
fee petition containing hours worked must be 
presented to the court within 10 days of entry 
of a final judgment, order, or verdict on a 
claim in order to collect such costs and attorney’s 
fees. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E359 

The House passed this settlement encouragement 
legislation last Congress, and I am 
convinced it will prove to be a valuable resource 
to both parties to Federal litigation and 
to the courts in promoting quick and fair settlement. 


This legislation would also amend rule 702 
of the Federal Rules of Evidence, which allows 
expert witnesses to testify as to their expert 
opinions with respect to scientific, technical, 
or other specialized knowledge. Such 
evidence may have an enormous impact on a 
jury’s decision because of its nature. Accordingly, 
assuring that such evidence is valid and 
reliable is of utmost importance. With that in 
mind, the amendment would make a scientific 
opinion inadmissible unless it is: 

First, scientifically valid and reliable; second, 
has a valid scientific connection to the fact it 
is offered to prove; and third, sufficiently reliable 
so that the probative value of such evidence 
outweighs the dangers specified in Federal 
rule of Evidence 403. 

The standard for admissibility of scientific 
expert testimony was most recently addressed 
by the Supreme Court in Daubert v. Merrell 
Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 113 S.Ct. 2786 
(1993), on remand, No. 90–55397 (9th Cir., 
Jan. 4, 1995, Kozinski, J.). In that case, the 
Supreme Court held that rule 702 does not require 
that scientific evidence have general acceptance 
in the relevant scientific community 
to be admissible. Rather, the Court held that 
the rule requires that expert testimony rest on 
a reliable foundation; that is, the methodology 
from which the evidence is derived must be 
based on scientific knowledge and be relevant 
to the task at hand; that is, it must assist the 
trier of fact and have a logical scientific nexus 
to the subject matter of the suit or other admitted 
evidence. 

This legislation would serve to codify and is 
meant to complement the standards established 
in Daubert by the Supreme Court. It requires 
that the methodology from which scientific 
evidence is derived be based on scientific 
knowledge and that it have a logical, 
scientific nexus to the subject matter of the 
suit or other admitted evidence. 

Finally, this bill would make expert testimony 
inadmissible if the witness is entitled to 
receive any compensation contingent on the 
legal disposition of any claim with respect to 
which such testimony is offered. The reason 
for this provision is that an expert witness who 
receives a contingency fee is less likely to furnish 
reliable testimony than one who receives 
a flat or hourly fee since he or she has a vested 
interest in the outcome of the litigation. The 
provision would exclude evidence if the witness 
receives any contingency fee, even if 
such fee is not a percentage of the judgment 
or settlement, but rather is a flat fee or hourly 
fee the payment of which is contingent upon 
the legal disposition of the claim. 

This bill will prevent trial lawyers from taking 
advantage of the court system. If there is a 
consensus in the scientific community that a 
hazard or risk—usually of a product—is real or 
substantial, the trial lawyers will implore that 
consensus to support complaints for compensatory 
and punitive damages. If the consensus 
in the scientific community is that a hazard or 
risk is trivial or imaginary, however, the same 
lawyers should not be able to brush that fact 
aside and find fringe experts to testify otherwise. 
Even in cases where real hazards exist, 
trial lawyers will attempt to stretch claims be


yond validity in order to collect punitive damages. 
By creating a presumption of inadmissibility, 
rebutted by the standards created by 
the Supreme Court in Daubert, along with a 
lower standard of prejudice, an amended rule 
702 will be effective in weeding out junk 
science as evidence in our Federal courtrooms. 


These amendments to rule 702 would apply 
only to civil and not criminal cases. They 
would most frequently be used in product liability 
cases. This will prevent frustration in the 
important use of scientific evidence such as 
blood-type analysis and DNA testing in criminal 
proceedings. 

Mr. Speaker, the importance of this legislation 
to our Federal courts cannot be underestimated. 
Congress must play a key role in affording 
Federal litigants efficient, quick, and 
fair adjudication of their claims. This bill will 
move us firmly in the right direction. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO THE BLACK BEAU


TICIANS HEALTH PROMOTION 

PROGRAM 

HON. DONALD M. PAYNE 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I would like my 
colleagues here in the U.S. House of Representatives 
to join me in applauding a new 
preventive health program. The University of 
California at San Diego’s [UCSD] Cancer Center 
has been awarded a $300,000 grant for 
the Black Beauticians Health Promotion Program. 
The program, sponsored by the Bristol-
Myers Squibb Foundation, recruits and trains 
beauticians working in neighborhood beauty 
salons to educate their clients on the importance 
of breast cancer screening and other 
health lifestyles. 

In the pilot study conducted by the UCSD 
Cancer Center, eight African-American beauticians 
attempted to determine whether beauticians 
can serve as educators for health information 
of special concern to their black clients. 
The study also questioned whether these 
beauticians would be able to motivate their clients 
to adopt health promotion behaviors, 
such as weight control and smoking cessation. 
The study was a great success. 

Many may ask why beauticians were selected 
as the messenger in an effort to reach 
this high-risk population. In many cases, beauticians 
are well integrated members of the 
community, and a personal relationship has already 
been established with each client. Furthermore, 
the beauty salon is an establishment 
which many women frequent, and is an 
environment where personal discussions are 
quite common. In short, many women and 
men of all races visit their barber or beautician 
more frequently than they do their own doctor. 

Mr. Speaker, as it now stands, African-
American women are at high risk for breast 
cancer and other serious illnesses. In addition, 
their mortality rates are disproportionately high 
as compared to other races. The Bristol-Myers 
Squibb Foundation grant will be used to permit 
a statistical evaluation of this educational intervention 
program’s potential impact over a 
longer period of time. 

Mr. Speaker, I am happy to bring this grant 
to the attention to the House, and I am sure 

that my colleagues join me in honoring the accomplishments 
of the University of California 
at San Diego’s Cancer Center, in conjunction 
with the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation. 

f 


LEGISLATION INCLUDING SAMOA 

IN THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN 

BANK ACT 

HON. ENI F.H. FALEOMAVAEGA 

OF AMERICAN SAMOA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to introduce legislation to include American 
Samoa in the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Act. 

For decades there has been inadequate 
capital available to provide home loans to the 
qualified residents of American Samoa wishing 
to make loans to build homes or additions. As 
Samoa moved toward a credit economy, the 
mainland financial community had many questions 
which needed to be answered before 
they were willing to lend money in Samoa: 
Would the Samoans pay back their loans? 
Would the local courts enter judgments 
against locals in favor of banks? would the 
chiefs of communal lands permit purchasers of 
leasehold interests to reside on communal 
properties? 

Each question seemed insurmountable, but 
over the years we have overcome these hurdles, 
and today there is only one impediment 
left—a lack of funding at reasonable rates for 
home loans. Other rural areas have solved 
this problem by membership in a Federal 
home loan bank. In fact, the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Act makes membership available 
to banks in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and 
Guam. In enacting the original legislation, remote 
American Samoa, one of the areas most 
in need, was again left in the woods. 

The legislation I am introducing today 
makes a technical change to the definitions 
section to include American Samoa within the 
definition of a State. This small change will enable 
the FDIC-insured local banks to join a 
Federal home loan bank and gain access to a 
new source of funding to make loans to the 
residents in American Samoa. I hope my colleagues 
will join me in making this small 
change in the law which will have a significant, 
beneficial impact on American Samoa. 

H.R.— 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT TO DEFINITION OF 
‘‘STATE’’. 

Section 2(3) of the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422(3)) is amended by inserting 
‘‘American Samoa,’’ after ‘‘Puerto 
Rico,’’. 

f 


CONGRATULATIONS TO SHANNON 

BYRDSONG, MISS BLACK ALASKA 

HON. DON YOUNG 

OF ALASKA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. YOUNG of Alaska. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to congratulate Miss Black Alaska for her 


E360 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks March 3, 1997 

success at the national Miss Black USA Pageant. 
Shannon Byrdsong represented Alaska 
well last Sunday February 23, 1997. Shannon 
is from Fairbanks, AK and is currently a student 
at the University of Oklahoma. Her parents, 
George and Vallie Byrdsong, made the 
trip from Alaska to proudly watch as their 
daughter advanced through the pageant held 
here locally at Howard University. After two 
nights of competition, Shannon ended as one 
of the top 15 finalists. 

While in the finals, Shannon was awarded 
both the Presidential Award and the Fund-
raiser Award. The Presidential Award was to 
honor Shannon for her strong leadership abilities. 
It was to award her for contributions to 
the community, while maintaining strong academic 
achievement. The Fundraiser Award 
was for accomplishing the most community 
support. It is significant to acknowledge this 
award, as young women competed from large 
States like California, Florida, and Texas. This 
support speaks a great deal about Shannon 
Byrdsong, as well as, the community she calls 
home. 

f 


WARD CONNERLY’S CAUSE 

HON. NEWT GINGRICH 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. GINGRICH. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
commend to my colleagues the following article 
by syndicated columnist Ben Wattenberg. 
Wattenberg is a life-long Democrat, but recognizes 
that our Nation cannot thrive in the 21st 
century if we continue to count ourselves by 
race and gender. Wattenberg identifies the heroic 
work of California’s Ward Connerly in 
spreading this message across the Nation. I 
submit Ben Wattenberg’s column into the 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD and urge my colleagues 
to read it. 

[From the Washington Times, Feb. 20, 1997] 

WARD CONNERLY’S CAUSE 

(By Ben Wattenberg) 

In California during the election season 
last year, Ward Connerly led the California 
Civil Rights Initiative (Proposition 209) to 
victory. The attacks on Mr. Connerly were 
ferocious and personal. 

Watching Mr. Connerly elicit war whoops 
from a mostly conservative audience in 
Washington, it is apparent why the attacks 
on him during the election were so nasty. 
Mr. Connerly is a black man who is a serious 
threat to establishment civil-rights activists. 
He fights back. He reminds us there is 
more than one high-minded side to the race 
question in America. 

He is a strong speaker with conservative 
Reaganite views on more issues than affirmative 
action, or if you prefer, preference. He 
has a biting sense of humor and speaks to a 
theme supported by a large majority of 
Americans. By the time he ended his remarks, 
the testimonial dinner audience organized 
by the Independent Women’s Forum 
(IWF) buzzed with the question that counts 
in Washington: ‘‘What will he run for?’’ 

Mr. Connerly is not happy with Jesse Jackson, 
the leading sound bite on the pro-preference 
side—for both substantive and personal 
reasons. Mr. Connerly is a member of 
the California Board of Regents. He recalled 
that when he was pushing to do away with 
preference in college admissions, Mr. Jackson 
had come to a board meeting, asked for 

a prayer to begin the session, and then called 
Mr. Connerly a ‘‘house slave’’ and ‘‘a puppet 
of the white man.’’ 

Newt Gingrich was in the audience at the 
IWF event, along with Rep. Henry Hyde, Sen 
Phil Gramm and other GOP political figures. 
Mr. Connerly said he approved of Mr. Gingrich’s 
invitation to Mr. Jackson to sit with 
Mrs. Gingrich during the State of the Union 
address—long pause—if Mrs. Gingrich could 
endure being with Mr. Jackson for the duration 
of a Clinton speech. He thought that if 
Mr. Gingrich had invited Mr. Jackson in the 
spirit of bipartisanship, then President Clinton 
should invite Mr. Connerly to spend the 
night in the Lincoln Bedroom—pause—and 
waive the $100,000 fee. 

He took note of the firestorm caused by 
the remark of Rep. J.C. Watts, Jr., a fellow 
black conservative. who had characterized 
some putatively unnamed black leaders as 
‘‘race-hustling poverty pimps.’’ He observed 
that Mr. Watts prays with Mr. Jackson, and 
offered some advice: ‘‘J.C., when you pray 
with Jesse, don’t close your eyes.’’ 

Political Washington loves this raw meat, 
particularly after a few drinks. But Mr. 
Connerly spoke substance as well. He recalled 
his childhood in segregated, Louisiana 
and the signs in roadside restaurants: ‘‘We 
do not serve colored.’’ But Mr. Connerly also 
remembers the people who helped him get 
ahead as a teen-ager in Bremerton, Wash., 
working downtown in a fabric store after 
school. He blesses the country that let him 
rise to affluence as a California businessman. 

He says there are times to look forward, 
not backward to go beyond the poison of racism, 
slavery and segregation, and to get on 
with life. He rejects membership in the ‘‘victims 
club of America’’ and says a better 
America cannot be built when ‘‘our government 
allocates opportunities on the basis of 
skin color, genitalia and the spelling of last 
names.’’ 

This is the race-neutral side of the civil-
rights argument. As, and if it gains further 
currency, it can shatter the monopoly of the 
racial political now seen in the Democratic 
Party. 

Although invited, no Democratic members 
of Congress showed up at the IWF dinner. 
Not coincidentally, the flexible Mr. Clinton 
has shown no flexibility on affirmative action 
(neither ending, nor mending). Mr. Clinton 
has even taken the bizarre stance that 
Proposition 209 is unconstitutional, putting 
the government in the incredible position of 
saying that antidiscrimination is against the 
law. 

Mr. Connerly was scalded by opponents 
during the epic fight to overturn preferences. 
He also has sharp comments for some expected 
allies who jumped ship when the seas 
got rough, saying, well, 209 wasn’t really 
nuanced enough (this, of language that essentially 
replicates the words of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964). Mr. Connerly says, ‘‘Our 
political system has more cowards per capita 
than at any time in our history.’’ Maybe. 
But Mr. Connerly is a refutation of his own 
analysis. 

Let it be granted that it is a complicated 
and exasperating issue. The tough language 
will probably continue on both sides. Mr. 
Gingrich spoke, enthusiastically endorsing 
the language of a previous speaker who described 
the current situation as ‘‘affirmative 
racism.’’ Mr. Gingrich pledged to pursue an 
end to it. 

Until now the colorblind point of view did 
not have a credible high-profile national 
spokesman. That hurt their cause and the 
national dialogue. Mr. Connerly, uniquely, 
has the talent, passion, history and guts to 
become the champion of the second side. 

TRIBUTE TO REV. ROBERT L.A. 
REAVES 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
salute Pastor Robert Lee Adams Reaves, born 
on December 29, 1964, in Bennettsville, SC. 
He received his calling to the ministry at the 
age of 14. For 18 years, he has been preaching 
and teaching the word of God. 

Prior to God’s assigning Pastor Reaves to 
the Cedar Church, he served as pastor of the 
Pleasant Hill Baptist Church, Bennettsville, 
SC. In 1993, the Holy Spirit directed him to 
the Elim International Fellowship where he 
submitted to the leadership and tutelage of 
Archbishop Wilbert S. McKinley, and served 
as associate pastor. 

Pastor Reaves is a graduate of Morris College, 
with a degree in sociology, which he received 
in 1987. He also received pastoral 
counseling training. While at Elim, he attended 
the Elim Institute. 

Reverend Reaves is the father of one son, 
Robert, Jr. He is also blessed with a lovely 
wife, Lady Sheryl Reaves. 

The Reverend is a visionary who is continuously 
developing; he is not a traditional leader. 
His message through preaching and teaching 
the word of God, challenges the old traditions, 
and ushers the church into both the presence 
of, and the order of God. As a man of faith, 
Reverend Reaves is giving birth to a vision 
whose time has come. I am pleased to introduce 
my House colleagues to a truly inspirational 
spiritual leader. 

f 


THE LONG-TERM CAPITAL GAINS 
SAVINGS ACT 

HON. KEN BENTSEN 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 3, 1997 

Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to introduce 
legislation, the Long-term Capital Gains 
Savings Act, that takes an innovative and I believe 
economically correct approach to capital 
gains tax policy. This legislation seeks to reward 
long-term, economically productive investments 
and encourage Americans to save 
for the future. 

This legislation is identical to S. 306, introduced 
by Senator WENDELL FORD, and would 
provide for the maximum capital gains tax rate 
to be adjusted downward the longer an investment 
is held by the taxpayer. For every year 
an asset has been held, the tax rate would be 
reduced by 2 percentage points down to a 
rate of 14 percent after 8 years or more. The 
top rate would remain at 28 percent for investments 
held less than 2 years. 

I also want to point out that this legislation 
as drafted would apply only to individual taxpayers, 
and not to corporate taxpayers. I believe 
this is good fiscal and tax policy because 
it limits the cost of this legislation and targets 
tax relief to help middle-income families most 
in need of this assistance. 

For many years we have heard many in 
business, agriculture, economics, and politics 
argue that a high capital gain tax rate locks



March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E361 

in capital and discourages investment that 
might otherwise be put to work in more productive 
investments and thus spur greater 
economic activity. 

While I have questioned whether capital has 
remained on the sidelines, I do believe that 
the low differential between marginal income 
tax rates and the 28 percent capital gains rate 
along with the effective tax of inflation does 
lock-up capital and discourage some investment, 
particularly in long-term instruments that 
might otherwise occur. This legislation is 
aimed to address such inefficiencies in the 
current code while not providing a windfall for 
short-term speculation and adding to the deficit. 


First, it will reward individual investors who 
make economically productive long-term investments 
rather than short-term speculative 
ones. I believe someone who holds an investment 
for a long period of time should receive 
more favorable tax treatment on their gains 
than someone who turns over assets on a 
short-term basis. The investment in a fledgling 
company which takes many years to develop, 

but could become the next Microsoft, should 
receive a more favorable benefit than a gain 
earned over a 6-month period due to a run-up 
in the capital or credit markets. Further, by 
ratcheting the rate downward the longer the 
holding period, we help offset the inflation 
penalty which results with a fixed rate. And we 
avoid the difficultly of indexing against the 
original basis. This legislation will reward investments 
in small businesses and agriculture, 
which require long-term commitment and are 
our Nation’s primary engines of economic 
growth and job creation. It may also effect 
long-term interest rates in a positive manner. 
It will encourage Americans to make the investments 
necessary to start and expand such 
businesses. 

Second, this legislation will provide incentives 
for Americans to save for the future and 
prepare for their retirement. There is widespread 
agreement among economists that our 
savings rate is too low, slowing our economy 
and putting at risk the comfortable retirement 
Americans desire. This legislation will help address 
this need for increased savings and pro


vide a more secure retirement for Americans 
in the future. 

Most importantly, this legislation will achieve 
these benefits without putting the goal of a 
balanced budget out of reach. Broader capital 
gains tax relief would be simply too costly, requiring 
offsetting revenue increases or budget 
cuts that are unrealistic and imprudent. If we 
try to do too much, we will put a realistic balanced 
budget out of reach, encouraging the 
use of gimmicks and rosy scenarios. This legislation 
represents the kind of capital gains tax 
relief we can afford in the context of balancing 
the budget. 

This legislation takes a responsible, balanced 
approach that will encourage prudent 
investment and savings and reward those who 
invest for the long-term, while still allowing us 
to balance the Federal budget. I still believe 
that our first priority must be to balance the 
Federal budget. However, I am also of the belief 
that inclusion of a modest, common-sense 
capital gains tax relief legislation which is fully 
paid for can and should be part of this balanced 
budget. 


E362 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks March 3, 1997 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate on February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules Committee—
of the time, place, and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled, and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 
As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, 
March 4, 1997, may be found in the 
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

MARCH 5 

9:00 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To hold hearings to examine the Department 
of Agriculture’s business plan 
and reorganization management proposals. 


SR–332 
Labor and Human Resources 
Business meeting, to consider pending 
calendar business. 
SD–430 

9:30 a.m. 
Environment and Public Works 
Superfund, Waste Control, and Risk Assessment 
Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on S. 8, to authorize 
funds for and reform the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Liability, 
and Compensation Act of 1980 
(Superfund). 

SD–406 
Rules and Administration 

To hold oversight hearings on the operation 
of the offices of the Secretary of 
the Senate, the Sergeant at Arms, the 
Architect of the Capitol, and the National 
Gallery of Art. 

SR–301 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold closed hearings to examine global 
assessment issues. 

SD–124 
Armed Services 
Airland Forces Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for fiscal year 1998 
for the Department of Defense and the 
future years defense program, focusing 
on tactical aviation modernization issues. 


SR–222 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
Aviation Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine aviation 
safety, focusing on the work of the 
Gore Commission. 

SR–253 
Finance 

To hold hearings on the President’s proposed 
budget request for fiscal year 
1998 for the Medicare program. 

SD–215 

Governmental Affairs 

To hold hearings to examine issues relating 
to the General Accounting Office 
high-risk series. 

SD–342 

10:30 a.m. 
Budget 
To hold hearings to examine the Congressional 
Budget Office’s analysis of 
the President’s budget for fiscal year 
1998. 

SD–608 

2:00 p.m. 
Armed Services 
Strategic Forces Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for fiscal year 1998 
for the Department of Defense and the 
future years defense program, focusing 
on defense programs to combat the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction. 
SR–222 
Armed Services 
Personnel Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for fiscal year 1998 
for the Department of Defense and the 
future years defense program, focusing 
on recruiting and retention policies 
within the Department of Defense and 
the military services. 

SR–232A 

2:30 p.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Forests and Public Land Management Subcommittee 
To resume hearings on the proposed Public 
Land Management Responsibility 
and Accountability Restoration Act. 

SD–366 
Select on Intelligence 
To hold closed hearings on intelligence 
matters. 
SH–219 

3:30 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine legal immigration 
issues prior to the 1996 Presidential 
election. 

S–146, Capitol 

MARCH 6 

9:30 a.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To hold hearings to examine issues with 
regard to competitive change in the 
electric power industry. 
SH–216 
Environment and Public Works 
Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for programs of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act and innovative transportation 
financing, technology, construction 
and design practices. 
SD–406 
Governmental Affairs 
Oversight of Government Management and 
The District of Columbia Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine Federal tax 
policy for the District of Columbia. 
SD–342 
Veterans’ Affairs 

To hold joint hearings with the House 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on the 
legislative recommendations of the 
Paralyzed Veterans of America, the 
Jewish War Veterans, the Retired Officers 
Association, the Association of the 

U.S. Army, the Non-Commissioned Officers 
Association, the Military Order 
of the Purple Heart, and the Blinded 
Veterans Association. 
345 Cannon Building 
Special on Aging 
To hold hearings to examine the challenges 
facing retiring babyboomers. 
SD–628 

10:00 a.m. 
Armed Services 
To hold hearings on the nomination of 
Keith R. Hall, of Maryland, to be Assistant 
Secretary of the Air Force for 
Space. 

SR–222 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 

To hold hearings on the nominations of 
Yolanda T. Wheat, of Missouri, to be a 
Member of the National Credit Union 
Administration Board, Charles A. 
Gueli, of Maryland, and Niranjan S. 
Shah, of Illinois, each to be a Member 
of the National Institute of Building 
Sciences, and Jeffrey A. Frankel, of 
California, to be a Member of the Council 
of Economic Advisers. 

SD–538 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
Oceans and Fisheries Subcommittee 
Science, Technology, and Space Sub


committee 

To hold joint hearings to examine the 
President’s proposed budget request for 
fiscal year 1998 for the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration. 

SR–253 
Finance 

To hold hearings on proposals to expand 
Individual Retirement Accounts, including 
S. 197, proposed Savings and Investment 
Incentive Act of 1997. 

SD–215 
Foreign Relations 
International Operations Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on the President’s proposed 
budget request for fiscal year 
1998 for the United States Information 

Agency (USIA) and international 
broadcasting. 
SD–419 
Judiciary 

Business meeting, to consider pending 
calendar business. 
SD–226 
Labor and Human Resources 
To hold hearings to examine health care 
quality and consumer protection. 
SD–106 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Department 
of State. 
S–146A, Capitol 

Foreign Relations 
To hold hearings on the nomination of 
Karen Shepherd, of Utah, to be United 
States Director of the European Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development. 

SD–419 
Select on Intelligence 
Closed business meeting, on intelligence 
matters. 
SH–219 

2:30 p.m. 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
Consumer Affairs, Foreign Commerce, and 
Tourism Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine product liability 
reform, focusing on the implementation 
of the General Aviation 
Revitilization Act. 

SR–253 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E363 

Energy and Natural Resources 

Forests and Public Land Management Subcommittee 


To continue hearings on the proposed 
Public Land Management Responsibility 
and Accountability Restoration 
Act. 

SD–366 

MARCH 7 

9:30 a.m. 
Joint Economic 
To hold hearings to examine the employment-
unemployment situation for February. 


1334 Longworth Building 

MARCH 11 

9:00 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To hold hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for agricultural research. 


SR–332 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
the Consumer Information Center, and 
the Office of Consumer Affairs. 

SD–138 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for Food 
and Consumer Service, Department of 
Agriculture. 
SD–124 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To hold hearings on the President’s proposed 
budget request for fiscal year 
1998 for the Department of Energy and 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 


SD–366 
Governmental Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine issues relating 
to the census in the year 2000. 
SD–342 

10:30 a.m. 
Finance 
To hold hearings on the President’s proposed 
budget request for fiscal year 
1998 for the Medicaid program. 

SD–215 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Small Business Administration. 

S–146, Capitol 

MARCH 12 

9:30 a.m. 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
To hold hearings to examine universal 
telephone service. 
SR–253 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Department 
of Justice. 

S–146, Capitol 

MARCH 13 

9:00 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for agricultural 
research. 

SR–332 

9:30 a.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To resume hearings to examine issues 
with regard to competitive change in 
the electric power industry. 
SD–G50 
Environment and Public Works 
Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for programs of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act, focusing on program 
eligibility. 

SD–406 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Department 
of Commerce. 
S–146, Capitol 
Energy and Natural Resources 
National Parks, Historic Preservation, and 
Recreation Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine the future 
of the National Park System and to 
identify and discuss the needs, requirements, 
and innovative programs that 
will insure the Park Service will continue 
to meet its responsibilities well 
into the next century. 

SD–366 

MARCH 14 

9:30 a.m. 
Environment and Public Works 
To hold hearings on the nominations of 
Johnny H. Hayes, of Tennessee, to be a 
Member of the Board of Directors of 
the Tennessee Valley Authority, Brig. 
Gen. Robert Bernard Flowers, USA, to 
be a Member of the Mississippi River 
Commission, and Judith M. Espinosa, 
of New Mexico, and Michael Rappoport, 
of Arizona, each to be a Member of the 
Board of Trustees of the Morris K. 
Udall Scholarship and Excellence in 
National Environmental Policy Foundation. 
SD–406 
Labor and Human Resources 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for programs of 
the Higher Education Act. 

SD–430 

MARCH 18 

9:00 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for agricultural 
research. 

SR–332 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency. 
Room to be announced 
Appropriations 
Energy and Water Development Sub


committee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for energy 

research programs of the Department 
of Energy. 
SD–124 
Environment and Public Works 

To hold hearings on proposals to authorize 
State and local governments to 
enact flow control laws and to regulate 
the interstate transportation of solid 
waste. 

SD–406 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service, 
Department of Agriculture. 
SD–138 
Labor and Human Resources 
To hold hearings to examine proposals to 
reform the operation of the Food and 
Drug Administration. 

SD–430 

MARCH 19 

9:30 a.m. 
Environment and Public Works 
Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for programs of 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act, focusing on environmental 
programs and statewide and 
metropolitan planning. 
SD–406 
Labor and Human Resources 
Business meeting, to consider pending 
calendar business. 
SD–430 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold joint hearings with the House 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on the 
legislative recommendations of the 
Disabled American Veterans. 

345 Cannon Building 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. 

S–146, Capitol 

MARCH 20 

9:00 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for agricultural 
research. 

SR–332 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Energy and Water Development Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for atomic 
energy defense activities of the Department 
of Energy. 
SD–124 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To resume hearings to examine issues 
with regard to competitive change in 
the electric power industry. 
SH–216 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold joint hearings with the House 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on the 
legislative recommendations of 
AMVETS, the American Ex-Prisoners 
of War, the Veterans of World War I, 
and the Vietnam Veterans of America. 

345 Cannon Building 


E364 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks March 3, 1997 

10:00 a.m. 
Labor and Human Resources 
To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds for programs of 
the Higher Education Act. 

SD–430 

2:00 p.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
National Parks, Historic Preservation, and 
Recreation Subcommittee 
To resume hearings to examine the future 
of the National Park System and 
to identify and discuss the needs, requirements, 
and innovative programs 
that will insure the Park Service will 
continue to meet its responsibilities 
well into the next century. 

SD–366 

APRIL 8 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Environmental 
Protection Agency. 

SD–138 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Farm Service Agency, the Foreign Agricultural 
Service, and the Risk Management 
Agency, Department of Agriculture. 


SD–124 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine child pornography 
issues. 
S–146, Capitol 

APRIL 10 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service, 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and 
the Drug Enforcement Administration. 

S–146, Capitol 

APRIL 15 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the De


partment of Housing and Urban Development. 
SD–138 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Rural Utilities Service, the Rural 
Housing Service, the Rural Business-
Cooperative Service, and the Alternative 
Agricultural Research and Commercialization 
Center, all of the Department 
of Agriculture. 

SD–124 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on counter-terrorism issues. 
S–146, Capitol 

APRIL 16 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Federal 
Communications Commission. 

S–146, Capitol 

APRIL 17 

1:30 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Supreme 
Court of the United States and 
the Judiciary. 

S–146, Capitol 

APRIL 22 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the National 
Science Foundation and the Office 
of Science and Technology Policy. 
SD–192 
Appropriations 
Energy and Water Development Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Environmental 
Management Program of 
the Department of Energy. 

SD–124 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Agricultural 
Research Service, the Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and 
Extension Service, the Economic Research 
Service, and the National Agricultural 
Statistics Service, all of the 
Department of Agriculture. 

SD–138 

APRIL 24 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Energy and Water Development Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of 
Reclamation, Department of the Interior. 


SD–124 

APRIL 29 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Department 
of Veterans Affairs. 

SD–138 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
and the Food and Drug Administration, 
Department of Health and 
Human Resources. 

SD–124 

MAY 6 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration. 


SD–138 

CANCELLATIONS 

MARCH 13 

10:00 a.m. 
Labor and Human Resources 
To hold hearings to examine proposals to 
improve the health status of children. 
SD–430 


Monday, March 3, 1997 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S1807–S1846 

Measures Introduced: Five bills and three resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 385–389, and 
S.J. Res. 19–21. Page S1828 

Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment: A 
unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
for further consideration of S.J. Res. 1, proposing an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
to require a balanced budget, with a vote to occur 
thereon at 5:15 p.m. Page S1846 

Messages from the President: Senate received the 
following messages from the President of the United 
States: 

Transmitting the report on the agreement between 
the United States and Canada with respect to 
Social Security; referred to the Committee on Finance. 
(PM–19). Pages S1826–27 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Robert S. LaRussa, of Maryland, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce. 

Joel I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, to be 

an Assistant Attorney General. Page S1846 
Messages From the President: Pages S1826–27 
Messages From the House: Page S1827 
Measures Read First Time: Page S1828 
Communications: Pages S1827–28 
Statements on Introduced Bills: Pages S1828–43 
Additional Cosponsors: Page S1843 
Additional Statements: Pages S1843–46 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 12 noon, and adjourned 
at 5:31 p.m., until 9:30 a.m., on Tuesday, 
March 4, 1997. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on 
page S1846.) 

Committee Meetings 

No committee meetings were held. 

h 


House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Bills Introduced: 6 public bills, H.R. 902–907; 
and 2 resolutions, H.J. Res. 58 and H. Con. Res. 
31, were introduced. Pages H708–09 

Reports Filed: No reports were filed today. 

Speaker Pro Tempore: Read a letter from the 
Speaker wherein he designated Representative 
Barrett of Nebraska to act as Speaker pro tempore 
for today. Page H703 

Presidential Message—Social Security Agreement: 
Read a message from the President wherein 

D164 

he transmits his Second Supplementary Social Security 
Agreement between the United States and the 
Government of Canada—referred to the Committee 
on Ways and Means and ordered printed (H. Doc. 
105–49). Pages H703–04 

Senate Messages: Message received from the Senate 
appears on page H703. 

Quorum Calls—Votes: No quorum calls or votes 
developed during the proceedings of the House 
today. 

Adjournment: Met at 2:00 p.m. and adjourned at 

2:30 p.m. 

March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D165 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, toCommittee Meetings hold hearings to examine proposed legislation to reformNo Committee meetings were held. product liability, 10 a.m., SR–253. 

f 


NEW PUBLIC LAWS 

(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D75) 

H.R. 668, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to reinstate the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund excise taxes. Signed February 28, 1997. (P.L. 
105–2) 
H.J. Res. 36, approving the Presidential finding 
that the limitation on obligations imposed by section 
518A(a) of the Foreign Operations Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act 
of 1997, is having a negative impact on the proper 
functioning of the population planning program. 
Signed February 28, 1997. (P.L. 105–3) 
f 


COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY, 
MARCH 4, 1997 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, to hold 
hearings to examine the school lunch and school breakfast 
programs, 10 a.m., SD–G50. 

Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on VA, 
HUD, and Independent Agencies, to hold hearings on 
proposed budget estimates for fiscal year 1998 for the 
Corporation for National and Community Service, the 
American Battle Monuments Commission, the Court of 
Veterans Appeals, the Selective Service System, and Army 
Cemeterial Expenses, 9:30 a.m., SD–138. 

Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, and 
Related Agencies, to hold hearings on proposed budget 
estimates for fiscal year 1998 for the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, Marketing and Regulatory programs, 
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Agricultural 
Marketing Service, and the Grain Inspection, Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, all of the Department of Agriculture, 
10 a.m., SD–124. 

Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education, to hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1998 for the Department of Health 
and Human Services, 10 a.m., SD–192. 

Committee on Armed Services, to resume hearings on proposed 
legislation authorizing funds for fiscal year 1998 
for the Department of Defense and the future years defense 
program, 10 a.m., SR–222. 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, Subcommittee 
on Securities, to hold hearings on Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Financial Accounting 
Standards Board (FASB) derivatives accounting rules 
and their impact on competitiveness and investor information, 
10 a.m., SD–538. 

Committee on Environment and Public Works, Subcommittee 
on Superfund, Waste Control, and Risk Assessment, 
to hold hearings on proposals relating to liability and resource 
issues associated with the cleanup and redevelopment 
of abandoned or underutilized industrial and commercial 
properties, 9:30 a.m., SD–406. 

Committee on Finance, to hold hearings to examine estimates 
of the President’s fiscal year 1998 budget request 
for Medicare, Medicaid, and welfare, 10:30 a.m., SD–215. 

Committee on Foreign Relations, business meeting, to 
mark up S. Res. 19, expressing the sense of the Senate 
regarding United States opposition to the prison sentence 
of Tibet ethnomusicologist Ngawang Choephel by the 
Government of the People’s Republic of China, and to 
consider pending nominations, 4:45 p.m., SD–419. 

NOTICE 

For a listing of Senate committee meetings scheduled 
ahead, see pages E362–64 in today’s Record. 

House 

Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies, on Research, Education and 
Economics, 1 p.m., and on Members of Congress and 
public witnesses, 4 p.m., 2362A Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State and Judiciary, 
on Attorney General, 2 p.m., 2226 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, on 

U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 10 a.m., 2362–B Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on Interior, on public witnesses, 10 a.m. 
and 1:30 p.m., B-308 Rayburn. 
Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education, on National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, 
10 a.m., on the National Institute of Drug Abuse 
and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, 
1:30 p.m., 2358 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Military Construction, on Quality of 
Life, 1:30 p.m., B–300 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Treasury, Postal Service, and General 
Government, on Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, 10 a.m., 
and on Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network, 2 p.m., 2360 Rayburn. 


Subcommittee on VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies, 
on Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, 10 
a.m., and on Selective Service System, 11 a.m., H–143 
Capitol. 

Committee on the Budget, hearing on the economy, 10 
a.m., 210 Cannon. 

Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee 
on Postsecondary Education, Training and Life-Long 
Learning, hearing on Reform of the Major Federal Job 
Training Programs, 9:30 a.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on International Relations, to markup the following 
measures: H. Con. Res. 17, congratulating the 


D166 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST March 3, 1997 

people of Guatemala on the success of the recent negotiations 
to establish a process for Guatemala; and H. Con. 
Res. 18, congratulating the people of the Republic of 
Nicaragua on the success of their democratic elections 
held on October 20, 1996; 1 p.m., 2172 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on International Operations and Human 
Rights, hearing on International Organizations and Conferences, 
1:30 p.m., 2172 Rayburn. 

Committee on National Security, Subcommittee on Military 
Installations and Facilities, hearing on the Fiscal 
Year 1998 Military Construction Budget Request for programs 
of the active and Reserve Components of the Department 
of the Navy and the Department of the Air 
Force, 2 p.m., 2212 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Military Personnel and the Subcommittee 
on Military Readiness, joint hearing on Readiness 
and Personnel: Views from the Field, 10 a.m., and 
2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn. 

Committee on Resources, Subcommittee on Energy and 
Mineral Resources, oversight hearing on the Administration’s 
budget requests with respect to the following agencies 
of the Department of the Interior: the U. S. Geological 
Survey (except Water Resources Division), the Minerals 
Management Service, the Office of Surface Mining 
Reclamation and Enforcement, and the Bureau of Land 
Management (Energy and Minerals, including Mining 
Law Administration), 1:30 p.m., 1334 Longworth. 

Subcommittee on Water and Power Resources, oversight 
hearing on the Administration’s proposed 1998 
budget requests for the Bureau of Reclamation, the 
Central Utah Project, and the Water Resources Division 
of the U.S. Geological Survey and the Power Marketing 
Administrations, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth. 

Committee on Science, Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, 
NASA Posture hearing/fiscal year 1998 authorization, 
1 p.m., 2318 Rayburn. 

Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, Task Force on 
Ethics Reform, hearing on the Ethics Process in the 
House, 10 a.m., H–144 Capitol. 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee 
on Surface Transportation, to continue hearings 
on ISTEA Reauthorization: Policy Initiatives and 
Requests for Highway and Transit Projects, 9:30 a.m., 
2167 Rayburn. 

Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Health, 
hearing on Medicare Home Health Care, Skilled Nursing 
Facility, and Other Post-Acute Care Payment Policies, 1 
p.m., 1310 Longworth. 

Subcommittee on Oversight, hearing on ‘‘High-Risk’’ 
Programs, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth. 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, executive, to 
consider pending business, 9:30 a.m., and, executive, to 
hold a briefing on the Future Imagery Architecture, 10 
a.m., H–405 Capitol. 


March 3, 1997 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—DAILY DIGEST D 167 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FIFTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 3 through February 28, 1997 

Days in session .................................... 
Time in session ................................... 
Congressional Record: 

Pages of proceedings ................... 

Extensions of Remarks ................ 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 
Private bills enacted into law .............. 
Bills in conference ............................... 
Measures passed, total ......................... 

Senate bills .................................. 

House bills .................................. 

Senate joint resolutions ............... 

House joint resolutions ............... 

Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 

House concurrent resolutions ...... 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Measures reported, total ...................... 

Senate bills .................................. 

House bills .................................. 

Senate joint resolutions ............... 

House joint resolutions ............... 

Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 

House concurrent resolutions ...... 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Special reports ..................................... 
Conference reports ............................... 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 
Measures introduced, total .................. 

Bills ............................................. 

Joint resolutions .......................... 

Concurrent resolutions ................ 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Quorum calls ....................................... 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 
Recorded votes .................................... 
Bills vetoed ......................................... 
Vetoes overridden ................................ 

Senate House Total 
23 14 . . 
134 hrs., 27¢ 58 hrs., 15¢ . . 
1,806 702 . . 
. . 353 . . 
. . 3 . . 
. . . . . . 
. . . . . . 
36 41 . . 
1 . . . . 
2 5 . . 
. . . . . . 
2 2 . . 
4 3 . . 
2 2 . . 
25 29 . . 
*25 *5 . . 
1 . . . . 
. . 2 . . 
2 . . . . 
. . 1 . . 
. . . . . . 
. . . . . . 
22 2 . . 
4 1 . . 
. . . . . . 
16 . . . . 
466 1,068 . . 
384 901 . . 
18 57 . . 
6 30 . . 
58 80 . . 
1 1 . . 
23 14 . . 
. . 13 . . 
. . . . . . 
. . . . . . 

DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 7 through February 28, 1997 
Civilian nominations, totaling 139, disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 20 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 118 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1 

Civilian nominations (FS, PHS, CG, NOAA), totaling 1,612, disposed 
of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 593 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,019 

Air Force nominations, totaling 1,601, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 37 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,564 

Army nominations, totaling 1,786, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 72 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,714 

Navy nominations, totaling 757, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 474 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 283 

Marine Corps nominations, totaling 582, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 8 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 574 

Summary 

Total nominations received this session ................................................. 6,477 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 1,204 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 5,272 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 1 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 6 reports has been filed in the Senate, a total 
of 6 reports has been filed in the House. 

D168 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST March 3, 1997 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

9:30 a.m., Tuesday, March 4 
Senate Chamber 

Program for Tuesday: Senate will resume consideration 
of S.J. Res. 1, Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment, 
with a vote to occur thereon. 

(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for respective 
party conferences.) 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

12:30 p.m., Tuesday, March 4 
House Chamber 

Program for Tuesday: Consideration of a motion to suspend 
the rules and agree to a concurrent resolution relating 
to the Ten Commandments. 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 
HOUSE 
Allen, Thomas H., Maine, E357 
Bentsen, Ken, Tex., E360 
Coble, Howard, N.C., E358 
Faleomavaega, Eni F.H., American Samoa, E356, 
E359 
Gingrich, Newt, Ga., E355, E357, E360 
Payne, Donald M., N.J., E359 
Porter, John Edward, Ill., E357 
Towns, Edolphus, N.Y., E356, E358, E360 
Young, Don, Alaska, E359 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The public proceedings of each House of Congress, as reported by 
the Official Reporters thereof, are printed pursuant to directions 
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate 
provisions of Title 44, United States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very 
infrequent instances when two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed at one time. ¶ Public access to 
the Congressional Record is available online through GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. 
The online database is updated each day the Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the 
beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 1994) forward. It is available on the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) through the 
Internet and via asynchronous dial-in. Internet users can access the database by using the World Wide Web; the Superintendent of 
Documents home page address is http://www.access.gpo.gov/suldocs, by using local WAIS client software or by telnet to 
swais.access.gpo.gov, then login as guest (no password required). Dial-in users should use communications software and modem to call (202) 
512–1661; type swais, then login as guest (no password required). For general information about GPO Access, contact the GPO Access User 
Support Team by sending Internet e-mail to gpoaccess@gpo.gov, or a fax to (202) 512–1262; or by calling Toll Free 1–888–293–6498 or (202) 
512–1530 between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday, except for Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 
24x microfiche will be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $150.00 for six months, $295.00 
per year, or purchased for $2.50 per issue, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $141.00 per year, or purchased for $1.50 per issue payable in 
advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per issue prices. Remit check or money order, made 
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, directly to the Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. ¶ Following each session 
of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in 
individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the 
Congressional Record. 


