UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 109th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 


(Rectangle comment Dec. 19, 2006 Congressional Record
12/20/2006 3:43:58 AM
January 3, 2006_On Page H 1 the following appeared: which were thereupon signed by the Speaker pro tempore, Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia, on December 28, 2005: H.R. 972. An act to authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 for the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, and for other purposes. H.R. 2017. An act to amend the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 to authorize appropriations to provide assistance for domestic and foreign programs and centers for the treatment of victims of torture, and for other purposes.
The online version has been corrected to read: which were thereupon signed by the Speaker pro tempore, Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia, on December 30th , 2005: H.R. 972. An act to authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 for the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, and for other purposes. H.R. 1815. An act to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2006 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes. H.R. 2017. An act to amend the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 to authorize appropriations to provide assistance for domestic and foreign programs and centers for the treatment of victims of torture, and for other purposes.)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.07 10:41:38 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401
Vol. 152 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2006 No. 1 

House of Representatives 

The House met at noon and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. WOLF). 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. This 
being the day fixed pursuant to the 
20th amendment to the Constitution of 
the United States for the assembly of 
the Second Session of the 109th Congress, 
the House will be in order. 

f 

DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

January 3, 2006. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable FRANK R. 
WOLF to act as Speaker pro tempore on this 
day. 

J. DENNIS HASTERT, 
Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 

PRAYER 
The Chaplain, the Reverend Daniel P. 
Coughlin, offered the following prayer: 
Lord God, foundation of faith and 
provident guide of our Nation’s history, 
we implore You to guide, protect, 
and strengthen the United States 
House of Representatives during this 
Second Session of the 109th Congress. 
Help these duly elected Representatives 
of the people be about the work of 
the people. Make this democratic Republic 
strong, that it may be Your fit 
instrument to unite the natural and 
human resources of this Nation, that 
Your people may live ordered lives 
under the law and in harmony with 
others and so be a beacon of hope for 
the world. 
In You and from You we draw our inspiration 
and creativity. In You and 
from You, Lord, we find lasting peace 
and universal justice both now and forever. 
Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. KILDEE) 

come forward and lead the House in the 
Pledge of Allegiance. 

Mr. KILDEE led the Pledge of Allegiance 
as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to section 2 of House Resolution 
619, 109th Congress, as amended by section 
2 of House Resolution 640, 109th 
Congress, organizational and legislative 
business is dispensed with on this 
day. 

The House will follow the practice 
announced by the Speaker at the convening 
of the Second Session of the 
106th Congress under a similar order. 
Bills and resolutions introduced today 
will be numbered today but will not be 
noted in the RECORD or referred by the 
Speaker until January 31, 2006. Executive 
communications, petitions, and 
memorials will not be numbered or referred 
until January 31, 2006. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 4 of rule I, Speaker pro 
tempore TOM DAVIS of Virginia signed 
the following enrolled bills on Friday, 
December 30, 2005: 

H.R. 972, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal years 2006 and 2007 for the Trafficking 
Victims Protection Act of 2000, and for other 
purposes; 
H.R. 1815, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2006 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and 
for other purposes; 
H.R. 2017, to amend the Torture Victims 
Relief Act of 1998 to authorize appropriations 
to provide assistance for domestic and foreign 
programs and centers for the treatment 
of victims of torture, and for other purposes; 
H.R. 3179, to reauthorize and amend the 
Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design 
Program Act of 1994; 
H.R. 3402, to authorize appropriations for 
the Department of Justice for fiscal years 
2006 through 2009, and for other purposes; 
H.R. 4501, to amend the Passport Act of 
June 4, 1920, to authorize the Secretary of 
State to establish and collect a surcharge to 
cover the costs of meeting the increased demand 
for passports as a result of actions 
taken to comply with section 7209(b) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention 
Act of 2004; 
H.R. 4637, to make certain technical corrections 
in amendments made by the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005. 
f 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED AFTER 
SINE DIE ADJOURNMENT 

Mrs. Haas, Clerk of the House, after 
sine die adjournment of the first session, 
109th Congress, reported and 
found truly enrolled bills of the House 
of the following titles, which were 
thereupon signed by the Speaker pro 
tempore, Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia, on 
December 30, 2005: 

H.R. 972. An act to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 for the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, 
and for other purposes. 
H.R. 1815. An act to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2006 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities 
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 2017. An act to amend the Torture 
Victims Relief Act of 1998 to authorize appropriations 
to provide assistance for domestic 
and foreign programs and centers for the 
treatment of victims of torture, and for 
other purposes. 
H.R. 3179. An act to reauthorize and amend 
the Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and 
Design Program Act of 1994. 
H.R. 3402. An act to authorize appropriations 
for the Department of Justice for fiscal 
years 2006 through 2009, and for other purposes. 
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H1 


(Rectangle comment December 19, 2007, Congressional Record
7/31/2008 5:36:56 AM
January 3, 2006--On Page H 2 the following appeared:...made by 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Mrs. Haas, Clerk of the House, 
after sine die adjournment of the first session, 109th Congress, 
further reported and found truly enrolled a bill of the House of 
the following title, which was thereupon signed by the Speaker pro 
tempore, Mr. TOM DAVIS of Virginia, on December 29, 2005: H.R. 
1815. An act to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2006 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. BILLS PRESENTED TO THE PRESIDENT 
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House reports that on January 3, 2006, 
she presented to the President of the United States, for his 
approval, the following... 
The online version should be corrected by removing the 
following: Mrs. Haas, Clerk of the House, after sine die 
adjournment of the first session, 109th Congress, further reported 
and found truly enrolled a bill of the House of the following 
title, which was thereupon signed by the Speaker pro tempore, Mr. 
TOM DAVIS of Virginia, on December 29, 2005: H.R. 1815. An act to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2006 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of 
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes.
)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
H2 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE January 3, 2006 

H.R. 4501. An act to amend the Passport 
Act of June 4, 1920, to authorize the Secretary 
of State to establish and collect a surcharge 
to cover the costs of meeting the increased 
demand for passports as a result of 
actions taken to comply with section 7209(b) 
of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004. 
H.R. 4637. An act to make certain technical 
corrections in amendments made by the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005. 
f 

BILLS PRESENTED TO THE 
PRESIDENT 

Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House reports 
that on January 3, 2006, she presented 
to the President of the United 
States, for his approval, the following 
bills. 

H.R. 972. To authorize appropriations for 
fiscal years 2006 and 2007 for the Trafficking 
Victims Protection Act of 2000, and for other 
purposes. 
H.R. 1815. To authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2006 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year. 
H.R. 2017. To amend the Torture Victims 
Relief Act of 1998 to authorize appropriations 
to provide assistance for domestic and foreign 
programs and centers for the treatment 
of victims of torture, and for other purposes. 

H.R. 3179. To reauthorize and amend the 
Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design 
Program Act of 1994. 
H.R. 3402. To authorize appropriations for 
the Department of Justice for fiscal years 
2006 through 2009, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 4340. To implement the United States-
Bahrain Free Trade Agreement 
H.R. 4501. To amend the Passport Act of 
June 4, 1920, to authorize the Secretary of 
State to establish and collect a surcharge to 
cover the costs of meeting the increased demand 
for passports as a result of actions 
taken to comply with section 7209(b) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention 
Act of 2004. 
H.R. 4637. To make certain technical corrections 
in amendments made by the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005. 
f 

ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Concurrent Resolution 326, 
109th Congress, I move that the House 
do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Concurrent Resolution 
326, 109th Congress, the House stands 

adjourned until noon on Tuesday, January 
31, 2006. 

Thereupon (at 12 o’clock and 5 minutes 
p.m.), pursuant to House Concurrent 
Resolution 326, the House adjourned 
until Tuesday, January 31, 
2006, at noon. 

f 

TIME LIMITATION OF REFERRED 
BILL 

[The following action occurred on Dec. 31, 2005] 

Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XII, the 
following action was taken by the 
Speaker: 

H.R. 921. Referral to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce extended for a 
period ending not later than February 3, 2006. 
H.R. 1631. Referral to the Committee on 
Ways and Means extended for a period ending 
not later than February 3, 2006. 
H.R. 2829. Referral to the Committees on 
the Judiciary, Energy and Commerce, Education 
and the Workforce and the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence extended 
for a period ending not later than February 
3, 2006. 
H.R. 3699. Referral to the Committees on 
Resources and Energy and Commerce extended 
for a period ending not later than 
February 3, 2006. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 109th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 152 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2006 No. 1 

The 3d day of January being prescribed 
by the Constitution of the 
United States for the annual meeting 
of the Congress, the 2d session of the 
109th Congress commenced this day at 
12 noon. 

The Senate assembled in its Chamber 
at the Capitol. 

The Senate was called to order by the 
Honorable ROBERT F. BENNETT, a Senator 
from the State of Utah. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will read a communication to the 

Senate 

Senate from the President pro tempore 
[Mr. STEVENS]. 

The legislative clerk read the following 
letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, January 3, 2006. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule 1, section 3, of 
the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 
appoint the Honorable ROBERT F. BENNETT, a 
Senator from the State of Utah, to perform 
the duties of the Chair. 

TED STEVENS, 

President pro tempore. 

Mr. BENNETT thereupon assumed 
the chair as Acting President pro tempore. 


f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M., 

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 2006 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
Senate stands adjourned until 10 a.m. 
on Wednesday, January 18, 2006. 

Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:00 and 45 
seconds p.m., adjourned until Wednesday, 
January 18, 2006, at 10 a.m. 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S1 


January 3, 2006 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

CONGRATULATING THE UNIVERSITY 
OF MARYLAND MEN’S SOCCER 
TEAM ON WINNING THE 2005 
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP 

HON. STENY H. HOYER 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to 
congratulate the University of Maryland Men’s 
Soccer Team, the 2005 National Collegiate 
Athletic Association Champions. The Maryland 
Terrapins claimed the 2005 NCAA Championship, 
1–0, over the University of New Mexico 
Lobos at SAS Complex in Cary, North Carolina, 
on December 11, 2005. 

The University of Maryland Men’s Soccer 
Team has had a very successful season of 
which we can all be proud. In addition to the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association Championship, 
the Terrapins won the 2005 Atlantic 
Coast Conference Regular Season Championship 
and had an overall record of 19–4–2. 
They also set a school record of 66 goals. Additionally, 
the Maryland Terrapins are the first 
team since 1992 to win the tournament as the 
number one seed. 

The Terrapins’ Men’s Soccer Program has a 
history of successes. In just the past four seasons, 
the Terps have amassed 76 wins, the 
most in the NCAA during the 4-year span. In 
addition, the Terrapins won their first national 
soccer title in 1968, when it shared the title 
with Michigan State. 

The coaches who have led the Terrapins to 
victory are Head Coach Sasho Cirovsky, Assistant 
Coach Russell Payne, and Assistant 
Coach Rob Vartughian. Also assisting the 
team were Associate Athletics Director Shawn 
Flynn, Trainer Terry Gee, and Adam Zundell 
with Sports Information. University of Maryland 
Athletics Director Debbie Yow was also essential 
to their success. 

The gifted athletes include the following University 
of Maryland students: Spencer Allen, 
Matt Beckman, Kenney Bertz, Marc Burch, 
Robbie C’deBaca, Kwame Darko, A.J. 
Delagarza, Michael DelIo-Russo, Maurice Edu, 
Jason Garey, David Glaudemans, A.J. 
Godbolt, Aki Kadotani, Stephen King, Chris 
Lancos, Michael Marchiano, Kevin Reiman, 
Doug Rodkey, Robbie Rogers, Craig Salvati, 
Chris Seitz, Kevin Tangney, Michael Vallie, 
Pat Wilson, and Graham Zusi. 

Mr. Speaker, in addition to promoting discipline 
and health, collegiate athletics provide 
a wonderful training ground for future leaders 
and I expect that we will see great things 
come from these young men in the future. I 
applaud the University of Maryland’s 2005 
Men’s Soccer Team on its success. 

SAGO MINE COAL MINING 
ACCIDENT 

HON. NICK J. RAHALL II 

OF WEST VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of all 
West Virginians, our hearts and prayers are 
with the families and loved ones of those who 
are trapped in the Sago Mine in Upshur County, 
West Virginia. We extend our hope that 
families will be reunited and lives will be 
saved. 

Once again, when it mattered most, West 
Virginians have risen to the occasion. The 
men and women who are tirelessly dedicating 
their efforts to recovering our fellow Americans 
are to be commended and applauded. The 
community that is extending their support to 
the families and friends who are patiently waiting 
at this critical time are also helping in this 
difficult and tenuous time. 

Though we are all anxiously anticipating 
their safe return, I urge everyone to take a 
moment and ask our Creator for his full support 
in these efforts. As a West Virginian, I am 
proud of the way both our state leaders and 
residents have responded to this disaster. 

f 

30 YEARS OF JOURNALISTIC 
LEADERSHIP 

HON. ROBERT A. BRADY 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, 
on behalf of myself and my colleagues, the 
gentlewoman from Wisconsin, Ms. BALDWIN, 
and the gentleman from Massachusetts, Mr. 
FRANK, I submit these remarks commemorating 
a very important anniversary in the historic 
struggle of lesbian, gay, bisexual and 
transgender people for equal treatment under 
the law. 

Thirty years ago, in 1976, the notion of organized 
activity to combat discrimination 
based on sexual orientation and gender identity 
was an extremely controversial one. Nowhere 
in America did lesbian, gay or bisexual 
people have any legal protections against 
being dismissed or otherwise disadvantaged in 
the job market. Eleven years before that, 
when Congress passed what was generally 
considered to be a liberalization of U.S. immigration 
law, that law included on the recommendation 
of Democratic Presidents and 
adopted without dissent in a Democratic Congress 
a tightening on the prohibition against 
gay or lesbian people even being tourists in 
the United States. Here in the Congress, no 
serious effort was underway to deal with the 
severe legal and other handicaps that were 
imposed on our fellow gay, lesbian, bisexual 
and transgender citizens. 

But the stirrings of change were apparent 
for those who look closely. One of the most 

important examples of this was an event little 
noticed at the time, but which has turned out 
to be of great significance in the ongoing battle 
against homophobia. On January 26, 1976, 
a courageous, thoughtful, committed young 
gay man named Mark Segal presided over the 
publication of the first issue of the Philadelphia 
Gay News. 

PGN is now widely known for its leadership 
role in one of the great fights for social justice 
that has marked recent American history. It 
was started in a rundown building at 13th and 
Locust Streets in Philadelphia, a building 
which lacked plumbing and electricity. What it 
did not lack was heart and brains. From the 
outset, under the leadership of Mark Segal, 
PGN has been a strong force for fairness in 
our society. 

It was under PGN’s auspices that the first 
mayoral forum was held in Philadelphia where 
all of the candidates for that office spoke to 
the issues facing the LGBT community. Later 
PGN organized the first AIDS awareness day 
in the city, and it has grown both in size and 
influence throughout its history. 

Mark Segal deserves congratulations for his 
role as the sole owner and publisher of PGN 
for 30 uninterrupted years—a longevity record 
for LGBT newspapers, and an admirable 
record for any media outlet in these days of 
increasing corporatization and the diminution 
of journalistic independence. 

The work of Mark Segal and PGN has been 
honored by a wide range of organizations, including 
LGBT advocacy groups, and professional 
journalistic associations. They include 
the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation; 
the Pennsylvania Newspaper Association; 
The Society for News Design; and The 
Society for Professional Journalists. 

Emblematic of Mark Segal’s refusal to accept 
anything less than equality for himself 
and members of the LGBT community is the 
fact that he now sits on the Board of the 
Pennsylvania Newspaper Association, which 
for 15 years had refused to allow PGN even 
to join. Mr. Speaker, as the Member of the 
House in whose district PGN is published, I 
speak from personal experience of its importance 
as a respected and invaluable source of 
information, much of which would otherwise 
go unpublished. And I know that my colleagues 
from Wisconsin and Massachusetts 
share my high opinion of the extraordinary important 
role that PGN plays in our fight against 
prejudice. 

Mr. Speaker, for 30 years, in the face of a 
good deal of initial hostility and subsequent indifference 
at best, Mark Segal and PGN have 
shone the light on sexual orientation and gender 
identity prejudice not just in the United 
States but in the world, and have helped to diminish 
it—although we obviously have a long 
way to go. I am very proud to be able to salute 
this important pioneer in the fight for social 
justice, and to express my confidence, 
and that of my colleagues from Wisconsin and 
Massachusetts, that as long as there is a 
need to combat homophobia, we will be able 
to count on PGN’s leadership role. 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E2 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks January 3, 2006 

CONGRATULATING THE UNIVERSITY 
OF MARYLAND WOMEN’S 
FIELD HOCKEY TEAM ON WINNING 
THE 2005 NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP 


HON. STENY H. HOYER 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to the outstanding 2005 National 
Championship Women’s Field Hockey team at 
the University of Maryland. On Sunday, November 
20 in Louisville, Kentucky, the Terrapins 
defeated Duke University 1–0 to capture 
the 2005 National Collegiate Athletic Association 
Championship crown. This year marks the 
Terrapins’ fourth NCAA title overall and their 
first NCAA title in 6 years. 

The University of Maryland Women’s Field 
Hockey Program has achieved several significant 
honors this year. The Terps earned a No. 
1 final ranking by the National Field Hockey 
Coaches Association. Five Terrapins were 
named All-Americans, while three were also 
named All–ACC. Nine team members were 
named to the Mid-Atlantic All-Region team. 
The Terrapin defense was ranked second in 
the Nation and the offense was among the top 

15. Finally, the University of Maryland ended 
the season with a 23–2 record, the most wins 
since 1999, and recorded its fifth 20-win season 
in program history. 
The coaches who have led the Field Hockey 
team to victory are Head Coach Missy 
Meharg, Assistant Coach Tjerk (T.J) van 
Herwaarden, Assistant Coach Marybeth Freeman, 
Assistant Coach Clemens Arnold, Trainer 
Sandy Worth, Assistant Trainer Joey 
Sierzega, and Strength & Conditioning Coach 
Barry Kagan. Also deserving recognition are 
Jim Knight with Equipment, Natalia Ciccone 
with Media, and Supervisor Troy Tucker. 

These talented young athletes include the 
following University of Maryland students: 
Emily Beach, Kendall Beveridge, Jackie 
Ciconte, Kristina Edmonds, Megan Fox, Alica 
Grater, Paula Infante, Linzi Jones, Danielle 
Keeley, Meredith Long, Tiffany Marsh, Kathryn 
Masson, Katie Mockus, Ellen Ott, Louisa Powell, 
Lauren Powley, Christina Restivo, Susie 
Rowe, Sarah Scholl, Emily Trycinski, Janneke 
van Leeuwen, and Kim Ziegler. University of 
Maryland Athletics Director Debbie Yow was 
also essential to their success. 

Mr. Speaker, collegiate athletics promote 
camaraderie, leadership, responsibility, and 
good health. They are a vibrant and essential 
component of American culture. I commend 
the University of Maryland’s 2005 Field Hockey 
team and wish each of its members great 
success. 

f 

WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
SUGAR BOWL VICTORY 

HON. NICK J. RAHALL II 

OF WEST VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Speaker, I want to take 
this time to personally congratulate West Virginia 
University on their victory last night in the 
2006 Sugar Bowl. All of us in West Virginia 

are proud of the players and the coaches for 
their tremendous effort put forth on behalf of 
the Mountain State. I would like to personally 
congratulate Coach Rodriguez, his players 
and his coaching team on such a ‘‘sweet’’ victory. 
Thanks for making us proud to be Mountaineers. 


f 

HONORING THE CITY OF MID


DLETON, WI ON ITS SESQUI


CENTENNIAL 

HON. TAMMY BALDWIN 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
celebrate the sesquicentennial of the city of 
Middleton, WI. 

While first inhabited by Native Americans, 
then home to French fur traders and, later, 
English and German settlers, the area we now 
call Middleton marks its official birth with the 
arrival of the railroad there in 1856. 

The history of this vibrant community is well-
documented. We know of the fur-trading post 
opened in 1832 by the area’s first carpenter, 
Michael St. Cyr. Records tell us of Orson 
Cook, the first permanent settler in the East 
Middleton area in 1841. The name, Middleton, 
we are told, was chosen by the first postmaster, 
Harry Barnes, after a town in 
Vermont. 

The settlements of Pheasant Branch, East 
Middleton, Middleton Station and others coalesced 
when the train depot became a hub 
around which local businesses prospered. 

One hundred fifty years after the first trains 
arrived, Middleton’s downtown is thriving. New 
businesses are rising in the footprints of the 
old. The people of this 21st century community 
are still guided by the ‘‘good neighbor’’ 
practices of those who came before. 

The current residents of Middleton treasure 
historic structures of the past: the Old Stamm 
House, once a station on the ‘‘underground 
railroad’’; the Blacksmith Shop on Branch 
Street; Arneson’s Cafe´ on Parmenter Street 
where folks could collect mail on one side and 
buy stationery and sweets on the other, to 
name just a few. 

But they are also looking to the future, supporting 
a superb public library, a dynamic senior 
center, a community pool, and a performing 
arts center. Though barely miles from 
the State capital, the people of Middleton cede 
no civic pride or responsibility. Volunteers sustain 
and support emergency services and 
community functions. 

On its sesquicentennial, I salute the city of 
Middleton and its people and wish them many 
more years of prosperity. 

f 

IN MEMORY OF SGT REGINA 
REALI 

HON. JIM COSTA 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor and remember the memory of SGT Regina 
Reali who lost her life defending our nation 
in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. 

Sergeant Reali, 25, was born in Denair, 
California, then relocated to the central San 
Joaquin Valley. She was a 1999 graduate of 
Fresno High School and enlisted to serve in 
the U.S. Army in 2000. Ms. Reali’s military career 
includes graduation from basic training at 
Fort Jackson, South Carolina and advanced 
individual training as a civil affairs specialist at 
the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare School 
and Center at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Ms. 
Reali’s dedication led her to receive various 
awards, including the: National Defense Service 
Medal, Armed Forces Reserve Medal with 
‘‘M’’ Device, Army Service Ribbon and the Expert 
Marksmanship Qualification Badge. Upon 
completion of training, Ms. Reali reported to 
her first assignment as a civil affairs specialist 
with the Army Reserve’s 351st Civil Affairs 
Command, based at Mountain View. Shortly 
after her deployment to protect our country, 
Ms. Reali’s leadership efforts were recognized 
and she was promoted to sergeant. 

Unfortunately, Regina Reali’s tour in Baghdad, 
Iraq ended when an improvised explosive 
device detonated near her military vehicle on 
the 23rd day of December 2005. In recognition 
of Sergeant Reali’s dedication and sacrifice, 
she has been recommended to posthumously 
receive several awards that portray her 
strength of character, such as the: Bronze 
Star, Army Commendation Medal, Army Good 
Conduct Medal, Army Reserve Components 
Achievement Medal, Global War on Terrorism 
Service Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal and the 
Combat Action Badge. Finally, Sergeant Reali 
was recommended to receive the Purple 
Heart, the oldest military decoration in the 
world, awarded to members of the Armed 
Forces who are wounded in the line of action. 

Regina Reali is survived by her father Richard 
of Atwater and her brother and his wife 
Paul and Pricilla of San Diego. 

I would like to extend my heartfelt sympathy 
and most sincere condolences to Sergeant 
Reali’s family. 

It is my belief that SGT Regina Reali’s loss 
symbolizes the ultimate sacrifice one can 
make for her country. Her humble service to 
our Nation demonstrates her valor, strength, 
courage and pride. Americans all across the 
Nation are indebted to Sergeant Reali for her 
sacrifice and her efforts to uphold the principals 
of democracy, which will serve as an 
example to all of us for generations to come. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO TODD PATKIN, YOUNG 
LEADER AND PHILANTHROPIST 

HON. TOM LANTOS 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, I invite my colleagues 
to join me in paying tribute a young 
man who is part of the new generation of philanthropic 
leaders—Todd Patkin of Massachusetts. 
Todd is an impressive young man, and 
although he has just turned 40, he has been 
remarkably successful in the business world 
and is now devoting his life to helping others. 

Todd grew up in the Boston area, where he 
graduated from Tufts University. He married, 
had a family, and worked in the family auto 
parts business for the next 18 years. Using his 
amazing organizational and business talents, 
the company became remarkably successful, 


January 3, 2006 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E3 

expanding from 18 to 62 stores in the New 
England and New York area. His business 
acumen was recognized in 2004 by Auto International 
Associate when he was named 
‘‘Young Executive of the Year.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, Todd recently sold his regional 
business operations to the second largest retailer 
in the country, giving him the financial 
freedom to pursue his passion to help others. 

One of his major philanthropic initiatives has 
been to assist his friend, Gary Marino, to help 
Americans children and adults with problems 
of obesity and poor nutrition. Todd is funding 
the making of a major motion picture which focuses 
on Gary’s life story and on his ‘‘Million 
Calorie March’’ from Florida to Boston in 
which took place in 2005. 

Working with opera star Andrea Delgudice, 
Todd also founded the Todd G. Patkin Opportunity 
Performing Art Center. It brings the 
highest quality vocal, dance and acting in


struction to its students, many of whom are 
from the less-advantages areas of Brockton, 
Massachusetts, and are receiving full scholarships 
because of their economic need. 

Todd recently made a substantial contribution 
to the Boston Medical Center for its Todd 
and Yadira Patkin Sickle Cell Anemia Clinic. 
He has also provided significant financial support 
to the Boston chapter of the Anti-Defamation 
League, where he and Andrew Tarsy will 
be managing a new initiative to combat bigotry 
and intolerance in greater Boston. 

Todd has had a positive impact internationally 
as well, Mr. Speaker. He supports two 
charities in the State of Israel—the Jewish National 
Fund, which is chaired by Ronald 
Lauder, and the Yemin Orde Youth Village 
headed by Chaim Peri. The village is perhaps 
the most advanced orphanage in Israel and 
the world. It focuses on helping children, who 
frequently have been orphaned under dev


astating circumstances, to become happy and 
productive members of society. Today over 
two-thirds of the 300 children in the village are 
Jews of Ethiopian descent. 

Todd was the first philanthropist in September 
of this year to provide one million dollars 
to the Jewish National Fund to help it deal 
with some 2,500 displaced people who left the 
Gaza when the Israeli government left that 
area. The Israeli government was unable to 
assist them since these families failed to provide 
information to the government about their 
assistance needs. 

Mr. Speaker, Todd Patkin is a remarkable 
man, whose philanthropic efforts give me 
great hope for the next generation of leaders 
in our country who are now emerging. I invite 
my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to 
him. Todd has set a remarkable example that 
I hope many other young leaders will follow. 


Tuesday, January 3, 2006 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
Second Session of the One Hundred Ninth Congress convened as prescribed 
by the Constitution of the United States. 

Senate 

p.m., and adjourned at 12:00:45 p.m., until 10 a.m.,

Chamber Action 

on Wednesday, January 18, 2006. Page S1 

Routine Proceedings, page S1 

The Senate met in a pro forma session to convene Committee Meetingsthe second session of the 109th Congress at 12:00:04 

No committee meetings were held. 

h 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: There 
were no public bills or resolutions in today’s Record. 

Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today. 
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he 
appointed Representative Wolf to act as Speaker pro 
tempore for today. Page H1 

Convening of the Second Session of the 109th 
Congress: The Chair announced that, pursuant to 
section 2 of H. Res. 619, 109th Congress, as amended 
by section 2 of H. Res. 640, 109th Congress, organizational 
and legislative business is dispensed 
with on this day. The House will follow the practice 
announced by the Speaker at the convening of the 
second Session of the 106th Congress under a similar 
order. Bills and resolutions introduced today will be 

numbered today but will not be noted in the record 
or referred by the Speaker until January 31, 2006. 
Executive communications, petitions, and memorials 
will not be numbered or referred until January 31, 
2006. Page H1 

Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no quorum calls 
or votes developed during the proceedings of the 
House today. 

Adjournment: The House met at 12:00 noon and 
pursuant to H. Con. Res. 326, 109th Congress, adjourned 
at 12:05 p.m. until noon on Tuesday, January 
31, 2006. 

Committee Meetings 

No Committee meetings were held. 

D1 


D2 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST January 3, 2006 

Next Meeting of the SENATE Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
10 a.m., Wednesday, January 18 12 noon, Tuesday, January 31 

Senate Chamber House Chamber 
Program for Wednesday: Senate will be in a period of Program for Tuesday, January 31st: To be announced. 
morning business. 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE 

Baldwin, Tammy, Wisc., E2 
Brady, Robert A., Pa., E1 
Costa, Jim, Calif., E2 
Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E1, E2 
Lantos, Tom, Calif., E2 
Rahall, Nick J., II, W.Va., E1, E2 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. The online database is updated each day the 
Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 
1994) forward. It is available through GPO Access at www.gpo.gov/gpoaccess. Customers can also access this information with WAIS client 
software, via telnet at swais.access.gpo.gov, or dial-in using communications software and a modem at 202–512–1661. Questions or comments 
regarding this database or GPO Access can be directed to the GPO Access User Support Team at: E-Mail: gpoaccess@gpo.gov; Phone 
1–888–293–6498 (toll-free), 202–512–1530 (D.C. area); Fax: 202–512–1262. The Team’s hours of availability are Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, except Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 24x microfiche edition will be furnished by 
mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $252.00 for six months, $503.00 per year, or purchased as follows: 
less than 200 pages, $10.50; between 200 and 400 pages, $21.00; greater than 400 pages, $31.50, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $146.00 per 
year, or purchased for $3.00 per issue payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per 
issue prices. To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: 
Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250–7954, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), 
or fax to 202–512–2250. Remit check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, 
American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, 
permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, 
there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


