UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.22 09:40:36 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 104th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 142 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1996 No. 14 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
[Ms. PRYCE]. 

f 


DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

February 1, 1996. 

I hereby designate the Honorable DEBORAH 
PRYCE to act as Speaker pro tempore on this 
day. 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 


PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Rev. James David 
Ford, D.D., offered the following prayer: 


Of all the many gifts that You have 
given, O God, we offer our gratitude for 
Your free gifts of prayer, praise, and 
thanksgiving. You have invited us to 
speak to You with our supplications 
and petitions, our hopes and fears, our 
joys and concerns. When we face the 
challenges of the hour and the anxieties 
of every day, encourage us, O gracious 
God, to communicate with You in 
prayer and realize the abounding grace 
that You give to every person and 
know the overflowing love that is 
available to all. In Your name, we 
pray. Amen. 

f 


THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair has examined the Journal of the 
last day’s proceedings and announces 
to the House her approval thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge 
of Allegiance. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore led the 
House in the Pledge of Allegiance, as 
follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair desires to make an announcement. 


After consultation with the majority 
and minority leaders, and with their 
consent and approval, the Chair announces 
that during the joint meeting 
to hear an address by His Excellency 
Jacques Chirac, only the doors immediately 
opposite the Speaker and those 
on his right and left will be open. 

No one will be allowed on the floor of 
the House who does not have the privilege 
of the floor of the House. 

Due to the large attendance which is 
anticipated, the Chair feels that the 
rule regarding the privilege of the floor 
must be strictly adhered to. 

Children of Members will not be permitted 
on the floor, and the cooperation 
of all Members is requested. 

f 


RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the order of the House of Friday, 
January 26, 1996, the House will stand 
in recess subject to the call of the 
Chair. 

Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 3 minutes 
a.m.), the House stood in recess 
subject to the call of the Chair. 

During the recess, beginning at about 

11:40 a.m., the following proceedings 
were had: 
b1140 

JOINT MEETING OF THE HOUSE 
AND SENATE TO HEAR AN ADDRESS 
BY HIS EXCELLENCY 
JACQUES CHIRAC, PRESIDENT OF 
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC 

The SPEAKER of the House presided. 

The Assistant to the Sergeant at 
Arms, Bill Sims, announced the Vice 
President and Members of the U.S. 
Senate who entered the Hall of the 
House of Representatives, the Vice 
President taking the chair at the right 
of the Speaker, and the Members of the 
Senate the seats reserved for them. 

The SPEAKER. On the part of the 
House, the Chair appoints as members 
of the committee on the part of the 
House to escort His Excellency Jacques 
Chirac into the Chamber: 

The gentleman from Texas [Mr. 
ARMEY]; 

The gentleman from California [Mr. 
COX]; 

The gentleman from New York [Mr. 
GILMAN]; 

The gentleman from Nebraska [Mr. 
BEREUTER]; 

The gentleman from Missouri [Mr. 
GEPHARDT]; 

The gentlewoman from Connecticut 
[Mrs. KENNELLY]; 

The gentleman from Maryland [Mr. 
HOYER]; and 

The gentleman from Indiana [Mr. 
HAMILTON]. 

The VICE PRESIDENT. The President 
of the Senate, at the direction of 
that body, appoints the following Senators 
as a committee on the part of the 
Senate to escort His Excellency 
Jacques Chirac, the President of the 
French Republic, into the House Chamber: 


The Senator from Mississippi [Mr. 
LOTT]; 

The Senator from Mississippi [Mr. 
COCHRAN]; 

The Senator from Florida [Mr. 
MACK]; 

bb

This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


H 1141 


H 1142 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

The Senator from South Carolina 
[Mr. THURMOND]; 

The Senator from Georgia [Mr. 
COVERDELL]; 

The Senator from Louisiana [Mr. 
BREAUX]; 

The Senator from Rhode Island [Mr. 
PELL]; 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. 
INOUYE]; and 

The Senator from Nevada [Mr. REID]. 

The Assistant to the Sergeant at 
Arms announced the Acting Dean of 
the Diplomatic Corps, His Royal Highness, 
Prince Bandar bin Sultan, Ambassador 
of Saudi Arabia. 

The Acting Dean of the Diplomatic 
Corps entered the Hall of the House of 
Representatives and took the seat reserved 
for him. 

The Assistant to the Sergeant at 
Arms announced the Associate Justices 
of the Supreme Court of the United 
States. 

The Associate Justices of the Supreme 
Court of the United States entered 
the Hall of the House of Representatives 
and took the seats reserved 
for them in front of the Speaker’s 
rostrum. 

The Assistant to the Sergeant at 
Arms announced the Cabinet of the 
President of the United States. 

The members of the Cabinet of the 
President of the United States entered 
the Hall of the House of Representatives 
and took the seats reserved for 
them in front of the Speaker’s rostrum. 

At 11 o’clock and 57 minutes a.m., 
the Assistant to the Sergeant at Arms 
announced the President of the French 
Republic, His Excellency Jacques 
Chirac. 

The President of the French Republic, 
escorted by the committee of Senators 
and Representatives, entered the 
Hall of the House of Representatives, 
and stood at the Clerk’s desk. 

[Applause, the Members rising.] 

The SPEAKER. Members of the Congress, 
it is my great privilege and I 
deem it a high honor and a personal 
pleasure to present to you the President 
of the French Republic, His Excellency 
Jacques Chirac. 

[Applause, the Members rising.] 

f 


ADDRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY 

JACQUES CHIRAC, PRESIDENT OF 

THE FRENCH REPUBLIC 

(The following address was delivered 
in French, with a simultaneous translation 
in English.) 

President CHIRAC. Mr. Speaker, Mr. 
President, ladies and gentlemen, Members 
of the Congress, first, I want to 
thank you very warmly for your welcome, 
and I am deeply touched by it. 

‘‘In America, I saw more than America; 
I was seeking a vision of democracy 
itself.’’ Thus spoke Alexis de 
Tocqueville, one of our greatest thinkers. 
And because in the eyes of the 
world for more than 200 years you have 
been the symbol of such an ideal, I am 
indeed glad and proud of the opportunity 
of saluting today your very distinguished 
assembly. 

Loyalty and friendship are the keynotes 
of my visit to the United States. 
It is a personal friendship, born during 
the liberation of France, when at the 
age of 12, I saw the American troops 
land in Provence. This friendship was 
still further strengthened when I came 
here to your country as a student, and 
I worked here, too, because one needs 
money to live, as a driver and as a soda 
jerk. It is a true and sincere friendship 
that grew from strength to strength 
each time I came to the United States, 
which was often. 

But especially I wish to bear witness 
today to the friendship between our 
two peoples. We have all learned in our 
history books how France helped your 
country to establish itself as a free, 
sovereign, and independent nation and 
likewise, in return, how your political 
ideals had inspired our own revolution 
and contributed to the foundation of 
our Republic. 

This friendship, sealed in blood, has 
never faltered. Twice during the 
present century, when Europe was engulfed 
in the darkness of war and barbarity, 
America rose up and threw in 
her might in the defense of democracy. 
Your soldiers paid with their lives or 
their wounds the price of that fight 
against evil. 

Some of you here belong to that generation 
of heroes and your bodies carry 
the scars of war. Through you it is to 
the whole American people that I wish 
today to express our gratitude. The 
French will never forget the sacrifices 
you made for the freedom and the rebirth 
of Europe and France. 

This exceptional relationship between 
the United States and France is 
based on a common vision of the world, 
the same faith in democracy, liberty, 
human rights, and the rule of law. Naturally, 
our interests do not always coincide, 
but since the very beginning 
France has always been and will always 
be, on the basis of equal rights 
and obligations, an ally of the United 
States, a firm ally, an ally you can 
count on. 

Whenever essential values were at 
stake, each time France was by your 
side. In Berlin, and then during the 
Cuban missile crisis, and 20 years later, 
when the euromissiles were being deployed 
in Europe, and again in the gulf 
war. 

‘‘True friendship,’’ said George Washington, 
‘‘is a plant of slow growth and 
must undergo and withstand the 
shocks of adversity before it is entitled 
to the appellation.’’ The friendship between 
our two peoples has stood the 
test. 

The agreement that is to restore 
peace in Bosnia was signed 6 weeks ago 
in Paris in the presence of President 
Clinton. A few days later NATO was 
given the necessary authority to implement 
that peace. 

This enterprise is the culmination of 
long, joint efforts. In 1994, France proposed 
to the Europeans, the United 
States, and Russia to set up an original 
structure, the contact group, in order 

to work out a peace plan. For this to 
succeed, we first had to ensure respect 
for our soldiers on the ground. That is 
why as soon as I took office I suggested 
to our British partners that we set up 
the rapid reaction force, and we discussed 
this together, Mr. Speaker, to 
use the strength of NATO in a decisive 
manner. It is in this new environment 
that the United States took the excellent 
initiative to organize the Dayton 
talks. I wish to pay tribute to the tenacity, 
the talent of those who crafted 
the accord. 

Our joint action in Bosnia, the first 
large-scale military operation ever carried 
out by the alliance, illustrates the 
profoundly novel nature of the missions 
NATO can be called upon to accomplish. 
In this case the task is to 
give a country devastated by 4 years of 
war a unique opportunity to attain 
peace at long last. The alliance would 
not evade such a mission. France, with 
the United States and Great Britain, is 
responsible for one of the three zones of 
operations, and we will do all in our 
power to make the operation a success. 

By accepting to throw in the balance 
the full weight of the political and 
military power of the United States, 
President Clinton and your Congress 
have shown a sense of political responsibility, 
the high moral standards that 
are so deeply embedded in American 
tradition. My wish would be that this 
commitment be pursued in the form of 
a lasting and balanced participation in 
the necessary reconstruction of the region. 


Your presence in Bosnia sends a clear 
message to the world: As in the past, 
the United States considers that Europe 
is vital for its own security. I wish 
to pay tribute to the continuity and 
the strength of this commitment. 

As I stand before you, I wish to reaffirm 
the position of France: The political 
commitment of the United States 
in Europe in its military presence on 
European soil are still an essential element 
of the stability and the security 
of the continent and also of the world. 

Our common action in Bosnia emphasizes 
the need for the Atlantic Alliance 
to adapt itself to a universe that is no 
longer that in which it was born. The 
reform must first define the modes of 
action that will enable it to meet effectively 
the unpredictable situations 
that can arise in the post-cold-war period. 


But the reform must also enable the 
European allies to assume fully their 
responsibilities, with the support of 
NATO facilities, wherever the United 
States does not wish to engage its 
ground forces. In accordance with what 
was said at the 1994 summit, we must 
work on the European pillar within the 
alliance, which President Kennedy referred 
to and which must progressively 
become a reality with the Western European 
Union. 

In this new situation, France is ready 
to take its full share of this renovation 
process. And this was demonstrated a 
few weeks ago when France announced 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1143 

its intention to move closer to the 
military structures of the organization. 
I wish to confirm today the open-
mindedness and sense of availability 
with which France approaches this adaptation 
of NATO, including the military 
side, as long as the European identity 
can assert itself fully. 

For the alliance to be strong, Europe 
must be strong, capable of bearing a 
larger share of the common burden. 

I call for a renewed partnership between 
Europe, engaged in its own construction, 
including in the field of defense, 
and our North American allies. 
The culmination of this process could 
be the adoption at the appropriate time 
of a Transatlantic Charter, which 
would be a solemn sign for the coming 
century of the strength and the vitality 
of our alliance. 

The reform of our organization will 
facilitate its enlargement, if we are capable 
of proposing to Russia a positive 
relationship with NATO in a security 
framework that gives that great country 
its rightful place in Europe and in 
the world. And the presence of Russian 
soldiers in Bosnia alongside the allies 
is a first promising step in that direction. 


Let us show imagination and determination 
in building the European and 
transatlantic architecture of tomorrow. 
The balance and the peace of the 
world are at stake. 

But Europe is not the only area in 
which we have common interests. We 
share the same values and so we both 
aspire to peace and progress in the 
world. We are exposed to the same 
threats. We face the same risks. We 
bear on our shoulders the same responsibilities. 


Nothing that concerns the global village 
can leave us indifferent. No one is 
unaffected by what happens elsewhere, 
be it at the other end of the world. The 
AIDS virus or the effects of a new 
Chernobyl do not need visas to spread 
across borders. Drugs are a threat to 
young people everywhere. Nuclear 
arms proliferation weighs on the future 
of all of us. Illegal immigration is a 
problem for all developing countries, 
and we all feel the consequences of religious 
fanaticism and ethnic hatred 
which can destabilize entire regions. 
We must combine our efforts to get at 
the roots of these scourges. 

Amongst all of these dangers, in my 
view the most serious one is 
underdevelopment. The continuation of 
our aid to those countries in need is a 
moral obligation incumbent on all of 
us. It is also the best way of defusing a 
time bomb, a time bomb that threatens 
all of us and will threaten our children 
as well. 

Let us not leave to their fate the 
poorest countries on Earth, in particular 
the countries of Africa. Let us not 
leave them in the vicious cycle of exclusion 
by allowing the source of official 
development assistance to dry up, 
aid that is indispensable for them to 
move further toward democracy and 
development. We must not run the risk 

of leaving to coming generations a legacy 
of yet more crises, yet more famines, 
yet more wars, and also the irreversible 
destruction of our environment 
and large-scale immigration. Let 
us not abandon the values that lie at 
the very heart of our civilization. 

And we will not counter these dangers 
by accumulating every more weapons, 
nor by erecting ineffective barriers. 
The best security today lies in 
solidarity. Europe is convinced of this, 
and that is why Europe gives the poor 
countries more than $30 billion annually, 
that is to say, three times more 
than the United States, a considerable 
effort. 

My friends, in this field as well, the 
world needs you. Of course, your great 
Nation has to contend with budgetary 
constraints. So does Europe. So does 
France. But our difficulties should not 
divert us from our obligations toward 
the poorest countries of the world. 
Here the dictates of conscience and of 
political wisdom converge with our 
common interest. 

From the rice paddies of Bangladesh 
to the heights of the Altiplano, from 
the sands of the Sahel to the outskirts 
of Lunada, everywhere men and women 
are suffering, and they thirst for prosperity 
and peace. Everywhere, and we 
see proof of this day after day in Africa, 
men and women are making real 
progress, to help them travel farther 
on the road toward development and 
democracy, to help them to consolidate 
the rule of law that they have begun to 
establish, and to help them carry out 
painful but necessary economic reforms. 
Everywhere men and women 
place high hopes in the progress of education, 
of science, and medicine in 
order at long last to attain a better life 
and happiness, happiness to which they 
are entitled, like everyone on this 
planet. 

All over the world, men and women 
believe in America and Europe, in the 
generosity of their history, in their 
dedication to mankind. My friends, we 
must not let them down. 

In our interdependent world, together 
we must fulfill all our respective 
responsibilities as permanent 
members of the United Nations Security 
Council, as the first and fourth 
world economic powers, and as members 
of the G7. 

Together we must promote disarmament 
and combat the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction. France 
has ended, once and for all, its nuclear 
testing, after a final series that was designed 
to give us the assurance that 
our deterrence capability is reliable 
and safe. Let us join our efforts to 
make 1996 the year of the signing of the 
complete and definitive test ban treaty, 
with the zero yield option that 
France and the United States were the 
first to propose. I also welcome the decision 
of your Senate to authorize the 
ratification of the START II Treaty. 
Its implementation by the United 
States and Russia will also pave the 
way to further progress in disarmament. 


Let us also join efforts to make 1996 
the year of decisive progress toward 
peace in the Middle East, with the 
signing of treaties between Israel, 
Syria, and Lebanon. Thus will be fulfilled 
totally the destiny of Yitzhak 
Rabin, to whose memory I wish to pay 
tribute. 

And finally let us work together 
within the organizations that we have 
established. I have in mind, first, the 
United Nations, the only legitimate 
universal organization, the only bulwark 
against disorder and arbitrariness 
in international relations. Let us help 
the United Nations to reform itself. 
Let us not refuse the United Nations 
the necessary means to succeed. 

I have in mind, also, the World Trade 
Organization that we have recently set 
up together. We have established it to 
ensure orderly world trade. Let us resist 
temptations to unilateralism. 

And there is also the International 
Development Association of the World 
Bank [IDA]; it is an irreplaceable instrument 
in the fight against hunger, 
against extreme poverty and 
underdevelopment. It also plays a crucial 
role in developing the markets of 
the beneficiary countries, which in 
point of fact, already receive 40 percent 
of your exports. IDA was established at 
the initiative of President Eisenhower. 
Let us act together enabling it to pursue 
its action. 

And last, there is the G7, which will 
hold its next summit in June hosted by 
France in the city of Lyon. Let us avail 
ourselves of that opportunity for better 
coordination of our economic and financial 
policies. 

To carry out successfully the tasks 
that lie ahead, the United States will 
increasingly find in the European 
Union a strong partner. Thanks to the 
joint impetus given by France and Germany, 
it is the ambition of the European 
Union to gain in strength, and 
this will happen before the turn of the 
century through more effective institutions 
within the European Union, a single 
currency, and by enlargement involving 
the new democracies in Central 
and Eastern Europe. By the next generation, 
the European Union, in all 
probability, will have risen from 15 to 
30 member countries. Europe, reconciled 
historically and geographically 
on the basis of democracy, social justice, 
and a market economy, will have 
become one of the most stable and dynamic 
areas in the world of tomorrow. 

The European Union and the United 
States are already each other’s main 
trading partners, and it is a balanced 
trade relationship. They are also each 
other’s main investors: 3 million Europeans 
are today employed by American 
firms, and 3 million Americans work 
for European firms. 

Today, Europe is the world’s most 
open economic entity. We are prepared 
to increase freedom of trade still further, 
while still respecting our vital interests, 
and in the framework of a balanced 
approach. 

Building on the bedrock of a 50-yearold 
alliance, we can and must create a 


H 1144 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

genuine partnership, a comprehensive 
partnership, between the new Europe 
and America. 

Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, ladies 
and gentlemen, Members of Congress, 
in the wake of the victory over nazism, 
the United States contributed more 
than any other country to the shaping 
of the post-war world with the setting 
up of the United Nations and NATO, of 
the IMF and the World Bank, and with 
the implementation of the Marshall 
plan. These were key contributions, 
and the 50 years of peace and prosperity 
that ensued owe a great deal, a 
great deal indeed, to this American 
commitment. 

Today, as then, the world needs the 
United States. Your commitment is as 
necessary as ever in order to build the 
uncertain post-cold-war world and to 
further the cause of peace, democracy, 
and development. 

These are great challenges that lie 
ahead for all of us, and we will meet 
them if we are united and as one. It is 
only with this sense of solidarity and 
union that we can leave to our children 
the legacy of a better world, a world in 
which they can flourish, a world of liberty, 
justice, and peace. 

I thank you very much for your at


tention. 

[Applause, the Members rising.] 

At 12 o’clock and 25 minutes a.m., 
the President of the French Republic 
accompanied by the committee of escort, 
retired from the Hall of the House 
of Representatives. 

The Assistant to the Sergeant at 
Arms escorted the invited guests from 
the Chamber in the following order: 

The Members of the President’s Cabinet. 


The Associate Justices of the Supreme 
Court of the United States. 

The Acting Dean of the Diplomatic 
Corps. 

f 


JOINT MEETING DISSOLVED 
The SPEAKER. The purpose of the 
joint meeting having been completed, 
the Chair declares the joint meeting of 
the two Houses now dissolved. 
Accordingly, at 12 o’clock and 28 
minutes p.m., the joint meeting of the 
two Houses was dissolved. 
The Members of the Senate retired to 
their Chamber. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
The SPEAKER. The House will continue 
in recess until 1 p.m. 

f 


b1303 

AFTER RECESS 
The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. BARRETT of Nebraska) at 
1 o’clock and 3 minutes p.m. 

f 


PRINTING OF PROCEEDINGS HAD 
DURING RECESS 
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the proceed


ings had during the recess be printed in 
the RECORD. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Ohio? 

There was no objection. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair announces there will be five 1minutes 
on each side. 

f 


TAX CUTS FOR THE MIDDLE 
CLASS 

Mr. CHABOT asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I rise this 
morning in defense of the middle-class 
tax cuts that the middle class gets. 
They keep getting promised these tax 
cuts, but they never seem to get them. 

It is a fact that hard-working people 
in this country are overtaxed. The Federal 
Government continues to rip off 
hard-working people in order to benefit 
special-interest elites. This Government 
taxes families in my community 
in Cincinnati so that Hazel O’Learytypes 
can continue to jet around the 
world on five-star junkets. The Government 
continues to tax people in Cincinnati 
so that huge corporations can 
get subsidies to advertise their products 
around the world, advertising that 
they would do anyway. It is an absolute 
outrage. 

We continue to rip off the American 
people to give tax subsidies and price 
supports to people who do not need 
them. Taxes are absolutely too high in 
this country. The special-interest 
groups and their fellow defenders here 
in Washington will now scream, tax 
cuts for the rich, tax cuts for the rich, 
but I think the American people know 
better; they know the people in this 
country are overtaxed. 

We need to cut taxes now. 

f 


HOLD HOLLYWOOD RESPONSIBLE 

(Mr. ROEMER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. ROEMER. Mr. Speaker, many of 
us over the course of service in Congress 
have come to this floor as Members 
of this body and as parents to 
strongly condemn some of the types of 
films that are coming out of Hollywood 
and New York for their vulgarity, for 
their lack of content, for their lack of 
values, and their message to the American 
people. 

While I have done that in the past, I 
also do not claim to be a Siskel or an 
Ebert or even an Arch Campbell. But I 
also think we should come to this 
body, as Members of Congress, when 
there is a good movie, and encourage 
our citizens and consumers of this 
country that when Hollywood does do 

the exceptional thing and make the exception 
and make a Frank Capra-like 
move, like Mr. Holland’s Opus, about 
how one person can make a difference, 
how education is important in America, 
and about values, I think we 
should all reward those types of messages 
in America today. 

f 


BIPARTISAN SUPPORT FOR 
WELFARE REFORM 

(Mr. RIGGS asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. RIGGS. Mr. Speaker, we all know 
that we cannot balance the budget 
without the political will to address 
and to reform a failed welfare system 
in America, yet the President, the 
same President who, as a candidate, 
promised to end welfare as we know it, 
vetoed the House-Senate-passed welfare 
reform bill. 

The reason, ostensibly, is that the 
bill does not do enough to provide child 
care for working parents, particularly 
single mothers who many times struggle 
against heroic odds, to provide 
child care for their children. However, 
the American people should know that 
the bill the President vetoed provided 
$2 billion more for child care for working 
parents than current law, and $1 
billion more than the bill that the Senate 
passed and the President praised 
last September. 

The President has a very simple 
choice. He can join us in reforming welfare 
on a bipartisan basis, or he can 
continue to pander to the left wing of 
his party. 

f 


ADDRESS DEBT CEILING LIMIT 
NOW 

(Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, the House is on the verge of 
leaving town before addressing the 
problem of our debt limit. Instead of 
working to raise the debt limit and 
protecting the full faith and credit of 
the United States, the Republican majority 
has spent the past few months in 
a game of brinkmanship with the 
White House. 

For awhile it was: Give us what we 
want or we will close down the Government. 
Now it is: Give us what we want 
or we will default on our debt. 

I urge all of my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to resist this approach. 
It will reduce the public opinion 
of Congress even further, and it has 
real and adverse consequences. 

The main point of raising the debt 
ceiling is to pay our current obligations, 
to pay those Treasury billholders 
and to pay those U.S. savings bond purchasers. 
It is not about increasing our 
future spending. 

I have cosponsored a resolution to 
keep the House in session until it considers 
a clean bill on the debt ceiling, 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1145 

and I urge my colleagues to support it. LET LAW ENFORCEMENT REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
I have also signed a resolution asking OFFICIALS DO THEIR JOB AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 2745 

our Republican leaders to let a clean 
debt ceiling bill come to the floor. 

We must pass a clean debt ceiling bill 
to send a message to the world that we 
will keep our word and pay our bills. 
Do not default on America. 

f 


AMERICA’S LUMBER MARKET IS 
DYING 

(Mr. TRAFICANT asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Speaker, in 
very simple language, America’s lumber 
market is getting killed. I think we 
understand that word. Canadian lumber 
is everywhere. 

Now, check this out: Canadian provinces 
own the timber, so they sell the 
timber to the Canadian mills below 
market cost. Then the Canadian mills 
sell the timber in America below market 
value. As a result, Canada now 
owns 40 percent of America’s lumber 
market. 

America has lost 35,000 jobs and experts 
say, listen to this, America will 
continue to lose jobs in this industry. 
No kidding, Sherlock. 

With a policy like this, how can 
American timber mills end up competing 
with Canadian timber that is subsidized 
and being sold in America, 
dumped in America? Beam me up. This 
is another fine NAFTA ploy. 

f 


BETRAYAL IN GEORGIA 

(Ms. MCKINNEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. MCKINNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to call attention to a betrayal of 
Benedict Arnold proportions. 

The Atlanta Journal and Constitution 
reported today that the Democratic 
leadership in the State of Georgia—
that is, the vanguard of the Dixiecrats—
is actively recruiting people of 
the right skin color to challenge our 
colleague and two-term Democratic 
Member of Congress, SANFORD BISHOP. 

I want to say that again. The leadership 
of our party in the State of Georgia 
is recruiting white primary opponents 
to unseat a sitting Member of 
Congress of the same party. And why? 
Only because SANFORD BISHOP is black. 

Georgia Democratic House Speaker 
Tom Murphy is reported to have said 
that he would support the candidacy of 
Ray Goff who happens to be white. In 
fact, Murphy is willing to support Goff 
against Bishop even though Goff has 
not declared whether he is a Democrat 
or Republican. 

How’s that for party loyalty, Mr. 
Speaker? Once again Tom Murphy and 
his fellow dinosaurs have demonstrated 
that black Democrats are no more than 
spare parts for their whites-only party 
machine. 

(Mr. LAZIO of New York asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend his remarks.) 

Mr. LAZIO of New York. Mr. Speaker, 
last week in New York, a Federal 
judge threw out key evidence that 
would prove a defendant guilty of Federal 
drug charges. The defendant had 
over 4 million dollars’ worth of cocaine 
and heroine in her car, and voluntarily 
confessed on videotape that she had 
made the trip over 20 times to pick up 
drugs. The arresting officers witnessed 
four men putting duffle bags into the 
trunk of her car at 5 a.m. in the morning. 
They did not speak to her, and 
then fled the scene when spotted. Unbelievably 
however, the judge decided 
that the police had no cause to be suspicious. 
Even the New York Times 
called the judge’s reasoning, tortured. 

It is absolutely incredible that this 
case was dismissed, and the defendant 
will go unpunished due to a technicality, 
which would be corrected if the Exclusionary 
Rule Reform Act was in effect. 
Last February the House passed 
this bill, which extends the exclusionary 
rule’s good faith exception to 
warrantless searches. If the police have 
a reasonable good faith belief that a 
drug crime is occurring, as in this case, 
common sense should dictate that they 
be allowed to act accordingly. 

As a former Suffolk County assistant 
district attorney, I have seen firsthand 
the effects of drugs on our communities. 
It is about time we let our law 
enforcement officials do their job without 
tying their hands. We need this bill 
to become law so we can avoid such 
outrageous situations in the future. 

f 


MAJORITY PURSUING 
CONTRADICTORY STRATEGY 

(Ms. NORTON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, the majority 
is pursuing a contradictory 
strategy. Everything they have hinged 
on eliminating the deficit, but an increase 
in the deficit would be the first 
result of default. The official position 
of the United States of America today 
is under threat of default. Moody’s has 
certainly recorded it that way, because 
it has returned the threat itself. 

The shutdown strategy will not work 
this time. The only way to hang something 
on the debt limit bill is to get an 
agreement in advance from the President, 
yet I see no meetings occurring. 

Moody’s action shows that the delay 
alone can be costly, and worse, dangerous. 
If we mean to balance the budget, 
if your purpose is to eliminate the 
deficit, let us start by taking away the 
threat of default. 

Mr. KLINK. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that my name be removed 
as a cosponsor of H.R. 2745. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

f 


CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. 652, 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 

1996 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on Rules, I call 
up House Resolution 353 and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 353 
Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution 
it shall be in order to consider the 
conference report to accompany the bill (S. 

652) to provide for a pro-competitive, de-regulatory 
national policy framework designed 
to accelerate rapidly private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications and 
information technologies and services to all 
Americans by opening all telecommunications 
markets to competition, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against 
the conference report and against its consideration 
are waived. The conference report 
shall be considered as read. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Georgia [Mr. LINDER] is 
recognized for 1 hour. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, for the 
purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to the gentleman 
from California [Mr. BEILENSON], pending 
which I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. During consideration of 
this resolution, all time yielded is for 
the purpose of debate only. 

(Mr. LINDER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks 
and include extraneous material 
in the RECORD.) 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, House 
Resolution 353 provides for the consideration 
of the conference report for S. 
652, the Telecommunications Act of 
1996, and waives all points of order 
against the conference report and 
against its consideration. The House 
rules allow for 1 hour of general debate 
to be equally divided between the 
chairman and ranking minority member 
of the Commerce and Judiciary 
Committees. 

In addition, the regular rules of the 
House provide for a motion to recommit 
with or without instructions as is 
the right of the minority. 

Mr. Speaker, what we have before us 
is a complex piece of legislation that is 
the product of many long months of negotiation. 
I believe that the conferees 
have worked in good faith to create a 
balanced bill which equalizes the diverse 
competitive forces in the telecommunications 
industry. 

This entire process has involved 
countless competing interests which 
include consumers long distance companies, 
regional Bell operating companies, 
cable, newspapers, broadcasters, 


H 1146 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

and high-technology firms, to name 
only a few. We are opening up competition 
to those who have been protected 
for a very long time, and all of the 
players are anxious to gain an edge on 
their new competitors. I am absolutely 
confident that the legislation before us 
today will produce competition that 
will be good for all Americans. 

I want to commend the tireless work 
of Chairmen TOM BLILEY, JACK FIELDS, 
and HENRY HYDE, and ranking members 
JOHN DINGELL, ED MARKEY, and JOHN 
CONYERS. Their handling of this long 
and difficult conference will ensure 
that the United States maintains the 
lead on the information superhighway 
as we move into the 21st century. 

We have before us a bill that has undergone 
a great deal of revision and assembly 
in order to reach this point. In 
the past, telecommunications reform 
has fallen victim to one problem or another, 
from legislative resistance to 
the opposition of various powerful interests. 
Today, we have a good bipartisan 
bill, which has endured a rigorous 
process. It is a tribute to this process 
that this bill has broad support from 
consumers, industry, the U.S. Congress, 
and the White House. 

The goal of our telecommunications 
reform legislation is to encourage competition 
that will produce innovative 
technologies for every American household 
and provide benefits to the American 
consumer in the form of lower 
prices and enhanced services. This legislation 
will achieve this goal. 

Existing companies and companies 
that currently exist only in the minds 
of innovative dreamers will take advantage 
of this new competitive landscape 
and bring new products and a 
new way of life that will amaze every 
American. 

Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft 
Corporation, envisions an information 
revolution that will take place in the 
world communications marketplace. 
While he has expressed his frustration 
that the sweeping advancement in 
technology would not come for about a 
decade, we have the opportunity today 
to speed the advance of this technological 
and information revolution. We 
have the ability to set the pace by 
passing momentous legislation that 
will bring immeasurable technological 
advancements to every American family. 


The massive barriers to competition 
and the restrictions that were necessary 
not long ago to protect segments 
of the U.S. economy have served 
their purpose. We have achieved great 
advances and lead the world in telecommunications 
services. However, 
productive societies strengthen and 
nourish the spirit of innovation and 
competition, and I believe that S. 652 
will provide Americans with more 
choices in new products and result in 
tremendous benefits to all consumers. 

This legislation will be remembered 
as the most deregulatory telecommunications 
legislation in history. The philosophy 
of this Congress—and our Na


tion in general—is to encourage competition 
in order to provide more efficient 
service and superior products to 
the American consumer. This bill will 
strip away antiquated laws, create 
more choices, and lower prices for consumers 
and enable companies to compete 
in the new telecommunications 
marketplace. 

This resolution was favorably reported 
out of the Rules Committee yesterday, 
and I urge my colleagues to 
support the rule so that we may complete 
consideration on this historic legislation. 
I strongly support the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 which will 
assure America’s role as the high-technology 
leader and innovator for the 
next century, and I am absolutely certain 
that this will be the best job-creating 
legislation that I will see in my 
years in this House. 

b1315 
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 
Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself such time as I may 
consume. 
Mr. Speaker, there are some legitimate 
concerns about this rule for the 
consideration of the conference report 
for this landmark deregulatory telecommunications 
legislation, made all 
the more relevant, I think, by the fact 
that on what apparently will be the 
last day in which we shall be in session 
for almost 4 weeks, the principal responsibility 
for all of us should not be 
the hurried passage of this particular 
piece of legislation, which has been in 
conference now for several months, but 
rather passage of a clean debt ceiling 
resolution that would assure our citizens 
and the world that the U.S. Government 
will not default on its financial 
obligations. 
Beyond that, there is no compelling 
reason or legitimate need, so far as this 
legislation is concerned, to waive the 
standing rule of the House that gives 
Members 3 days to examine a conference 
report before being required to 
vote on it. That is an important rule. It 
exists for the protection of Members of 
Congress and for the protection of the 
people we represent, to afford us all an 
opportunity to study and to review and 
to understand the legislation on which 
we are going to be asked to vote. 
The importance of that rule, Mr. 
Speaker, is particularly relevant in a 
situation such as this when we are, as 
the gentleman from Georgia has pointed 
out, debating landmark legislation 
which completely rewrites our existing 
communications law that regulates industries 
worth nearly $1 trillion. Because 
this rule waives a reasonable and 
important time requirement, Members 
could be approving provisions that are 
not fully understood and that could 
have repercussions that no one has had 
the opportunity or the time to think 
carefully about, or think so carefully 
about as necessary. 
We are concerned, too, about statements 
that indicate that there are 

plans to complete this conference report 
and have it signed into law, and 
then later on consider legislation later 
this year that will undo some of the 
agreements we are rushing through 
today. 

In sum, it would have been much 
preferable if Members had been given 
the 3 days required by the rules of the 
House before being asked to vote on a 
conference report as complicated as 
this one, with its enormous economic, 
political and cultural consequences for 
the public and for businesses and for 
the Nation in general. 

Several very major decisions have 
been made by the conferees, including 
those dealing with the relaxation of restrictions 
on ownership of radio and 
TV stations, with restrictions on 
Internet communications, and with the 
unfunded mandates issue that city governments 
in particular have expressed 
some concerns about. 

In addition, the legislation basically 
unravels the protections that cable 
consumers currently enjoy. It terminates 
regulation of rates for non-basic 
cable services for all cable systems no 
later than 1999, and immediately for 
most small cable systems. That obviously 
is a very significant issue, dealing 
as it does with an industry that affects 
the great majority of the Americans 
whom we are elected to represent. 

Mr. Speaker, perhaps the most worrisome 
part of the legislation is its treatment 
of media ownership and its promotion 
of mergers and concentration 
of power. The bill would change current 
law to permit a single company to 
own television stations reaching 35 percent 
of the nationwide audience, an increase 
from the current level of 25 percent. 


Nationwide ownership limits in radio 
would be eliminated altogether, while 
a single company could own numerous 
radio stations in a single market. 
Newspapers could own radio and, in 
some cases, television stations in their 
own communities; local telephone companies 
could own television and radio 
stations in their own service areas. 

These proposals pose a serious threat 
to the principles of broadcast diversity 
and localism. They threaten the ability 
of a community to have more than one 
source of news and entertainment. 

The conference agreement does contain 
some provisions that enjoy widespread 
support, including one that 
gives parents the ability to block television 
shows that young children, they 
believe, should not be watching. That 
is an important issue. Conferees, most 
of us think, should be strongly commended 
for their support of this language. 


We all recognize, Mr. Speaker, the 
need to make changes in our 60-yearold 
communications law, but we are 
still concerned, as I said at the outset, 
about the process under which the bill 
is being considered. 

Obviously the needs and the rights of 
the American public should be the primary 
concern of this legislation. Many 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1147 

of us had hoped that the final version 
would better balance the introduction 
of competitive markets with measures 
designed to protect the public. I do 
hope that we do not discover later that 
we have lost sight of the public in this 
process and of the need to protect the 
public from potential monopoly abuses. 

Mr. Speaker, in sum, this is a very 
complex and far-reaching piece of legislation. 
I am sorry only that we are 
being forced to consider it in a rather 
hurried fashion today. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from California 
[Mr. DREIER], my colleague on the 
Committee on Rules. 

(Mr. DREIER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
my friend for yielding me the time and 
congratulate him on his fine work on 
this effort. 

This is obviously a great day. It has 
been decades in the making. As we all 
know, it has been over six decades 
since we have been able to deal as comprehensively 
with this issue. But I 
would like to make just a few points as 
we move ahead. 

First and foremost, the success of 
this conference demonstrates that in a 
bipartisan way there is an understanding 
that competition works. It clearly 
creates a great opportunity to create 
jobs, creates an opportunity to benefit 
the consumer, which is what we want 
to do. We want to provide the widest 
range of choices, and that is exactly 
what is going to happen here. 

We have learned from the fall of the 
former Soviet Union that regulated 
monopolies do not work, whether it is 
in business, whether it is even in public 
education. We have found that they do 
not work, and I think that the realization 
that we are going to finally bring 
telecommunications law up to the market 
is, I think, something that is very, 
very important. 

The second point that I would like to 
make is that the success of this conference 
is due in large part to the reforms 
that were put into place at the 
beginning of the 104th Congress. We 
know that, as we have looked at the 
many people who have been involved in 
this, that if we had been living with 
the older system that we had, which is, 
I know, inside baseball here to talk 
about this, but the referral process for 
legislation was one which played a 
role, I believe, in jeopardizing success 
in the past. The change that we made 
at the beginning of this Congress, I believe, 
went a long way toward dealing 
with that. 

The other thing that was very important 
was that we overhauled committee 
jurisdictions at the beginning of 
this Congress, and we have had some 
marvelous success in that overhaul, 
which I believe has gone a long way toward 
benefiting the legislative process. 

Mr. Speaker, let me just say in closing, 
the State of California is pivotal 

to the success of this, too. California is 
providing the hardware and the software 
that is going to allow us to move 
into the 21st century, and this legislation 
will be key. We in California have 
what is known as the Silicon Valley 
where the hardware is going to be emanating 
from and Hollywood where the 
software will be emanating from, so 
our State is on the cutting edge, and it 
will go a long way toward creating jobs 
and opportunity. 

I urge support of this very balanced 
rule, and I urge support of the conference 
report. 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. DINGELL], the distinguished 
ranking member of the Committee 
on Commerce. 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
my good friend for yielding me the 
time, because I would like the attention 
of my good friend from California. 

He speaks with great enthusiasm on 
the subject of reforms. I would remind 
the gentleman that last year or, rather, 
the year before last under the old 
rules, this body got from our Committee 
on Energy and Commerce, in agreement 
with the Committee on Judiciary, 
a bill which did substantially the 
same thing that this bill does right 
here. I would remind him that the matter 
was handled expeditiously and 
splendidly; that the delay occurred not 
here but in the Senate. 

If the gentleman wishes, I will be delighted 
to inform him as to why the 
delay occurred and why that bill never 
passed the Senate. But I do not think 
the gentleman has any reason to discuss 
the failure of the old rules or the 
success of the new rules on the basis of 
this. 

We gave this House a bill which does 
substantially the same thing. It was almost 
identical in language, in intent, 
and in substance to that which we have 
before us at this particular time, and I 
hope my good friend, for whom I have 
enormous respect and affection, will 
now be absolved of his very unfortunate 
error on this. 

Since I have mentioned him I will be 
delighted to yield to him. 

Mr. DREIER. I thank my friend for 
yielding. I would simply say that it is 
true that we were able to move legislation. 
But I believe very sincerely that 
the reforms that we put into place as it 
came to jurisdiction and also the referral 
process has helped us move more 
expeditiously with this legislation in 
the 104th Congress. And I believe, also 
looking at the issue of unfunded mandates 
and reform of unfunded mandates, 
that was another very important 
reform which allowed us to deal with 
this. 

Mr. DINGELL. Reclaiming my time, 
again with great affection for the gentleman, 
it would serve him and this 
body well if he were to seek more suitable 
subjects for making a claim that 
reform has accomplished anything of 
merit. 

I would conclude by making the observation 
that this is a good bill. I 

want to commend the distinguished 
chairman of the committee, the chairman 
of the subcommittee, the gentleman 
from Massachusetts [Mr. MARKEY], 
and the members of the committee. 


Last year, I would remind my dear 
friend from California, we got 423 
votes. I hope we will do as well today. 
Four hundred twenty-three is a large 
number of votes. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin 
[Mr. KLUG]. 

Mr. KLUG. Mr. Speaker, the rule we 
have before us this afternoon and soon 
the bill itself that will follow has to do 
with changing law, and changing law 
that has affected the communications 
industry since the 1930’s, but it is not 
just about changing law. It is also, I 
think, in many ways about fundamentally 
changing a mind-set, because for 
nearly 60 years in this country we have 
run communications based on a philosophy 
which said the bureaucracy, that 
the Government set prices, that the 
Government restricted access and restricted 
competition, and fundamentally 
it was the Government picking 
winners and defining losers. 

This bill and this rule that precedes 
the bill will usher in a new era of competition 
where the market instead will 
pick winners and losers, and ultimately 
the major winner in all of this will be 
consumers. It is the way that consumers 
won when we deregulated the airline 
industry in 1978, and it is the way 
that consumers won when we deregulated 
the trucking industry back in 
1980. Those changes have resulted in 
savings of hundreds of billions of dollars 
to the economy. 

b1330 
Obviously it helped the economy 
grow; this bill, at its roots, is in many 
ways a jobs bill as well, because it is a 
jobs bill based fundamentally on innovation 
and on new products. 
This bill is also about choice. It used 
to be we only had one long-distance 
phone company in this country. Today 
there are thousands of them. Soon consumers 
will also have choices about 
local telephone service, about cellular, 
and if you hate your local cable company, 
you will have other cable companies 
to pick from, and you will have 
more options in broadcasting, more options 
in satellites. 
All of those choices will be based on 
price, on service, and on performance 
and not ultimately on Government regulation. 
I would like to congratulate the 
chairman of the committee, the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], for 
his terrific work, and the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS] for his terrific 
work as well, and also congratulate my 
fellow conferees. It is time to end 60 
years of Government control, Mr. 
Speaker. It is time to vote for this rule 
and trust consumers and the markets 
to make decisions and no longer trust 
Government regulators. 


H 1148 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Colorado [Mrs. SCHROEDER]. 

Mrs. SCHROEDER. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding me 
this time. 

I must say if this bill is being 
brought to the floor under sunshine 
and happiness, I am not happy. I think 
this rule should be defeated. I think it 
is outrageous this rule is waiving the 3 
days so that we can look at it. 

I was on the conference committee, 
and at 7:40 a.m. this morning was the 
first time I got the full bill. Let me 
show you what was attached to it. 
These are the proposed technical corrections. 
This is page 1, this is page 2, 
this is page 3, this is page 4, this is 
page 5, and this is page 6. We have six 
little pages of technical corrections. 

Now maybe the rest of you are 
quicker than I am, but we have been 
trying desperately to go through all of 
this and figure out what these six 
pages of technical corrections are really 
going to do to this bill, and because 
we do not have 3 days, we have until 
probably about an hour and a half from 
now, that is it, and I think when you 
are talking about a seventh of the 
economy, when you are talking about 
something that is trillions of dollars, 
and I come from a district that is very 
impacted by this, because we have regional 
Bells, we have long-distance 
companies, we have got cable companies, 
we have got all of that. We would 
like to know what this means, and the 
idea of ‘‘trust us, hurry out and vote,’’ 
I think is wrong. 

I mean, I figure I am getting my pay, 
and I am getting paid to be here, and to 
be here and study this, and I would 
hope that we know what is in it before 
we vote for it. 

For all of those who think they know 
all of this and this is fine and this is 
terrific, let me tell you about one of 
the things that we stumbled over as we 
looked at this page upon page of corrections 
and stuff. We came across section 
1462, which I think very few people 
know is even in this bill. What it says 
is absolutely devasting to women. 
What we are going to do is put on a 
high-technology gag rule with criminal 
penalties. Have a nice day. 

Yes, let me read what this brings 
into the law through one of these little 
things. It says that any drug, medicine, 
article, or thing designed, adapted, or 
intended for producing abortion or for 
any indecent or immoral use or for any 
written or printed card, letter, circular, 
book, pamphlet, advertisement, 
or notice of those giving any kind of 
information directly or indirectly, no 
matter what it means, this is going to 
be deemed a Federal penalty, a Federal 
crime, if you transmit any of this over 
the Internet. Now, this is a gag rule 
that is off the charts. 

One of the major things people wanted 
to use Internets for was 
telemedicine. Does that mean anything 
dealing with women’s reproductive 
parts they cannot do this? There will 

be people standing up and saying, ‘‘Oh, 
SCHROEDER, cool off, that will never be 
considered constitutional.’’ Well, if we 
are going to vote for things we think 
are not constitutional and we are going 
to do it in this fast a pace, we ought to 
give at least part of our salary to the 
judges. We are just going to mess everything 
up over here and send it over 
to them. I do not think so. 

Let me tell you what lawyers tell me. 
Lawyers tell me do not be so quick 
about saying this is not constitutional; 
there was a pre-1972 case that upheld 
the constitutionality of this. And, second, 
we are talking about an international 
Internet. That is what our 
companies want to get on. And we have 
now seen one case with Germany talking 
about standards and what they 
want, and this, I think, would only give 
some international gravitas to limiting 
what you can say about women’s reproductive 
health in and around the 
Internet no matter which side of this 
issue you were on. 

I just think, why can we not have a 
little technical amendment correcting 
this? I think you are going to hear all 
sorts of people say we did not intend 
that, we did not mean it, let us have a 
colloquy, oh, let us, oh, let us, oh let 
us. Why can we not fix this? Why are 
not women in the world important 
enough if you can have six pages of 
technical corrections for every other 
thing you can possibly think of, some 
megacorporation wants? Why can we 
not take a deep breath and do this? 
Does that mean somebody’s golf schedule 
in Florida is going to get upset? I 
do not know. 

I must say I am very saddened we are 
coming to the floor with this rule saying 
we have to waive the 3-day proposal 
where we have time to read this and digest 
this, because I really do not think 
anybody here could pass a test. I really 
do not. 

I was on the conference committee. 
Let me tell my colleagues, those conference 
committees were absolutely 
nonsubstantive. We would all gather in 
a room, best dressed, the TV camera 
from C–SPAN II would pan us, that 
would be the end of it. 

I really hope people vote ‘‘no’’ on this 
rule. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. STEARNS]. 

(Mr. STEARNS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I say to 
the gentlewoman from Colorado [Mrs. 
SCHROEDER], I just cannot resist to use 
your own words, ‘‘Oh, Mrs. SCHROEDER, 
cool off.’’ Those are your words. 

You and I were both in the conference 
committee together. You and I 
were both there; we voted on the 
Internet legislation together; and, in 
fact, I think we voted the same way. 

What we have here in this bill is satisfactory. 
In fact, it is superior, and it 
is something that we all voted together, 
both Democrats and Republicans. 


So I am not clear if I understand 
your argument. 

Let me just continue with what I was 
going to say. This follows up my good 
friend, the gentleman from Georgia 
[Mr. LINDER], when he talked about 
Bill Gates, the founder and CEO of 
Microsoft. This is what he said, my 
friends: ‘‘We are beginning another 
great journey; we aren’t sure where 
this one will lead us either, but again I 
am certain this revolution will touch 
even more lives. The major changes 
coming will be in the way people communicate 
with each other. The benefits 
arising from this opportunity and this 
revolution will be greater, greater than 
brought by the PC revolution. We are 
on the verge of a bold new era of communications.’’ 


I urge my colleagues to vote in favor 
of this rule so that this body may have 
the unique chance to ensure this country’s 
ability to realize the great potential 
of the dynamic communications 
revolution that Mr. Gates speaks 
about. Today we have this opportunity, 
because the Republican majority has 
brought forth a bill that is important 
not only for the industry but for this 
country. 

Mr. Gates is right when he says this 
revolution will touch even more lives 
in addition to creating new jobs in the 
communications industry. It will have 
a dramatic impact on consumers. It 
will bring about benefits of greater 
choice, of new and exciting communications 
services with lower prices 
and even higher quality. Americans 
will have greater access to information 
and education than ever before. 

Clearly the consumer will be the winner. 


I urge my colleagues to vote for the 
rule on this legislation that will take 
the American consumers and customers 
further than they ever imagined. 


Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. 
BONIOR]. 

Mr. BONIOR. Mr. Speaker, this is an 
enormous bill in its scope and the effort 
that went into it and the number 
of years that were spent putting this 
together. 

Certainly there are parts of this legislation 
that I do not agree with. But 
in general, I think what has been put 
together here is positive. 

We live in a new world, and if we are 
going to make the technological 
changes that work for families, our 
laws have to keep pace with the changing 
times that we are in. We cannot 
move into a computer age with laws 
that were written for the radio age. 

I believe this bill will help bring us 
into the 21st century in a way that will 
not only create jobs but make us more 
efficient as a country in this ever challenging 
global economy that we now 
are in. 

Beyond that, this bill gives parents, 
and I would like to focus attention for 
one second on this question of giving 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1149 

parents more control over the sex and 
the violence that is coming into our 
homes today. Most of the kids in our 
society will see 8,000 murders and over 
100,000 acts of violence on television by 
the time they finish grade school. That 
is appalling. We need to do more to 
help those parents who do take responsibility 
for their kids. 

Now, the V-chip, that is something 
that is part of this package. It was the 
gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. 
MARKEY] and the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. DINGELL] and others who 
have been active on this issue. We have 
got that in here. The V-chip included 
in this bill will help parents let in Sesame 
Street and keep out programs like 
the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. 

Mr. Speaker, it is parents who raise 
children, not government, not advertisers, 
not network executives, and parents 
who should be the ones who 
choose what kind of shows come into 
their homes for their kids. 

It was a little more than a week ago 
when the President of the United 
States stood directly in back of me and 
spoke to the Nation, and the most 
memorable words from my standpoint 
in that speech were parents have the 
responsibility and the duty to raise 
their children. This bill will help immeasurably 
in that direction, so I urge 
my colleagues to be supportive of the 
conference report when it comes before 
us in the next few minutes. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Texas [Mr. FIELDS], 
the chairman of the subcommittee that 
produced this bill. 

(Mr. FIELDS of Texas asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
very seldom, if ever, in a legislative career, 
can we as legislators, can we as 
trustees for the American people, feel 
that we have made a significant contribution 
for the country’s future— 
made a real difference. Well, today we 
can. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a watershed moment—
a day of history—and, not just 
because this is the first comprehensive 
reform of telecommunication policy in 
62 years—not just because we have 
been able to accomplish what has eluded 
previous Congresses—which, in and 
of itself, is of particular pride to me 
and my fellow subcommittee members, 
on both sides of the aisle, because we 
have all worked many long hours to 
get to this watershed moment. 

No, Mr. Speaker, this is a historic 
moment because we are decompart 
mentalizing segments of the telecommunications 
industry, opening the 
floodgates of competition through deregulation, 
and most importantly, giving 
consumers choice—in their basic 
telephone service, their basic cable 
service, and new broadcasting services 
as we begin the transition to digital 
and the age of compression—and from 
these choices, the benefits of competition 
flow to all of us as consumers— 

new and better technologies, new applications 
for existing technologies, and 
most importantly, to all of us, because 
of competition, lower consumer price. 

For the last 31/2 years this telecommunication 
reform package has 
been my life—I have lived with it, 
eaten with it, and not to sound weird, 
even dreamed of telecommunication reform 
while I’m asleep—so, believe me 
when I say that I am glad that we are 
bringing this important issue to closure. 
In fact, this closure reminds me 
of my newest daughter, Emily, born 14 
days ago—the labor has been long, 
we’ve been through some painful contractions, 
but at the birth of something 
so magnificent, you’re a proud 
father—and today, I am one of many 
proud fathers. 

b1345 
And, just as I cannot predict what 
Emily will be like as she grows up, few 
of us really understand what we are 
unleashing today. In my opinion, today 
is the dawn of the information age. 
This day will be remembered as the day 
that America began a new course—and 
none of us fully appreciate what we are 
unleashing. I do know that this is the 
greatest jobs bill passed during my 
service in Congress. I really believe 
that because of the opportunities afforded 
because of deregulation that 
there will be more technology developed 
and deployed between now and the 
year 2000 than we have seen this century. 
I believe that this legislation 
guarantees that American companies 
will dominate the global landscape in 
the field of telecommunication. 
And, if asked what I am most proud 
of in this legislation—besides the fact 
that my subcommittee members on my 
side of the aisle have worked as a team 
in developing this legislation—is the 
approach that we initiated in January 
1995, when we as Republicans assumed 
leadership on this issue and invited the 
leading CEO’s of America’s telecommunication 
companies to come and 
answer one question. That one question 
was, What should we do as the new majority 
in this dynamic age of 
telechnology to enhance competition 
and consumer choice? The telephone 
CEO’s said that they didn’t mind opening 
the local loop if they could compete 
for the long distance business that 
was denied to them by judicial and legislative 
decision. The long distance 
CEO’s said that they didn’t mind the 
Bell’s competing for the long distance 
business if the local loop was truly 
open to competition and if they could 
compete for the intraLATA toll business 
which was denied to them. And, 
the biggest surprise to us was when 
Brian Roberts of Comcast Cable on behalf 
of the cable industry said that 
they wanted to be the competitors of 
the telephone companies in the residential 
marketplace. In fact, the next 
day, I called Brian and Jerry Levin of 
Time-Warner to have them reassure me 
that their intent was to be major players 
and competitors in the residential 

marketplace. After that discussion, I 
told my staff that we needed a checklist 
that would decompartmentalize 
cable and competition in a verifiable 
manner and move the deregulated 
framework even faster than ever imagined. 
And we came up with the concept 
of a facilities based competitor who 
was intended to negotiate the loop for 
all within a State and it has always 
been within our anticipation that a 
cable company would in most instances 
and in all likelihood be that facilities-
based competitor in most States—even 
though our concept definition is more 
flexible and encompassing. It is this 
checklist which will be responsible for 
much of the new technologies, the 
major investments that will be flowing, 
and the tens of thousands that will be 
created because of this legislation. 

And, in talking about opening the 
loop, I don’t want to take away the 
other deregulatory aspects of our legislation 
such as the more deregulatory 
environment for the cable industry as 
they prepare to go head-to-head with 
the telephone companies. The streamlining 
of the license procedures for the 
broadcasting industry and the loosening 
of the ownership restrictions. 

Mr. Speaker, I could go on and on 
and on and be excited about what this 
bill means to Americans, to our consumers. 


Let me just end at this particular 
time in saying once again, I am a proud 
father, along with many others. There 
are many who have brought this day to 
us. It is a watershed moment, a historic 
moment, and it is a day that all 
of us can be extremely proud of. 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from New York [Ms. SLAUGHTER]. 

(Ms. SLAUGHTER asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding me 
time. 

Mr. Speaker, I agree with the previous 
speaker, we are not sure what we 
are unleashing here. But I am rising in 
objection today to at least another 
measure to restrict women’s constitutional 
rights that has appeared in this 
bill. I am referring to section 507 of the 
Communications Act of 1995 that would 
prohibit the exchange of information 
regarding abortion over the Internet. I 
ask you, is the abortion issue going to 
be attached and is it at all germane to 
this bill? 

This is the 22d vote of the 104th Congress 
on abortion-related legislation 
that has whittled away at the constitutional 
and legal rights of American 
women. Today we have the opportunity 
to pass a widely supported bipartisan 
telecommunications bill. Instead of focusing 
on the important issues at hand, 
we are being forced again for the 22d 
time during Congress to vote on a 
measure to further reduce women’s 
constitutional rights. 

Abortion is a legal procedure. To prohibit 
discussion of it on the Internet is 


H 1150 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

clearly a violation of first amendment 
rights. 

The penalties involved are severe. If 
an unknowing person were to even 
bring up the topic on the Internet, the 
penalty would be 5 years imprisonment; 
10 years for a second or subsequent 
charge, even for the mention of 
the word. 

I want the American people to know 
that this Congress has systematically 
whittled away at a woman’s right to 
choose to such a degree it has been virtually 
destroyed. If it is to be Federal 
policy that every conception will result 
in birth, then the Federal Government 
must also assume responsibility for 
children. We must assume the responsibility 
to provide for the emotional, 
the educational needs, and the financial 
well-being of every child. 

This Congress has expressed no interest 
in assuming responsibility for children. 
Instead, measures have been proposed 
and many have passed that further 
rescind the current limited Federal 
obligations to the children of the 
United States. There have been drastic 
cuts to the earned income tax credit 
for working parents with children, to 
Head Start, to nutrition, and to health 
programs. These are the very programs 
that address the needs of the poor and 
disadvantaged children. 

The implication in this Congress is 
that once a child is born, we really do 
not care what happens to it. That child 
may starve, may be abused, or even be 
beaten to death, and, in the case of the 
Northeast, may freeze to death because 
hearing assistance for the poor has now 
been taken away. The only thing that 
matters is that the child be born. After 
that, it is somebody else’s problem. 

This prohibition to rights of privacy 
and to the first amendment rights does 
not belong in this bill. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. GOSS], my colleague on the Committee 
on Rules. 

(Mr. GOSS asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my 
distinguished colleague from Georgia 
for yielding me time. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this 
rule. I think it is an appropriate rule 
that finally takes this piece of legislation 
which has been moving up and 
down the field now, lo these many 
years, and finally pushes it over the 
goal line. I think we have come to that 
point. 

I would like to extend my congratulations 
to all those involved on the primary 
committee and all the other committees 
that looked at it, but particularly 
the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. 
BLILEY], the gentleman from Louisiana 
[Mr. FIELDS], the gentleman from Ohio 
[Mr. OXLEY], and the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. DINGELL]. This has truly 
been a remarkable product. 

This is a bill that is good for all, long 
distance, regional, new technology, 
broadcasters, cable, but consumers as 

well. Consumers, Americans, the people 
we work for, are going to benefit from 
this. 

Yes, there are still some problems 
out there with local government on 
revenue and zoning issues. We have assurances 
they are worked out, and, if 
they are not, then we can deal with 
them. Areas of duopoly, the question of 
free press and diversity of opinion, 
which are essential to our democracy, 
these are areas that may need further 
attention, and we have been promised 
we will get them if necessary. This is a 
big, important positive step we are 
taking, and I urge support. 

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Georgia 
for yielding me this time and I urge support of 
this rule. As has been explained this is a 
standard rule providing for consideration of a 
very complex conference report. 

Mr. Speaker, this telecommunications bill is 
a remarkable piece of legislation in its overall 
effect. I commend everyone who has worked 
so hard to create a fair, bipartisan bill—wading 
through some of the most complicated and 
controversial issues of our day. According to 
Chairman BLILEY, who worked tirelessly on 
this project, we have arrived at a compromise 
that will open the communications industry to 
real competition and reduce Federal involvement 
in decisions that are best made by the 
free market. 

As America enters the 21st century, telecommunications 
will be at the forefront of our 
continuing economic development. Congress 
simply cannot keep up with the development 
and innovation that are propelling us into the 
information age of the 21st century. For too 
long we have been constrained by the foundations 
built by policies written more than 60 
years ago, long before cable television and 
cellular phones became reality. 

With a bill this monumental, differences of 
opinion will inevitably continue to exist—and 
the chairman himself has underscored that 
this is not a perfect product. I am pleased, 
however, that during conference the rights-ofway 
and zoning issues were adequately resolved. 
As I understand it, localities will maintain 
their ability to control the public rights-ofway 
and to receive fair compensation for its 
use. Federal interference is unnecessary, as 
long as localities do not discriminate. I think 
that is fair. 

One remaining concern I have is with restrictions 
on ownership of television stations. 
Diversity of opinion—and a truly free press— 
are hallmarks of American society. 

In our rules meeting last night, the chairman 
said that, although the House provision on 
dupolies—dual ownership of stations in a single 
market—was not included, guidelines for 
the FCC in handling such cases were. He assured 
me that he would look further into the 
matter of small television markets like those in 
my district in southwest Florida, where the 
rules on dual ownership may have unintended 
negative consequences. 

Mr. Speaker, these are relatively small issues 
given the entire scope of S. 652 and I 
am hopeful the bill will be signed into law. I 
understand from Chairman BLILEY that necessary 
technical corrections and clarifications 
will be taken care of in the future and I look 
forward to addressing these final concerns 
when we work on the fine-tuning of this historic 
bill. 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. FRANK]. 

Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding me time. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge defeat of the 
rule. One, the need to dispense with the 
normal procedures is another example 
of rewarding one’s own incompetence. 
The bill should have come out in time. 
The notion that we are ready to leave 
cuts no ice, because there is no reason 
why the bill could not have been out 
before. 

But I also have serious substantive 
problems with the bill. Indeed, I have 
always believed that self-denial was an 
important thing for leaders to show. 
But I think my Republican friends 
have gotten confused. Instead of self-
denial, they have used this bill for self-
repudiation. 

First we have the Speaker of the 
House who talked very loudly about 
how he was opposed to censorship. He 
was going to keep our electronic communications 
free of censorship. Despite 
that, we now have a bill which is heavily 
weighted with censorship. We have 
a bill which will interfere with free expression 
through the Internet and elsewhere. 


But there is another example of self-
repudiation that troubles me deeply, 
and that is the decision by the majority 
leader of the Senate to abandon his 
very brief crusade on behalf of the taxpayers. 
I was very pleased when Senator 
DOLE spoke out against a giveaway 
of access to the spectrum on the 
part of the Government to broadcasters, 
and I was briefly with the Senator. 
But I made the mistake of, I do 
not know, going to lunch. When I came 
back from lunch, I was alone on the 
battlefield, at least as far as the Senator 
is concerned. 

This is a Congress that has been 
making severe cuts in programs that 
deal with the economic needs of some 
of the poorest people in this society, 
and we have been told that we must 
rely more on free enterprise, less on 
Government entities and Government 
regulation, and people must be on their 
own. But It now turns out they forgot 
to say, those who said that, that they 
are for free enterprise for the poor and 
free enterprise for the workers. 

But when it comes to wealthy interests 
in this society, free enterprise is 
apparently a very scary thing. Because 
the broadcasters, among the wealthiest 
people in society with the largest concentrations 
of wealth, are to get for 
free access to the spectrum. 

I know there is going to be language 
and people have written letters which 
in effect say we are passing a bill that 
says one thing, but please let us pretend 
that what we say, we did not really 
say. I believe that the Senate majority 
leader was right to criticize the 
giveaway of access to the spectrum, 
and I think it is wrong to drop that 
out. 

I should note parenthetically we are 
apparently about to do the same thing 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1151 

with agriculture. Free enterprise for 
the poor, no subsidies there, no regulation 
when we are talking about the environment. 
But when we are talking 
about growing peanuts or sugar, oh, 
well, wait a minute, free enterprise was 
not meant for that. 

I hope this rule is defeated and taxpayers 
interests are vindicated in the 
protection of the spectrum. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I would just like to observe 
that I am troubled deeply that 
the gentleman from Massachusetts is 
deeply troubled, and I shall reserve the 
balance of my time. 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. MARKEY], the ranking 
member of the committee. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me time. 

I would like to begin by complementing 
the gentleman from Louisiana, 
JACK FIELDS, and the gentleman from 
Virginia, TOM BLILEY, and all of the 
Republicans that worked on this bill 
for so long. They conducted the process 
in a bipartisan fashion. It is to their 
credit. 

I want to compliment the gentleman 
from Michigan, JOHN DINGELL and so 
many of the Democrats on our side who 
have worked on this bill for so long, 4 
years, 4 long years. A similar bill 
passed near unanimously in 1994. The 
gentleman from Georgia, NEWT GINGRICH, 
in fact came to the well and 
called it the model of bipartisan legislation 
in 1994. In the Senate that year, 
unfortunately, it kind of died in the 
final 3 or 4 weeks. But it was revived in 
January of last year, and, working together 
in that spirit of bipartisanship, 
the bill was brought back out here on 
the floor again today. 

Mr. Speaker, I cannot tell you how 
much I appreciate the way in which the 
gentleman from Texas, JACK FIELDS, at 
the subcommittee level, especially for 
me, comported himself, and worked to 
make sure that this bill would be done 
in away that dealt with the ideas that 
had to be dealt with. 

This bill is critically important, because 
it unleashes a digital free-for-all. 
We take down the barriers of local and 
long distance and cable company, satellite, 
computer, software entry into 
any business they want to get in. Once 
and for all, all regulations are taken 
down. 

The premises are the same as they 
were in the bill a couple of years ago: 
More jobs and more choices. Now, there 
is a kind of paradox, because the larger 
companies are going to have to lay off 
people in many instance in order to remain 
competitive with the thousands 
of companies who are going to be creating 
new jobs on this information superhighway, 
with the net result of many 
tens and hundreds of thousands of new 
jobs, far more than have ever existed in 
this area of the American economy. 

b1400 

that we should use in order to accomplish 
this revolution in our society. 

Mr. Speaker, the bill contains many 
very important provisions. It contains 
a V-chip that will allow parents to be 
able to protect their children against 
the 500 channels, which is, by the way, 
only shorthand for infinity, because 
that is how many channels will be coming 
into people’s homes. They are going 
to need an effective way of blocking 
out programs which are offensive to 
their families. 

It also preserves the concepts of localism 
and diversity which are so critical 
in our telecommunications marketplace 
so that we will have many voices 
in each marketplace. 

It also will ensure learning links 
built into each classroom, K through 
12, through preferential rates which is 
going to be absolutely essential in the 
post-GATT, post NAFTA world. As we 
let the low-end jobs go in our society, 
we have to make sure that every child 
K through 12 is given the skills that 
they are going to need in order to compete 
for these high-skilled jobs that 
otherwise will go to any other place in 
the world that is providing their workers 
with those skills. It also expands 
very important privacy protections to 
individuals in their relationships with 
these very large companies. 

People will be able to go to a Radio 
Shack and be able to purchase their 
own set-top box. They will be able to 
purchase their own converter box, their 
own modem. They will be able to purchase 
any product which is accessible 
to this information superhighway. It 
offers, in other words, real competition 
in the consumer electronics marketplace 
as well. 

We have come a long way in the last 
15 years in this country. Back then we 
had one big telephone company. We 
had three television stations in most 
communities in the country. Today we 
have faxes. We have digital satellites. 
We have personal computers. We have 
cellular phones. We have brought this 
country into the Information Age. As 
the gentleman from Texas said, we now 
unleash this new revolution, for 15 
years and beyond, in terms of massive 
changes that are unimaginable, but 
will be the product of competition. 

The worldwide web was unimaginable 
15 years ago, and today it is the coin of 
the realm in the marketplace. It was 
Government funded and created, but 
nonetheless it has been transmogrified 
into a private sector wonder. So we are 
all going digital. Life will never be the 
same. This bill helps to speed up that 
process ever further. 

So in conclusion, again, I cannot 
compliment the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. DINGELL] enough for his leadership, 
for his vision on this bill. I cannot 
thank enough the gentleman from 
Virginia, as well, for the way in which 
this process has been guided and especially 
to my good friend, the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS]. I want 

throughout this process. He has been a 
good friend to all of us and ultimately 
to the consumer of this country by the 
competition that is unleashed in this 
bill. I hope that everyone supports this 
rule and ultimately supports the bill 
when it comes to the floor in final passage. 


Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Louisiana 
[Mr. TAUZIN], a member of the 
Committee on Commerce. 

Mr. TAUZIN. Mr. Speaker, several 
years ago in this House we debated a 
thing called program access in connection 
with the cable industry. It was a 
grand debate. It produced an override 
of a veto on that cable bill that year. 
But more importantly, what it produced 
for America was competition in 
the cable industry. 

It produced for America the direct 
broadcast television system [DBS] that 
is now providing cable programming to 
millions of Americans who did not live 
within reach of a cable system. It is 
providing competition in cable prices 
and cable programming to millions of 
Americans who were limited before the 
advent of [DBS] to buying their programming 
from a single monopoly supplier. 
We celebrated then a small victory 
for competition and for consumers. 


Has it worked? It has worked marvelously. 
There is finally real competition 
in cable programming. Consumers 
enjoy more choices. There are better 
products and better prices. We have 
just begun to see the benefits of that 
competition today. Today is a grand 
celebration of that notion of competition. 
Today, in a bipartisan way, we 
unleash the spirit of competition in all 
forms of telecommunications services, 
from telephones to computers, to services 
dealing with video programming, 
and data services to interexchange 
services that are going to link us as 
Americans together as one like never 
before and give us access to the world 
and the world access to us as never before. 


This is a grand celebration of a free 
market system, of competition, and of 
Americans in their government trusting 
Americans in the marketplace to 
make the right decisions for themselves. 


It is a grand strategy to unleash the 
technologies that geniuses are working 
on in labs across America and give 
them a chance to become tomorrow’s 
Microsoft. 

Second, it is our opportunity to take 
these decisions away from a judge who 
has been making telecommunications 
policy for America and to return those 
decisions to the people’s House, the 
Congress of the United States of America. 


Finally, this bill predicts between 1.5 
million and 3.5 million new jobs for 
Americans without us having to tax 
and spend one dime to get this economy 
going. This bill unleashes new jobs 

For me, that premise of competition to compliment him for the gentle-and new job opportunities the likes of 
has always been the preferred mode manly way that he treated all of us which this Congress has rarely had a 


H 1152 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

chance to do. Imagine: 1.5 million to 3.5 
million new families earning money instead 
of being dependent upon somebody 
else. That is what this bill promises 
for us, a little promise that we 
ought to keep on this House floor. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to commend the 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL], 
the former chairman, the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], our 
chairman, and particularly the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS] for the 
extraordinary work he has done. Let us 
celebrate their hard work, and let us 
celebrate the spirit of America, a free-
market system and competition. Let us 
vote this good bill out today. 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. CONYERS], the distinguished 
ranking member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to begin by congratulating the 
gentleman from California [Mr. BEILENSON] 
for supporting my discussion 
last night in the Committee on Rules, 
when the Congress had finished its 
work, when we found out that this conference 
report would be brought forward 
today in less than 24 hours, violating 
the most time-honored rule in 
the procedures of bringing legislation 
to this House. 

The same rule that Speaker GINGRICH 
has spoken with great passion about; 
the same rule that the gentleman from 
New York, Mr. SOLOMON, chairman of 
the Committee on Rules, has preached 
to me about across the years, this rule 
is now being violated for reasons that I 
cannot fathom. 

Let me make it clear that this is the 
most important 111 pages in a conference 
report in terms of economic 
consideration that my colleagues will 
ever in their careers deal with. The 
fact of the matter is that there are 
very few, if any, persons that have 
read, not to mention understand, what 
is in the report. That is why we have a 
3-day rule layover. 

Now, in all fairness, I want to commend 
the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. BLILEY] because he has cooperated 
with me throughout this process as a 
conferee. In all fairness, I want to commend 
the dean of the House, the gentleman 
from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL], 
who has not only afforded me every 
courtesy but has allowed me to have 20 
minutes in the debate that will shortly 
follow. 

But ask this question, as I urge my 
colleagues to return this rule to the 
committee: Who knew that that noxious 
abortion portion was in the conference 
report? Nobody, until it was 
found out about last night. Who knows 
many of the other provisions, I have a 
whole list of them here, that could not 
possibly be known about, much less understood 
in terms of their implications? 


The reason that we honor the 3-day 

We should have a 3-week delay on this 
measure, since we are going out this 
afternoon. So 3 days would be a very 
modest consideration. That is why I 
am asking that this measure be returned 
to the Committee on Rules for 
the observation of the 3-day rule. 

Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois 
[Mr. HASTERT], another member of the 
Committee on Commerce. 

(Mr. HASTERT asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. HASTERT. Mr. Speaker, I really 
want to congratulate the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS], the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], the 
gentleman from Ohio [Mr. OXLEY], the 
former chairman on the other side of 
the aisle—folks who have been working 
on this issue for a long, long time and 
have put together a very, very good 
piece of legislation. 

I might add that the piece of legislation 
that came out of here in the last 
Congress, also worked on by a group of 
folks, but it came out on suspension. It 
never got out of the Senate, back to 
the House in a conference. The gentleman 
from Michigan was talking 
about this bill, when my Democrat colleagues 
passed a bill on the suspension 
calendar with no amendments, 40 minutes 
of debate, and that was it. So take 
the difference in what is happening 
here. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the 
conference report on the Communications 
Act of 1995. I have worked on this 
legislation for several years, and I am 
proud to come to the floor to support a 
bill that will unleash $63 billion in economic 
activity. 

Reform of the 1934 Communications 
Act is long overdue. The road map for 
our communications future, outlined in 
the 1934 Act and the courts, still anticipates 
two-lane back roads rather than 
the fast paced super-highways we have 
today. The U.S. District Court began 
the trip toward competition when it issued 
the modified final judgment 
[MFJ] that required the breakup of 
‘‘Ma Bell’’ 10 years ago and brought 
competition to the long-distance industry. 
Back then, I served as chairman of 
the Illinois Joint Committee on Public 
Utility Reform. We were charged with 
the task of revamping Illinois law to 
bring more competition. At that time, 
it was assumed that competition was 
not a good thing for local telephone 
service; the local telephone loop was 
viewed as a natural monopoly. Now, because 
of advances in technology, we see 
that it is possible—and preferable—to 
bring competition to the local loop. 

But the MFJ has not brought about 
the full fledged competition consumers 
needed in every part of the communications 
industry. Thus, Congress has 
risen to the task of planning the road-
trip so that American consumers will 
have more choices and innovative services, 
and will pay lower prices for com-

favor of ‘‘fair’’ competition as industries begin 
to contend in each others businesses. Fair 
competition means local telephone companies 
will not be able to provide long-distance service 
in the region where they have held a monopoly 
until several conditions have been met 
to break that monopoly. 

First, the local Bell operating company 
[BOC] must open its local loop to competitors 
and verify it is open by meeting an extensive 
competitive checklist. Second, there must be a 
facilities-based competitor, or a competitor 
with its own equipment, in place. Third, the 
Federal communications Commissions [FCC] 
must determine that the BOC’s entry into the 
long-distance market is in the public interest. 
And fourth, the FCC must give substantial 
weight to comments from the Department of 
Justice about possible competitive concerns 
when BOC’s provide long-distance services. 

Consumers can be sure BOC’s won’t get 
the prize before crossing the finish line. 

As a member of the Commerce Committee, 
I worked on several provisions of this bill, and 
was the author of section 245(a)(2)(B) of H.R. 
1555 which deals with the issue of BOC entry 
into in-region inter-LATA telecommunications 
service. This provision has become section 
271(c)(1)(B) in the conference report. Section 
271(c)(1)(B) provides that a BOC may petition 
the FCC for this in-region authority if it has, 
after 10 months from enactment, not received 
any request for access and interconnection or 
any request for access and interconnection 
from a facilities-based competitor that meets 
the criteria in section 271(c)(1)(A). Section 
271(c)(1)(A) calls for an agreement with a carrier 
to provide this carrier with access and 
interconnection so that the carrier can provide 
telephone exchange service to both business 
and residential subscribers. This carrier must 
also be facilities based; not be affiliated with 
BOC; and must be actually providing the telephone 
exchange service through its own facilities 
or predominantly its own facilities. 

Section 271(c)(1)(B) also provides that a 
BOC shall not be deemed to have received a 
request for access and interconnection if a 
carrier meeting the criteria in section 
271(c)(1)(A) has requested such access and 
interconnection; has reached agreement with 
the BOC to provide the access and interconnection; 
and the State has approved the 
agreement under section 252, but this requesting 
carrier fails to comply with the State 
approved agreement by failing to implement, 
within a reasonable period of time, the implementation 
schedule that all section 252 agreements 
must contain. Under these circumstances, 
no request shall be deemed to 
have been made. 

Mr. Speaker, we have given serious 
debate and consideration to this bill. 
Now is the time for Congress to set reasonable 
guidelines for our communications 
future. All signs point to competition 
ahead, so I urge my colleagues 
to give the Telecommunications Act of 
1996 a green light. 

Mr. BEILENSON. Mr. Speaker, 
yield the balance of my time to the 
gentlewoman from Texas [Ms. JACKSON-
LEE]. 

b1415 

rule is simply because there are no munications products. Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
amendments possible on a conference The map shows that there are pitstops Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
report. We can only vote it up or down. along the road to competition. Everyone is in yielding time to me. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1153 

Let me acknowledge that this is a 
very important bill. This is a historic 
occasion. I should add my thanks and 
appreciation to the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. DINGELL] and the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY] and 
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. FIELDS] 
and the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MARKEY] and the ranking member, 
the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. 
CONYERS], for the efforts that have 
been exhibited. But I do want to raise 
some concerns as to this rule. 

I remained in my office even up to 10 
o’clock and had noted that the rule had 
not come out, even as late as 10 p.m. 
last evening. Final changes were 
brought to our office in the early part 
of the evening. Conferees were still 
working, and the Committee on Rules, 
again, did not report until very late. 
For a bill this important, this is an unfair 
process. 

The conference committee members 
have not had an opportunity to adequately 
review these technical changes 
and the report language. This bill will 
revolutionize the telephone, long-distance, 
cable, and broadcast industries 
and have a far-reaching economic impact 
upon our country. 

For example, it allows telephone 
companies to enter into other lines of 
business. It deregulates cable rates and 
expands broadcast ownership. It has 
been one of the most heavily lobbied 
bills in the recent history of this 
House. 

Many Members of the House and Senate 
have had major concerns. In fact, 
we have only had three meetings. Some 
would argue that there has been inadequate 
notice. I know there are good 
intentions. I would simply ask for consideration. 


In addition, we have had an additional 
absurdity with the inclusion of 
language prohibiting the transfer of legally 
sound information regarding 
choice and family planning. That 
means that legitimate physicians in 
their offices cannot transfer information. 


Mr. Speaker, I have to raise a question 
over what is the big rush to consider 
this legislation now. Members can 
use the 3-week recess to adequately review 
this bill. I cannot believe anyone 
can seriously object to a 3-week delay 
in considering this bill. 

Therefore, I would ask Members to 
oppose this rule at this time so that we 
can add a measure of fairness to this 
historic occasion, recognizing the good 
work that has been done but understanding 
that it is also important for 
individual Members to likewise do 
their work and to ensure that they 
have had the proper time to review, the 
proper notice and as well to be able to 
assure their constituents, as I know 
they would want to do, that this is in 
fact both historic but fair and open-
ended and responsive to the concerns 
that have been raised. 

I ask again for 3 weeks and ask again 
for reconsideration of the rule. 

Mr. Speaker, I must rise to express my concerns 
regarding the rule on the telecommuni


cations conference report. This legislation is 
one of the most comprehensive bills to be 
considered in the 104th Congress. It is the 
most extensive revision of our communications 
laws since the Communications Act of 1934. 

I am concerned about the process relating 
to bring this bill to the floor. The final changes 
to the conference report were not distributed 
until last night. Furthermore, the conference 
report was signed by House conferees last 
night and filed very late last night. Finally, the 
Rules Committee considered the rule on the 
report late last night. This is a terrible and unfair 
process for such an important bill. The 
conference committee members have not had 
an opportunity to adequately review these 
technical changes and the report language. 

This bill will revolutionize the telephone, 
long-distance, cable, and broadcast industries 
and have a far-reaching economic impact 
upon our country. For example, it allows telephone 
companies to enter into other lines of 
business, it deregulates cable rates, and expands 
broadcast ownership. It has been one 
of the most heavily lobbied bills in the recent 
history of the House. Most Members of the 
House have not had the opportunity to study 
this bill. Additionally, members of the House 
and Senate conference committee have had 
major concerns regarding the conference committee 
process, particularly the inadequate notice 
of staff meetings, the level of participation 
by all staff. An additional absurdity is the inclusion 
of language prohibiting the transfer of legally 
sound information regarding choice and 
family planning. That means that legitimate 
physicians cannot communicate office to office 
on medical procedures. There were only three 
meetings of the conference committee. 

Mr. Speaker, I have to raise the question 
over what is the big rush to consider this legislation 
now. Members can use the 3-week recess 
to adequately review this bill. I cannot 
believe anyone can seriously object to a 3week 
delay in considering this bill. Therefore, 
I must oppose this rule on this conference report. 


Mr. LINDER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

To paraphrase Mr. Churchill, This is 
not the end. It is not even the beginning 
of the end. It is perhaps the end of 
the beginning, the beginning of an explosion 
in technology and invasion. 

It will not be many years before 
Americans are going to be startled and 
people across the world startled about 
the kinds of goods and services and 
products coming through their television 
receivers in their homes. 

This, I believe, would be the most important 
job-creating bill of my career 
in this House. I was excited to have 
been privileged to be a part of working 
on this since early summer as a member 
of the Committee on Rules and 
even involved in some of the technology. 
It was an example, the whole 
process, of how the two sides can work 
together and cooperate. 

I have already commended the chairmen, 
the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. 
BLILEY], the gentleman from Texas 
[Mr. FIELDS], and the gentleman from 
Illinois [Mr. HYDE]. I think the ranking 
members, the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. DINGELL], the gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. MARKEY], the gen


tleman from Michigan [Mr. CONYERS] 
were very helpful through the whole 
process. They worked with each other. 
I was proud to be a part of that process. 

I would like to say especially, nobody 
helped me more in the rule and dealing 
with the amendments than the gentleman 
from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL]. I 
want to say, I am grateful. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time, and I move the previous 
question on the resolution. 

The previous question was ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
BARRETT of Nebraska). The question is 
on the resolution. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I object 
to the vote on the ground that a 
quorum is not present and make the 
point of order that a quorum is not 
present. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evidently 
a quorum is not present. 

The Sergeant at Arms will notify absent 
Members. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 337, nays 80, 
not voting 16, as follows: 

[Roll No. 24] 
YEAS—337 
Allard Clement Frost 
Andrews Clinger Funderburk 
Archer Coble Gallegly 
Armey Coleman Ganske 
Bachus Collins (GA) Gekas 
Baesler Combest Gephardt 
Baker (CA) Condit Geren 
Baker (LA) Cooley Gilchrest 
Baldacci Cox Gillmor 
Ballenger Cramer Gilman 
Barcia Crane Gonzalez 
Barr Crapo Goodlatte 
Barrett (NE) Cremeans Goodling 
Barrett (WI) Cubin Gordon 
Bartlett Cunningham Goss 
Barton Danner Graham 
Bass Davis Greenwood 
Bateman de la Garza Gunderson 
Bentsen Deal Gutknecht 
Bereuter DeLauro Hall (TX) 
Berman Diaz-Balart Hamilton 
Bevill Dickey Hancock 
Bilbray Dicks Hansen 
Bilirakis Dingell Hastert 
Bishop Doggett Hastings (FL) 
Bliley Dooley Hayes 
Blute Doolittle Hayworth 
Boehlert Dornan Hefley 
Boehner Doyle Hefner 
Bonilla Dreier Heineman 
Bonior Duncan Herger 
Bono Dunn Hilleary 
Borski Edwards Hobson 
Boucher Ehlers Hoekstra 
Brewster Ehrlich Hoke 
Browder Emerson Holden 
Brown (FL) Engel Horn 
Brownback English Hostettler 
Bryant (TN) Ensign Houghton 
Bunn Eshoo Hoyer 
Bunning Everett Hunter 
Burr Ewing Hutchinson 
Burton Fawell Hyde 
Buyer Fields (TX) Inglis 
Calvert Flake Johnson (CT) 
Camp Flanagan Johnson, E. B. 
Campbell Foglietta Johnson, Sam 
Canady Foley Jones 
Cardin Forbes Kanjorski 
Castle Ford Kasich 
Chabot Fowler Kelly 
Chambliss Fox Kennedy (MA) 
Chenoweth Franks (CT) Kennedy (RI) 
Christensen Franks (NJ) Kennelly 
Chrysler Frelinghuysen Kildee 
Clayton Frisa Kim 


H 1154 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

King Myrick Shuster 
Kingston Neal Sisisky 
Kleczka Nethercutt Skeen 
Klink Neumann Skelton 
Klug Ney Smith (MI) 
Knollenberg Norwood Smith (NJ) 
Kolbe Nussle Smith (TX) 
LaFalce Obey Smith (WA) 
LaHood Ortiz Solomon 
Largent Orton Souder 
Latham Oxley Spence 
LaTourette Packard Spratt 
Laughlin Pallone Stearns 
Lazio Parker Stenholm 
Leach Pastor Stockman 
Levin Paxon Studds 
Lewis (CA) Payne (NJ) Stump 
Lewis (KY) Payne (VA) Stupak 
Lightfoot Peterson (FL) Talent 
Lincoln Petri Tanner 
Linder Pickett Tate 
Lipinski Pombo Tauzin 
Livingston Pomeroy Taylor (MS) 
LoBiondo Porter Tejeda 
Longley Portman Thomas 
Lucas Poshard Thornberry 
Luther Pryce Thornton 
Manton Quillen Tiahrt 
Manzullo Quinn Torkildsen 
Markey Radanovich Towns 
Martini Rahall Traficant 
Mascara Ramstad Upton 
Matsui Rangel Vucanovich 
McCollum Reed Waldholtz 
McCrery Regula Walker 
McDade Richardson Walsh 
McHugh Riggs Wamp 
McInnis Roberts Ward 
McIntosh Roemer Watts (OK) 
McKeon Rohrabacher Waxman 
McNulty Ros-Lehtinen Weldon (FL) 
Meehan Roth Weldon (PA) 
Meek Roukema Weller 
Menendez Royce White 
Metcalf Rush Whitfield 
Mfume Salmon Wicker 
Mica Sanford Williams 
Miller (FL) Sawyer Wilson 
Minge Saxton Wise 
Moakley Scarborough Wolf 
Molinari Schaefer Wynn 
Mollohan Schiff Young (AK) 
Montgomery Seastrand Young (FL) 
Moorhead Sensenbrenner Zeliff 
Moran Shadegg Zimmer 
Murtha Shaw 
Myers Shays 
NAYS—80 
Abercrombie Hilliard Olver 
Becerra Hinchey Owens 
Beilenson Istook Pelosi 
Brown (OH) Jackson (IL) Peterson (MN) 
Clay Jackson-Lee Rivers 
Clyburn (TX) Roybal-Allard 
Coburn Jacobs Sabo 
Collins (IL) Jefferson Sanders 
Collins (MI) Johnson (SD) Schroeder 
Conyers Johnston Schumer 
Costello Kaptur Scott 
Coyne Lantos Serrano 
DeFazio Lewis (GA) Skaggs 
Dellums Lofgren Slaughter 
Deutsch Lowey Stark 
Dixon Maloney Stokes 
Durbin Martinez Thompson 
Evans McCarthy Thurman 
Farr McDermott Torres 
Fazio McHale Velazquez 
Fields (LA) McKinney Vento 
Frank (MA) Meyers Visclosky 
Furse Miller (CA) Volkmer 
Green Mink Waters 
Gutierrez Morella Watt (NC) 
Hall (OH) Nadler Woolsey 
Harman Oberstar Yates 
NOT VOTING—16 
Ackerman Fattah Rose 
Brown (CA) Filner Taylor (NC) 
Bryant (TX) Gejdenson Torricelli 
Callahan Gibbons Wyden 
Chapman Hastings (WA) 
DeLay Rogers 

changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to 
‘‘nay.’’ 

Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas and Mr. HOYER changed their 
vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’ 

So the resolution was agreed to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 353, I call up the 
conference report on the Senate bill (S. 

652) to provide for a procompetitive, deregulatory 
national policy framework 
designed to accelerate rapidly private 
sector deployment of advanced telecommunications 
and information technologies 
and services to all Americans 
by opening all telecommunications 
markets to competition, and for other 
purposes, and ask for its immediate 
consideration. 
The Clerk read the title of the Senate 
bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
BARRETT of Nebraska). Pursuant to 
House Resolution 353, the conference 
report is considered as having been 
read. 

(For conference report and statement, 
see proceedings of the House of 
Wednesday, January 31, 1996, at page H 
1078. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY] will 
be recognized for 30 minutes, and the 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL] 
will be recognized for 30 minutes. 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY 

Mr. CONYERS. I have a parliamentary 
inquiry, Mr. Speaker. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state it. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to claim the traditional 20 minutes 
in opposition under the rule. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the 
gentleman from Michigan support the 
conference report? 

Mr. CONYERS. No, sir, I do not. 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. CONYERS. I yield to the gentleman 
from Michigan. 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I believe 
I can save the body a little time. Mr. 
Speaker, I support the conference report. 
I believe the gentleman’s claim 
for the 20 minutes is entirely correct. I 
would urge the Chair to grant the gentleman 
from Michigan [Mr. CONYERS] 
20 minutes, 20 minutes to the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], and 
20 minutes to myself. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 2(a) of rule XXVIII, the 
time will be divided 3 ways. 

The gentleman from Virginia [Mr. 
BLILEY] will be recognized for 20 minutes, 
the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. DINGELL] will be recognized for 20 
minutes, and the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. CONYERS] will be recognized 
for 20 minutes. 

gentleman from North Carolina [Mr. 
BURR]. 

(Mr. BURR asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BURR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support 
of the telecommunications bill. 

Mr. Speaker, I wish to congratulate my colleagues, 
particularly Chairman BLILEY, the 
ranking member, Mr. DINGELL, Mr. FIELDS, Mr. 
MARKEY, as well as Chairman HYDE, on this 
historic reform of our Nation’s telecommunications 
laws. Passage of this landmark bill will 
foster job growth, product innovation, 
consumer savings, and economic development 
across all sectors of our economy. The 
legislation’s removal of barriers to competition 
in the telephone, cable, and broadcast industries 
will open markets and increase competition 
in the communications industry that will 
better prepare our Nation to enter the new millennium. 


I am pleased that the conferees have included 
in their final report a provision I sponsored 
in H.R. 1555 that I believe embodies the 
deregulatory intent of this legislation—a provision 
which adjusts one piece of a larger regulatory 
barrier that has been ignored by regulators 
since its inception. 

Since 1981, Bell operating companies have 
been prohibited from jointly marketing their 
local telephone service and cellular services 
due to an FCC rule requiring the establishment 
of an RBOC cellular separate subsidiary. 
This rule was originally intended to apply to 
the predivestiture AT&T when the Commission 
determined that AT&T and one other company 
would be granted the two cellular licenses in 
each market. 

During the breakup of the old Bell system, 
AT&T transferred its cellular licenses to its 
newly established offspring, the regional Bell 
operating companies. Because the Commission 
was in the process of overseeing the 
breakup of the world’s largest corporation, the 
FCC understandably had precious little time to 
worry with establishing new rules for RBOC 
participation in the then nascent cellular business. 
Consequently, the Commission determined 
that RBOC cellular operations would be 
conducted under the same rules that had 
been developed for AT&T, and that the Commission 
would review the matter in 2 years. 
Given the circumstances, such a decisions 
seems understandable. What is not understandable, 
however, is what has happened in 
the meantime—nothing. 

For 14 years the FCC has ignored its commitment 
to review the necessity of its RBOC 
cellular separate subsidiary rule. While cellular 
exploded into a dynamic, competitive industry, 
the FCC took no action. In fact, when the 
Commission established the rules for a new 
wireless service, PCS [Personal Communications 
Service]—designed to compete with cellular, 
the FCC determined that RBOC’s would 
not be required to establish separate subsidiaries 
for their new PCS wireless services. Yet, 
inexplicably, the Commission said there was 
not enough information on the record to warrant 
removal of the RBOC cellular separate 
subsidiary rule. 

It is difficult to imagine how the FCC could 
acquire enough information to establish a new 
set of wireless competitors [PCS] to cellular, 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman determine separate subsidiaries would not be 

b1439 

from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY]. required for RBOC PCS services, and still 

Mrs. MEYERS of Kansas and Messrs. Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield state there was not enough information to jus-
GUTIERREZ, STARK, and SCHUMER such time as he may consume to the tify removal of the cellular separate subsidiary 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1155 

rule. Understandably, the companies impacted 
by this decision found it difficult to understand 
and so has the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Sixth Circuit. 

In a ruling issued November 9th, the Appeals 
Court found the FCC’s PCS rulemaking 
decision on the cellular separate subsidiary 
rule to be arbitrary and capricious stating: 

Instead, the FCC simply stated that the 
record in the Personal Communications 
Service Rulemaking proceedings was insufficient 
to determine whether to eliminate the 
structural separation requirement. We believe 
this to be arbitrary and capricious 
given the somewhat contradictory findings 
of the FCC during the course of the Personal 
Communications Service rulemaking and related 
proceedings. If Personal Communications 
Service and Cellular are sufficiently 
similar to warrant the Cellular eligibility restrictions 
and are expected to compete for 
customers on price, quality, and services, 
what difference between the two services justifies 
keeping the structural separation rule 
intact for Bell Cellular providers? 

The court remanded to the Commission for 
further proceedings its decision on this rule. 
Such action normally would be encouraging 
for the companies involved. Unfortunately, regulators 
like regulation. More than 1 month 
after the sixth circuit’s ruling ‘‘that the time is 
now for the FCC to reconsider whether to rescind 
the structural separation requirement’’ 
the Commission has taken no action, notwithstanding 
the court’s belief that ‘‘time is of the 
essence on this issue.’’ 

It simply makes no sense to require Bell cellular 
operations to remain in separate subsidiaries—
and prohibited from joint marketing opportunities—
when the Commission has determined 
that no such requirements are necessary 
for Bell PCS operations. The appeals 
court acknowledged this fact stating: 

BellSouth’s strongest argument is perhaps 
that the factual predicate which justified the 
structural separation requirement is no 
longer valid. BellSouth points out that the 
FCC believes that the safeguards such as 
mandatory interconnection enforceable by 
individual complaint process suffice to combat 
possible discrimination and cross-subsidization 
in the Personal Communications 
Service industry. BellSouth claims that this 
removes any justification retention of the 
structural separation requirement for Cellular 
licenses, and that the FCC has arbitrarily 
failed to remove restrictions . . . We 
agree with BellSouth that the time is now 
for the FCC to reconsider whether to rescind 
the structural separation requirement . . . 
after fourteen years, further delay in determining 
whether to rescind the structural 
separation requirement severely penalizes 
the Bell Companies at a time when the wireless 
communications industry is exploding 
and changing almost daily. The disparate 
treatment afforded the Bell Companies impacts 
on their ability to compete in the ever-
evolving wireless communications marketplace. 


I am glad this legislation takes the first, important 
step toward restoring parity in this area 
by allowing Bell operating companies to jointly 
market their cellular and local services. It is 
my hope, that after 14 years and a clear rebuke 
from the court, the FCC will take the 
next step and review its cellular separate subsidiary 
rule. 

Mr. Speaker, once again I congratulate the 
committee chairman and the subcommittee 
chairman on producing this historic legislation. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, it is a 
great pleasure for me to yield 3 min


utes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS], chairman of 
the Subcommittee on Telecommunications 
and Finance of the Committee 
on Commerce, without whose Herculean 
efforts we would not be here 
today. 

(Mr. FIELDS of Texas asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

b1545 
Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I 
want to thank the chairman for that 
statement. I had the opportunity during 
the rule to talk about the substance 
of this bill and what it means 
for America and our consumers. I want 
to take my time just to say thanks. 
First and foremost, I want to acknowledge 
the commitment and leadership 
of our chairman, the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], who has 
been a constant source of support and 
encouragement as we move this legislation 
forward. 
I also want to thank the gentleman 
from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL] for the 
way he has led the efforts of the minority. 
As always, it was with conviction 
and the style of the true gentleman 
that Mr. DINGELL is. 
I also want to thank my good friend 
and confidant, my fellow voyager in 
this effort, the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MARKEY], for the many 
long hours of debate and consultation, 
the pizza in his office, the pizza in my 
office, but always ending any disagreement 
with a smile. I hope that all of us 
involved have set the standard of how 
Congress can work together over very 
difficult and contentious issues. 
I also want to be effusive in praise of 
my colleague, the gentleman from Ohio 
[Mr. OXLEY], the vice chairman of our 
subcommittee; the gentleman from 
Colorado [Mr. SCHAEFER], the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. BARTON], the 
gentleman from Illinois [Mr. HASTERT], 
the gentleman from Florida [Mr. 
STEARNS], the gentleman from New 
York [Mr. PAXON], the gentleman from 
Wisconsin [Mr. KLUG], and our two 
freshmen stars, the gentleman from 
New York [Mr. FRISA] and the gentleman 
from Washington [Mr. WHITE], 
our team. 
I would also be remiss if I did not 
thank and recognize the hard work of 
Mike Regan, Cathy Reid, Harold 
Furchtgott-Roth, and Mike O’Reilly, 
and on the Democratic side of the aisle, 
Colin Crowell and David Leach, David 
Moulton of Mr. MARKEY’s staff, Alan 
Roth and Andy Levin, of Mr. DINGELL’s 
staff. 
Not only do I want to acknowledge 
David Leach for his hard work, but I 
want to publicly apologize to him for 
all the practical jokes that I have 
played on him for the last 31/2 years. 
I also want to give special recognition 
to Steve Cope, our legislative 
draftsman. He is an unsung hero who 
gave us late hours away from his family 
and lost many weekends during the 
course of this multiyear process. He 

has my highest respect and my gratitude. 


Certainly last, but not least, I want 
to give special, special recognition to 
Christy Strawman, my telecommunications 
expert, because, like others, 
she is an unsung hero that has been 
pivotal in bringing this issue to fruition. 
She has been a star in this process. 


Mr. Speaker, as I said earlier, this is 
a special, watershed, historic moment. 
We are at the dawn of the Information 
Age. What we do today is vitally important 
to the future of our country. 
Not only am I proud of the package; I 
am also proud of the process in which 
we debated and formed this legislation, 
working with both sides of the aisle, 
bringing this policy, this legislation, to 
fruition. 

The inclusion in the telecommunications bill 
of the requirement that a television rating code 
be established by the Federal Communications 
Commission for all television programs 
and that broadcasters be required to transmit 
to a V-chip the ratings given to their programs 
is plainly unconstitutional. 

Any legislation that requires the rating of television 
programs based on their inclusion of 
violence, depictions of sexual conduct or the 
like is a content-based burden on speech. 
That is just what the first amendment does not 
permit. Inserting the Federal Government into 
the area of deciding what should be on television 
or how the content of television programs 
should be rated sets a dangerous 
precedent that threatens the very rights the 
first amendment is designed to protect. 

Think about the rating system Congress is 
today requiring. There is the problem of how 
any such system can distinguish between programs 
that show what we might call senseless 
or gratuitous violence and those that depict violence 
in a way that educates, informs, or edifies. 
It is hard to believe that we’re prepared 
to say that any violence whatsoever, in any 
context whatsoever, should be treaded the 
same way and subjected to blocking by the 
same V-chip—whether it’s ‘‘Schindler’s List’’ or 
‘‘Nightmare on Elm Street,’’ ‘‘Gandhi’’ or ‘‘The 
Terminator.’’ 

But as soon as the FCC tries to make a distinction 
for rating purposes between what is 
‘‘bad violence’’ that should be blocked and 
what is ‘‘good violence’’ that should not be 
blocked, it is squarely in the business of regulating 
speech based on its content or perceived 
value to society and therefore squarely 
in violation of the first amendment. At the 
same time, if the Commission throws up its 
hands and acknowledges that it cannot make 
such distinctions and thus requires every program 
containing any element of violence at all 
to get a V rating, the V-chip will be activated 
across the board and across the Nation in a 
way that blocks out valuable contributors to 
public awareness and knowledge. The effect 
will be that some—perhaps many—programs 
that are genuinely good for children or adolescents 
to see will not be seen by them. What’s 
more, we will be creating a situation in which 
Government would be leading the public to 
view all treatments of violence as equal, thus 
washing away good, serious, thoughtful programs 
with real merit along with the junk. 

V-chip legislation is a blunt instrument, far 
blunter than the first amendment allows. The 


H 1156 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

public would be far better served by Government 
encouraging the development of technologies 
that allow parents to make discriminating 
choices, real choices, for their children 
based on their own values and their own beliefs. 


The likelihood that the V-chip provision will 
be held unconstitutional is increased by the reality, 
known to every Member of this body, 
that the bill is actually being proposed not for 
the purpose of ‘‘empowering’’ parents but of 
pressuring broadcasters to change the television 
programming they offer. We all have 
our own views about what should be on television. 
The first amendment bars us from putting 
those views into law. 

Finally, recent court decisions have raised 
the most serious doubts about the continued 
viability of the whole notion that broadcasters 
must receive only second class first amendment 
treatment. The FCC itself determined in 
the Syracuse Peace Council case that the explosion 
of new outlets for speech has seriously 
undermined the rationale for permitting 
more intrusive regulation of broadcasters than 
of other media. That is even more true today 
than it was 8 years ago when that case was 
decided. Recent opinions of the chief judges 
of both the D.C. Circuit and the Eighth Circuit 
Courts of Appeals have likewise maintained 
that there is no longer any basis for according 
broadcasters more limited protection from 
Government intrusion than the First Amendment 
gives to cable operators, record companies 
or the print press. Most first amendment 
scholars have come to the same conclusion. 
In any event, whether or not a new, more 
speech-protective, first amendment standard is 
utilized in a court challenge to this legislation, 
the law cannot withstand analysis under any 
first amendment test. 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 2 minutes. 

(Mr. DINGELL asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, today 
we will vote on a historic bill. This 
telecommunications bill is historic because 
it finally will bring to an end the 
era of telephone and cable television 
monopolies. The bill is historic because 
it will trigger technological innovation 
as we have never seen before—stimulating 
economic growth and job creation 
by small and large businesses 
alike. But just as striking as these developments 
undoubtedly will be, the 
bill is historic for another important 
reason. It demonstrates that Congress 
can work together in a bipartisan way 
to produce a bill that serves the interests 
of all Americans. 

I congratulate my friends, Chairmen 
BLILEY and FIELDS, Representative 
MARKEY and others, for their unrelenting 
pursuit of bipartisan agreement on 
this bill. This is the way Congress is 
supposed to work, and I think we can 
all learn from this example. Chairman 
BLILEY approached this task in a very 
productive way, soliciting advice and 
offering compromise at many points 
along the way. He managed the process 
extremely well, as evidenced by the 
widespread support that he has mustered—
not only in the conference and 
in the House—but in every part of an 

industry that usually can agree on little 
else. Chairman BLILEY and others 
working on this conference committee 
should be congratulated and given our 
thanks for the remarkable product before 
us today—a product that was in 
the making for several Congresses before 
this one, and that will finally 
make its way to the President’s desk 
and beyond. 

This telecommunications bill certainly 
will change the way Americans 
get their information and entertainment. 
No longer will consumers have 
just one company to choose from for 
the provision of local telephone or 
cable television service. Companies 
will be able to offer any or all of these 
services, giving consumers for the first 
time the ability to buy packages of 
telecommunications services that provide 
them with the best value at the 
lowest price. 

This bill also will enable parents to 
make intelligent choices about what 
television programming is appropriate 
for their children. It requires that new 
television sets be equipped with a computer 
chip designed to automatically 
detect the rating that has been assigned 
to any television show. And it 
encourages television broadcasters to 
develop a voluntary rating system that 
will provide parents with the means to 
discern whether programming coming 
into their home is age-appropriate for 
their children. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to say a few special 
words about the concerns of our 
local elected officials, and most especially 
our mayors. This conference 
agreement strengthens the ability of 
local governments to collect fees for 
the use of public rights-of-way. For example, 
the definition of the term 
‘‘cable service’’ has been expanded to 
include game channels and other interactive 
services. This will result in additional 
revenues flowing to the cities in 
the form of franchise fees. In addition, 
the legislation also lifts the FCC’s current 
ban on the imposition of franchise 
fees for telephone companies’ open 
video systems. That too will increase 
revenues to the cities. 

At the same time, State and local 
governments retain their existing authority 
to impose fees on telecommunications 
providers, including cable companies 
that offer telecommunications 
services. Finally, and perhaps most important, 
section 303 does not preclude a 
local government from lawfully managing 
public rights-of-way with respect 
to a cable company’s telecommunications 
services. In short, Mr. Speaker, 
we have listened closely to our local officials, 
who have done a good job of 
helping us understand their concerns, 
and have crafted a bill that not only 
retains their current authorities but, 
in many instances, strengthens them. 
We appreciate the support for the bill 
we have received from the National 
League of Cities and the National Association 
of Counties. 

Is this a perfect bill? No. No bill as 
large and complex as this one, address


ing so many difficult issues, is ever 
perfect. But it is an excellent piece of 
legislative work. it will open telecommunications 
markets in a fair and 
balanced manner—it provides American 
businesses with a level playing 
field on which to compete, and it removes 
those aspects of government 
regulation that are antiquated while 
ensuring that every American continues 
to receive affordable service. 

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to 
pay tribute to the incredible efforts of 
our staff, who put in countless hours, 
often working into the wee hours of the 
morning, to bring this bill to fruition. 
Our special thanks go to the minority 
staff of the Commerce Committee, especially 
David Leach, who has worked 
on the legislation for several Congresses 
and guided our successful efforts 
in the House in the last Congress, 
and Andy Levin, who joined our staff 
as a new counsel at the start of the 
conference and truly received a baptism 
under fire. I want to thank Colin 
Crowell and David Meulton from the 
staff of subcommittee ranking member 
ED MARKEY for their hard work, as well 
as the staff of the Judiciary Committee. 
From the Commerce Committee, 
Mike Regan and Cathy Reid did outstanding 
work in coordinating these efforts. 
And as always, the legislative 
counsel, Steve Cope, and his colleague 
on the PUHCA issue, Pope Barrow, did 
their usual extraordinary job. We appreciate 
all the staffs’ hard work. 

Once again, I congratulate my colleagues 
on this achievement, and I urge 
all Members to join me in approving 
this conference agreement. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 3 minutes. 

(Mr. CONYERS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I think 
it is very, very important that we look 
as carefully as we can at a trillion-dollar-
a-year industry legislation. 

First of all, I want to tell everybody 
in this Chamber, there are a lot of 
things I like in the bill; I like a lot of 
things. The Antitrust Division part 
that the chairman of the Committee on 
the Judiciary and I worked on tirelessly 
is in this bill, and I support it 
strongly. We keep the Antitrust Division 
at the center of the telecommunications 
debate, and I am pleased that 
we all agreed upon that. It is important 
that the Department of Justice 
have an enhanced role in reviewing the 
Bell entry into long-distance, and we 
have been very successful. 

But, Mr. Speaker, let us get to the 
reservations. Are there any? Well, you 
have not read the 111-page conference 
report, so I will give you the benefit of 
just a few of the problems that you 
might want to know about before we 
cast this ballot in less than an hour. 

The cable provisions allow for deregulation 
before the advent of competition, 
raising the specter of unregulated 
monopoly. Two Congresses ago 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1157 

we spent considerable time and energy, 
and the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. 
DINGELL] was leading that, in adopting 
legislation to protect consumers from 
price-gouging; and we were finally able 
to pass the bill over President Bush’s 
veto. 

This Congress, we have new leadership 
that has decided that consumer 
protection must take a back seat to industry 
demands, although a small concession 
to consumers was made by delaying 
the date of price increases until 
1999. 

This is not CONYERS, this is the 
Consumer Federation of America: 
‘‘Even with the significant improvements, 
the bill does not stimulate 
enough competition. For every step 
taken to encourage competition, the 
bill has provisions which undermine its 
goal. Instead of promoting head-tohead 
competition between cable, telephone, 
and other communications companies, 
the bill allows mergers and corporate 
combinations that will drive up 
cable rates and undercut competition.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois 
[Mr. HYDE], the distinguished chairman 
of the Committee on the Judiciary. 

(Mr. HYDE asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. HYDE. Mr. Speaker, I would like 
to pay homage to the gentleman from 
Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS], the gentleman 
from Michigan and ranking 
member [Mr. CONYERS], the gentleman 
from Michigan and ranking member 
[Mr. DINGELL], Senator PRESSLER, and 
all of the staffs who have done enormously 
important work in bringing 
this to fruition. 

This legislation represents the most 
sweeping communications reform legislation 
to be considered in this House in 
over 60 years. It will establish the 
ground rules for our national telecommunications 
policy as we enter the 
21st century. 

Mr. Speaker, I am happy to yield to 
the gentlewoman from New York [Mrs. 
LOWEY] for the purpose of engaging in 
a colloquy. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to congratulate the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], the chairman 
of the committee, and other members 
of the conference in bringing this 
very important conference report to 
the floor today. However, I would like 
to bring to your attention one section 
that is very troubling to me. 

Section 507 amends the preexisting 
section of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 
1462) and applies it to the Internet. 
Now, it was my understanding that 
your intent behind adopting this provision 
was to place reasonable restrictions 
on obscenity and indecency on 
the Internet. I support this goal. 

However, a section of this act may be 
construed to curb discussions about 
abortion. It seems to me this provision 
would certainly be unconstitutional. 

Mr. HYDE. Well, reclaiming my time, 
Mr. Speaker, I certainly agree with the 
gentlewoman that any discussion 
about abortion, both pro-life and pro-
abortion rights, is protected by the 
first amendment guarantee of free 
speech; and I certainly agree, nothing 
in title V should be interpreted to inhibit 
free speech about the topic of 
abortion. 

Further, it is correct that our principal 
intent in adopting this provision 
was to curb the spread of obscenity and 
indecency, speech that is not protected 
by the first amendment, from the 
Internet in order to protect our children. 


I yield to the gentlewoman from New 
York [Mrs. LOWEY]. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, with that 
assurance, I feel comfortable supporting 
this bill, and I hope that my colleagues 
who were also concerned about 
this provision will now feel comfortable 
supporting this bill. I thank 
the gentleman for clarifying this point 
and for his hard work on this bill. 

Mr. HYDE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentlewoman for her courtesy. 

As the chairman of the House Judiciary 
Committee—because of our committee’s jurisdiction 
over the Federal antitrust laws and 
Federal regulatory procedures—I approached 
this important and complex issue from a competition 
and deregulatory policy perspective. 
Clearly, the proposed entry of the regional Bell 
operating companies into the long distance 
and manufacturing markets raises fundamental 
antitrust questions. After all, it is an antitrust 
consent decree, commonly known as the 
Modification of Final Judgment or ‘‘MFJ,’’ that 
now prevents them from entering those businesses, 
and it is that decree that we are now 
superseding. Also, the telecommunications industry 
is a highly regulated one at both the 
Federal and State levels. In my view, less regulation 
is a desirable goal in this instance, because 
it will spur further technological innovation, 
greater competition and job development. 

On May 2, 1995, I introduced H.R. 1528, 
the Antitrust Consent Decree Reform Act of 
1995. H.R. 1528 proposed to supersede the 
MFJ and replace it with a quick and deregulatory 
antitrust review of Bell entry by the Department 
of Justice. Under H.R. 1528, the Bell 
companies would have been able to apply to 
the Department of Justice for entry into the 
long distance and manufacturing markets immediately 
upon the date of enactment. The 
Department of Justice would then have had 
180 days to review the application under a 
substantive antitrust standard—specifically, 
Justice would have been required to approve 
the application unless it found by a preponderance 
of the evidence that there was a ‘‘dangerous 
probability that the Bell company would 
use its market power to substantially impede 
competition in the market’’ it was seeking to 
enter. 

This approach received broad, bipartisan 
support within the Judiciary Committee. In 
fact, on May 18, 1995, the full Judiciary Committee 
reported H.R. 1528 by a 29 to 1 recorded 
vote. unfortunately, however, it became 
apparent that there was not broad-
based House support for a potential Department 
of Justice veto over Bell entry. 

The Commerce Committee, on the other 
hand, understandably looked at this issue from 

a telecommunications policy and Communications 
Act perspective. Its bill—H.R. 1555— 
which ultimately became the House legislative 
vehicle, required the Bell operating companies 
to meet various Federal and State legal requirements 
to open their local exchanges to 
competition before they are allowed into the 
long distance and manufacturing businesses. 

In keeping with the long tradition of our 
Committees sharing jurisdiction over the subject 
of telecommunications legislation, we cooperated 
closely on the formulation of the 
manager’s amendment to H.R. 1555, which 
was adopted on the House floor in August. A 
number of the provisions originally contained 
in my bill—H.R. 1528—were moved into H.R. 
1555 through the manager’s amendment. Furthermore, 
following House passage, our two 
committees continued to work closely together 
representing the House position in the House-
Senate conference committee. 

Again, I strongly believe the conference report 
on S. 652 is good legislation that will 
move America’s telecommunications industry 
forward into the 21st century. Allow me now to 
briefly explain a few key provisions that were 
of particular importance to Judiciary Committee 
conferees. 

The conference agreement does include a 
strong consultative role for the Attorney General. 
Under this part of the agreement, the Department 
of Justice will apply any antitrust 
standard it considers appropriate, which may 
include the dangerous probability standard 
from H.R. 1528, to applications by the Bells to 
enter long distance. After conducting its antitrust 
analysis, DOJ will provide its views in 
writing to the FCC and they will be made a 
part of the public record relating to the application. 
The conference agreement enhances 
this consultative role by requiring that the FCC 
give substantial weight to the views of the Attorney 
General. By giving this special status to 
the views of DOJ, the conferees acknowledge 
the long experience and considerable expertise 
it has developed in this field. Under this 
approach, the FCC will have the benefit of a 
DOJ antitrust analysis before the Bell companies 
are allowed to enter the long distance 
market. 

The conference agreement also enhances 
DOJ’s role in another way—it repeals section 
221(a) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 

U.S.C. § 221(a)). Congress enacted section 
221(a) when local telephone service was 
viewed as a natural monopoly. The statute 
currently provides that when any two telephone 
companies merge, the FCC should determine 
whether the merger will be ‘‘of advantage 
to the persons to whom service is to be 
rendered and in the public interest.’’ If so, the 
FCC can render the transaction immune from 
‘‘any Act or Acts of Congress making the proposed 
transaction unlawful.’’ 
However, the conferees concluded that section 
221(a) could inadvertently undercut several 
of the provisions of the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996. The critical term ‘‘telephone 
company’’ is not defined. In the new 
world of competition, many companies will be 
able to argue plausibly that they are telephone 
companies. When two telephone companies 
merge, section 221(a) allows the FCC to confer 
immunity from any act of Congress—including 
the Telecommunications Act of 1996— 
after performing a public interest review. 

Thus, if it were not repealed, section 221(a) 
could easily have been used to avoid the 


H 1158 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

cable-telco buyout provisions of the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996. Any cable company 
that owned any telephone assets could 
become a telephone company and be bought 
out by an RBOC by applying for immunity 
under this section. Likewise, if section 221(a) 
were broadly interpreted, it might also have 
been used to get around all the other line of 
business restrictions in the bill, including the 
restriction on RBOC entry into long distance. 
Fortunately, the conference agreement closes 
this loophole. 

In addition, because section 221(a) allowed 
the FCC to confer immunity from antitrust statutes, 
it would have allowed mergers between 
telecommunications giants to go forward without 
any antitrust review. Mergers between 
these kinds of companies should not be allowed 
to go through without a thorough antitrust 
review under the normal Hart-Scott-Rodino 
process. A public interest review by the 
FCC simply is not a strong enough tool to prevent 
these giants from destroying competition 
and recreating a monopoly system through a 
series of megamergers. 

By returning review of mergers in a competitive 
industry to the DOJ, this repeal is consistent 
with one of the underlying themes of the 
bill—to get both agencies back to their proper 
roles and to end Government by consent decree. 
The FCC should be carrying out the policies 
of the Communications Act, and the DOJ 
should be carrying out the policies of the antitrust 
laws. The repeal does not affect the 
FCC’s ability to conduct any review of a merger 
for Communications Act purposes, for example 
transfer of licenses. Rather, it simply 
ends the FCC’s ability to confer antitrust immunity. 
In an era of competitive telecommunications 
giants, mergers between them ought 
to be reviewed in the same fashion as those 
in all other industries. 

The Judiciary Committee conferees have 
also focused on the provisions contained in 
title VI, which address the effect of the bill on 
other laws. With respect to the various consent 
decrees, the conference agreement 
adopts a new approach to the supersession of 
the Modification of Final Judgment—now 
called the AT&T Consent Decree in the conference 
agreement—and the GTE consent decree. 
It also adds language superseding the 
AT&T-McCaw Consent Decree—McCaw Consent 
Decree. The Conference Committee 
sought to avoid any possibility that the language 
in the conference agreement might be 
interpreted as impinging on the judicial power. 
Congress may not by legislation retroactively 
overturn a final judgment. Plaut V. Spendthrift 
Farm, Inc., 115 S.Ct. 1447 (1995). On the 
other hand, Congress may by legislation modify 
or eliminate the prospective effect of a continuing 
injunction. Robertson v. Seattle Audubon 
Society, 503 U.S. 429 (1992); Plaut, 115 
S.Ct. 1447; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling & Belmont 
Bridge Co., 59 U.S. 421 (1856). 

To avoid any possible constitutional problem, 
the Conference Committee adopted the 
following new approach. Rather than superseding 
all or part of these continuing injunctions, 
the conference agreement simply provides 
that all conduct or activities that are currently 
subject to these consent decrees shall, 
on and after the date of enactment, become 
subject to the requirements and obligations of 
the act and shall no longer be subject to the 
restrictions and obligations of the respective 
consent decrees. The new approach did re


quire some adjustment in other parts of the 
bill, including provisions: No. 1, to continue existing 
equal access and nondiscrimination requirements 
for local exchange carriers, No. 2, 
to adjust the definition of RBOC to exclude 
successors that do not provide wireline service, 
and No. 3, to continue activities allowed 
under existing MFJ waiver requests that have 
been ruled on before enactment. I believe that 
each of these adjustments has been made 
successfully and that this new approach will 
insulate the bill from constitutional attack. 

In other parts of title VI, the conference 
agreement retains the House language that 
expressly provides that no State tax laws are 
unintentionally preempted by implication or interpretation. 
Rather, such preemptions are limited 
to provisions specifically enumerated in 
this clause. One of those enumerated preemptions, 
section 602, is the local tax exemption 
for providers of direct to home satellite services. 
The conference agreement adopts the 
House language with minor modifications to 
insure that the exemption extends only to the 
provision of programming. 

Section 602 reflects a legislative determination 
that the provision of direct-to-home satellite 
service is national, not local in nature. 
Unlike cable and telephone companies which 
utilize public rights-of-way to provide service to 
their subscribers, providers of direct-to-home 
services utilize satellites to provide programming 
to their subscribers in every jurisdiction. 
To permit thousands of local taxing jurisdictions 
to tax such a national service would create 
an unnecessary and undue burden on the 
providers of such services. Local taxing jurisdictions 
are therefor preempted from taxing 
the provision or sale of direct-to-home satellite 
services. Direct-to-home satellite service providers 
and others in the distribution chain are 
exempted from collecting and remitting local 
taxes and fees on the sale of such services. 
The power of the States to tax this service is 
not affected by section 602. Again, States 
may, if they wish, share the revenue thus collected 
with their local municipalities. 

The conference agreement also contains 
important language, patterned after provisions 
contained in H.R. 1528—and H.R. 1555—on 
electronic publishing. Under the conference 
agreement, the Bell companies will be able to 
enter the electronic publishing business 
through a separated affiliate or a joint venture. 
They will be required, however, to provide 
services to small electronic publishers at the 
same per-unit prices that they give to larger 
publishers. This will allow smaller newspapers 
and other electronic publishers to bring the information 
superhighway to rural areas that 
might otherwise be passed by. 

The conference agreement joins the House 
and Senate provisions on alarm monitoring. 
Under the new section 275, Bell operating 
companies and their affiliates, who have not 
already entered the alarm monitoring business, 
may not provide alarm monitoring services 
for 5 years from the date of enactment. 

BOC’s that were lawfully engaged in the 
alarm monitoring business on or before November 
30, 1995, however, may continue to 
provide such services. There are no prohibitions 
under current law barring such companies 
from alarm monitoring, and they should 
be permitted to operate and expand their business 
just like any other company in our free 
market system. This legislation should not 
cause these existing businesses to be unduly 

penalized after having lawfully entered the 
business. Moreover, consumers should not be 
denied the benefits that this additional competition 
will bring. 

It is important to emphasize that it is perfectly 
legal for the regional Bell companies to 
be in the alarm monitoring business right now. 
Since an appellate court decision in 1991, the 
information services restriction originally in the 
MFJ has been lifted and the Bell Companies 
have been free to provide alarm monitoring 
and other information services. Only one Bell 
company—Ameritech—has chosen to enter 
into the alarm business. But they did so in reliance 
on the law as it was—and still is—at the 
time they entered. They have invested company 
resources and assets in this business. 

It would simply not be fair for Congress to 
step in and change the rules of the game for 
a company that has lawfully chosen to enter 
into this business. We are not prohibiting any 
other existing alarm company from expanding 
their business, nor are we prohibiting them 
from acquiring other companies. In my view, 
legislation that alters the legal rights and/or 
obligations of private parties should be prospective 
rather than retroactive. So, for those 
Bell companies that have chosen not to enter 
the alarm business, prospective restrictions for 
a period of 5 years are not unfair. That is, 
once this law is passed, a Bell company not 
already in the business on the date of enactment 
could not enter for another 5 years. It 
would be quite a different matter to limit the 
actions of a company that already is in the 
business. 

Accordingly, such ‘‘grandfathered’’ BOC’s 
may grow their alarm monitoring business 
through customer or asset acquisitions; however 
for 5 years from the date of enactment, 
such a company may ‘‘not acquire any equity 
interest in or obtain financial control’’ of an unaffiliated 
alarm monitoring company. It should 
be noted that any BOC providing alarm monitoring 
services will operate under specific 
nondiscrimination, cross-subsidy, and customer 
information obligations and protections. 
After 5 years, there will be no entry, equity, or 
financial control restrictions on BOC provision 
of alarm monitoring services. 

Finally and importantly, title V of S. 652 will 
prohibit using and interactive computer service 
for the purpose of sending indecent material to 
a specific person under the age of 18. It also 
outlaws the display of indecent material without 
taking precautions to shield that material 
from minors. Defenses to these violations are 
provided to assure that enforcement will focus 
on those who knowingly transmit such material 
to minors. In fact, the conference report expressly 
provides an absolute legal defense to 
any on-line access provider, software company, 
employer, and any other, ‘‘solely for providing 
access or connection to or from a facility, 
system or network not under that person’s 
control,’’ so long as that person is not involved 
in ‘‘the creation of the content of the communication.’’ 
Employers are also protected so 
long as the actions of their employees fall outside 
of the scope of their employment or if the 
employer has not ratified the illegal activity. 

This provision codifies the definition of indecency 
that has been upheld in FCC v. Pacifica 
Foundation, 438 U.S. 726 (1978), and Sable 
Communications of California, Inc. v. FCC, 
492 U.S. 115 (1989). Material that is ‘‘indecent’’ 
is ‘‘material that, in context, depicts or 
describes, in terms patently offensive as 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1159 

measured by contemporary community standards, 
sexual or excretory activities or organs.’’ 
Thus, the standard contained in S. 652 is fully 
consistent with the Constitution; it is not unconstitutionally 
vague. 

The underlying legal principle of the indecency 
concept is patent offensiveness. Such a 
determination cannot be made without a consideration 
of the context of the description or 
depiction at issue. As applied, the patent offensiveness 
inquiry to be made involves two 
distinct elements: the desire to be patently offensive, 
and a patently offensive result. Given 
these inquiries, it is clear that material with serious 
redeeming value is quite obviously intended 
to edify and educate, not to offend. 
Therefore, it will be imperative to consider the 
context and the nature of the material in question 
when determining its patent offensiveness. 


Furthermore, title V clarifies current Federal 
obscenity statutes so it is undeniable that 
those laws cover the use of a computer to distribute, 
transport, or import obscene matter. 
The regulation of Internet indecency contained 
in the conference report is not based on what 
should be seen or discussed via the vast compute 
network, but rather on where or how it is 
made available. The provisions of the bill are 
not the most restrictive means, on the contrary, 
they are reasonable and narrowly tailored 
so not to overly burden one’s right to engage 
in indecent communications while at the 
same time achieving the Government’s policy 
objective of protecting our children. 

Concerns have been raised about the 
amendment to 18 U.S.C. § 1462 regarding an 
interactive computer service. Section 1462 
generally prohibits the importation or transportation 
of obscene matter. Subsection 1462(c) 
prohibits the importation or interstate carriage 
of ‘‘any drug, medicine, article, or thing designed, 
adapted, or intended for producing 
abortion, or for any indecent or immoral use; 
or any written or printed card, letter, circular, 
book, pamphlet, advertisement, or notice of 
any kind giving information, directly or indirectly, 
where, how, or of whom, or by what 
means any of such mentioned articles, matters 
or things may be obtained or made * * *.’’ 

We are talking about the advertisement, 
sale or procurement of drugs or medical instruments 
or devices, used to bring about an 
abortion. This language in no way is intended 
to inhibit free speech about the topic of abortion, 
nor in any way to limit medical or scientific 
discourse on the Internet. This amendment 
to subsection 1462(c) does not prohibit 
serious discussions about the moral questions 
surrounding abortion, the act of abortion itself, 
or the constitutionality of abortion. This statutory 
language prohibits the use of an interactive 
computer service for the explicit purpose 
of selling, procuring or facilitating the 
sale of drugs, medicines or other devices intended 
for use in producing abortions. The 
statutory language is confined to those commercial 
activities already covered in section 
1462(c) of title 18 and in no way interferes 
with the freedom of individuals to discuss the 
general topic of abortion on the Internet. 

Finally, section 508 will protect kids from 
sexual predators by making it a crime—punishable 
by up to 10 years in prison—for anyone 
to use a facility in interstate commerce, 
including a computer, to induce or solicit a 
child under 18 to engage in prostitution or 
other illegal sexual activity. 

In conclusion, I want to thank Commerce 
Committee Chairman, BLILEY, Subcommittee 
Chairman, FIELDS, Ranking Member, CONYERS, 
Ranking Member DINGELL, and Senate 
Commerce Committee Chairman PRESSLER 
and their staffs for their cooperation in this 
monumental effort. 

In short, as American advances into the 
21st century, this telecommunications legislation 
is tremendously important. It is my firm 
belief that this bill means more jobs for Americans 
and will greatly enhance American competitiveness 
worldwide. It is high time that we 
replace this overly restrictive consent decree 
with a statute that recognizes the telecommunications 
realities of the 1990’s. I intend 
to support the conference report on S. 
652 because it will accomplish these goals. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. BOUCHER]. 

(Mr. BOUCHER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BOUCHER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to rise in support of the conference 
report on telecommunications 
reform and urge its adoption by the 
House. This measure will create competition 
in our telecommunications 
markets, first by freeing telephone 
companies to offer cable TV service inside 
their telephone service areas, and 
for the first time, bringing genuine 
competition to the cable market. 

Second and correspondingly, by allowing 
cable companies and others to 
offer local telephone service and bringing 
genuine competition for the first 
time to the local telephone market. 

Third, the bill will enhance competition 
in the long-distance industry by 
freeing the seven Bell operating companies 
to offer interLATA long-distance 
service. 

Fourth, by making the equipment 
market in the United States more competitive 
by enabling those same seven 
companies to manufacture equipment. 

A number of benefits will inure from 
the passage of this bill. Consumers will 
enjoy better pricing, as competition 
comes into markets that today are 
characterized as monopolies or near 
monopolies. New services will be introduced 
by the new entrants into these 
various markets. 

Perhaps most importantly, this is 
the means by which our country will 
obtain a modernization of its telecommunications 
network. Telephone 
companies to offer cable service will 
deploy broad-band technologies 
throughout their local exchanges. 
Cable companies to offer local telephone 
service will install switches in 
their coaxial networks, and the United 
States will then have the most modern 
network that exists anywhere in the 
world. 

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to urge 
support for the conference report. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentlewoman from Colorado 
[Mrs. SCHROEDER], who has 
worked tirelessly across the years for 
improved telecommunications legislation. 


Mrs. SCHROEDER. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding me 
this time, and I thank him for his leadership. 


I just want to say that I really do 
want to find some way that I could 
vote for this, but ever since I was in 
law school, I always learned I should be 
prepared, and I should read what it is I 
am voting on. 

I am standing here to say to my colleagues 
there is no way in the world 
that I can read fast enough to get 
through these 6 pages of technical corrections 
that we received today, single-
spaced, by the way, and the bill, and 
put it all together and have any idea 
what I am really reading. So I am very 
upset that we would waive that 3-day 
period, move forward, and so forth. 

One example of the type of things 
that we might uncover, let us hope 
that this is the only thing in there, 
that there would be nothing else that 
we would uncover, but this little nugget 
that we uncovered about referencing 
in the old COMSAT Act that people 
have been talking about, and that the 
gentleman, our chairman from Illinois 
and the gentlewoman from New York 
just had the colloquy about, was one 
very major thing that everybody said, 
oh, we did not intend to do this. Oh, my 
goodness, how did this happen? 

b1500 
It is kind of interesting to me that 
we had time for all these other technical 
corrections, but we did not have 
time for a technical correction to clear 
up something that nobody intended to 
do, yet we are going to have everybody 
confused about what in the world is it 
we really meant as we did this. 
And my problem is, we can have an 
agreement that abortion, the word 
abortion, the big A word, is protected 
speech under the Constitution, which I 
certainly agree with. But the question 
is what happens when you go on the 
Internet internationally? Does the 
Constitution go internationally? Does 
it follow you through the lines? I am 
not sure. 
Telemedicine is one of the things we 
had hoped we would be able to move 
out and move into as a big area. What 
does all of this mean vis-a-vis that? We 
do not have an answer. 
Furthermore, unfortunately on this 
act, there is a decision that came down 
pre-1972 saying this act is constitutional. 
So we may have a colloquy saying, 
‘‘I hope it isn’t constitutional,’’ we 
have got a decision saying it is constitutional. 
I do not know. I do not 
have time to go do all of that work in 
this period of time we have before we 
are to vote on it. 
But I think that it is not a good idea 
to rush this through when it is such a 
significant part of our economy, and 
we are now seeing this gag rule come 
through which we hope is not a gag 
rule, but it might be a gag rule, and we 
do not know what the other 6 pages of 
single-spaced things might hold, too. 
I do not know what happened to 
being thoughtful. It is only the 1st day 


H 1160 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

of February. Do we really have to take 
the whole rest of the month off? Could 
we not read and understand this? Because 
we are coming up with things 
that we are going to live by and we are 
going to be held by for the next 50 
years. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a sad day, and I 
am only sorry that we could not know 
more things about it. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. BARTON], a member of 
the committee. 

(Mr. BARTON of Texas asked and 
was given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. BARTON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
I want to also express my support to 
the leadership on both sides of the aisle 
that have pushed this legislation. Special 
thanks to my good friend, JACK 
FIELDS, who is retiring at the end of 
this session and this is going to be his 
legacy. He gets triple gold stars for his 
work. 

I want to give a special thought on 
the local control of the right-of-way. 
The gentleman from Michigan, Mr. 
STUPAK, and myself and Senator 
HUTCHISON in the Senate have worked 
on that. I had a phone conversation 
with the president of the League of 
Mayors this morning, the gentleman 
from Knoxville, TN. They are supporting 
the bill. 

I would urge all Members who have 
had some concerns expressed by their 
mayors to be supportive. We have 
worked out language in the bill and in 
the conference report that gives cities 
absolute guarantees to control their 
right-of-way and to charge fair and reasonable 
nondiscriminatory pricing for 
the use of that right-of-way. 

This is a good piece of work, it is 
comprehensive, it is revolutionary. As 
my good friend, the gentleman from 
Virginia [Mr. BOUCHER], said, this 
opens up seamless interactive communications 
for all Americans, and I 
would urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote on the bill. 

Mr. Speaker, section 702 of the bill adds a 
new section 222(e) to the Communications Act 
which would prohibit any provider of local telephone 
service from charging discriminatory 
and/or unreasonable rates, or setting discriminatory 
and/or unreasonable terms or conditions, 
for independent directory publishers 
buying subscriber list information. 

Subscriber list information is essential to 
publishing directories. Carriers that charge excessive 
prices or set unfair conditions on listing 
sales deprive consumers and advertisers 
of cheaper, more innovative, more helpful directory 
alternatives. 

Under section 257 of the bill, within 15 
months from the date of enactment, the FCC 
is to undertake rulemakings to identify and remove 
barriers to entry for small businesses involved 
with telecommunications and information 
services. Clearly, the requirements of section 
702 with respect to subscriber list information 
fall within this rulemaking requirement. 

As the FCC determines what constitutes a 
‘‘reasonable’’ price for listings, it seems clear 
that the most significant factor in that determination 
should be the actual, or incremental 

cost of providing the listing to the independent 
publisher. This approach assures that providers 
get back what it actually costs them to deliver 
the listings to a publisher without being 
allowed to ‘‘load’’ the price with unrelated 
costs and cross-subsidies. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
California [Ms. ESHOO]. 

(Ms. ESHOO asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of the conference report for 
this telecommunications act. 

I would like to start out, Mr. Speaker, 
by paying tribute to the distinguished 
gentleman from Virginia [Mr. 
BLILEY], chairman of our committee, 
to the distinguished gentleman from 
Texas [Mr. FIELDS], chairman of our 
subcommittee, who really worked tirelessly; 
to the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. DINGELL], ranking member; to 
David Leach of our staff and Lance 
Scott of mine, thank you for all the 
hard work that you have put in. 

Mr. Speaker, as the Representative of 
Silicon Valley, CA it is clear to me 
that making the phone industry more 
like the computer industry would be a 
great boost to our Nation’s economy. 

That is why nearly 9 months ago 
today I stood with my commerce committee 
colleagues to announce my 
original cosponsorship of this historic 
legislation and rise today as a member 
of the conference committee. 

This legislation sets down a clear 
framework, or checklist, for deregulating 
the telephone industry and has put 
in place detailed rules to protect consumers 
from certain monopolies. 

In addition, the bill ensures rapid development 
and implementation of new 
technologies. Of particular interest to 
me is its mechanism to connect our 
Nation’s children to the Internet and 
its requirement for a V Chip which parents 
can use to block television shows 
harmful to their children. 

I am also very proud to report that a 
provision I authored to limit the role 
of the Federal Communications Commission 
in setting standards for the 
computer and software industry has 
been included without change in the 
final bill. With this language, consumers 
will be free to use their computers 
to coordinate the functions of their futuristic 
homes, as opposed to being 
forced to use foreign-made television 
sets because of an FCC mandate. I say 
let the market decide. 

Mr. Speaker, as with most legislation, 
I am not totally satisfied with 
this bill. I am concerned about provisions 
in it that may dangerously decrease 
the number of voices on our public 
airwaves. 

I also strongly object to the bill’s 
provision to hold businesses and 
Internet users liable from transmitting 
loosely defined material over computer 
networks. The Internet is not a U.S. 
Government network, and giving Federal 
officials indiscriminate censorship 
authority in this area mocks constitutional 
protections of free speech. 

I urge expeditious judicial review of 
this provision to ensure that free 
speech protections are not undermined. 

Despite these reservations which are 
serious ones, I believe our Nation must 
embrace the promise of the 21st century, 
an American century, marked by 
a new era of telecommunications. 

I encourage my colleagues to support 
the conference report. 

Mr. Speaker, there is one provision of the 
act that has been of particular interest to me 
as well as a wide range of companies and 
trade groups associated with the computer 
and information processing industries. Section 
301(f) of the act is a provision that I authored 
and originally introduced during the Commerce 
Committee markup as an amendment to H.R. 
1555. It limits the role of the Federal Communications 
Commission [FCC] in setting standards 
that may affect the computer and home 
automation industries. It directs the FCC to set 
only minimal standards for cable equipment 
compatibility, maximize marketplace competition 
for all features and protocols unrelated to 
descrambling of cable programming, and ensure 
that the FCC’s cable compatibility regulations 
do not affect computer network services, 
home automation, or other types of telecommunications 
equipment. In short, this section 
keeps the Government out of high-technology 
standards and prevents the FCC from 
setting standards for the computer and communications 
services of tomorrow. 

Section 301(f) of the Telecommunications 
Act is a small but key ingredient for achieving 
the purpose of this historic bill: To embrace 
the future by allowing new technologies to 
flourish with minimum Government interference. 
Just as the act helps to open markets 
by eliminating Government barriers to long-
distance and equipment manufacturing competition, 
section 301(f) ensures that our vital 
computer and high-technology markets remain 
open and competitive by ensuring that Government 
technical standards are kept to a minimum. 
Almost all standards in the communications 
and computer industries are voluntary, 
private standards—not Government mandates—
and they should remain that way. 

The principle of keeping Government out of 
technical standards is taking on increasing importance 
as we observe the accelerating convergence 
of the computer and communications 
industries. Companies throughout America, 
and all over the world, are feverishly working 
on the communications applications of tomorrow. 
These include the smarthouse—a 
home where lighting, entertainment, security, 
and other consumer needs are controlled and 
programmed automatically for users. Computers 
and communications are at the very center 
of this automation revolution. But like most 
revolutions, this one would wither and die if 
the Government were to set the rules and stifle 
change. 

Section 301(f) modifies the FCC’s authority 
in order to reign in the Commission’s ongoing 
rulemaking on cable equipment compatibility. 
The problem Congress faces is that the agency 
has taken our 1992 Cable Act—the source 
of the Commission’s power to assure compatibility 
between televisions, VCR’s, and cable 
systems—and gone far beyond what appropriate 
public policy requires or its statutory authority 
permits. The Commission’s 1994 proposal 
for a decoder interface would make the 
television set the gateway to the burgeoning 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1161 

information superhighway, relegating the computer, 
and all other home appliances, to second-
tier status. It also would include one specific 
home automation protocol—called 
CEBus, or Consumer Electronic Bus—as the 
mechanism by which all cable-ready TV’s and 
set-top boxes would communicate. 

My amendment prevents these consequences 
by precluding the Commission 
from standardizing any features or protocols 
that are not necessary for descrambling, preventing 
the selection of CEBus or any other 
home automation protocol as a part of the 
FCC’s cable compatibility regulations, and precluding 
the Commission from affecting products 
in the computer or home automation marketplaces 
in any way. Section 301(f) leaves 
these standards to be set, as they should be, 
by competition in the marketplace. It makes 
clear that the Commission does not have the 
authority to prefer one home automation technology 
over another or permit its cable compatibility 
rules to affect the unrelated computer 
or home automation markets. 

Some have questioned whether section 
301(f) was intended to prevent the Commission 
from achieving cable compatibility. To 
that I say simply: No. The provision does not 
change the agency’s power to ensure that 
cable set-top boxes no longer interfere with 
the advanced features of consumer TV’s—like 
picture-in-picture. And as the conference report 
makes clear, Congress intends that the 
FCC should now promptly complete its long-
delayed cable compatibility rulemaking. What 
the Commission cannot do, however, is use 
the 1992 Cable Act as a justification or excuse 
for broad Government standards on home automation 
communications or audio-visual 
equipment. 

Under section 301(f), the FCC is required to 
maximize marketplace competition and private 
standards, not the role of Government regulations. 
It is required to let the market resolve 
standards issues for emerging technologies 
and services—like satellite broadcasting, 
video-on-demand and home automation—and 
to keep its cable compatibility standards narrowly 
tailored to solve only the specific problems 
the 1992 act asked the FCC to handle. 
The decoder interface, with its artificial bottleneck 
for the television and its unnecessary impact 
on home automation, is far from the only 
approach to solving those limited problems. 
The Commission must rework its compatibility 
proposal. It should also seek input from the 
computer, home automation, video dial tone 
and other potentially affected industries, not 
just the cable television and consumer electronics 
industries. 

Some have also questioned why the prohibition 
in section 301(f)—that the Commission 
may not affect the computer or home automation 
markets—is so broad. To that I answer 
that the language is broad in order to effectively 
implement the principle that FCC regulations 
should not interfere in competitive markets. 
Because there is no reason to affect 
home automation or computers, and because 
even inadvertent or relatively small effects on 
competitive markets can easily displace technological 
innovation, section 301(f) is weighted 
toward protecting competition and open markets. 
As the conference report states, any 
‘‘material influence’’ on unrelated markets is 
prohibited. Because it is impossible for agencies 
or courts to judge whether the impact of 
technical standards in emerging markets 

would be harmful or substantial, section 301(f) 
draws a bright line to avoid any regulatory impact 
whatsoever. 

There is an important policy at work here. 
The risk associated with wide administrative 
powers over technology issues in an era of 
rapid technical change is that premature or 
overbroad Government standards may interfere 
in the market-driven process of standardization 
or impede technological innovation itself. 
American industry has solved compatibility 
problems, and created workable standards, 
in the VCR, personal computer, compact disk, 
and other industries without any Government 
involvement. Markets drive interoperability 
much better, and far faster, than regulatory 
agencies could ever achieve. Where would we 
be today if the FCC had stepped in to set 
compatibility standards for personal computers 
in the early 1980’s? We’d be without Windows 
’95, or the Mac, or even DOS, because all of 
these operating systems arose as the result of 
marketplace forces. 

My amendment, which I am proud to report 
is included verbatim in the final text of the 
Telecommunications Act of 1995, prevents us 
from overregulating in the new computer and 
communications markets of the 1990’s. We 
may yet be a few decades away from the totally 
automated home of the ‘‘Jetsons’’ cartoon, 
but with the help of section 301(f) we’re 
one step closer to the smarthouse of tomorrow. 


Mr. Speaker, a number of Members, on 
both sides of the aisle, played important roles 
in supporting my amendment at the Commerce 
Committee level and during the conference 
committee negotiations. I very much 
appreciate this bipartisan support, and thank 
my colleagues for insisting that the final conference 
report include the full text of the provision 
as originally introduced by me and as 
passed by the House last August. I urge the 
House to pass the Telecommunications Act of 
1995 and to apply its basic principles of open 
markets and competition to the important area 
of compatibility standards. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 1 minute. 

Question: How many know whether 
or not there will be an unprecedented 
increase in media concentration if this 
measure becomes law? 

Answer: Not many. 

But does it? 

Well, the answer is that at a time 
that we need greater and more diverse 
media voices, this measure before us 
will eliminate the national radio and 
television ownership rules, scale back 
local concentration rules, and allow 
corporations to simultaneously control 
broadcast and cable systems. 

Disheartening? I think so. Can it be 
improved? Of course. How do we do it? 
Send it back to the committee. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11/2 
minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Ohio [Mr. OXLEY], a member 
of the committee. 

(Mr. OXLEY asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. OXLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
strong support of the conference report. 


Years ago, seems like longer than it 
was, but in 1991 the gentleman from 
Virginia [Mr. BOUCHER] and I introduced 
legislation to eliminate the 
cable-telco cross-ownership language, 
to encourage competition between 
cable and telephone and allow them 
into each other’s businesses, neither 
one of them particularly happy with 
that prospect at the time, and now we 
have come to this day. 

In looking back, when Al Swift and 
Tom Tauke introduced a bill to eliminate 
the modified final judgment, we 
worked very hard on that issue, the 
gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. 
MARKEY], the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. DINGELL], the chairman, and I 
want to express my sincere appreciation 
to them for their hard work in the 
past and what has brought us here 
today. 

The same kind of thing for the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], the 
chairman, who has shown enormous 
leadership, and my good friend, the 
gentleman from Texas [Mr. FIELDS], 
who unfortunately will be retiring but 
has just put in hours and hours of work 
and leadership to get us where we are 
today. I think all of us in this House 
owe JACK FIELDS a great deal of gratitude 
for where we are today. 

The heart of this bill is to eliminate 
monopolies and to encourage this great 
competitive marketplace that we have 
going for us. Our answer is, let the 
competition begin. 

Today, we make history, the first 
major rewrite of telecommunications 
legislation in this country in over 60 
years. Driven by good public policy and 
an explosion of new technology, we 
stand at the threshold of the 21st century 
in communications with America 
as the undisputed leader. 

Mr. Speaker, in many ways it is a relief to 
be approaching the end of this protracted 
process. This conference report has been a 
long time coming—62 years, in fact—and 
while the bill falls a bit short of my expectations, 
there can be no doubt that it represents 
landmark reform of the Nation’s telecommunications 
law. 

This legislation is ambitious in its vision and 
breadth. It is a vision of deregulation and 
head-to-head competition. It opens up all communications 
markets to competition, including 
the local telephone and cable television industries. 


The measure’s provisions allowing telephone 
companies and cable companies to 
compete in each other’s markets are based on 
legislation I introduced in 1991 with the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BOUCHER]. Our 
measure envisioned the convergence of these 
technologies, and our initiative constitutes the 
heart of this reform effort, if I may say so myself. 


The bill is antiregulatory and 
antibureaucratic in philosophy. Where there 
are regulations or mandates, they exist in 
most cases for the express purpose of promoting 
competition and ensuring the 
unencumbered operation of market forces. 

As is the case with politics, open business 
competition is not always a pretty process. 
There will be dislocations and miscalculations. 


H 1162 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Certainly, there are those who would prefer 
the old way of sheltered monopolies and intense 
Government regulations. But in the end, 
the more efficient markets, and innovations 
that protected incumbents would never undertake. 


As an aide, Mr. Speaker, there are some 
important issues which have been left somewhat 
vague in the conference report, in order 
to allow the FCC the latitude to implement 
them effectively. Some specifics have been 
outlined, however. In the case of the joint marketing 
provisions, for example, it is my understanding 
that the offering of local and long distance 
service under the same brand name 
would be permissible, so long as they are fully 
separate and those services are not jointly advertised. 
In the case of local marketing agreements, 
I note that the language allows LMA’s 
to continue. It is important that broadcasters 
are granted the flexibility that these innovative 
agreements make possible. They help ensure 
the continuation of free, over-the-air local 
broadcasting. 

The truth, Mr. Speaker, is that the conference 
report could have been even more deregulatory 
than it is. It is not the revolutionary 
measure originally introduced in the Subcommittee 
on Telecommunications and Finance. 
Unfortunately, the regulators and the 
protectionists left their imprint on this bill, as 
well. 

However, considering that we have a regulation-
minded administration at the White 
House and rather narrow Republican majorities 
in Congress, it is an excellent step in the 
right direction. And in those areas where we 
did not meet expectations, there will be future 
opportunities to address shortcomings. 

Mr. Speaker, enactment of this legislation 
will mean more choices, lower prices, and better 
services for all telecommunications consumers. 
It will mean more economic growth, 
more jobs, and a more competitive U.S. economy. 
I urge the support of all Members. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania [Mr. KLINK]. 

Mr. KLINK. I thank my friend, the 
gentleman from Massachusetts [Mr. 
MARKEY], for yielding time to me. 

Mr. Speaker, when we were working 
on this bill back in the Committee on 
Commerce, there were only a handful 
of us who voted against the bill coming 
out of committee. I say a handful, 5 
fingers, there were 5 of us. When we 
came to the floor, again, we had many 
concerns with the chairman’s mark. 

I will tell Members that during this 
process, even thought people on both 
sides of the aisle, certainly the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], 
chairman, and the gentleman from 
Texas [Mr. FIELDS], chairman of the 
subcommittee, tried to work very hard 
in a bipartisan manner to include all of 
our concerns, I did not think we could 
get to the point where we would have a 
bill that is acceptable. 

I will tell Members that while the 
bill that we are taking up here, this 
conference report, is certainly far from 
what this Member of Congress would 
call ideal, I will support this bill. I 
think that we have now seen how the 
process is supposed to work, how we 
are supposed to have give-and-take, we 

are supposed to hear from industry 
groups who have concerns. 

The good Lord knows we all heard 
from industry groups and from 
consumer groups. I would have to 
think that in my brief period here in 
this Congress, this is the most lobbied 
piece of legislation certainly that I 
have seen. I hope it is the most lobbied 
piece I will ever see. I do not want anybody 
to try and break these records. 

But with this bill we are going to create 
jobs. In my State of Pennsylvania 
we are guessing, in talking to industry 
sources, that in a 10-year period we 
may create 140,000 much needed jobs, 
and other States across this Nation 
will see similar things. 

I would simply ask all of my colleagues 
to give due consideration to 
supporting this conference report. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. FRANK] who has brought 
a great energy and intellectual impact 
to this legislative process. 

Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. I 
thank the ranking member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary for yielding 
me the time. 

Mr. Speaker, I agree that this bill is 
substantially improved from the one 
that originally came before us, although 
the notion of passing a bill 
which has had added to it at a very unusual 
point in the process, namely, in 
the conference, language that is explicitly 
and admittedly unconstitutional 
because of its restriction on using the 
word ‘‘abortion’’ is an interesting way 
to legislate, and that is one reason that 
I do not like the bill. 

But another, as I said before, is the 
extent to which it is so unfair to the 
Republican leadership. It seemed to me 
that Speaker GINGRICH and his arguments 
against censorship was entitled 
to more consideration that he got from 
his side of the aisle. I thought the 
Speaker was right when he opposed 
censorship and I am sorry to see that 
he has given in. 

But I am even more distressed at the 
end of my brief alliance with the Senate 
majority leader. The Senate majority 
leader had been strongly, in the 
last few days and few weeks, objecting 
to giving away access to the TV spectrum, 
an asset that now belongs to the 
public and is worth many billions of 
dollars—we are not sure how much— 
and he said, ‘‘Don’t give it away. Let’s 
auction it off.’’ I thought he was right 
and I was hoping we would get somewhere. 


Because this bill essentially gives it 
away. I know we are being told that we 
should all pretend that the bill does 
not really do that, just as we should 
pretend that the bill does not really 
have some language in there restricting 
your ability to talk about abortion 
on the Internet. But the fact is that 
this legislation was drafted with the 
intention of giving a substantial public 
asset to the broadcasters. I believe it is 
in error. 

I would hope we would defeat this 
today, send it back to conference, let 

them simply put in auction language. 
Let us auction off this very valuable 
aspect of the spectrum, have the billions 
of dollars for the public. It will be 
billions less than we would have to 
take out of Medicare or Medicaid or 
the environment. 

I am afraid that we are setting the 
precedent here or confirming the precedent 
here that free enterprise as the 
Republicans see it is for the poor. Because 
today by giving away billions of 
dollars to the networks, later by making 
similar presents to wealthy agricultural 
interests, we will have confirmed 
that free enterprise and an absence 
of subsidy are rules by which the 
poor and the working class should live. 
But when it comes to substantial and 
important wealthy economic interests, 
whether they control the sugar and 
peanut industry or whether they are 
networks, they will be treated quite in 
contradiction to the principles of free 
enterprise, quite without regard to free 
market, but instead will be given these 
kind of subsidies. 

b1515 
Giving away this very substantial 
asset that the unused portions of the 
spectrum represents for no money and 
after they use it for a while, maybe 
they will think about giving it back, I 
doubt very much that they are going to 
want to do it, is a very grave error. 
Auctions of the unused parts of the 
spectrum have proved very successful, 
and it is a grave error not to include 
them here. 
Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11/2 
minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Colorado [Mr. SCHAEFER]. 
Mr. SCHAEFER. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding, and 
my congratulations to him, the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], and 
certainly to the gentleman from Texas 
[Mr. FIELDS], for putting together this 
very difficult piece of legislation. 
When the AT&T system was broken 
over a decade ago, everybody assumed 
that local telephone service was a natural 
monopoly. Today, thanks to rapid 
technological and market changes, 
that is no longer the case. 
As States around the country are 
proving, competition is much better 
than regulation of telephone markets 
by our Government bureaucrats. 
Just as we are replacing regulations 
for telephone companies, so are we 
with cable companies. Based on provisions 
that I authored in the House-
passed legislation, this conference report 
ends Federal regulation of the entertainment 
tier of cable. Competition 
from the telephone companies and 
many new entrants will replace one of 
the most needless sets of regulation of 
the entertainment tier of cable television 
leaving regulation in place for 
the so-called life line tier of cable. 
Competition from the telephone companies 
and many new entrants will replace 
one of the most needless sets of 
regulation this Congress had ever 
passed. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1163 

With enactment of this legislation, 
we finally get the Government out of 
the job of regulating MTV and the cartoon 
channel. We have finally moved 
out of the dark ages to provide competition 
rather than regulation to the 
benefit of the consumers of this country. 


I urge my colleagues to support the 
conference report. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Arkansas [Mrs. LINCOLN]. 

(Mrs. LINCOLN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. LINCOLN. Mr. Speaker, I think 
we all today owe a special thanks to 
the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY] 
and to the gentleman from Texas 
[Mr. FIELDS], to my good friends, the 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL] 
and the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MARKEY], for all of their 
hard work and efforts on behalf of all 
of us here in America for this wonderful 
piece of legislation. 

I would like to ask the people of 
America to pay attention, folks, because 
in the midst of all of our frustration 
over budget battles and partisan 
politics, a new day has dawned with 
this legislation. 

Today’s vote on this historic legislation 
lays out the welcome mat for the 
21st century and for those of us in rural 
America, it ensures we have a place at 
the table. 

As a representative of 25 rural counties 
in Arkansas, my primary concerns 
during these negotiations and among 
the conferees has been ensuring that 
people who live in rural areas will have 
access to the same advanced technology 
and competition that we are 
seeking for the country and at affordable 
prices. Today, I am extremely 
pleased with the results of endless 
hours of talks. 

By extending the definition of universal 
service, we have provided the 
means to ensure the coordinated Federal-
State universal service system 
provides consumers living in rural and 
high-cost areas with access to advanced 
telecommunication services at 
reasonably comparable rates. By adding 
guarantees to the requirements for 
receiving universal service money, we 
have also made sure rural consumers 
will be served. 

The waives and modifications created 
in both the Senate and House bills were 
carefully blended in conference to balance 
desires to promote competition in 
local exchange areas while ensuring 
smaller providers have necessary flexibility 
to comply with the bill’s interconnection 
requirement. 

I appreciate the chairman’s willingness 
to work with me on these and 
many other issues. 

I also would like to recognize the 
House’s wisdom in accepting the 
Snowe-Rockefeller provision in the 
Senate bill to supplement distance 
learning and telemedicine. We included 
similar language in our bill last year. I 

am pleased my colleagues in the House 
took the time to educate themselves 
about the infrastructure we need to 
educate our children. 

This is a bill we can all be proud of. 
I certainly encourage all of my colleagues 
to support it. 

My primary concern during negotiations 
among conferees has been ensuring that people 
who live in rural areas will have access to 
the same advanced technology and competition 
that we’re seeking for the country—and at 
affordable prices. 

Today, I am extremely pleased with the results 
of endless hours of talks. By expanding 
the definition of universal service, we have 
provided the means to ensure that the coordinated 
Federal-State universal service system 
provides consumers living in rural and high-
cost areas with access to advanced telecommunications 
services at reasonably comparable 
rates. By adding guarantees to the requirements 
for receiving universal service 
money, we also have made sure that rural 
consumers will be served. 

The waivers and modifications created in 
both the Senate and House bills were carefully 
blended in conference to balance the desire to 
promote competition in the local exchange 
area while ensuring that smaller providers 
have the necessary flexibility to comply with 
the bills’ interconnection requirements. I appreciate 
the chairman’s willingness to work 
with me on these issues. 

I also would like to recognize the House’s 
wisdom in accepting the Snowe-Rockefeller 
provision in the Senate bill to supplement distance 
learning and telemedicine. We included 
similar language in H.R. 3636 last year, and 
I’m pleased that my colleagues in the House 
took the time to educate themselves about the 
infrastructure we need to educate our children. 
We have crafted a bill that will enable doctors 
in Little Rock to read x rays from the Ozarks 
while students in Piggott will be able to use 
the Library of Congress in Washington for 
their term papers. 

On a lighter side, this bill will give consumers 
more entertainment choices. It’s been a 
long road toward creating the parameters for 
the information superhighway, and I congratulate 
Chairmen DINGELL, MARKEY, FIELDS, and 
BLILEY for their leadership. Special thanks also 
are due staffers David Leach, Andy Levin, 
Harold Furchtgott-Roth, Cathy Reid, Mike 
Regan, and Michael O’Rielly. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 3 minutes. 

Mr. Speaker, we have heard from the 
industries involved in this bill, oh, 
have we heard from the industries. We 
have heard from the lobbyists that the 
industries have hired, oh, have we 
heard from the lobbyists. We have 
heard from the consultants that the 
lobbyists have hired. We have heard 
from the law firms, we have heard from 
all of them. Someone said, ‘‘We never 
want to hear from them again.’’ Well, 
you will not for about 50 years, because 
that is how long it will take for us to 
get around to another communications 
act. 

Why did you hear from them? What 
did you hear from the consumers? Oh, 
them? Well, what did you hear from 
the citizens? Oh, yes, right, JOHN. 

Well, here is what they said, this is a 
$70 billion giveaway to broadcasters in 

this bill. I like broadcasters, folks. But 
the bill contains a provision which 
gives current broadcasters a block of 
publicly owned radio spectrum to increase 
their revenues by providing several 
free and pay-per-view channels, 
paging transmission and other 
nonprogram services without giving 
the public anything in return. Now, 
that from the Consumers Federation of 
America. Did they come and visit you? 
Have you received any visits from their 
lobbyists? I do not think so. 

So what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen, 
in broad daylight, and I know 
we are sober, we are giving corporate 
welfare to a broadcast industry which 
is already among the most powerful. 
This gift is especially outrageous at a 
time when we propose massive budget 
cuts for scores of important social programs. 


Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. STEARNS]. 

(Mr. STEARNS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, before I 
start, I would just like to commend the 
chairman of the committee for the 
great work he has done and also to the 
distinguished subcommittee chairman, 
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. 
FIELDS], who is retiring. 

I would like to echo a comment one 
of my colleagues said, this is a great 
opportunity for bipartisanship, and I 
hope the American people are watching 
and the people in the audience, and, of 
course, the people here on the floor. 
This is a bipartisan opportunity. 

I would like to put into the RECORD 
two colloquies with the distinguished 
subcommittee chairman, the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FIELDS], and 
this deals with the duopoly rule-
making. I would like to engage the 
gentleman in a colloquy. 

Has he read the duopoly rulemaking 
that I gave him that I can make part of 
the RECORD here today? 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. If the gentleman 
will yield, I have read the clarification 
of local television station ownership 
provisions. The gentleman is 
correct in the statements that are 
made. 

Mr. STEARNS. Since the rule was 
last revised, the local media marketplace 
has undergone a breathtaking 
transformation. So I think this is important. 
Also, has the gentleman, the 
subcommittee chairman, had the opportunity 
to read the statement concerning 
the must-carry provision? It is 
my understanding there is language 
within S. 652 which requires all must-
carry challenges submitted to the FCC 
to be resolved within 120 days. Is that 
correct? 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. If the gentleman 
will yield further, that is correct, 
and I have examined the remainder 
of your colloquy. 

Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, I am 
making part of the RECORD three documents. 



H 1164 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

The documents referred to follow: 

Mr. STEARNS. Further I would like to state 
that broadcast stations are important sources 
of local news, public affairs programming, and 
other local broadcast services. This category 
of service should be an important part of the 
public interest determination to be made by 
the Commission when deciding whether a 
broadcast renewal application shall be granted 
by the Commission. To prevent local television 
broadcast signals from being subject to 
noncarriage or repositioning by cable television 
systems and those providing cable services, 
we must recognize and reaffirm the importance 
of mandatory carriage of local commercial 
television stations, as implemented by 
Commission rules and regulations. 

The following is the understanding and 
agreement referred to in the colloquy between 
Representative FIELDS and Representative 
STEARNS: 

The conference report directs the FCC to 
conduct a rulemaking proceeding to determine 
whether to retain, modify or eliminate 
its duopoly rule, which prevents ownership 
of more than one television station in a market. 
Since the rule was last revised, the local 
media marketplace has undergone a breathtaking 
transformation. This has been characterized 
not only by a large increase in the 
number of broadcast stations (up one-third 
in the last decade alone), but more significantly 
by an onslaught of new multichannel 
rivals to traditional broadcasters, such as 
cable and satellite systems, and soon, video 
dialtone networks. 

It is agreed that, when it considers revision 
of the duopoly rule pursuant to this 
conference report, the FCC should give serious 
weight to the impact of these changes in 
the local television marketplace—changes 
which have left broadcasters as single-channel 
outlets in a multi-channel marketplace. 

It is also our intent that the FCC should 
revise the rule as is necessary to ensure that 
broadcasters are able to compete fairly with 
other media providers while ensuring that 
the public receives information from a diversity 
of media voices. 

It is also agreed that the FCC should consider 
granting waivers for combinations in 
which at least one station is a UHF and 
where the FCC determines that joint ownership, 
operation, or control will not harm 
competition or the preservation of a diversity 
of voices in the local television market. 

As our numerous hearings demonstrated, 
today’s local television marketplace exemplifies 
the massive changes in the competitive 
landscape that we’ve witnessed in many 
sectors of communications. Viewers are no 
longer limited to a few TV channels. Rather, 
consumers have—or soon will have—access 
to dozens of cable channels, wireless cable, 
satellite and video dialtone systems. 

Broadcasters compete with these multichannel 
rivals for viewers and ad dollars 
alike. In particular, interconnected and clustered 
cable systems are now capable of offering 
advertisers local spots throughout an entire 
local media market, thus directly impacting 
the local broadcasting market. Indeed, 
cable’s share of local advertising revenues 
increased by 80% between 1990 and 1993, 
and this rate of increase is projected to continue 
for the foreseeable future. 

If we want free, over-the-air programming 
to survive and thrive, we need to give broadcasters 
the flexibility they need to compete 
effectively with their new multi-channel rivals. 
To this end, the conference report 
grandfathers Local Marketing Agreements, 
the innovative joint ventures that many 
broadcasters have been using to meet the 
new competition. 

The need to relax the duopoly rule is illustrated 
by the broadcast community’s experience 
with LMAs. These joint ventures enable 
broadcasters to take advantage of the economies 
of scale and generate synergies that 
provide more outlets for free and innovative 
local and other programming. LMAs have enabled 
new stations to get on the air and 
struggling stations to stay on the air. 

Beyond grandfathering LMAs, this legislation 
charges the FCC to take a hard look at 
the duopoly rule, and Congress could not be 
more clear; the FCC is directed to determine 
whether to retain, modify, or even eliminate 
its limitations on television station ownership 
in a local market. 

It is my position that the FCC should 
waive or eliminate the duopoly rule in circumstances 
cases where a proposed combination 
involves at least one UHF station and 
there is no demonstration of harm to completion 
or diversity of voices in the market. 
Congress needs to closely monitor the FCC 
to ensure that it revises the duoploy rule in 
recognition of the changes in the local television 
marketplace and of the need to give 
local broadcasters some flexibility to respond 
and succeed in the challenging multichannel 
marketplace. 

The 1934 Communications Act—accompanied 
as it is by a hodgepodge of FCC decisions 
and court rulings—is outdated. As we 
craft the communications policy that is 
going to carry us into the 21st Century, we 
must ensure that it reflects the flexibility of 
an ever-changing marketplace. 

We are standing at the precipice of a bold 
new era of communications, an era whose full 
impact we can only speculate about. But we 
can say this: That era holds great promise for 
America, economically and even politically. It 
will be an era in which America’s already significant 
lead in communications technology 
continues to expand. It will be an era in which 
Americans will have greater access to information 
and education than ever before. And it 
will be an era in which democracy itself will be 
enhanced as Americans gain powerful new 
ways to communicating directly with their 
elected representatives. 

For these reasons, this telecommunications 
bill represents one of the most important 
pieces of legislation Washington will consider 
this year. Unlike many bills before Congress, 
which concern the routine functions of government, 
the telecommunications reform legislation 
will help transform the very fabric of 
American society. 

This is no small task and is fraught with 
controversy, but there is a common thread 
that holds all the elements of this massive bill 
together: deregulation. The fact is, government 
intrusion in America’s communications industry 
has held us back, stifling innovation, competition, 
and the ability of America to maintain its 
global lead in key technologies. While this legislation 
did much in the way of loosening the 
regulatory chokeholds in the areas of long distance 
and local phone service, and cable, 
more could have been done in the area of 
broadcasting. 

Broadcasting occupies a unique and critical 
position in the world of telecommunications. 
Broadcasters fulfill a number of important roles 
in their communities—reporting school closings, 
covering local news, and providing emergency 
information. In addition, broadcasting is 
unlike other communications technologies. 
Broadcasting is not only the only technology 
available to 100 percent of American households, 
the content it provides is free. The only 
cost is for a receiver. 

Not surprisingly, broadcasting remains the 
principal means Americans use to get the information 
and entertainment that make up an 
important part of their lives. In fact, broadcasting 
has the widest coverage of any media 
today. More households have television and 
radios—99 percent—than have telephones— 
94 percent—or cable service—61 percent. 
Broadcasting to this day is the one medium 
that reaches the whole country. It is precisely 
for this reason that we must ensure that 
broadcasting remains a vital component in the 
information age. We must provide broadcasters 
with the flexibility to compete effectively 
not only with each other but also with 
their competitors. 

In 1964, the FCC last revisited the duopoly 
rule which prohibits an entity for owning two 
television stations in a local market. In 1964, 
there were very few VHF stations and the 
FCC felt this rule was necessary to ensure diversity. 
Well, the video landscape has 
changed dramatically since the implementation 
of the 1964 duopoly rule. 

Americans have access to many over-theair 
broadcast channels. In the last decade 
alone, the number of commercial broadcast 
stations has increased by nearly one-third. 
This increase in free over-the-air viewing options, 
coupled with the availability of a multitude 
of video outlets—cable, wireless cable, 
DBS and the imminent entry of telephone 
companies offering video dialtone—evidences 
the fact that the duopoly rule has outlived its 
usefulness. 

Serving local needs in an expensive endeavor. 
Relaxing the duopoly rule would allow 
station owners to achieve economies of scale 
by sharing equipment, accounting, and other 
common station costs. Saving on broadcasting 
costs would enable broadcasters to compete 
with themselves as well as other 
nonbroadcasting competitors. Keeping the duopoly 
rule freezes broadcasters as single 
channel providers who must compete with 
other multichannel providers. 

Broadcasters have long found cable to be a 
formidable rival for viewers, but now local 
broadcasters are losing market share for local 
advertising revenues, too. For years, because 
of fragmentation of ownership in local markets, 
cables’ share of local ad revenues has lagged 
behind its rapidly increasing penetration and 
viewership. But increasingly, cable operators 
are creating marketwide interconnects capable 
of offering local spots on all the cable systems 
in a market. Moreover, in order to compete 
with phone companies, cable operators are 
clustering at a rapid pace so that they dominate 
an entire local market. Driven by these 
interconnects and clustering, cable’s share of 
local advertising revenues increase 80 percent 
from 1990 to 1993. 

Because of the increased competition from 
fellow stations and other video providers, 
many broadcaster stations are marginal operations, 
particularly in the smaller markets, 
where, according to the FCC, stations lost on 
average $880,000 in 1991. Adding a further financial 
complication, the conversion to digital 
broadcasting will be stressful for these smaller 
market stations. 

In this increasingly competitive communications 
market, it is not fair if one competitor remains 
leashed to outdated regulations. This is 
what will happen if we do not relax the duopoly 
rule, while we unshackle many of the 
broadcasters’ competitors. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1165 

To respond to the challenges of today’s 
media and advertising marketplace under the 
existing regulatory scheme, many television 
broadcasters have emulated their colleagues 
in radio and entered into innovative arrangements 
called local marketing agreements, or 
LMA’s. An LMA is a type of joint venture that 
generally involves the sale of a licensee of 
chunks of air time on its station to another station, 
in the same or adjacent market, which 
then supplies the programming to fill that time 
and sell the advertising to support it. 

Such agreements enable separately owned 
stations to function cooperatively, achieving 
significant economies of scale via combined 
sales and advertising efforts, shared technical 
facilities and increasing stations access to diverse 
programming. I’m pleased this legislation 
recognizes the benefits of LMA’s and 
grandfathers them. By grandfathering LMA’s, 
we are allowing broadcasters to continue to 
use a tool that has helped them meet the 
challenges of today and tomorrow. 

My own State, Florida has 5 LMA’s which 
have generated positive synergies. Channel 
26 in Naples could not afford a real news department 
until it entered into an LMA with 
channel 20 in Ft. Meyers. Now it has an outstanding 
news operation. This particular joint 
venture shows how LMA’s can increase the 
amount of local news programming. There are 
many other examples of LMA’s across the 
country that evidence the benefits of such arrangements. 


While I am disappointed the conference did 
not accept the House provisions which relax 
the duopoly rule, I am confident that the FCC 
will, in its duopoly rulemaking, conclude that 
as this body did, that a 1964 rule is no longer 
applicable to today and more important, tomorrow’s 
video marketplace. We must not 
continue to deny local broadcasters the flexibility 
they need to meet the challenges of an 
ever increasingly competitive market. Broadcasters 
must have more relief if they are to 
play a meaningful role in the information age. 
While grandfathering LMA’s is a start, it certainly 
is not enough. The best solution to ensure 
the continued viability of free, over-the-air 
broadcasting is to relax the duopoly rule. 

I am also disappointed with the radio provisions 
which are a disservice to those in the 
radio industry. While the House and Senate 
bills completely deregulated the radio industry, 
the conference took a giant step away from 
deregulation and forces the radio industry to 
attempt to compete with others with a 50 
pound weight of needless regulation around its 
neck. I prefer the original House position 
which would have enabled all in the radio industry 
to prosper. 

While the Telecommunications Act improves 
upon the Pole Attachment Act of 1978, our 
legislation fails to completely redress this 
issue. We have worked together to forge a 
compromise, but certainly we could have gone 
further, allowing the free market to work. 

Again, while I am deeply disappointed with 
some provisions in this bill, I will support it because 
of the effect it will have on our economy. 
Overall, Congress cannot afford to let 
this opportunity slip through its fingers one 
more time. We must seize this opportunity and 
pass this ground breaking legislation now. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from New 
Mexico [Mr. RICHARDSON]. 

(Mr. RICHARDSON asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I 
did not have the privilege of participating 
in this year’s debate, because I 
took a leave of absence from this committee. 
But truly I participated in the 
last, I do not know, 10 to 15 years that 
we tried to do a bill, and for this reason 
I think enormous credit must go to the 
gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY] 
and the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MARKEY] and I think especially 
the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL], 
who have over the years produced 
a bill that brings back open competition, 
deregulation. This is a historic 
bill, probably the most important 
bill that will do something for people, 
bring technology into people’s homes, 
opens up telephone service, cable. 

This is something that I think, as the 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. CONYERS] 
has pointed out, perhaps is not 
perfect, but it is something that once 
again, when the history is written of 
this Congress, I think this bill is going 
to be considered landmark legislation, 
and again, while I did not participate 
this year, I remember the hundreds and 
thousands of hours of markups when 
something did not work, and again, I 
want to commend the chairmen, but 
especially those on my side of the aisle, 
the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MARKEY] and the gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. DINGELL] for truly historic 
efforts in voting a historic bill. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this 
historic telecommunications reform legislation 
which is the product of a bipartisan effort over 
many years. In particular, I would like to commend 
Chairman BLILEY, Subcommittee Chairman 
FIELDS, Ranking Member DINGELL, and 
Mr. MARKEY of Massachusetts for their spirit of 
cooperation and commitment to passing quality 
legislation. 

This legislation, which will serve as the 
foundation for America’s communications future, 
meets the necessary balance of private 
and public cooperation in setting the rules for 
competition in all communications markets and 
protecting consumers. 

This telecommunications reform legislation 
will play a major role in bringing the benefits 
of the technological revolution closer to all 
Americans. 

Although, Congress can ensure universal 
access, it cannot guarantee success. I challenge 
all Americans to take advantage of historic, 
new technology to boost its economic 
fortunes. 

The nature of the telecommunications industry 
is inherently susceptible to large degrees of 
commercial concentration. I am confident this 
bill combines private sector mechanisms necessary 
to ensure all residents the highest 
quality of services while maintaining Government 
safeguards to ensure open competition 
and policies that empower children with information 
technology by creating incentives for 
public entities like schools, libraries, hospitals 
and community centers. 

This bill embraces sensible deregulation and 
market-driven competition. It is a welcome 
dose of bipartisan compromise that will yield 
unlimited benefits in the form of job creation 
and the disbursement of the information age. 

Deregulation is necessary where appropriate 
and prudent. However, Government 
oversight is necessary to ensure the public 
good such as providing universal service to 
poor, rural and minority customers. 

This legislation ensures that all providers 
contribute their fair share to supporting universal 
telephone service in residential and rural 
areas. It preserves the principle that everyone 
should have access to telephone service, regardless 
of their ability to pay the cost to provide 
that service. 

As Americans have done so many times in 
our history, we enter the information age in 
the belief of open markets and free competition. 
As we stand amidst the apprehension of 
the unknown and the excitement of discovery, 
we accept the challenges of the future and the 
responsibility of inevitable obstacles. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
21/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California [Mr. BERMAN], who has done 
extremely important work on the antitrust 
provision in this bill. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 30 
seconds to the gentleman from California 
[Mr. BERMAN]. 

(Mr. BERMAN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BERMAN. Mr. Speaker, the conference 
report appropriately includes a 
strong, independent role for the Justice 
Department in evaluating applications 
by RBOC’s to provide long distance 
service. 

The FCC must consult with the Attorney 
General in determining whether 
RBOC entry is in the public interest, a 
requirement designed to ensure that 
the FCC gives proper regard to the Justice 
Department’s special expertise in 
competition matters and in making 
judgments regarding the likely marketplace 
effects of RBOC entry into the 
competitive long distance markets. 

In fact, acknowledging the importance 
of the antitrust concerns raised 
by such entry and to check any possible 
abuses of RBOC market power, 
the bill specifically provides that the 
FCC accord substantial weight to the 
DOJ’s views on these issues. 

I am pleased that we have secured 
the Justice Department’s role as the 
country’s antitrust expert by ensuring 
that its position is given serious substantive 
consideration on the merits by 
the FCC as well as in any ensuing judicial 
proceedings. 

However, I am gravely concerned 
that provisions in title V of the conference 
report, in particular, sections 
502 and 507, are unconstitutional. 

In section 507, by extending to the 
internet clearly unconstitutional underlying 
law, we are enacting an unconstitutional 
abortion gag rule. 

As a member of the conference committee, 
I would like to review the procedural 
history of the adoption of the 
online indecency prohibition in section 
502. 

The House conferees first voted to 
approve a substitute amendment offered 
by Representative RICK WHITE 
which contained a Miller-adapted 
‘‘harmful to minors’’ standard, rather 


H 1166 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

than an indecency standard as the appear tough on pornography we may well Would it be irresponsible of me to 
basis of liability under Section 223(d) of have approved an unenforceable legal stand-vote to give away the capital of the 
Title 47. The harmful to minors stand-ard. United States of America? That is in 

ard would have criminalized exposing 
children to online pornography such as 
Playboy or Penthouse without chilling 
entirely nonpornographic, but offensive, 
expression. However, the House 
conferees then approved by a 17-to-16 
vote an oral amendment offered by 
Representative GOODLATTE to replace 
the ‘‘harmful to minors’’ standard in 
the White substitute with a then-unspecified 
indecency standard. 

After that vote, Representative 
WHITE put forward a proposal to supporters 
of the Goodlatte amendment to 
define the indecency standard to include 
the third prong of the Miller-
Ginsberg ‘‘harmful to minors’’ test. 
The proposal was to include statutory 
language clarifying that the indecency 
standard included only material that 
‘‘taken as whole, lack[s] serious literary, 
artistic, political or scientific 
value for minors.’’ I and others supported 
this proposal in an effort to 
avoid criminalizing display of valuable 
material that might nevertheless be 
considered ‘‘patently offensive’’ according 
to the standards of some local 
communities. However, the proposal 
was rejected by leading supporters of 
the Goodlatte amendment. They instead 
reduced the Goodlatte amendment 
to writing by incorporating the 
FCC broadcast definition of indecency 
into the House offer to the Senate. 
That indecency formulation was accepted 
by the Senate conferees, and 
will now become part of this legislation. 


No hearings were held by any committee 
of jurisdiction with regard to 
the constitutionality of the indecency 
standard adopted by the Conference 
Committee or the least restrictive 
means by which to implement such a 
standard. 

I regret that there were no hearings on this 
issue because I believe that we have overlooked 
serious constitutional problems with applying 
the indecency standard to the online 
medium. The least restrictive means test to 
which the courts subject indecency restrictions 
requires us to consider carefully how the restriction 
applies to the medium in question and 
whether less intrusive alternatives would 
achieve the governmental interest in protecting 
children. Having failed to engage in this inquiry 
and analysis, we have a conference report 
which assumes that the broadcast indecency 
standard can simply be applied wholesale 
to displays of online content. 

While I believe that we have made progress 
in some respects through the adoption of the 
conference compromise on Internet content, I 
fear that our failure carefully to consider the 
least restrictive alternative test may result in 
the invalidation of section 223(d), a concern 
expressed to me in a letter from the Department 
of Justice. This letter was sent to all the 
conferees and explained that the indecency 
prohibition adopted by the conference was 
constitutionally suspect, and stood a greater 
risk of being found unconstitutional than the 
harmful to minors standard that was supported 
by 16 House conferees. In a hurried effort to 

b1530 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from New 
York [Mr. FRISA]. 

Mr. FRISA. Mr. Speaker, the Congress 
will soon pass the first overhaul 
of America’s communications laws 
since 1934, when Americans gathered 
around the family radio for their news 
and entertainment. Today, as a result 
of this exciting new law, the very latest 
in technology will now be available 
and affordable to every American everywhere. 
So this legislation, which 
will breed competition and innovation 
and lower costs to all Americans, is 
good for the American people, and I 
urge its adoption. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. DEUTSCH]. 

(Mr. DEUTSCH asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks. 


Mr. DEUTSCH. Mr. Speaker, I want 
to commend the conferees. This legislation 
is as significant as it has been 
controversial and complex, and it has 
required a tremendous effort on the 
part of the conferees to get us to the 
point where the conference report can 
be voted on today. 

This legislation will be a major boom 
to our economy and our constituents. 
My constituents, like others around 
the country, will be the beneficiaries of 
greater communications choices, lower 
costs, increased jobs, and economic 
well-being. The bill represents a substantial 
step in the right direction, and 
I believe it will strike a good balance 
between deregulation and consumer 
protection. 

As for the issues that have not been 
completely nailed down, such as foreign 
ownership rules and questions of 
interpretation and implementation, I 
look forward to working with my colleagues 
on the Committee on Commerce 
to ensure that the vision and 
balance intended in this bill is maintained. 


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from North 
Carolina [Mr. WATT], who has served 
with unusual distinction in his career 
on the Committee on the Judiciary. 

Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding me time. 

Mr. Speaker, I think my colleagues 
know me well enough to know that I 
seldom come to the floor to debate a 
bill when I do not know how I am going 
to vote on that bill. 

This is a bill which has some real advantages 
to it. I think we do need to 
increase the level of competition in the 
telecommunications industry, and this 
bill heads us in that direction. But 
there are also some very troubling 
things about this bill, and I am really 
having a hard time balancing those 
troubling aspects against the benefits 
of the bill. 

essence one of the things this bill does. 
The 70 billion dollars’ worth of assets 
that the United States Government 
now owns is being given away to the 
richest people and industry in America 
under this bill. That is the spectrum 
value, I am told. 

So I am troubled, deeply troubled, by 
the notion that we could at the same 
time that we are taking $70, $100, $200 
billion away from the poorest people in 
this country, be turning around, on the 
other hand, and giving away $70 billion 
of our assets. I am troubled by that. I 
hope I can get some guidance before 
the vote. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 1 minute to respond to the gentleman 
from North Carolina. 

Mr. Speaker, there is no giveaway in 
this bill. What we do is loan the spectrum 
to the broadcasters because they 
have to simulcast while they advance 
this new technology. That is, the current 
TV sets will not receive the digital 
signal, so they have to broadcast 
both digitally and analog. 

Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, will the gentleman yield? 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I do not 
have the time, and, if the gentleman 
will be patient, I think he will understand 
where I am coming from by the 
time I am finished. 

So they have to do this simultaneously. 
What we say is once this conversion 
comes, we reclaim the analog 
spectrum and we auction it off at that 
time. Nobody can tell you if the American 
people for sure will adopt this new 
technology, and nobody can tell you 
when they will do it; $70 billion is 
pulled out of the ether somewhere. 
There are no statistics to back it up. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 30 seconds to the 
gentleman from New York [Mr. 
PAXON]. 

Mr. PAXON. Mr. Speaker, this is 
truly an historic day for this body. It 
marks the beginning of a new era for 
America businesses and consumers 
that will result in the creation of millions 
of new jobs in the years ahead because 
of this legislation. 

Full and open competition will create 
new products and innovative services 
at the best prices for consumers. I 
think, most importantly, this bill recognizes 
one of our guiding principles, 
that competition is better than regulation. 


Mr. Speaker, I want to give special 
thanks and appreciation to the chairs, 
the gentleman from Texas, [Mr. 
FIELDS] and the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. BLILEY] for their leadership 
in bringing this bill to the floor today. 
This is one of the most important days 
in this Congress. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentlewoman from California 
[Ms. LOFGREN]. 

Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Speaker, I think 
that one of the most important things 
in this telecommunications reform bill 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1167 

is the provision that I advocated when 
the bill was before the House some 
months ago, and that is affordable access 
to the Internet for schools. I would 
like to thank all of those Members of 
both sides of the aisle who fought for 
this and who kept with it in the conference, 
because this is one of the 
items in which no high-priced lobbyists 
were involved. No one was interested 
but the parents and the teachers of this 
country. It will make a tremendous difference, 
especially for children who 
come from less affluent families. Recently 
my hometown newspaper did an 
analysis of Internet access and test 
scores and found that for children in 
low-income neighborhoods whose families 
do not have a lot of money, their 
test scores rose dramatically just with 
their introduction to the Internet. So I 
think this is a stellar day for schoolchildren. 


Mr. Speaker, I would also like to say 
that I was very angry when I heard 
that some people would jeopardize this 
very important bill by putting in extraneous 
measures having to do with 
abortion. I would like to thank the 
gentleman from Illinois [Mr. HYDE], 
and the gentlewoman from New York, 
[Mrs. LOWEY], who disagree on the underlying 
issue, for clarifying that these 
provisions are unconstitutional and 
now the legislative history is such that 
they are not valid. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from North 
Carolina [Mr. WATT], before the dean’s 
explanation has taken hold. 

Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, I am just trying to get some 
further clarification here, because the 
gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], 
has indicated that they are not giving 
this spectrum away. Am I clear that in 
the process of loaning this spectrum, 
when you get back what you are going 
to get back from them ultimately, they 
are giving you the old capacity back, 
not the new capacity? 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. WATT of North Carolina. I yield 
to the gentleman from Virginia. 

Mr. BLILEY. That depends. If they 
use the new capacity, yes, we will get 
the old back. If they do not use the new 
capacity, we will get the new back. 

Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, reclaiming my time, if they 
use the new capacity, would that not 
be the equivalent of giving you back 
what would be the virtual equivalent of 
black and white television as opposed 
to much more advanced capabilities, 
the equivalent of color television? 

I know it is beyond that, but I am 
simplifying it. We are not talking 
black and white versus color, but 
capacitywise, is it not substantially 
more? 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 30 seconds. 

Mr. Speaker, the spectrum, we do not 
know what they will be used for when 
it is auctioned off. It could be used for 
many things. But it will bring a far 

better price than if you do it speculatively 
now, because the broadcasters 
will have to spend some $10 billion for 
new equipment in order to broadcast a 
digital signal while they do the simulcast. 


Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, will the gentleman yield? 

Mr. BLILEY. I yield to the gentleman 
from North Carolina. 

Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, is it not true that the old 
spectrum is inordinately less valuable 
than the new digital spectrum? 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming 
my time, it may or may not be. We 
will have to see. 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 11/2 minutes. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a very regrettable 
red herring. We have now a system 
of analog broadcasting for television. 
It is possible to develop a system 
of digital broadcasting in which we 
get a superior signal, both as to sound 
and as to picture. We are trying to 
move ourselves from this analog system 
to the superior digital system and 
to achieve the benefits which will flow 
from that kind of use. 

To do so, we have seen that the Federal 
Communications Commission has 
made available a block of spectrum 
which will be made available to each of 
the broadcasters so that they can use it 
for going from analog to the new digital 
system, and they will continue to 
use the analog system which they now 
have during the time that the changeover 
takes place. 

There are literally hundreds of millions 
of television sets in this country 
that have to be changed from the analog 
to digital. At the conclusion of the 
entire process, one of these existing 
sets of signals will be returned to the 
Federal Government. They will be 
unimpaired because the spectrum is a 
system of availability of receiving signals. 


Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
will the gentleman yield? 

Mr. DINGELL. I yield to the gentleman 
from Texas. 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
to my good friend very quickly, it is 
the anticipation that the V-band is 
going to be cleared. The U-band will be 
packed, which will add value to the return 
of that analog spectrum. It is arguable 
that this will be more valuable 
spectrum. 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming 
my time, the spectrum will come 
back to the Government at the conclusion, 
either the digital or the analog, 
and the citizens will during that time 
have a chance to change over to the 
new kind of television sets. The broadcasters 
will be able to convert to the 
new kind of broadcasting system. 

The country will achieve the enormous 
benefit of this set of events, and 
the public will receive the opportunity 
to make the changeover in an orderly 
fashion in a way which benefits everybody. 
The taxpayers will gain. There is 
no giveaway of anything. 

At the conclusion of this time, the 
broadcasters will have the same 
amount of spectrum they have now and 
an orderly changeover to a superior 
system of broadcasting will have taken 
place during this period. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. FRANK]. 

Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I thank the gentleman. The 
one thing that surprises me is that the 
Republican Party has apparently, with 
regard to this question of how to use 
the new spectrum, so little confidence 
in the free market. We hear about the 
free market from time to time, but because 
a very valuable industry, the 
broadcasting industry, wants to get the 
first use of it for nothing, and that is 
what we are talking about, this valuable 
part of the spectrum, yes, the 
broadcasting industry will be allowed, 
for free, to do the experimentation, and 
then maybe at the end they will give 
back the other part of it. 

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from 
North Carolina was right. 

b1545 
Whatever happened to the free market? 
Is not the best way to decide how 
to use this new spectrum that will become 
available, whether it is for digital 
TV or for some other purpose, to let 
us auction it off? 
Mr. Speaker, earlier it was said all 
elements of industry liked this bill. I 
have no particular beef with the industry, 
but I would suggest that when all 
elements of industry like the bill, probably 
the taxpayers and the consumers 
have reasons to worry. 
Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 15 seconds. 
Mr. Speaker, why do we have to give 
the broadcasters spectrum not being 
used for free, over-the-air TV? It is a 
gift, no matter how it is described. It is 
a huge, charitable, wealthy, corporate 
gift. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield 15 seconds to the 
gentleman from North Carolina [Mr. 
WATT]. 
Mr. WATT of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, now that I have heard all the 
explanations, I would say that this is 
like giving away the dirt road and the 
interstate highway, and, once this is 
all over, we are going to be given back 
the dirt road to auction off the somebody 
else. 
Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Louisiana 
[Mr. TAUZIN]. 
Mr. TAUZIN. Mr. Speaker, let me see 
if I can help set the record straight. 
Our bill does not give away spectrum 
to the broadcasters to do anything 
with other than to broadcast over the 
air in this transition from one technology 
to the other. And then it requires 
the return of the old technology 
spectrum to the people of the United 
States. 
Second, the bill provides that, if the 
broadcasters should use any of that 
spectrum for any purpose other than 


H 1168 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

over-the-air broadcasting, they have to 
pay for it like everybody else. That is 
what the bill currently says. 

One final point: The issue of a broadcast 
spectrum is tied up with something 
called the public interest standard. 
It has to do with the trade we 
made a long time ago to licensed 
broadcasters who operate under a public 
interest standard, a relicensing by 
the FCC, and a review of that licensing 
over time. 

If my colleagues want to change that 
policy, and some do, they ought not 
make it in a budget meeting; they 
ought to make it in the committee of 
jurisdiction where we examine what 
happens on television and what broadcasters 
do with the license they get to 
operate in the public interest standard. 
I urge my colleagues to pass this bill 
and let us debate that issue in the committee 
of jurisdiction where it belongs. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from New 
York [Mr. TOWNS]. 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to thank the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. BLILEY], chairman, and the 
gentleman from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL], 
ranking member, and of course 
the gentleman from Texas [Mr. 
FIELDS], the chairman of the subcommittee, 
and the gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. MARKEY], the ranking 
member of the subcommittee. 

I am pleased that this conference report 
contains a new initiative to assist 
in the development of capital funds for 
small businesses. This telecommunications 
development fund will provide 
low-interest loans to small businesses 
with $50 million or less through upfront 
spectrum auction payments. I 
would like to thank the leadership of 
the committee for bringing this momentous 
legislation forward and for 
supporting my efforts to assist small 
businesses. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
30 seconds to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. FRANK]. 

Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, the argument we hear against 
auctioning off the spectrum to the 
broadcasters, as we have just heard 
from my friend from Louisiana, after 
all, they operate with public interest 
obligations. I have been here with him 
15 years, and that is the nicest I have 
ever heard him talk about public interest 
obligations. 

The broadcasters successfully work 
to reduce those public interest obligations 
to mean virtually nothing. The 
only time they raise them is when they 
can use them as an excuse to get the 
superhighway, as the gentleman from 
North Carolina said, for free. I do not 
think that my friend from Louisiana 
believes that that public interest 
standard will ever be amounting to 
much. It is simply a flag they wave so 
they can get this for free. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, how much 
time do I have remaining? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HAYWORTH). The gentleman from Vir


ginia [Mr. BLILEY] has 6 minutes remaining, 
and the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MARKEY] has 6 minutes 
remaining. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. GOODLATTE]. 

(Mr. GOODLATTE asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
in strong support of this very, very important 
bill that is going to provide deregulation 
in an industry that is badly 
needed. We are going to finally bring 
the telecommunication policy of this 
country into the last half of the 20th 
century before we enter the 21st century. 


Mr. Speaker, this bill is going to create 
millions of jobs, estimated over 3 
million jobs due to the new competition 
and the new technologies that are 
going to be made available. 

I would also like to thank the gentleman 
from Illinois [Mr. HYDE], the 
chairman, and the gentleman from Virginia 
[Mr. BLILEY], the chairman of the 
conference, for making it possible for 
me to play a key role in working out 
an agreement that protects the rights 
of local governments to see that their 
zoning regulations are carried forward 
in making sure that, when new cell 
towers are located, they have the ability 
to determine in each locality where 
they are placed while fairly making 
sure that those locations do not interfere 
with interstate commerce and 
with the opportunity to advance this 
new technology. 

I strongly support this legislation 
and urge my colleagues to vote for the 
conference report. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Washington 
[Mr. WHITE], a member of the 
committee. 

(Mr. WHITE asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. WHITE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY] 
and the gentleman from Texas [Mr. 
FIELDS] for giving me the opportunity 
to be part of this bill. 

This is a good bill. It is an important 
bill. I would like to point out what 
sometimes gets lost when we talk 
about all the details. The main accomplishment 
of this bill is that it takes us 
from our current situation of regulated 
monopolies in many, many industries 
and takes us to an era of competition. 
That is the huge accomplishment of 
this bill. It is a very important accomplishment, 
and I think it is something 
we can all be proud of. 

There are several other issues this 
bill deals with. Like many good bills, 
this is not a perfect bill. I think we 
have a ways to go making sure that the 
Internet is protected under this bill. I 
think we ended up with the wrong 
standard for indecency. I think we have 
to make sure that the FCC does not 
have a role in regulating the Internet. 
I think that the gentleman from Texas 

[Mr. FIELDS] and I have colloquy that 
we are going to submit for the RECORD 
on that issue. But on balance I think 
this is important, and I ask the gentleman 
from Texas if he has seen the 
colloquy and agrees with it. 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, if 
the gentleman will yield, I have reviewed 
that. He is accurate and I am 
supportive. 

Mr. WHITE. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming 
my time, I appreciate that. I thank the 
gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY] 
and the gentleman from Texas [Mr. 
FIELDS] for letting me be part of this 
bill. It is a great bill, and I hope we 
adopt it. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 1 minute. 

Mr. Speaker, in reviewing section 602 
of the bill as modified by the conference 
agreement, which deals with 
the preemption of local taxation for direct-
to-home services, I wonder whether 
this provision should also include 
any present or future wireless service 
providers who transmit video programs 
to subscribers without using traditional 
wire-based distribution equipment 
as the new local multipoint distribution 
services, or LMDS. 

I yield to the gentleman from Illinois 
[Mr. HYDE], chairman of the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

Mr. HYDE. Mr. Speaker, it sounds 
like essentially the same factual situation 
to me. I assure the gentleman that 
we would be willing to hold hearings in 
the Committee on the Judiciary on 
that subject later this Congress. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. MARKEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a historic day. 
The legislation which we are considering 
has been constructed over a 4-year 
period. Much deliberation has been 
given to this legislation. Many issues 
so complex that they could not be resolved 
in brief periods of time had to be 
deliberated after much expert opinion 
over month-long periods. 

The product that we have out here on 
the floor is not perfect, but it is the 
blueprint for the information superhighway 
of the 21st century. Its most 
important component is that it uses 
competition as its core, as its soul. 

Everything in this bill is not perfect. 
The bill, in fact, guarantees that no 
company in any industry will any 
longer be able to rest comfortably 
knowing that they have a monopoly 
and that telecommunications or computer 
or long distance or software or 
whatever high technology industry 
that they seek to make their fortunes 
in. 

In addition, we ensure diversity. We 
ensure that consumers are going to 
have choices. There will be two wires 
at a minimum to almost every single 
home in the country, each wire able to 
perform every single one of the services. 
If you throw in the electric companies, 
which also have the capacity to 
do so, we are going to have a revolution 
which the smallest companies, the 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1169 

smallest software companies, that 
thousands and thousands of software 
companies and computer companies 
which represent the real job creators 
over the next generation will, then 
they can one way or the other get their 
product into the homes, into the businesses 
of every single person in this 
country. 

This is a revolution. It breaks down 
all the old models of one cable company, 
of one television company. It 
breaks new ground in a way that 
should make every Member of this Congress 
proud. It is not perfect, but it is 
the best overall blueprint that any 
country in the world has ever come up 
with. We have the lead in all telecommunications 
fields. This bill allows 
us to sprint out further and look behind 
us over our shoulder at No. 2 and 
No. 3 in the world. 

We should not delay yet another 2 
years. Let us pass this bill. 

On the issue of spectrum, for each of 
us here in Washington there is a channel 
4, a channel 7, a channel 9. Next to 
it is a channel 3, a channel 6, a channel 

8. The broadcasters will be given channels 
3, 6, and 8. They will convert over 
to digital on those channels, and then 
they have to give back the old channels 
here in Washington. Channel 4, 7, and 9 
must be given back, and then we can 
auction off those channels. They are 
only left with the same amount of band 
width as they have ever had. 
Let us not have this red herring to 
float out here on the floor. There is no 
digital spectrum, there is no analog 
spectrum. There is spectrum. You use 
digital equipment or analog equipment. 
The broadcasters need time to 
convert over to digital equipment. The 
spectrum is the same. 

I want to compliment, finally, the 
people who constructed this bill. On 
my staff, Colin Crowell and David 
Moulton who worked tirelessly. David 
Leach, chief staffer for the minority; 
Alan Roth and Andy Levin on our side. 
Mike Regan, Cathy Reid, Christy 
Strawman on the majority side. Michael 
O’Rielly, J.D. Derderian, Steve 
Cope. 

This bill was put together after thousands 
of hours of discussion. It is a 
very good bill for the future of this 
country. We will have to come back 
and revisit it again and again in order 
to ensure that we continue to perfect 
that which we seek for this country. 
But this bill is the best that any in the 
world have ever seen. 

We are breaking ground that Japan 
and Germany and France and England 
do not have the nerve to take. We are 
going to enter a brave new world where 
our companies will be forced to 
produce the best products, the best 
service at the lowest price and highest 
quality that will be sold around the 
world. Some companies will be winners, 
some will be losers. 

b1600 

big winner. This is a good bill. It is one 
that this House should be proud of. It is 
a bipartisan product of work over a 4year 
period. 

Again, I compliment the chairman of 
the full committee, the gentleman 
from Virginia, Mr. BLILEY, and my 
good friend, the gentleman from Texas, 
JACK FIELDS, for his hard and courageous 
work on this bill; the gentleman 
from Michigan, JOHN DINGELL, chairman, 
once and future; and all the Members, 
minority and majority who have 
contributed to this process. It is something 
this House will be proud of. 

It will be, when we look back, the 
one product out of this 2-year period 
where all Members of Congress, when 
they are sitting in their rocking chairs, 
can point back to and say ‘‘I was there 
when the blueprint of the 21st century 
was noted on the floor of the House of 
Congress.’’ Vote ‘‘yes’’ on this telecommunications 
bill. 

Mr. Speaker, over a number of years, Congress 
has sought to update antiquated communications 
laws while remaining true to the 
three core principles of the Communications 
Act of 1934 that have guided communications 
policy for decades: universal service, diversity, 
and localism. 

These three principles have served our Nation 
well and have helped bring Americans the 
finest communications technology and service 
in the world. The challenge for policymakers is 
to reform the rules in a way that retains these 
core values as they are impacted by two new 
factors: rapid technological change and fierce 
competition. 

In many ways, the conference report on S. 
652 makes great progress in accomplishing 
this task. In fact, many of the key policy proposals 
embodied in the legislation trace their 
roots to the Markey-Fields and the Dingell-
Brooks legislation of the 103d Congress—H.R. 
3636 and H.R. 3626, which were approved by 
the House by an overwhelming 423 to 5 vote. 
For example, it will help establish learning 
links to K–12 schools, libraries, and hospitals. 
It contains expanded privacy protections for 
consumers. It unbundles set-top boxes and 
other interactive equipment so consumers can 
buy the equipment of their choice. It helps to 
ensure access by disabled persons to telecommunications 
equipment and services. The 
bill will make sure that universal service 
evolves over time and that all competitors contribute 
to the system. It allows the phone industry 
into the cable business and vice versa. 
It breaks down the last vestiges of monopoly 
control over local telephone service as a condition 
of Bell entry into new business opportunities. 
These were all elements of the Markey-
Fields legislation of the 103d Congress. 

The conference report on S. 652 reflects a 
series of compromises between the House 
and Senate that resolve to my satisfaction the 
series of objections I raised to H.R. 1555 
when it was approved by the House last August. 
The conference report on S. 652 being 
brought back to this body is a much-improved 
piece of legislation. It scales back or removes 
many of the problematic provisions of H.R. 
1555 while retaining procompetitive, pro-
consumer measures that I strongly support. 

Title I of the legislation will break down bar-

last vestiges of its monopoly past has long 
been a goal of mine. I believe strongly that we 
need to bring competition to every nook and 
corner of the telecommunications industry and 
break down monopoly barriers so that small 
companies and electronic entrepreneurs could 
get into the game, create jobs, and compete 
for consumers. 

My overarching policy objective in this telecommunications 
legislation has been to create 
jobs and choices for the American people. For 
this reason I have consistently opposed monopolies 
and worked to rein in monopoly 
power and abuses wherever they arise. Why? 
Because monopolies limit choices. Monopolies 
retard technological development. Monopolies 
do not avail consumers of the lowest prices 
and the highest quality. 

For me, competition has consistently been 
the preferred vehicle for bringing affordable 
and high-quality telecommunications technologies 
to the American consumer. 

The compromise bill will allow the regional 
bell operating Companies into the long distance 
business, telephone companies into the 
cable television business, and the long distance 
industry, cable industry, and others into 
the local phone business. Over the long term 
I believe that increased competition between 
and among these hitherto separate industries 
will create tens of thousands of jobs. Moreover, 
I believe that the real explosion in terms 
of job creation, innovation, and new services 
will come from the computer and software industry 
as it converges with the telecommunications 
industry and further expands high-
technology networking in the country. 

The original House proposal would have deregulated 
cable systems within 15 months of 
the date of enactment. The pending legislation 
will deregulate the rates of most cable systems 
3 years from now—in March 1999. The 
rationale for deregulating cable systems at 
that point is due largely to the success of the 
Cable Act of 1992. Although the cable industry 
fought the provision vigorously, the Cable Act 
of 1992 gave emerging satellite competitors 
and others access to cable programming, 
making competition viable. I am encouraged 
by the progress that direct broadcast satellite 
companies and wireless cable companies are 
making in signing up customers and competing 
against incumbent cable operators. It is my 
hope that robust competition will develop between 
these industries by 1999 to an extent 
that sufficiently avails consumers of affordable 
marketplace choices for multichannel video 
programming. 

In addition, many of the cable provisions of 
the House bill that I found objectionable have 
been favorably resolved in the pending bill. 
The legislation no longer requires 3 percent of 
subscribers to complain to the FCC prior to inducing 
a rate review. Instead, franchising authorities 
may complain to the Commission 
after receiving consumer complaints. The legislation 
also does not contain provisions that 
would have generally and prematurely deregulated 
subscriber equipment. 

The legislation also requires the Commission 
to resolve challenges to must-carry status 
within 120 days after a request is filed with the 
Commission. Broadcast stations have historically 
been important sources of local news, 
public affairs programming, and other local 
broadcast services. This category of service is 

Many more will be winners than los-riers to competition in the so-called local loop. an important part of the public interest deterers. 
Our country ultimately will be the Ridding the communications industry of the mination to be made by the Commission when 


H 1170 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

deciding whether a broadcast renewal application 
shall be granted by the Commission. To 
prevent local television broadcast signals from 
being subject to noncarriage or repositioning 
by cable television systems and those providing 
cable services, I believe it is important to 
recognize and reaffirm the importance of mandatory 
carriage of local commercial television 
stations, as implemented by Commission rules 
and regulations. 

The conference report also contains provisions 
which would allow registered utility holding 
companies an exemption from the Public 
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 [PUHCA]. 
PUHCA is a complex statute that regulates the 
operations of large registered multistate electric 
and gas utility companies. It requires registered 
holding companies to obtain prior SEC 
approval before establishing affiliates, issuing 
securities, or entering into new lines of business. 
The act affects the ability of registered 
to enter into telecommunications because 
PUHCA restricts registered utility diversification 
into nonutility businesses by requiring 
such businesses to be functionally related to 
the utilities core business—i.e., at least 50 
percent of such businesses must serve core 
utility functions such as internal business communications. 


PUHCA was enacted to deal with the fact 
that State PUC’s cannot effectively regulate 
the operations of multistate utility holding companies 
with complex corporate structures and 
an ability to cross-subsidize at the expense of 
captive ratepayers. While much has changed 
since PUHCA was enacted in 1935, the electric 
utility business remains a monopoly and 
there remains a temptation for self-dealing and 
cross-subsidization at the expense of captive 
utility ratepayers. 

Many House conferees felt that unless we 
end the electric utilities’ continued monopoly 
over electricity generation, we must retain certain 
controls and protections if we were to 
allow PUHCA-registered holding companies to 
diversify into telecommunications. We felt that 
PUHCA provisions of the Senate bill do not 
adequately address the threat of cross-subsidization 
or self-dealing at the expense of 
captive utility ratepayers. 

Despite our strong reluctance to including 
PUHCA–TELCO language in this bill, we were 
able to work out on an approach based on the 
EWG provisions of EPACT that would adequately 
protect consumers and investors. This 
compromise would: 

Require the FCC to certify a registered’s 
telecommunications company is PUHCA-exempt 
for specific telecommunications purposes. 


Certification of the telecommunications entity 
is necessary to ensure that it is exempt 
from PUHCA solely for enumerated telecommunications 
activities. 

This is based on EWG model that has been 
highly successful, with over 250 applications 
approved to date. 

Provide for state prior approval for converting 
existing rate-based facilities for use by the 
exempt telecommunications company. 

This protects electric consumers investment 
in facilities constructed for their benefit (otherwise 
such facilities might be transferred to the 
telecommunications affiliate at less than fair 
market value. 

This protects captive ratepayers from subsidizing 
telecommunications activities that don’t 
benefit them. 

Grant the SEC authority to obtain risk assessment 
information regarding financings of 
the exempt telecommunications company so 
that it can assess a substantial adverse impact 
of such financings on the registered holding 
company, in light of total invested in core 
utility operations, telecommunications, exempt 
wholesale generators, and foreign utility companies. 


This will allow the SEC to take action to 
deny a proposed financing of an EWG, FUCO, 
or utility affiliate if it determines that the financial 
health of the registered is in danger as a 
result of telecommunications financings. 

Provide for prior State and local approval of 
affiliate transactions. 

This ensures captive ratepayers do not pay 
an inflated price for telecommunications service, 
due to the incentive to use a monopoly 
market, electricity, to subsidize entry into a 
competitive one, telecom. 

Assure regulators access to books and 
records and provide audit authority. 

This is necessary to ensure State and Federal 
regulators can examine all relevant utility 
and affiliates records to ensure cross-subsidization 
is not occurring. 

Assure no preemption of State/local authority 
to protect electricity consumers. 

I believe that this is an acceptable compromise 
on this difficult issue, and I commend 
the gentleman from Michigan [Mr. DINGELL], 
the gentleman from Virginia [Mr. BLILEY], and 
the gentleman from Colorado [Mr. SCHAEFER] 
for their work on this matter. 

The conference report on S. 652 also contains 
a provision that I authored as part of 

H.R. 3636 in the last session of Congress and 
that was embodied by legislation authored by 
Chairman BLILEY and myself in this session. 
Section 304 of the bill will unbundle set-top 
boxes, converter boxes, and other interactive 
communications equipment and make them 
available for purchase from third parties. I believe 
that this is a procompetitive, 
proconsumer provision that will enable computer 
companies, telecommunications equipment 
providers, and other entrepreneurs to innovate 
and sell new high-technology gadgets 
to consumers without having to sell out to the 
owner of the wire that delivers multichannel 
video programming. I believe this will help to 
replicate for the interactive communications 
equipment market the success that manufacturers 
of customer premises equipment [CPE] 
have had in creating and selling all sorts of 
new phones, faxes, and other equipment subsequent 
to the implementation of rules 
unbundling CPE from common carrier networks. 
The conference report on S. 652 is most improved 
in its treatment of mass media ownership 
issues. I had battled and fought against 
the mass media provisions of H.R. 1555 because 
I felt that such provisions indiscriminately 
repealed rules that helped protect important 
values such as localism and diversity. 
During floor consideration of H.R. 1555 in August 
I successfully amended the bill to scale 
back the TV network audience reach from 50 
percent to 35 percent and reinstated the 
broadcast-cable crossownership prohibition. 
The conference report states that the Commission’s 
regulations on national ownership caps 
should be increased to the 35 percent level 
and that limitations on the number of stations 
one entity could own be eliminated. This policy 
decision reflects a carefully calibrated balance 

and I believe that the duly considered view of 
Congress on these matters should settle the 
issue for many years to come. 

With respect to the broadcast-cable 
crossownership rule, the conference report explicitly 
states to the FCC that repeal of the 
statutory prohibition shall not be interpreted as 
a signal to repeal the Commission’s broad-
cast-cable crossownership rule or even to initiate 
a rulemaking to repeal the rule. The conference 
report expressly did not seek to wipe 
out the broadcast-cable crossownership rule 
and therefore the Commission is advised not 
to expend its limited resources reviewing this 
issue. 

Much improved is the provision eliminating 
local ownership limits on radio stations. Although 
both the House and Senate bills eliminated 
the local ownership limits of 4 stations 
per market but because of concerns expressed 
by myself and others on the conference 
committee, as well as by the Clinton-
Gore administration, local limits were reinstated 
in conference. The conference report 
revises section 73.3555(a) of the Commission’s 
regulations to provide for ownership limitations 
based upon market size. The conference 
report does not define the term ‘‘radio 
market’’ and the Commission will need to 
apply a definition of such term as part of revisions 
contemplated by this section. 

I also applaud the fact that the bill includes 
two issues that I have long advocated. The 
conference report includes important new 
consumer privacy protections and also includes 
a provision similar to one that I authored 
as part of H.R. 3636 that will include 
links to schools, libraries, and hospitals as part 
of a telecommunications universal service obligation 
and contribution. Privacy and security 
concerns on the information superhighway will 
continue to grow as the network grows and as 
more and more personal information is 
digitized and rides on the highway. More work 
needs to be done in this area to protect transactional 
information and to ensure that people 
have every opportunity and right to protect 
their data with encryption technologies. I will 
continue to work on this issue but the privacy 
provisions of S. 652 are good ones and an important 
down payment for consumers. 

As many of you may know, establishing 
learning links to K–12 schools has long been 
a concern of mine and the conference report 
on S. 652 will make such links affordable for 
every school in the country. I believe it is imperative 
that we link all the classrooms in the 
country because it is the only way that we can 
mitigate against a growing digital divide where 
some schools get access and others do not. 
We must bring all our kids along to the future. 
No nation can hope to prosper in a fiercely 
competitive global economy where information 
is the coin of the realm if it does not give the 
bottom 10, 15, or 20 percent of its society the 
Information Age tools necessary to compete 
for jobs in such an economy. 

Another benefit of this bill is the inclusion of 
the V-chip, an initiative I launched in 1993. 
The V-chip is the nickname of a feature which, 
when included in a television set, allows the 
viewer to block programming that is rated. 
Congress has moved forward with this provision 
because it is a technological solution to a 
problem facing parents everyday—how to effectively 
enforce standards in their own homes 
regarding what is suitable for their children to 
watch on television. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1171 

I am personally very gratified that the provision 
sponsored in the House by myself, Representative 
DAN BURTON, Representative JOHN 
MORAN, and Representative JOHN SPRATT, 
was chosen by the conferees as the basis for 
compromise. This has ensured that the development 
of a model rating system as envisioned 
by this bill will, under no circumstances, 
be imposed by rule on any 
broadcaster. In fact, under this bill, no program 
will ever be rated unless industry participants 
decide to do the ratings themselves. No 
government entity will ever rate a show; no 
government bureaucracy will ever rate a show; 
no government agency is empowered to sanction 
any broadcaster for refusing to rate a 
show. 

It is our hope that each segment of the television 
industry will eventually recognize that 
giving parents information that allows them to 
protect their children will improve, not harm, 
free, over-the-air broadcasting. It is simply an 
update of the on-off switch of the three-network 
1950’s to the 500 channel universe of 
the coming century. Movies are being rated, 
computer games are being rated, the Internet 
is introducing screening devices, cable television 
is prepared to rate their shows, and it 
is inevitable that broadcast television will expand 
and refine the application of ‘‘Parental 
Discretion Advised’’ warnings to the whole 
range of shows considered potentially harmful 
to children. 

It will be several years before television sets 
include the V-chip. First, the industry must develop 
a ratings system. Second, the set manufacturers 
must build new sets to include the 
electronics to read the ratings. But every parent 
will be pleased to know that, the day 
President Clinton signs this bill, it will have 
been declared in the public interest for this 
country to warn parents of programming that 
could harm their kids and to provide parents 
the means to block such programming out of 
the home, if they choose, with this simple, rat-
ings-and-blocking device. 

Finally, I want to commend Chairman BLILEY, 
Mr. DINGELL, Chairman FIELDS, and other 
members of the conference committee for 
their excellent work in bringing together the 
compromises necessary to reach final agreement. 


Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself my remaining time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HAYWORTH). The gentleman from 
Michigan [Mr. CONYERS] is recognized 
for 30 seconds. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Speaker, the insurance 
premium issue is not a red herring. 
It is a matter of both reality and 
public policy. If we were able to auction 
it to the networks, everyone has 
recognized it could generate billions 
and help balance the budget. This bill 
gives the insurance premium to the 
networks rent-free, and no Member will 
be able to justify this at a time when 
we are chopping Medicare in order to 
balance the budget. 

I want to thank Chairman BLILEY for making 
the process of debate and consideration of 
this important economic bill open and bipartisan—
for members of both the Commerce and 
Judiciary Committees. 

LONG DISTANCE AND RELATED ISSUES 

I said at the beginning of this debate that 
the antitrust laws and the Antitrust Division 

must remain at the very center of the telecommunications 
debate. Antitrust law is synonymous 
with low prices and consumer protection—
and that is exactly what we need in 
our telecommunications industry. 

The Antitrust Division is the principal government 
agency responsible for antitrust enforcement. 
Its role in the MFJ has given it decades 
of expertise in telecommunications competition 
issues. The Division has unrivaled expertise 
in making predictive judgments and in 
assessing marketplace effects. The FCC by 
contrast has no antitrust background, and is 
facing the threat of significant downsizing. 

This is why its so important that the Justice 
Department was given an enhanced role in reviewing 
possible Bell entry into long distance. 
Under the conference agreement, the FCC 
must consult with and give substantial weight 
to the views of the Justice Department regarding 
such Bell entry—this is a necessary, but 
not sufficient condition to meeting the overall 
public interest requirement concerning Bell 
entry. The final conference agreement therefore 
ensures that the Justice Department’s 
views will be given serious substantive merits 
by the courts on appeal as well as the FCC. 

The Justice Department will be able to use 
whatever standard they believe is appropriate, 
including the so-called eight-c test under 
which Bell entry is not permitted into long distance 
or manufacturing unless there is no substantial 
possibility the Bell could use its market 
power to impede competition. It is also my understanding 
that the Department will retain its 
full statutory authority to represent the interests 
of the United States before the courts on 
appeal. 

The importance of the long-distance entry 
provisions are underscored by the very few 
narrowly drawn exceptions to meeting the 
entry conditions. The grandfather for previous 
MFJ waivers under section 271(f) applies only 
to the particular Bell and the scope of particular 
activity addressed in the waiver. The exception 
for incidental services under section 
271(b)(3) and 271(b) is to be narrowly construed. 
And the regulatory forbearance provisions 
set forth in new section 10 do not permit 
the FCC from forbearing enforcing the long 
distance entry requirements. 

It is also important to note that even after 
entry occurs, section 271 applies separate affiliate 
requirements for at least 3 years in 
order to check potential market power abuses. 
And although some joint marketing is permitted 
by the Bells under these provisions, 
both the Bells and their affiliates would be 
subject to nondiscrimination requirements. And 
the Bell and its affiliate must also make the individual 
services that are jointly marketed 
available to competitors on the same terms 
they make them available to each other. 

In addition, the bill contains an all-important 
antitrust savings clause which ensures that 
any and all telecommunications merger and 
anticompetitive activities are fully subject to 
the antitrust laws. Telco-cable mergers and all 
other broadcast, media, or telecommunications 
transactions will be fully subject to antitrust review, 
regardless of how they are treated under 
the bill or the FCC. 

And the bill includes a very useful repeal of 
47 U.S.C. 221(a) which could have exempted 
mergers between telephone companies from 
antitrust and other legal review. This was a 
holdover from the 1920’s, an era when Federal 
telecommunications policy promoted competition 
over competition. 

I would also like to remind the Members that 
this legislation would not be possible had the 
Justice Department not broken up the old Bell 
monopoly in 1984. The 1984 MFJ—which 
broke the Bell System into AT&T and the 
seven regional Bells, and which has been so 
ably supervised by Judge Harold Greene for 
12 years—has unleashed one of the most significant 
competitive forces in our economy. 

Since the MFJ opened up the long distance 
and manufacturing markets to competition, we 
have seen a 70-percent reduction in long-distance 
prices and an explosion in product innovation. 
The legislation rightly recognizes that 
it’s time to open up the local loop to competition 
as well. And by maintaining the role of the 
antitrust laws, the bill helps to ensure that the 
Bells cannot use their market power to impede 
competition and harm consumers. 

OTHER ISSUES 

However, aside from the long-distance provisions 
of the bill, which I support, I have a 
number of substantive concerns with the final 
conference agreement. 

The cable provisions allow for deregulation 
before the advent of competition, raising the 
specter of unregulated monopoly. Two Congresses 
ago we spent consideration time and 
energy in adopting legislation to protect consumers 
from price gouging, and we were finally 
able to pass the bill over President 
Bush’s veto. This Congress the Republicans 
have decided that consumer protection must 
take a back seat to industry demands. Although 
a small concession to consumers was 
made by delaying the date of price increases 
until 1999, there is no guarantee there will be 
any cable competition by this time. 

The bill will also allow for an unprecedented 
increase in media concentration. At a time 
when we need greater and more diverse 
media voices, the bill will eliminate the national 
radio and television ownership rules, 
scale back local concentration rules, and allow 
corporations to simultaneously control broadcast 
and cable systems. 

The bill also places a number of heavy-
handed burdens on the taxing and regulatory 
authority of State and local governments. The 
cities will no longer be able to tax direct 
broadcast services. Local governments are 
also forced to give up their power to regulate 
access agreements. Rather than grant the 
rights-of-way a city or county believes are in 
the public interest, they must comply with a 
new set of rules which come down from 
Washington. In doing so, the conference report 
completely ignores the new unfunded-
mandate law. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within 
which to include extraneous material 
on this legislation. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Virginia? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to commend my 
colleagues: As I said before, the gentleman 
from Texas, JACK FIELDS, the 
chairman of the subcommittee; his vice 
chairman, the gentleman from Ohio, 
MIKE OXLEY, without whose diligent 
work we would not be here; for the 


H 1172 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

wonderful cooperation on the part of 
the minority: the ranking member of 
the subcommittee, the gentleman from 
Massachusetts, Mr. MARKEY; the ranking 
member on the full committee, the 
gentleman from Michigan, Mr. DINGELL. 
The staff, as the ranking minority 
member of the subcommittee, the 
gentleman from Massachusetts pointed 
out, has done yeoman work. They have 
worked weekends, they have worked 
nights, and I know they will be glad 
when this day is over, as we will be. 

I remember working with the gentleman 
back in the early 1980’s, when 
Mr. Baxter and Mr. BROWN reached an 
agreement. We came close to getting a 
bill then, but we were blocked at the 
end. One thing or another has frustrated 
us in every Congress since. Here 
we are on this historic day. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. This 
is a bill that we can be proud of. Is it 
perfect? No, and it never will be, but 
bear in mind, this is the most extensive 
rewrite of telecommunications law in 
60 years. Mr. Speaker, the reason it has 
taken 60 years is because it is complex. 
It is difficult. It is intricate. All of 
these players believe in competition, 
but they each feel they are entitled to 
a fair advantage. 

Through the diligent work of the 
committees and the conference, we 
think we have created as level a playing 
field as we know how to do. As we 
stand here, all of the players in this 
complex act support this bill; some, 
truly, more than others. But it is a 
great day. It will be competition. It 
will give the American consumer 
greater choice. We will be leading the 
cutting edge as we go into the 21st century 
as a result of this bill. It is the 
greatest jobs bill we are likely to pass 
in this decade. 

Mr. FAZIO. Mr. Speaker, this bill is good for 
consumers. It provides a supermarket in the 
telecommunications industry with one stop 
shopping for cable and phone service if you 
wan it. This bill is good for our children. It provides 
incentives to bring technology and the 
Internet into our grade schools, middle 
schools, high schools, and libraries. 

Congress is—at last—taking into its own 
hands the deregulation of the telecommunications 
market which has been handled in a 
piecemeal fashion by the courts since the 
1982 breakup of AT&T. Despite this inefficiency, 
States have been moving forward. In 
my home State of California, telephone companies 
have recently been allowed to offer 
local long-distance services and their local 
markets have been opened to facilities-based 
competition. 

With this conference agreement, we acknowledge 
the changes that are taking place 
in the marketplace an insure that the process 
by which all competitors compete is fair and 
evenhanded. 

I regret that I had to oppose the rule on this 
bill because of the unconstitutional language 
relating to abortion. I appreciate representative 
LOWEY’s efforts to clarify that everyone’s first 
amendment rights should be protected on the 
Internet. In light of her efforts, I am now prepared 
to support final passage of this measure. 


I do want to point to one other concern however, 
relating to my district. The goal of this 
legislation is to create an environment in 
which new and expanded services are delivered 
to consumers. In some cases that can 
best be accomplished through the combined 
resources of smaller local telephone companies 
and local cable companies. 

Section 652 sets limitations on the size of 
the local telephone companies that may own 
more than a 10 percent interest in their local 
cable operator. It was my understanding that 
the intent of the legislation was to limit these 
activities to local telephone companies below 
tier-one companies in size. 

Further, section 652 sets forth conditions 
under which the FCC may grant a waiver from 
these restrictions if to do so is in the public interest 
and the local franchising authority approves. 
There may be a situation or two where 
a local cable company and local telephone 
company have been already negotiating a sale 
under current law but will find themselves facing 
a new set of rules before the sale is complete. 


If the FCC finds this to be in the public interest, 
particularly if we are talking about small, 
non-tier-one companies, in my view this is the 
kind of circumstance for which Congress has 
created the waiver. 

And since it is the intent of Congress to promote 
competition while encouraging localism, 
a circumstance in which a locally owned, nontier-
one local telephone company is seeking to 
purchase a local cable system serving just 
part of its telephone service area, and the 
telephone service area is subject to competition 
or impending competition from large national 
and international telecommunications 
conglomerates, should be the kind of situation 
giving rise to a waiver. 

Mr. Speaker, there is a lack of consistency 
in the boundaries of telephone service areas, 
cable franchising areas, and census bureau 
population boundaries. Consequently, the 
guideline in the bill of 12,000 cable subscribers 
in an urbanized area should not be an obstacle 
to serving the public interest and should 
not restrict the FCC from granting waivers for 
providers serving more subscribers than the 
limit. Finally, if the FCC finds no anticompetitive 
effects to a proposed transaction, it should 
grant a waiver. 

I urge by colleagues to support this legislation. 


Mr. SKAGGS. Mr. Speaker, I’m going to 
vote for this bill because it promotes competition 
and growth in the communications industry, 
and I believe that will benefit consumers. 

I must, however, express my strong opposition 
to one particular provision, section 507. 
This section clearly violates the first amendment’s 
prohibition against laws restricting freedom 
of speech. 

As some of our colleagues know, section 
507 of this conference report incorporates by 
reference part of the Federal criminal law—18 

U.S.C. 1462—and, by doing so, would make it 
a crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison 
to transmit or receive information through an 
interactive computer about abortion procedures. 
While this bill contains other constitutionally 
questionable restrictions on the content of information 
transmitted or received through a 
computer, a flat prohibition on transmission or 
receipt of abortion information, like that contained 
in section 507 is, as the chairman of 

the Committee on the Judiciary has conceded, 
clearly unconstitutional. 

While the authors of this bill have stated on 
the floor of the House of Representatives 
today that it was not their intention to restrict 
free speech on the matter of abortion and 
have stated their understanding of the unconstitutional 
nature of section 507, it is difficult to 
understand how and why this provision was 
ever included in this bill. The inclusion of this 
offensive provision is a testament to the terribly 
flawed process used to bring this conference 
report to the floor today. 

The Members of the House have been 
given assurances that including this provision 
restricting free speech on the subject of abortion 
was a mistake we should act quickly and 
in a bipartisan fashion to correct this insult to 
the first amendment rights of all Americans. 

Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support 
of S. 652, the Telecommunications Act of 
1995, which represents the most comprehensive 
overall of our Nation’s telecommunications 
law since 1934. This historic legislation 
seeks to provide consumers with more 
choices and lower rates by promoting competition 
among telecommunications providers. 

I opposed the House-passed version of this 
legislation because I did not believe it would 
have adequately protected American consumers 
from unwarranted cable and telephone 
rate increases. I was also very concerned that 
it would have allowed only a few large companies 
to control what Americans watch on television, 
listen to on the radio, or read in the 
newspapers. 

While I continue to have reservations about 
several provisions of this legislation, I would 
like to commend the members of the conference 
committee for making significant improvements 
in many areas of the bill. The conference 
report does much more than the original 
House bill to benefit consumers. It 
deregulates the cable industry more gradually, 
raises broadcast ownership limits in a way that 
will promote competition and preserve diversity, 
and seeks to improve phone service and 
lower phone rates by leveling the playing field 
for telephone service providers. 

I remain very concerned, however, about a 
provision in this bill that will criminalize the 
communication of information about abortion 
over the Internet. Under section 507 of this 
bill, individuals who provide family planning information 
over computer networks could be 
subject to a 5-year prison term. Even mentioning 
the word ‘‘abortion’’ could be considered a 
criminal act in some circumstances. Mr. 
Speaker, this is clearly unacceptable. That is 
why I voted against the rule under which this 
legislation is now being considered. 

This bill should be about giving consumers 
a choice among competing telecommunications 
providers, not about threatening a 
woman’s right to reproductive choice. This Information 
Age gag rule, which is likely to be 
found unconstitutional, has no place in this important 
legislation and should be eliminated. I 
am, therefore, extremely pleased that Representative 
HENRY HYDE, the chairman of the 
House Judiciary Committee, and Representative 
NITA LOWEY, chair of the Pro-Choice Task 
Force of the Congressional Caucus on Women’s 
Issues, have engaged in a colloquy making 
it absolutely clear that this language was 
not intended by the drafters of the bill and will 
be removed from the act as soon as possible. 
While I am confident that this ban is unconstitutional, 
I am nevertheless eager to ensure 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1173 

that Congress acts quickly to permanently remove 
this language from the bill. 

I am also concerned that S. 652 could infringe 
upon Americans’ constitutional right to 
free speech by allowing the Government to 
police the Internet for indecent material. Under 
this legislation, individuals who disseminate 
material that the Federal Government believes 
may violate contemporary community standards 
of decency could face prison terms. 
Thus, a librarian could be held liable for putting 
classic books such as ‘‘Catcher in the 
Rye’’ and ‘‘Ulysses’’ on line since they include 
profanity. While we all agree that children 
must not have access to indecent or pornographic 
materials, I do not believe that Government 
regulation of the information superhighway 
is the best way to solve the problem. 

That is why I voted for an amendment to the 
House-passed bill that would have allowed 
computer users and computer network providers 
to police the Internet, rather than the Federal 
Government. This amendment would 
have prohibited the Federal Communications 
Commission [FCC] from regulating the Internet 
and other interactive computer services, but 
would have encouraged computer network 
providers to voluntarily screen and prevent the 
distribution of obscene and other objectionable 
materials on computer networks. I sincerely 
hope that Congress will consider legislation 
later this year to institute this more reasonable 
approach to protecting children from indecent 
material. 

Mr. Speaker, the time has come to pass a 
comprehensive telecommunications reform bill. 
Despite several shortcomings, S. 652 is a balanced 
bill that will lead to technological advances 
and provide Americans with a telecommunications 
network for the 21st century. 
More importantly, the final bill makes dramatic 
advances over the earlier version in protecting 
consumers. I urge my colleagues to vote for 
this important legislation. 

Mr. ORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong 
support of S. 652, the Telecommunications 
Act. 

I believe that this is a good bill for my State 
of Utah, and for the Nation. For years, we 
have struggled in Congress to rewrite our 
communications laws to reflect the dynamic 
changes that have taken place in long distance 
and local telephone service, cable TV, 
broadcasting, and the Internet. Passage today 
and likely enactment into law in the near future 
represents a tremendous bipartisan effort. 

First, I would like express my support for the 
strong provisions in this bill which protect rural 
America. Over the last few months, I have 
been pleased to work with rural Republicans 
and Democrats to insist on strong universal 
service and toll-rate-averaging provisions. Late 
last year, we sent a letter to conferees expressing 
our concerns and identifying provisions 
critical to rural America. Inclusion of 
such provisions in the final conference report 
will save the average rural telephone user 
hundreds of dollars a year. 

For example, the House-passed bill contained 
much weaker universal service provisions 
than the Senate bill. Universal service is 
the mechanism which ensures affordable 
monthly phone rates for rural residents. The 
Organization for the Protection and Advancement 
of Small Telephone Companies 
[OPASTCO] recently conducted a detailed 
study on the effect of rates in a deregulated 
environment. This study found that the elimi


nation of universal service in a deregulated 
environment could increase annual phone 
rates for rural Utahns by $198 a year. Fortunately, 
the stronger Senate provision, fully protecting 
universal service, prevailed. 

A similar concern has been raised with respect 
to toll-rate averaging—both for intrastate 
and interstate long-distance phone calls. According 
to the same OPASTCO study, the 
elimination of toll rate averaging could increase 
annual long-distance phone bills for 
rural Utahns by $465 a year. Early House versions 
of the telecommunications bill did not 
fully protect intrastate and interstate toll-rate 
averaging. Fortunately, the bill we are now 
passing reinstates these important provisions. 

Finally, the bill contains a number of other 
important rural protections and provisions. The 
one that I am proudest of is the provision 
which promotes affordable access for schools, 
libraries, and rural hospitals and health care 
facilities to the information superhighway. 
When this bill first came to the House floor, I 
was very disappointed to see that it contained 
no such provision. Therefore, I joined with my 
colleagues, Representatives MORELLA, 
LOFGREN, and NEY in offering an amendment 
to include an affordable Internet access requirement 
comparable to the one contained in 
the Senate. Through our efforts, we were able 
to obtain the support of the distinguished 
chairman of the House Commerce Committee 
to push for its inclusion in the conference report. 
With such inclusion, we will be able to 
make it easier for rural schools and libraries to 
gain affordable access to the information superhighway 
to promote distance learning. We 
will be able to make it easier for rural hospitals 
to implement telemedicine, an exciting new 
approach to health care in less populated 
areas. 

So, I believe this is a very good bill for rural 
Utah and rural America. By unleashing the 
forces of competition, coupled with prudent 
protections for those areas and services 
where full, effective competition may not be 
possible, we should improve the quality, cost, 
and availability of telecommunications in rural 
areas. 

Second, I would like to express my strong 
support for deregulation of the cable TV industry. 
Three years ago, Congress enacted a misguided 
bill to regulate cable television prices. 
The effect of that bill was to create a regulatory 
nightmare at the FCC, and a curb on 
the dynamic free market growth of programming. 
I was in a fairly small minority who opposed 
that earlier curb on free market cable 
TV activities. I am pleased to see a majority 
of both the House and Senate are now admitting 
that that was a mistake. 

Third, with respect to deregulation of local 
and long-distance phone service, I believe that 
the final provisions represent a workable and 
sensible approach. It is certainly our expectation 
that competition should improve local 
phone service for consumers. 

However, many of us are aware that the 
transition period from a regulated to a deregulated 
environment may not be easy. I am 
pleased to see a stronger review role for the 
Department of Justice in the conference report, 
to assure that this transition period does 
not result in the domination by one provider, to 
the detriment of competition. As this process 
unfolds, we in Congress should monitor these 
national market developments closely to make 
sure that the promise of true local phone service 
competition is in fact met. 

Finally, I am pleased to see the inclusion in 
the bill of a V-chip requirement in all new 13inch 
and larger television sets. This was not 
included in the original House bill, but we prevailed 
in adding this provision by amendment. 
Increasingly, parents are becoming concerned 
about the content of television programming. 
The use of the V-chip gives parents increased 
control over what their children watch. It is a 
fair, economical approach to dealing with this 
problem. 

Is this a perfect bill? I don’t think there is a 
Member in this body that is satisfied with each 
and every provision in it. Can we absolutely 
predict that the telecommunications changes 
we are unleashing today will be a complete 
and total success? Again, no one can really 
know with certainty. However, this legislation 
is a balanced, well-thought-out proposal that is 
long overdue. To wait any longer is to see our 
laws fall increasingly behind the rapidly moving 
forces of change that we see in all areas 
of telecommunications. This is a very good bill 
that should become law now. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
express my support for the Communications 
Act of 1995 and, more specifically, provisions 
in the conference report which preserve the 
ability of local authorities to protect their rightsof-
way and public property. 

As you may recall, 1 year ago, I stood before 
this body to ask for your support in passing 
H.R. 5, the Unfunded Mandates Act of 
1995, in order to bring a new level of accountability 
to the Federal Government. This legislation, 
the principal provisions of which took effect 
on January 1, 1996, forces Congress to 
end the increasing practice of imposing crippling 
mandates on States and local governments 
without regard for their costs. Now the 
Federal Government must work cooperatively 
with State and local governments to avoid new 
mandates. 

Today, the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act 
of 1995 passed its first real test, the Communications 
Act of 1995. Thanks to local governments, 
the National League of Cities, the National 
Association of Counties, the U.S. Conference 
of Mayors, and the Congressional 
Budget Office, all of whom assisted in identifying 
legitimate concerns about potential unfunded 
mandates in this bill, we were prepared 
to raise points of order on the floor to 
stop the mandates. 

The Commerce Committee has worked with 
us, representatives of the State and local governments 
and other interested parties to avoid 
potential unfunded mandates and protect local 
control over public property and rights-of-way. 
We secured language that ensured local governments 
retained their control over rights-ofway. 
The language included in the Communications 
Act now adequately addresses the 
key concerns that have been raised by State 
and local governments about potential unfunded 
mandates. As proponents of unfunded 
mandates reform and protecting local control 
over rights-of-way, we were pleased to see 
this result. 

I would like to express my gratitude to my 
mandates counterpart and original cosponsor 
on the other side of the aisle, Representative 
CONDIT, for his assistance as well as Representative 
JOE BARTON, and Representative 
BART STUPAK, true champions of State and 
local rights. 

Mr. Speaker, unfunded mandates reform is 
a reality and I look forward to working with all 


H 1174 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

my colleagues committed to reflecting the concerns 
of State and local governments in Federal 
legislation. 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, while I support 
many of the provisions in this conference report, 
I have serious concerns about computer 
censorship provisions included in the telecommunications 
agreement. In response to a 
strong lobby by the Christian Coalition, conferees 
voted 17–16 to include a provision 
which would make it a felony to put indecent 
material on a computer where a person under 
18 can get It. Because indecent has not been 
defined by the Congress or the courts, the potential 
for abuse is great. 

I do not believe the Federal Government 
should be involved in using a very loosely defined 
to test to judge communications between 
individuals. It is wrong to have the Christian 
Coalition judge what is appropriate speech on 
the Internet or anywhere else. 

I am particularly concerned about the potential 
impact of this provision on HIV-prevention 
programs. The indecent provision has the potential 
to ban explicit HIV-prevention materials 
from the Internet. 

The Internet has great potential as a tool in 
HIV prevention. It has the potential to provide 
accurate information that could be used by 
young people to protect themselves from HIV 
and other sexually transmitted diseases. According 
to the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention [CDC], other than abstinence, the 
most effective way to prevent HIV transmission 
is the consistent and proper use of 
condoms. 

Organizations currently provide detailed information 
on the proper use of condoms. The 
question remains whether individuals working 
for these AIDS organizations in California 
could be arrested and extradited to more conservative 
parts of the country because this information 
was obtained by an individual under 
18 years of age. 

Banning HIV-prevention information does 
not protect young people. In fact, it can have 
the opposite effect. This computer censorship 
provision is wrong and should not be part of 
this legislation. 

I am pleased that this legislation will empower 
parents by requiring the development of 
the V-chip. This chip will allow parents to 
block television programming they do not want 
their children to see. The V-chip will provide 
parents with a tool to help in the positive upbringing 
of their children. 

Mr. Speaker, there are provisions of the bill 
that have a significant affect on cities, including 
the city of San Francisco. I am pleased 
that section 253(c) recognizes the historic authority 
of State and local governments to regulate 
and require compensation for the use of 
public rights of way. It further recognizes that 
States and local governments may apply different 
management and compensation requirements 
to different telecommunications 
providers’ to the extent that they make different 
use of the public rights of way. Section 
253(c) also makes clear that section 253(a) is 
inapplicable to right of way management and 
compensation requirements so long as those 
entitles that make similar demands on the 
public rights of way are treated in a competitively 
neutral and nondiscriminatory manner. 
As for the issue of FCC preemption, I am 
pleased that the committee agreed to support 
the Senate language which authorizes the 
Commission to preempt the enforcement only 

of State or local requirements that violate subsection 
(a) or (b), not (c). The courts, not the 
Commission, will address disputes under section 
253(c). 

The overwhelming vote in the House on 
Representative BARTON and Representative 
STUPAK’s amendment, as well as the unanimous 
acceptance of Senator GORTON’s 
amendment in the Senate, indicate that the 
Congress wishes to protect the legitimate authority 
of local governments to manage and 
receive compensation for use of the rights of 
way. 

Mr. Speaker, I support the telecommunications 
reform legislation. 

Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, this 
is a truly historic day for the American people. 
We are engaged in a discussion of a bill that 
fundamentally controls a business that is the 
fastest growing segment in our economy— 
telecommunications. 

I welcome the opportunity to debate the 
merits of this ground-breaking legislation. Specifically, 
I would like to point out my concerns 
over the definition of facility-based competition. 
Real competition. To be effective, any 
market entry test must contain standards that 
clearly define the presence of local competition. 
Real competition will occur only when 
there are facilities-based companies serving 
many customers in major markets throughout 
the State of Oklahoma. 

As rules that define facilities-based competition 
are developed and implemented, I expect 
those charged with that responsibility to make 
certain: There are periodic studies of the degree 
of actual competition in local exchange 
markets to determine whether the incumbent 
exchanges’ market power has been constrained 
enough to relax some of the regulations 
intended to safeguard against the abuse 
of market power; all local exchange service 
providers provide service to all customers who 
request service, provide line-side interconnection 
and unbundling of the local loop into its 
functional sub-elements—feeder and distribution, 
obey the equal rules that are in place, 
cap prices for exchange access services and 
reciprocal termination at the rates charged by 
the incumbent exchanges, and allow full resale 
of all service offerings. 

I thank the Speaker for the opportunity to 
add my concerns to this debate. I will not oppose 
this report and hope its passage results 
in quantum improvements to telecommunications 
access and a better standard of living 
for the American people. 

Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong 
support of the conference report on S. 652, 
the Telecommunications Act of 1996. This report 
represents one of the most monumental, 
deregulatory, and sweeping legislation ever 
considered in the history of Congress. I commend 
my colleagues, Senators PRESSLER and 
HOLLINGS, and Congressmen BLILEY, HYDE, 
FIELDS, and DINGELL for their relentless efforts 
to produce such unprecedented policy in a 
balanced and thoughtful manner. I consider it 
a great privilege to have been a member of 
this conference committee which took upon 
the task of examining every aspect of the converging 
telecommunications industry. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a historic moment. 
Today, with passage of this legislation, this 
Congress is breaking the shackles of repressive 
government regulations. It is forging a 
new era where consumer choice, technological 
development, innovation, and competi


tion control the marketplace, while we keep a 
watchful eye upon monopoly power. 

This legislation marks only the second time 
the Government has addressed telecommunications 
policy. The Communications Act of 
1934, representing the first time, was enacted 
when our Nation was highly dependent upon 
telegraph, and believed radio and telephone 
technology to be luxuries. Frankly, the Communications 
Act has governed telecommunications 
policy for far too long. Readily available 
and highly used technologies of today, 
such as digital overt analog transmission, cellular 
and wireless technology, as well as digital 
compression and interactive data transmission 
were not even within the realm of 
imagination of society in 1934. 

I am here today to acknowledge that over 
the past several months I have had the opportunity 
to observe and examine advanced technologies 
which are not yet available to consumers. 
That is why I will be the first to admit 
that it would be impossible for us to predict 
what technologies and their applications will 
be available next year. This legislation was 
crafted fully aware of the fact and the stranglehold 
the Government was placing upon its development. 
I firmly believe that this legislation 
will unleash such competitive forces and innovation 
that our Nation will see more technological 
development and deployment in the 
next 5 years than we have already seen in 
this century. With that technological development 
will come hundreds of thousands of new 
jobs and tens of billions of private industry dollars 
being invested in infrastructure and technology 
in an explosive, yet steady, manner. 

This landmark legislation is predicated upon 
two things: competition and the consumer. Our 
society is founded on the belief that competition 
produces new technologies, new applications 
for those technologies, and new services, 
all at a lower cost to the consumer. S. 
652 puts the consumer in control. Cable companies, 
local telephone companies, long-distance 
companies, broadcast stations, wireless 
providers, utility companies, among many others, 
will all be competing for the consumer’s 
business, offering new technologies, better 
services, and more choices at a lower cost. 

Much of my support for this legislation is 
based on not only the consumer benefits 
gained through lower costs and better services, 
but through the access and availability to 
services and technologies in rural areas such 
as the Fifth Congressional District of Indiana. 
The impact of this nationwide network and universal 
access in rural areas will be revolutionary. 
We’re not talking about just making sure 
small communities have cable services and 
can order a pizza from their television sets. 
This legislation will bring the world’s leading 
heart surgeon into the surgery room at Jasper 
County Hospital and other rural hospitals. It 
will allow hog farmers in rural Carroll County 
to access the latest veterinary research to diagnose 
their herd’s disease. Classrooms in 
Cass County can have access to the libraries 
of Oxford University. We will be bringing precision 
farming technology to Benton County, IN, 
through the use of global positioning satellites. 

All of these extraordinary services and benefits 
are being obtained by ending the strangle 
hold of Government on the telecommunications 
industry. I truly believe that the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 represents one of 
the greatest proconsumer, job creation, and 
infrastructure investment bill ever considered 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1175 

by Congress. I fully support this measure and 
urge my colleagues to do the same. 

Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I would like 
to address the concerns raised by some over 
the language in the bill protecting minors from 
indecent communications over the Internet. 

At a meeting of House conferees I offered 
the compromise language replacing a harmful-
to-minors standard with indecency and it was 
adopted as the House proffer on cyberporn. 

I am appalled by the unjustified hue and cry 
that this indecency provision will chill free 
speech and is therefore unconstitutional. This 
indecency standard has survived First Amendment 
scrutiny by the U.S. Supreme Court as 
applied in a wide variety of circumstances. In 
FCC v. Pacifica Foundation (1978) the Supreme 
Court held that the broadcast of indecent 
material could be banned during hours 
when children were likely to be viewers or listeners. 
In stating why broadcast indecency 
could be restricted Justice Steven who delivered 
the opinion pointed to the facts that 
broadcasts extend into the privacy of the 
home and is uniquely accessible to children. 
The Internet is very similar to the broadcast 
medium in those respects—it extends into the 
privacy of the home and it is uniquely accessible 
to children. 

Some have even claimed that an indecency 
standard will keep great literary works such as 
‘‘Catcher in the Rye’’ off the Internet. I strongly 
disagree and I believe that the definition of indecency, 
which is very narrow, makes this 
clear. The exact definition of indecency is ‘‘any 
material that in context depicts or describes, in 
terms patently offensive as measured by contemporary 
community standards, sexual or excretory 
activities or organs.’’ 

The context of the material cannot be disregarded 
when making a determination of indecency. 
Therefore, if someone transmits the 
entire novel ‘‘Catcher in the Rye’’ they would 
not be violating an indecency standard, but if 
they transmit only certain passages out of 
context they might. Indecency is not an inherent 
attribute of words or pictures, but rather a 
matter of context and conduct. In addition, it 
must be evaluated by prevailing community 
standards, not the views of just a few individuals. 


We need to maintain a high standard when 
it comes to protecting children from exposure 
to pornography. The indecency provision in 
this legislation is right on target. It will keep 
smut away from children and protect on-line 
services or information providers who make a 
good-faith effort to keep indecent material 
away from children. 

In addition, a very important factor cannot 
be overlooked—the battle over cyberporn 
threatened to completely throw the progression 
of telecommunications legislation off 
track. By bringing the House proffer on 
cyberporn closer to that contained in the Senate 
bill, my compromise prevented conferees 
from getting bogged down in this debate and 
allowed today’s debate to come to pass. 

REGARDING SECTION 271(D)(2)(A) (CONSULTATION WITH 

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL) 

The conference agreement provides that the 
FCC must notify the Attorney General promptly 
when an application is filed by a Bell operating 
company for in-region interLATA relief. Before 
making its determination on the merits of 
the application, the FCC must consult with the 
Attorney General. In this regard, the Attorney 
General may submit an evaluation to the FCC 

using any antitrust standard that the Attorney 
General believes the FCC should consider in 
assessing the application. This requirement 
recognizes the special expertise of the Attorney 
General in antitrust and competitive matters. 


However, this paragraph expressly provides 
that the Attorney General’s evaluation does 
not have a preclusive effect on the FCC. In 
other words, the FCC is not required to adopt 
or even agree with that evaluation or with the 
conclusions of the Attorney General. While the 
FCC must give the Attorney General’s evaluation 
substantial weight, it is not required to follow 
the Attorney General’s views. Moreover, 
the FCC is free to give substantial weight—indeed 
greater weight if justified by the proffer— 
to the evidence offered by the applicant, Bell 
operating company. This is also true both of 
the conclusions and the recommendations 
concerning public interest, convenience and 
necessity or concerning competitive issues. 

This provision is also not intended to give 
the views of the Attorney General any special 
weight or entitle them to any special deference 
upon judicial review of an FCC decision under 
this subsection. The critical determination 
under this subsection is the FCC’s determination 
whether the Bell operating company has 
met the requirements of the Act. The courts 
will accord that FCC determination ‘‘full Chevron 
deference’’ as provided for in Chevron v. 
National Resources Defense Council, 467 
U.S. 837 (1984). 

Mr. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to commend the conferees for their work 
on this important legislation which will shepherd 
in a new era of technological advancement 
and opportunity for all Americans. My 
focus on this telecommunications legislation 
has been on ensuring that Guam has the 
same access to telecommunications technology 
and advances in the information superhighway 
as other U.S. citizens. 

In this regard, the universal service provision 
is an important statement of principle. It 
ensures that consumers in all regions of the 
Nation, including insular areas, should have 
access to telecommunications and information 
services and at rates that are reasonably comparable 
to rates charged for similar services in 
Urban area. 

When the universal service provision was 
first drafted, it neglected to mention whether or 
not it applied to insular areas. After I brought 
this oversight to the attention of Chairman 
Pressler on the Senate Commerce, Science 
and Transportation Committee, he acknowledged 
that the addition of ‘‘insular’’ in the universal 
service section was an important clarification 
and agreed to clarify this definition. 

The addition of the universal service provision 
is an important statement of principle at 
a time when Guam and the Commonwealth of 
the Northern Mariana Islands [CNMI] are pursuing 
inclusion in the North American Numbering 
Plan [NANP]. NANP inclusion would help 
to overcome both domestic and international 
misconceptions about the political status of 
Guam and the CNMI, ensure that the U.S. citizens 
on these islands have the same opportunities 
as all other Americans and improve access 
to the information superhighway. The inclusion 
of ‘‘insular’’ in the universal service 
section reinforces the need to include Guam 
and the CNMI in the NANP. 

Again, I want to thank the conferees for 
their attention to this important clarification and 

for their inclusion of the universal service provision 
in the final legislation. 

Mr. LARGENT. Mr. Speaker, I want to comment 
both Chairman BLILEY and Chairman 
FIELDS for the leadership they have shown, as 
well as the diligence and perseverance exhibited 
in shepherding this long overdue telecommunications 
bill through the legislative 
process. This conference report represents the 
first major overhaul of the communications industry 
in the last 60 years. This historic legislation 
reduces the Federal regulatory burden 
on the communications industry, and as a 
consequence of more competition and less 
regulation, American consumers should benefit 
from a greater choice of telecommunications 
services with lower prices and higher 
quality than is presently available. 

Currently, consumers of many telecommunication 
services in America do not benefit from 
the innovation of new services and constant 
pressure for lower prices that characterize 
competitive markets. For example, providers 
of local telephone services are currently protected 
from direct competition by a complex 
web of Federal, State, and local laws. This 
legislation, if it remains true to its intent, will 
cut through that inertia and allow competitors 
to offer local telephone services. We have already 
seen what real competition has done to 
long distance rates—I can only hope the same 
is true for local rates. 

This historic act has the potential to be the 
largest job creation bill in a decade. It is estimated 
that it will lead to $30 to $50 billion in 
consumer and business benefits and will hasten 
America’s entry into the information age. 
The Telecommunications Act will unleash 
American ingenuity and free American entrepreneurs 
to bring innovative, exciting new 
products and services to market. It’s about 
time that technological advances will be tested 
in the marketplace, and not in Washington or 
the Federal courts. 

Mr. GILCHREST. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support 
of the conference agreement, and I request 
permission to revise and extend my remarks. 


Mr. Speaker, unless I miss my guess, the 
bill before us will probably be the most historically 
important piece of legislation this Congress 
will consider. The telecommunications 
industry is growing rapidly in size and significance, 
primarily because telecommunication is 
about information and information is the future. 

The law currently governing telecommunications, 
the Communications Act of 1934, was 
written for the era of radio, and while it has 
been amended several times since, it still 
maintains an outdated regulatory structure designed 
for an era where sources of information 
were scarce. But technology has blurred the 
lines among telephone, television, computer, 
and newspaper, to the point where all three 
can potentially be the same thing. 

And with the advent of the information age, 
we need to recognize the need for competition 
among information media so that the free marketplace 
of ideas can be communicated 
through a free marketplace of information outlets. 
This bill seeks to exploit the market’s ability 
to maximize quality, maximize consumer 
choice, and minimize prices. 

Mr. Speaker, I supported the Contract With 
America. But years after the the contract is a 
footnote in history, the significance of this law 
will still be obvious, for this is Congress’ most 
important step ever toward embracing the information 
era. And through this legislation, we 


H 1176 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

embrace it with the freedom and efficiency 
that only the free market can provide. I urge 
my colleagues to support this bill. 

Mr. BORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
speak about S. 652 to ensure that its provisions 
are implemented in a manner that ensures 
fair competition in the telecommunications 
marketplace. 

A major objective of S. 652, the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996, is the creation 
and maintenance of competition in local markets. 
Since States will play a key role in implementing 
this Federal legislation, it is vital that 
they act consistently with this Federal aim. 

More specifically, section 253 of S. 652 provides 
that States and local governments shall 
not impose any requirement that prohibits or 
has the effect of prohibiting the ability of any 
entity to provide telecommunications services, 
and permits the FCC to preempt any actions 
that violate or are inconsistent with this policy. 
Because new entry is a fundamental of competition, 
it is most important that the FCC act 
expeditiously on any complaint that alleges a 
violation of this provision. Further, the Commission 
must ensure that any State or local 
requirement fully conforms to the act’s standard. 


I want to assure all my colleagues that I will 
closely follow the FCC’s implementation of this 
provision to ensure it meets the spirit of this 
new law. 

Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the 
conference report on S. 652, although I do not 
do so without reservation. 

As this legislation was being worked out, 
many of the concerns I had were dealt with in 
a positive manner. Agreements have been 
reached which give my home of Dallas needed 
language regarding rights-of-way, a matter 
of concern to me throughout the negotiation 
process regarding telecommunications reform. 

Additionally, I have had some concern about 
the possibility of the regional Bell operating 
companies using this legislation as a basis to 
engage in massive downsizing. Although I realize 
that some change in the operations of 
these companies is inevitable, I have been 
most interested in protecting valuable jobs in 
my district. Because of assurances that I have 
received concerning the position of Southwestern 
Bell with respect to these jobs, I am 
pleased to add my support, and my vote, to 
pass this historic legislation. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
I must rise to express my views on this important 
piece of legislation, the Telecommunications 
Act of 1995. This is a comprehensive 
bill that will allow us to enter into the technological 
revolution of the 21st century. 

I am pleased with many provisions of the 
bill. For example, I believe that it is important 
that the Justice Department has a strong role 
in advising the Federal Communications Commission 
on whether competition exists in local 
markets. I would like to have seen a stronger 
role; however, the FCC must give the Justice 
Department’s views substantial weight, which 
is a recognition of the Department’s strong 
history and expertise in antitrust matters. The 
original versions of the bill would have given 
little or no role for the Justice Department. 

The bill also allows the telephone companies 
to enter the long-distance market as soon 
as there is actual competition in the local market. 
The Bell companies are also required to 
open up their networks to local competitors. 

The bill raises the limit on radio or television 
stations that an individual or ownership group 
may own. The limit, however, is reasonable 
and not as large as the original House version. 


Furthermore, the bill creates a telecommunications 
development fund that is designed to 
facilitate participation by small businesses in 
the industry. I hope that the officials that manage 
the telecommunications fund will utilize 
this opportunity to develop strong outreach 
measures toward minority- and women-owned 
businesses that have been underrepresented 
in the telecommunications industry. 

Another positive aspect to the bill is the universal 
service provisions that make sure that 
this telecommunications revolution leaves no 
one behind. There are strong provisions relating 
to access to residents in rural areas, access 
by schools and libraries, and access to 
individuals with disabilities. 

The provisions relating to the requirement 
that the larger television sets contain v-chip 
technology is extremely important as we transmit 
moral and cultural values to America’s children. 
This V-chip technology will allow parents 
to block out certain programs that they find 
objectionable. Moreover, the FCC will be required 
to formulate some rating guidelines that 
can assist parents with respect to television 
programs. 

As with any bill, I do not agree with all of 
the provisions. I am concerned about the deregulation 
of cable rates by March 1999. Many 
of us can cite incidents in which cable companies 
have been slow in providing quality service 
at a reasonable price. I hope that the FCC 
will encourage the cable companies to continue 
to develop ways to improve the quality of 
cable service and to work with local municipalities 
to insure fair treatment for cities and 
counties. 

I am also concerned about some of the provisions 
relating to obscenity. Some of these 
provisions may need to be clarified in a technical 
corrections bill. For example, we would 
not want to prevent a physician from discussing 
an abortion procedure on the Internet. I 
believe additionally, that the question of auctioning 
the spectrum needs further review. 

Mr. Speaker, I believe that for the most part, 
this bill is a good bill. It will be good for the 
telecommunications industry, good for consumers, 
and good for the country. It has been 
a major struggle to get this bill to the floor. 
Many Members have been working on some 
form of this bill for the last 3 years. 

We may go forward today, however it 
should not be without a commitment to revisit 
this legislation to make this bill a better bill. 

Mr. COSTELLO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of the conference report on the telecommunications 
reform bill. 

I originally opposed the measure when it 
came before the House last August because I 
felt the manager’s amendment weakened the 
standards to promote effective competition 
and provide fair, reasonable rates for consumers. 
I am pleased that the conference report 
includes a reasonable checklist of requirements 
and requires that a FCC public interest 
test be met before applying for long distance 
entry. 

I commend the committee and its leadership 
as well for including language urging the FCC 
to give substantial weight to the views of the 

U.S. Justice Department in determining Bell 
entry into long distance. I feel that judgment 
from outside the regulating agency is critical to 
making a fair decision that is in the best interest 
of the individual market served. 

One of the main reasons I voted against the 
bill last summer was the way in which it would 
have weakened consumer power in keeping 
cable rates in check. It has taken several 
years to effectively implement the Cable Act of 
1992, legislation which has worked in many 
ways to keep cable rates from skyrocketing. I 
did not want to see Congress’s proconsumer 
efforts weakened. I am pleased that the conference 
report, while not perfect in this area, 
has made better strides than the original 
House bill toward keeping consumer protections 
in regard to cable prices and rates. 

I am pleased that the conference committee 
retained the House position on installation of 
the V-chip on all 13-inch and larger television 
sets. The average American child watches an 
estimated 27 hours of television per week, and 
one study estimates that before finishing elementary 
school a child will watch over 8,000 
murders and 10,000 acts of violence on television. 
The inclusion of a V-chip will give parents 
an additional safeguard to protect children 
from objectionable or qusestionable programming. 


This is the most comprehensive communications 
bill since the 1930’s. As we move toward 
the 21st century, the ability to communicate 
in a rapid, cost-effective manner will 
continue to be important to all Americans. I 
am pleased that working together we have 
achieved a framework, while not perfect, that 
will serve to guide our communication policy 
both now and in the future. 

Mrs. COLLINS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I 
would like to commend Chairman FIELDS 
along with the distinguished gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. MARKEY], and the Telecommunications 
and Finance staff for the hard 
work and long hours you’ve all spent crafting 
this legislation and moving it expeditiously to 
the floor today. Your earnest efforts have resulted 
in an agreement that, while certainly not 
flawless, will begin to pave the roads of the information 
superhighway with increased competition 
and assist in promoting greater economic 
opportunities for more Americans as we 
head into the 21st century. 

Back in August 1995, I voted against H.R. 
1555 because of numerous concerns I had 
with the bill particularly in the areas of cable 
rate deregulation and mass media ownership 
concentration. I am now convinced that, due 
to significant bipartisan cooperation on these 
matters, many of my concerns have been addressed 
sufficiently enough that I will support 
the conference report we have before us. 

With respect to cable, this conference report 
modifies original language in H.R. 1555 that 
would have gutted the 1992 Cale Act by lifting 
cable rate regulation on the most popular 
cable programming 15 months after enactment 
of the bill for the largest operators, regardless 
of the competitive nature of their markets. 
After prolonged discussions, conferees agreed 
to redraft this section of the bill to ensure that 
true competition exists prior to deregulation of 
today’s heavily monopolistic cable markets. By 
1999 rate requirements will be lifted for all 
cable systems across the country. 

This is an important compromise Mr. Speaker. 
According to the General Accounting Office, 
blanket deregulation of the cable industry 
prior to effective competition in 1984 resulted 
in a monumental rise in cable rates at three 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1177 

times the rate of inflation. Given the fact that, 
today, effective competition exists in less than 
one-half of 1 percent of all cable systems nationwide 
and affordable cable TV alternatives 
for 99.5 percent of consumers from phone 
companies or satellite providers is not yet fully 
feasible, swiftly opening up these markets as 
provided in the original bill would only have 
spurred price gouging against consumers. 

Also, the conference report’s provisions on 
mass media ownership are much more reasonable 
than the extreme language in last August’s 
bill. That language would have virtually 
guaranteed that power would have been concentrated 
among a select few communications 
megacorporations, sacrificing the key tenets of 
communications policy—community control 
and variety of viewpoints. That legislation repealed 
all ownership limits on radio stations, 
allowed one network to control programming 
reaching 50 percent of all households nationwide, 
gave one major communications entity 
the ability to own newspapers, cable systems, 
and television stations in a single town. This 
type of excessive media control is not a 
healthy prescription for competition. 

Thankfully, these provisions were altered by 
lowering to 35 the percentage of all national 
television viewers that one network’s programming 
could reach. In addition, this conference 
report keeps intact current restrictions that 
prevent one media giant from owning two television 
stations in one locality or owning newspapers 
in combination with ration stations, 
cable holdings, or TV interests in the same 
market. 

However, I am most pleased about certain 
provisions designed to assist our Nation’s 
smallest telecommunications providers which 
are included in this conference report. 

As I have said on numerous occasions, 
while we should all look forward to the opportunities 
presented by new, emerging technologies, 
we cannot disregard the lessons of 
the past and the hurdles we still face in making 
certain that everyone in America benefits 
equally from our country’s maiden voyage into 
cyberspace. I refer to the well-documented 
fact that minority and women-owned small 
businesses continue to be extremely under 
represented in the telecommunciations field. 

In the cellular industry, which generates in 
excess of $10 billion a year, there are a mere 
11 minority firms offering services in this market. 
Overall, barely 1 percent of all 
telecommunciations companies are minority-
owned. Of women-owned firms in the United 
States, only 1.9 percent fall within the communications 
category. 

Several of the provisions included in this bill 
will begin the process of eradicating these inequities. 


I am very pleased to see that Representative 
RUSH’s amendment to help to advance diversity 
of ownership in the telecommunications 
marketplace, which is similar to a provision I 
included in last year’s telecommunications legislation, 
was retained in conference. It requires 
the Federal Communications Commission to 
identify and work to eliminate barriers to market 
entry that continue to constrain all small 
businesses, including minority and women-
owned firms, in their attempts to take part in 
all telecommunications industries. Underlying 
this amendment is the obvious fact that diversity 
of ownership remains a key to the competitiveness 
of the U.S. telecommunications 
marketplace. 

In addition, I fully support the telecommunications 
development fund language included 
in the conference report. This language ensures 
that escrow deposits the FCC receives 
through auctions be placed in an interest-bearing 
account and the interest from such deposits 
be used to increase access to capital for 
small telecommunications firms. This fund 
seeks to increase competition in the telecommunications 
industry by making loans, investments, 
or other similar extensions of credit 
to eligible entrepreneurs. 

Finally, antiredlining provisions that prohibit 
all telecommunications providers from discriminating 
against individuals and communities on 
the basis of race, gender, creed, and so forth 
address a genuine concern of mine that the 
information superhighway must not be allowed 
to bypass those groups most in need of its 
benefits. 

For all these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge 
my colleagues to vote in favor of this conference 
report. 

Mr. POSHARD. Mr. Speaker, I voted 
against H.R. 1555, the House-passed Telecommunications 
reform bill, in August. I believe 
the conference report before us today is 
a much improved piece of legislation that deserves 
our support. 

This bill contains the important V-chip technology 
that will allow parents to control what 
programs are viewed by their children. This 
parental control device will be of great benefit 
as consumer access to a seemingless endless 
number of new television channels enter the 
market place. 

I believe this conference report has addressed 
in a fair manner the issue of cable 
deregulation. I represent a rural district and 
was greatly concerned about the negative impacts 
H.R. 1555 would have had on cable 
consumers I represent. I understand the importance 
of free and open markets, but in rural 
America competition if often slow in coming. 
The conference report before us today ensures 
consumer protection until real and 
meaning cable competition exists. 

The telecommunications reform conference 
report before us today is not a perfect bill, but 
it is a very good bill. This legislation allows for 
true competition among local and long distance 
phone companies, protects cable consumers, 
and provides needed measures that 
make it illegal to intentionally communicate obscene 
materials over a computer network. 

Mr. Speaker, we hear a lot about America 
being ready to embark on the information superhighway. 
This bill allow us to do that. Last 
week during the President’s State of the Union 
address he referenced the importance of this 
legislation. I am proud that members on both 
sides of the aisle have worked together to 
produce a bill that is truly bipartisan. I commend 
the work of Chairman BLILEY, Mr. DINGELL, 
and the other members of the conference 
committee for working together to 
produce this historic legislation. I urge my colleagues 
to join with me in supporting this bill. 

Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker: I would like to express 
my support for S. 652, the Telecommunications 
Act conference report, as I 
believe it is an important step forward in the 
development of our telecommunications policy. 
The issues we are discussing today—involving 
local and long distance phones service, cable 
TV, cellular phones, and more—will truly touch 
the lives of all Americans. As a member of the 
Commerce Committee which drafted and ap


proved this bill last year, I’m pleased that we 
are finally on the verge of seeing this legislation 
enacted. 

The national telecommunications network 
will play a very central role as we prepare to 
enter the 21st century. Throughout Michigan 
and the entire Nation, we must prepare ourselves 
to take advantage of the latest technology 
and do our best to see that there are 
no potholes on the information superhighway. 

There are many important issues in the bill 
before us today. Let me just take a moment to 
take note of an issue of particular concern to 
the people of southwest Michigan—local marketing 
agreements, also known as LMA’s. 

A very successful LMA is in existence between 
two stations in western Michigan, 
WOOD–TV in Grand Rapids and WOTV in 
Battle Creek. In 1991, WOTV has suffered millions 
of dollars of losses and was forced to 
terminate their news operation and layoff 
many employees while they searched for a 
buyer. 

In late 1991, WOTV was able to enter into 
an LMA and bring the station back to financial 
stability. They now have a fully staffed news 
department dedicated to bringing local news to 
their viewers. Additionally, they are very active 
in community affairs such as events at Western 
Michigan University and the Kalamazoo 
Air Show. 

I am fully in support of efforts to allow for 
the continuation of LMA’s in the future and I’m 
pleased that these provisions are part of S. 
652. 

I believe that under this bill, we are preparing 
our nation for the wave of the future and 
leading the world into the 21st century. 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, this legislation 
represents the first comprehensive overhaul of 
our Nation’s communications policy since 
1934. Telecommunications technology has advanced 
beyond the wildest dreams of the visionaries 
of 1934, and yet the regulatory structure 
has remained unchanged. The present 
regulatory structure restricts competition in 
telecommunications markets and industries, 
thus stifling innovation, raising costs, and delaying 
the introduction of new products and 
services to consumers. Government regulators, 
rather than consumers, determine 
which companies can offer which services, 
and, in some cases, at what price. This bill will 
unshackle the telecommunications industry 
from the tenacious grasp of Federal, State, 
and local regulations, thus unleashing a broad 
array of new telecommunications services at 
lower costs. 

This profoundly important and far-reaching 
legislation recognizes the legacy of decades of 
regulation, and thus does not simply eliminate 
all regulations overnight for a brutal battle in 
the marketplace. While on first examination 
this may appear to make sense, the present 
regulatory structure has positioned some industries 
to do remarkably well under such a 
scenario, while others would find themselves 
severely handicapped. Thus, immediate and 
total deregulation could possibly inhibit competition 
rather than encourage it. Instead, the 
legislation has sought to ensure that different 
industries will be competing on a level playing 
field. 

This legislation is the product of years of 
analysis and negotiation, and is a fair and realistic 
bill which promotes and encourages 
competition in cable and telephony markets. In 


H 1178 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Delaware, for example, the local phone company 
will be able to offer consumers long distance 
services and other telecommunications 
products. The local phone company, however, 
will no longer operate as a monopoly, and will 
face competition from other companies. For 
the first time Delawareans will have a choice 
of telecommunications providers, and as companies 
compete for their business, they will 
reap significant benefits. 

I also support provisions that would ensure 
our Nation’s schools and libraries have affordable 
access to educational telecommunications 
services. Schools can use telecommunications 
to ensure that all students, 
regardless of economic status, have access to 
the same rich learning resources. Libraries 
can ensure that every community has a publicly 
accessible means of electronic access to 
support classroom instruction, to communicate 
with the world-wide library community, to facilitate 
small business development, to access 
employment listings and Government 
databases, among other uses. It is in the Nation’s 
best interest to ensure that all schools 
and libraries, even those in rural areas, are 
active participants in the Information Age. 

The impact of this legislation, of course, extends 
far beyond the borders of Delaware. Everyone, 
from an elementary school child exploring 
the world beyond his or her local community, 
to an elderly person benefiting from 
the expert advice of a physician 1000 miles 
away via Telemedicine, to a business seeking 
to become more efficient, to a parent wishing 
to telecommute to work, to a couch potato 
channel surfing through 500 channels, to an 
innovative entrepreneur seeking to provide 
new telecommunications services—everyone 
stands to benefit enormously from this legislation. 
Consequently, I give it my strong support 
and urge my colleagues to do the same. 

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong 
support of the landmark legislation which we 
are considering today. S. 652 is the culmination 
of years of work to overhaul Federal telecommunications 
policy and position America 
as a world leader in the dawning information 
age. 

While this bill contains many important provisions, 
I want to address one area in particular—
the issue of ‘‘Telemedicine.’’ As chairman 
of the Commerce Health Subcommittee, I 
have a special interest in this subject. 

Although it is subject to different interpretations, 
the term ‘‘Telemedicine’’ generally refers 
to live, interactive audiovisual communication 
between physician and patient or between two 
physicians. Telemedicine can facilitate consultation 
between physicians and serve as a 
method of health care delivery in which physicians 
examine patients through the use of advanced 
telecommunications technology. 

One of the most important uses of 
Telemedicine is to allow rural communities 
and other medically under-served areas to obtain 
access to highly-trained medical specialists. 
It also provides access to medical care in 
circumstances when possibilities for travel are 
limited or unavailable. 

Despite widespread support for 
Telemedicine in concept, many critical policy 
questions remain unresolved. At the same 
time, the Federal Government is currently 
spending millions of dollars on Telemedicine 
demonstration projects with little or no congressional 
oversight. In particular, the Departments 
of Commerce and Health and Human 

Service have provided sizable grants for 
projects in a number of States. 

Therefore, I drafted a provision which is included 
in the conference report to require the 
Department of Commerce, in consultation with 
other appropriate agencies, to report annually 
to Congress on the findings of any studies and 
demonstrations on Telemedicine which are 
funded by the Federal Government. 

My provision is designed to provide greater 
information for Federal policymakers in the 
areas of patient safety, quality of services, and 
other legal, medical and economic issues related 
to Telemedicine. With the enactment of 
this provision, I am hopeful that we can shed 
light on the potential benefits of Telemedicine, 
as well as existing roadblocks to its use. 

I urge my colleagues to support the conference 
report to S. 652, this legislation will 
prove critical in defining our Nation’s leadership 
role and economic viability in the 21st 
century. 

Mr. TAUZIN. Mr. Speaker, as the principal 
author of section 365 of the conference report, 
I rise to amplify the limited description of this 
provision in the statement of managers. In essence, 
this provision will permit a large oceangoing 
American-flag vessel operating in accordance 
with the Global Maritime Distress 
and Safety System [GMDSS] of the SOLAS 
Convention to sail without a radio telegraphy 
station operated by a radio officer or operator. 

In implementing this section, the Coast 
Guard can rely on the Federal Communications 
Commission to determine that a large-
ocean going vessel has GMDSS equipment 
installed and operating in good working condition. 
We do not contemplate the Coast Guard 
conducting a rulemaking, public hearings, or 
other lengthy regulatory process. Rather, we 
contemplate a simple adaptation of current, 
well-established Commission certification 
procedures. 

Under section 359 of current law, the Federal 
Communications Commission is authorized 
to issue a certificate of compliance to the 
operator of a vessel demonstrating that the 
vessel is in full compliance with the radio provisions 
of the SOLAS Convention. By law, this 
certificate must be carried on board the vessel 
at all times the ship is in use. Thus, once a 
vessel operator has installed the necessary 
GMDSS equipment and demonstrated to the 
satisfaction of the Commission that the equipment 
is operating in good working condition, 
the operator will obtain a new or modified certificate 
of compliance from the Commission. 
By confirming that a vessel has on board such 
a valid certificate, the Cost Guard would fulfill 
its responsibilities under section 365. 

Let me emphasize, as well, that this provision 
does not alter the Commission’s manning 
or maintenance requirements in any respect. 
Vessel operators, for example, will continue to 
be able to adopt two of the three permitted 
maintenance options: on-shore maintenance 
and equipment duplication. 

For too long, American-flag vessels have 
been saddled with the antiquated telegraphy 
station requirements of the 1934 act. Through 
our action today, we hope to help American-
flag operators become more internationally 
competitive and to speed the introduction of 
the satellite-based GMDSS technology. 

Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Mr. Speaker, I 
support the conference report before the 
House today. I am hopeful this legislation will 
ensure that our telecommunications markets 

remain the most competitive in the world. The 
Justice Department’s role in the success of 
the legislation before us is critical. For over a 
decade, the Justice Department has fostered 
competition in these markets and the bill requires 
that the Federal Communications Commission, 
as part of its interest review, will give 
‘‘substantial weight’’ to the Justice Department’s 
evaluation of a Bell Operating Company’s 
application for entry into long distance. 

The role included in this bill for the Department 
of Justice is truly essential to the ultimate 
success of this bill. In particular, the bill 
requires the FCC to rely on the Department’s 
expertise to assess the overall competitive impact 
of the RBOCs entry into long distance. 
Clearly, there are other public interest factors 
which are entitled to their proper weight, and 
the FCC’s reliance on the Justice Department 
is limited to antitrust related matters. In those 
instances when the cumulative effect of all 
other factors clearly and significantly outweighs 
the Justice Department’s competitiveness 
concerns, the FCC should not be precluded 
from acting accordingly. However, I expect 
the FCC will not take actions that, in the 
Justice Department’s view, would be harmful 
to competition. 

Second, I strongly opposed a provision included 
in the House passed bill that would 
have allowed the Federal Communications 
Commission [FCC] to issue rules that would 
preempt local zoning on where to site cellular 
communications towers. Cellular communications 
companies would have been allowed to 
place towers in any location, regardless of 
local concerns and the actions of local city 
councils and planning commissions, provided 
that they had obtained approval from an FCC 
bureaucrat in Washington. It is estimated 
100,000 towers will be sited across the country 
by the year 2000. I have consistently supported 
the rights of local governments to decide 
zoning questions and I opposed this bill 
because it dramatically infringed on the rights 
of local government with respect to zoning. I 
am pleased a compromise has been reached 
on this issue and the FCC will be prevented 
from infringing on the rights of local and State 
land use decisions. The authority of State and 
local governments over zoning and land use 
matters is absolutely essential and must be 
preserved. 

I congratulate Chairmen HYDE, BLILEY, and 
FIELDS for their tireless work on this historic 
legislation. 

Mr. HOLDEN. Mr. Speaker, the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 furthers the vital 
local telecommunications competition goal by 
prohibiting States and local governments from 
erecting barriers to new entrants providing 
service. This is an excellent provision, but, because 
it is a general mandate, there may be 
creative attempts to get around it. At the very 
least, such attempts to skirt the law would result 
in lengthy litigation, which would slow investment 
and competition. It is for that reason 
that I would like to spell out in more detail the 
types of requirements that State and local 
governments should not be able to impose: A 
State or local government should not be able 
to require that any provider: 

Demonstrate that its provision of service 
would not harm the competitive position of any 
current or future providers of service, would be 
beneficial to consumers, or would not affect 
universal service; 

Show that its provision of service would not 
harm the network of any provider, other than 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1179 

agreeing to abide by uniform technical requirements; 


Agree to provide service in, or build out, all 
or any parts of a franchise territory; 

Show financial capabilities not relevant to 
the service to be provided and not required of 
other providers; 

Limit its offering of service until another provider 
obtains regulatory relief, that is, withhold 
offering a service until the incumbent provider 
receives pricing flexibility. 

I hope this list proves useful to State and 
local governments in their efforts to implement 
this new law and to the FCC in its oversight 
of this provision. 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
back the balance of my time, and I 
move the previous question on the conference 
report. 

The previous question was ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the conference report. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. BLILEY. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 414, noes 16, 
not voting 4, as follows: 

[Roll No. 25] 
AYES—414 
Ackerman Castle Engel 
Allard Chabot English 
Andrews Chambliss Ensign 
Archer Chenoweth Eshoo 
Armey Christensen Everett 
Bachus Chrysler Ewing 
Baesler Clay Farr 
Baker (CA) Clayton Fattah 
Baker (LA) Clement Fawell 
Baldacci Clinger Fazio 
Ballenger Clyburn Fields (LA) 
Barcia Coble Fields (TX) 
Barr Coburn Flake 
Barrett (NE) Coleman Flanagan 
Barrett (WI) Collins (GA) Foglietta 
Bartlett Collins (IL) Foley 
Barton Collins (MI) Forbes 
Bass Combest Ford 
Bateman Condit Fowler 
Becerra Cooley Fox 
Beilenson Costello Franks (CT) 
Bentsen Cox Franks (NJ) 
Bereuter Coyne Frelinghuysen 
Berman Cramer Frisa 
Bevill Crane Frost 
Bilbray Crapo Funderburk 
Bilirakis Cremeans Furse 
Bishop Cubin Gallegly 
Bliley Cunningham Ganske 
Blute Danner Gejdenson 
Boehlert Davis Gekas 
Boehner de la Garza Gephardt 
Bonilla Deal Geren 
Bonior DeLauro Gibbons 
Bono DeLay Gilchrest 
Borski Dellums Gillmor 
Boucher Deutsch Gilman 
Brewster Diaz-Balart Gingrich 
Browder Dickey Gonzalez 
Brown (CA) Dicks Goodlatte 
Brown (FL) Dingell Goodling 
Brown (OH) Dixon Gordon 
Brownback Doggett Goss 
Bryant (TN) Dooley Graham 
Bunn Doolittle Green 
Bunning Dornan Greenwood 
Burr Doyle Gunderson 
Burton Dreier Gutierrez 
Buyer Duncan Gutknecht 
Callahan Dunn Hall (OH) 
Calvert Durbin Hall (TX) 
Camp Edwards Hamilton 
Campbell Ehlers Hancock 
Canady Ehrlich Hansen 
Cardin Emerson Harman 

Hastert 
Hastings (FL) 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayes 
Hayworth 
Hefley 
Hefner 
Heineman 
Herger 
Hilleary 
Hobson 
Hoekstra 
Hoke 
Holden 
Horn 
Hostettler 
Houghton 
Hoyer 
Hunter 
Hutchinson 
Hyde 
Inglis 
Istook 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jacobs 
Jefferson 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnson, Sam 
Johnston 
Jones 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kasich 
Kelly 
Kennedy (MA) 
Kennedy (RI) 
Kennelly 
Kildee 
Kim 
King 
Kingston 
Kleczka 
Klink 
Klug 
Knollenberg 
Kolbe 
LaFalce 
LaHood 
Lantos 
Largent 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Laughlin 
Lazio 
Leach 
Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (GA) 
Lewis (KY) 
Lightfoot 
Lincoln 
Linder 
Lipinski 
Livingston 
LoBiondo 
Lofgren 
Longley 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Luther 
Maloney 
Manton 
Manzullo 
Markey 
Martinez 
Martini 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy 
McCollum 
McCrery 

Abercrombie 
Conyers 
DeFazio 
Evans 
Frank (MA) 
Hilliard 

Bryant (TX) 
Chapman 

McDade 
McDermott 
McHale 
McHugh 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McKeon 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meehan 
Meek 
Menendez 
Metcalf 
Meyers 
Mfume 
Mica 
Miller (CA) 
Miller (FL) 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Molinari 
Mollohan 
Montgomery 
Moorhead 
Moran 
Morella 
Murtha 
Myers 
Myrick 
Neal 
Nethercutt 
Neumann 
Ney 
Norwood 
Nussle 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 
Ortiz 
Orton 
Owens 
Oxley 
Packard 
Pallone 
Parker 
Pastor 
Paxon 
Payne (NJ) 
Payne (VA) 
Pelosi 
Peterson (FL) 
Petri 
Pickett 
Pombo 
Pomeroy 
Porter 
Portman 
Poshard 
Pryce 
Quillen 
Quinn 
Radanovich 
Rahall 
Ramstad 
Rangel 
Reed 
Regula 
Richardson 
Riggs 
Rivers 
Roberts 
Roemer 
Rogers 
Rohrabacher 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roth 
Roukema 
Roybal-Allard 
Royce 
Rush 
Sabo 
Salmon 
Sanford 

NOES—16 

Hinchey 
Johnson (SD) 
Nadler 
Peterson (MN) 
Sanders 
Schroeder 

NOT VOTING—4 

Filner 
Rose 

Sawyer 
Saxton 
Scarborough 
Schaefer 
Schiff 
Schumer 
Scott 
Seastrand 
Sensenbrenner 
Serrano 
Shadegg 
Shaw 
Shays 
Shuster 
Sisisky 
Skaggs 
Skeen 
Skelton 
Slaughter 
Smith (MI) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Solomon 
Souder 
Spence 
Spratt 
Stearns 
Stenholm 
Stockman 
Stokes 
Studds 
Stump 
Stupak 
Talent 
Tanner 
Tate 
Tauzin 
Taylor (MS) 
Taylor (NC) 
Tejeda 
Thomas 
Thompson 
Thornberry 
Thornton 
Thurman 
Tiahrt 
Torkildsen 
Torres 
Torricelli 
Towns 
Traficant 
Upton 
Velazquez 
Vento 
Visclosky 
Vucanovich 
Waldholtz 
Walker 
Walsh 
Wamp 
Ward 
Waters 
Watt (NC) 
Watts (OK) 
Waxman 
Weldon (FL) 
Weldon (PA) 
Weller 
White 
Whitfield 
Wicker 
Wilson 
Wise 
Wolf 
Woolsey 
Wyden 
Wynn 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Zeliff 
Zimmer 

Stark 
Volkmer 
Williams 
Yates 

b1623 

Mr. MOAKLEY and Mr. YOUNG of 
Florida changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ 
to ‘‘aye.’’ 

So the conference report was agreed 
to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid of 
the table. 

f 


REPORT ON RESOLUTION PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF 

H.R. 2924, THE SOCIAL SECURITY 
GUARANTEE ACT 
Mr. GOSS, from the Committee on 
Rules, submitted a privileged report 
(Rept. No. 104–460) on the resolution (H. 
Res. 355) providing for the consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 2924) to guarantee 
the timely payment of Social Security 
benefits in March 1996, which was 
referred to the House Calendar and ordered 
printed. 

f 


REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 1963 

Mrs. KELLY. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that my name be 
removed as a cosponsor of H.R. 1963. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HAYWORTH). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentlewoman from New 
York? 

There was no objection. 

f 


REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 1963 

Mr. DAVIS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that my name be removed 
as a cosponsor of H.R. 1963. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Virginia? 

There was no objection. 

f 


PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE—PROTECTING 
THE CREDITWORTHINESS 
OF THE UNITED STATES 
GOVERNMENT AND AVOIDING 
DEFAULT 

Mr. GEPHARDT. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to rule IX, I rise to a question of 
the privileges of the House and offer a 
resolution (H. Res. 356) to protect the 
creditworthiness of the United States 
and avoid default of the U.S. Government. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
BARRETT of Nebraska). The Clerk will 
report the resolution. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 356 
Whereas, the inability of the House to pass 
an adjustment in the public debt limit unburdened 
by the unrelated political agenda 
of either party, an adjustment to maintain 
the creditworthiness of the United States 
and to avoid disruption of interest rates and 
the financial markets brings discredit upon 
the House; 
Whereas, the failure of the House of Representatives 
to adjust the federal debt limit 


H 1180 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

and keep the nation from default impairs the 
dignity of the House, the integrity of its proceedings 
and the esteem the public holds for 
the House; Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That upon the adoption of this 
resolution the enrolling clerk of the House of 
Representatives shall prepare an engrossment 
of the bill, H.R. 2409. The vote by which 
this resolution is adopted by the House shall 
be deemed to have been a vote in favor of 
such bill upon final passage in the House of 
Representatives. Upon engrossment of the 
bill, it shall be deemed to have passed the 
House of Representatives and been duly certified 
and examined; the engrossed copy 
shall be signed by the Clerk and transmitted 
to the Senate for further legislative action; 
and (upon final passage by both Houses) the 
bill shall be signed by the presiding officers 
of both Houses and presented to the President 
for his signature (and otherwise treated 
for all purposes) in the manner provided for 
bills generally. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Missouri [Mr. GEPHARDT] 
is recognized on the question of privilege. 


Mr. GEPHARDT. Mr. Speaker, let me 
explain why this is a question of privilege 
and why this Congress must act to 
extend the debt limit, with no threats 
or conditions, to preserve the integrity 
of this entire Government. 

b1630 

Rule IX of this House states very 
clearly that matters of privilege are 
those affecting the House collectively, 
those affecting its dignity and integrity, 
and those affecting the reputation 
of Members in their representative capacity. 


I ask every Member of this Congress 
today, how can the dignity and integrity 
of this Congress be maintained if 
we tear down the dignity and integrity 
of this country? How can any single 
Member of the 104th Congress maintain 
our reputation and honor if we go down 
in the history books as the Congress 
that broke America’s word, the very 
first Congress that dared to tarnish 
America’s trust in the world. 

Mr. Speaker, I know there are 
enough Democrats and Republicans to 
extend the debt limit and avoid this 
crisis right now, if we could only have 
that vote on the floor. It is unfair to 
all of us to have our rights, our reputations, 
our good names dashed for what 
I believe is a partisan purpose. 

Some of our Republican colleagues 
are threatening to default on America’s 
financial obligations, to turn our 
backs on seniors who need their Social 
Security checks, taxpayers who deserve 
their refunds, people throughout 
the world have invested in America. 

There is no question that economic 
chaos would follow even a day of default. 
Interest rates on credit cards, 
car loans, and mortgages would skyrocket. 
The dollar would plummet. 
World financial markets could go into 
a tailspin. The damage would most 
likely be permanent, because such 
reckless delinquency would be without 
historical precedent in our country. 

We had a bloody Civil War in the last 
century, when America was torn in 

half, probably our greatest crisis. But 
all through it and after it, we kept our 
credit whole. During two world wars 
when our economy was stretched to the 
limit, we found room to honor our word 
to the people who had invested in our 
debt. Through recessions and a great 
depression, we have guarded America’s 
financial faith and integrity because it 
is as sacred as the Constitution itself. 

This is not partisan hyperbole. Even 
the threat of default is damaging our 
credibility day by day, more and more 
with each passing day. 

We cannot afford to play politics 
with that credibility. We cannot afford 
to delay to stand for our national word 
and honor. 

What crisis is bigger than two world 
wars and the Great Depression? A disagreement 
over a budget. We Democrats 
think it is wrong to cut Medicare 
for huge tax breaks, especially since we 
think it is unnecessary to balance the 
budget. Republicans legitimately disagree. 
This is a valid debate. It is one 
we should resolve. But defaulting on 
our obligations, hurting millions of average 
Americans, damaging our most 
precious possession, our word and our 
credibility, is no way to resolve it. 

After all, shutting down the Government 
twice did not resolve it. Why 
would an international economic crisis 
resolve it? 

Mr. Speaker, parliamentary privilege 
exists for exactly this kind of crisis. 
This is more than an economic issue. It 
is a profoundly moral issue. 

If we bargain away America’s integrity 
for the latest political squabble, if 
we can bring millions of families to the 
brink of economic crisis because we 
cannot agree on this year’s budget, 
then in my opinion we cease to serve 
the United States of America, and we 
no longer have honor to maintain. 

This crisis, Mr. Speaker, is the very 
essence of privilege in this parliamentary 
body, and I urge the Chair, on behalf 
of our country and the promise 
and word of our country, to rule in its 
favor. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. (Mr. 
BARRETT of Nebraska). Do any other 
Members wish to be heard on the question 
of privilege? 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. 
Yes, Mr. Speaker, I wish to be heard. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Massachusetts [Mr. KENNEDY]. 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, there can be no greater cause 
for a parliamentary privilege than the 
constitutional crisis that is being perpetrated 
by the elements of this House 
that have chosen a path to default on 
America’s debt in order to get their 
particular view rammed through the 
House of Representatives and the Senate 
of the United States. Mr. Speaker, 
we have got to deal with this crisis. 

The truth of the matter is that originally 
we were told that the reason why 
the Republicans so much wanted to 
have the debt default issue brought forward 
was to insist upon a balanced 

budget. President Clinton has agreed to 
a balanced budget. 

We were then told, though, it was not 
a balanced budget, it was a balanced 
budget within 7 years. President Clinton 
agreed to a balanced budget within 
7 years. 

We were then told it was not a balanced 
budget within 7 years but it was 
with the CBO numbers. President Clinton 
greed to a balanced budget in 7 
years using CBO numbers. 

Then we were told it was not a balanced 
budget, 7 years, CBO numbers, 
but it had to have a tax cut. President 
Clinton agreed to a tax cut. 

It is not as big a tax cut as the one 
the Republicans want, so the Republicans 
are insistent upon challenging 
the debt of this country, breaking the 
back of 200 years of history, breaking 
the parliamentary process that has 
been set up that says if we have disagreements 
between bills passed by the 
House of Representatives and the United 
States Senate, that we have in fact 
a President that can sign that bill or 
he can veto that bill. If he vetoes the 
bill, we have the right to override that 
veto. If we do not have the votes to 
override, we then compromise. 

Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
regular order. 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. The 
truth of the matter is there is no willingness 
to compromise. 

Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
regular order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the 
gentleman suspend. The Chair would 
remind the gentleman to confine his 
remarks to the question of privilege, 
please. 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I am talking about a question 
of privilege. I am talking about my 
dignity and my integrity, the integrity 
of this body, the integrity of every 
Member on the Democratic and Republican 
side. 

Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
the regular order. 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. 
You are willing to break the back, 
break the debt of America in order to 
ram through your narrow political 
guerrilla tactics. It is time for a little 
dignity on the floor of this House, Mr. 
Speaker, and I want to be heard. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
must confine their remarks to the 
question of privilege. 

Mr. WALKER. I demand the regular 
order, Mr. Speaker. 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I believe very strongly that 
this is an issue of parliamentary privilege. 
I could not agree more strongly 
with the words of the gentleman from 
Missouri [Mr. GEPHARDT], that this is 
an issue, the most important issue we 
have faced this year, the most important 
issue that we have faced in many 
years. 

If we allow the debt of this country 
to be defaulted upon, we will hurt the 
future of our country’s borrowing, we 
will hurt the future of our country’s 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1181 

children, and we will hurt our senior 
citizens. 

Please pass a full debt extension. 
Allow us to pay our bills as every generation 
prior to ours has done throughout 
the history of this country. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
New York [Mr. SOLOMON]. 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, in the 
interest of time, I will make the argument 
brief as to why this resolution 
does not constitute a question of privilege 
under House rule IX, but just as I 
do that, let me preface those remarks 
by calling attention to the bill that 
will be on the floor directly after we 
finish with these two issues here. It 
states in the line 6, ‘‘Congress intends 
to pass an increase in the public debt 
limit before March 1, 1996,’’ and let me 
say that they will do this over my objections 
because I am just appalled 
that we are once again going to extend 
this debt limit. 

But having said that, let us talk 
about this issue. The precedents are absolutely 
clear that a resolution raising 
a question of privilege may not be used 
to change those rules. This resolution 
would change House rules by automatically 
passing a specified bill. Nowhere 
in House rules is it contemplated or 
specified that legislation may be called 
up, let alone passed, by means of a 
question of privileged resolution. The 
Chair has already so ruled on numerous 
occasions during the last several 
weeks. I therefore would urge that this 
resolution be ruled out of order, Mr. 
Speaker. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania desire to 
be heard on this question? 

Mr. KANJORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
on the question of privilege. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania may proceed. 


Mr. KANJORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I 
know that this is an issue that other 
parliamentarians have ruled on in the 
history of this great House, but as we 
reflect, my friends on both sides, and 
to remove this from a partisan issue, 
the issue of the Constitution and the 
issue of the House of Representatives 
predates the existence of either parties 
that exercise influence in this House 
today. 

We are in the 208th year of the American 
Constitution, the 104th Congress 
of the United States. We are here by 
virtue of the fact that our constituents 
elected us to come here and present 
ourselves under article I of the Constitution 
of the United States and take 
an oath of office that Constitution. Article 
I provides for the powers of the 
House of Representatives, one of which 
is to provide for the debt of the United 
States. Those of us in this House today, 
more than a majority, I daresay, because 
I have a letter addressed to the 
Speaker signed by more than 191 members 
of the minority side of the House, 
and I am aware of the fact that several 
dozen of my good friends on the majority 
side join me in this cause. 

So clearly if a resolution for the raising 
of the debt limit presented to the 
House clean, it could and would receive 
a majority vote of the House of Representatives 
honoring the commitment 
we made in our oath of office under article 
I of the Constitution of the United 
States. 

For the leadership of the House, for 
the Rules Committee or for the rules of 
the House to frustrate article I and the 
individual oath and the collective oath 
of this entire House and to argue that 
this does not fall within the purview of 
the privilege of the House going to the 
integrity and the dignity of individual 
Members or collectively of this House 
is the most fallacious and ridiculous 
argument I have ever heard in my 
years in public life. 

I argue that we put aside today as we 
are about to leave on a 3-week vacation 
and send a message to America that 
the House of Representatives is going 
to pursue and follow its oath of office, 
the article I of the American Constitution, 
and allow for an open vote a resolution 
allowing for the provision to pay 
the debts of the U.S. Government 
under the existing Constitution of the 
United States. 

b1645 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
BARRETT of Nebraska). Does the gentleman 
from New York wish to be recognized? 
Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to be recognized on the question of 
privilege. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
New York on the question of privilege. 
Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I am 
going to try desperately hard to be 
nonpartisan in my remarks, because I 
think we have reached that point as a 
Congress that the general public is just 
fed up with all of us and are not taking 
the time to determine whether it is the 
so-called Republican leadership or 
whether it is the House of Representatives, 
the Senators or even whether it 
is the Government of the United 
States. 
All of us have had the opportunity to 
explain what our job is here in the 
House, and we are honored to serve in 
this House, and whether we are dealing 
with adults or whether we deal with 
children, compromise has never been a 
dirty word in explaining the work of 
the subcommittees, the full committees, 
what we do in conference and 
what we send to the President of the 
United States. If we are going to 
change the rules here, you are changing 
the rules not just for individuals 
and parties, you are changing the rules 
for every one of the Members of this 
House whether they are participating 
in this or whether they are not, and 
you are not giving them choices. You 
are not playing by the rules. You are 
not playing by the rules we were sworn 
in to endorse. Those rules are simple 
rules. 
You do not like what the President 
has done. You do not like the veto; you 

override the veto, that is what you do, 
and if you cannot override the veto, 
you try to come back and work out 
something. 

Oh, I know, you are in a hurry. You 
cannot talk about it. You cannot talk 
about compromise. All of a sudden this 
beautiful word has now become a stigma, 
because a handful of people have 
snatched what they think is principle, 
and they are threatening the United 
States of America’s integrity throughout 
this world. 

You can do what you want with your 
party or with your members. But it is 
unfair, and it takes away from our prerogative 
as sworn Members of this 
House to threaten the economic life of 
the United States of America and the 
free world by holding a debt extension 
hostage in order to reach your political 
end. 

Politics are played at the polls, and 
they should not be the reputation of 
the United States that is being played 
on parliamentary maneuvers. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair is prepared to rule on the resolution 
offered by the distinguished minority 
leader. 

The resolution offered by the gentleman 
from Missouri alleges that the 
failure of the House to take a specified 
legislative action brings it discredit 
and lowers it in public esteem. On that 
premise it resolves that the House be 
considered to have passed a legislative 
measure. 

Under rule IX, questions of the privileges 
of the House are those ‘‘affecting 
the rights of the House collectively, its 
safety, its dignity, [or] the integrity of 
its proceedings.’’ But a question of the 
privileges of the House may not be invoked 
to effect a change in the rules of 
the House or to prescribe a special 
order of business for the House. This 
principle has been upheld on several 
occasions cited in section 664 of the 
House Rules and Manual, including 
June 27, 1974 where a resolution directing 
the Committee on Rules to consider 
reporting a special order was held 
not to present a question of privilege. 

In this Congress, resolutions have 
been offered that attempt to advance 
legislative propositions as questions of 
privileges of the House on February 7 
and December 22, 1995, on January 3, 
1996, and, in particular, on January 24, 
1996. The latter resolution similarly 
deemed a legislative measure passed to 
redress previous inaction. When ruling 
out that resolution as not constituting 
a question of privilege, the Chair posited 
that permitting a question of the 
privileges of the House under rule IX 
based on allegations of perceived discredit 
by legislative action or inaction 
would permit any Member to advance 
virtually any legislative proposal as a 
question of privileges of the House. 

Applying the precedents just cited, 
the Chair holds that the resolution offered 
by the Gentleman from Missouri 
does not affect ‘‘the rights of the House 
collectively, its safety, dignity, [or] 
the integrity of its proceedings’’ within 


H 1182 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

the meaning of clause 1 of rule IX. 
Rather, it proposes to effect a special 
order of business for the House—deeming 
it to have passed a legislative 
measure—as an antidote for the alleged 
discredit of previous inaction. 

The resolution does not constitute a 
question of privilege under rule IX. 

Mr. VOLKMER. Mr. Speaker, I appeal 
the ruling of the Chair. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is, Shall the decision of the 
Chair stand as the judgment of the 
House? 

MOTION TO TABLE OFFERED BY MR. SOLOMON 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I move 
to table the appeal of the ruling of the 
Chair. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from New York [Mr. 
SOLOMON] to lay on the table the appeal 
of the ruling of the Chair. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. VOLKMER. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 229, noes 187, 
not voting 17, as follows: 

[Roll No. 26] 

AYES—229 
Allard Deal Horn 
Archer DeLay Hostettler 
Armey Diaz-Balart Houghton 
Bachus Dickey Hunter 
Baker (CA) Doolittle Hutchinson 
Baker (LA) Dornan Hyde 
Ballenger Dreier Inglis 
Barr Duncan Istook 
Barrett (NE) Dunn Jacobs 
Bartlett Ehlers Johnson (CT) 
Barton Ehrlich Johnson, Sam 
Bass Emerson Jones 
Bateman English Kasich 
Bereuter Ensign Kelly 
Bilbray Everett Kim 
Bilirakis Ewing King 
Bliley Fawell Kingston 
Blute Fields (TX) Klug 
Boehlert Flanagan Knollenberg 
Boehner Foley Kolbe 
Bonilla Forbes LaHood 
Bono Fowler Largent 
Brownback Fox Latham 
Bryant (TN) Franks (CT) LaTourette 
Bunn Franks (NJ) Laughlin 
Bunning Frelinghuysen Lazio 
Burr Frisa Leach 
Burton Funderburk Lewis (KY) 
Buyer Gallegly Lightfoot 
Callahan Ganske Linder 
Calvert Gekas Livingston 
Camp Gilchrest LoBiondo 
Campbell Gillmor Longley 
Canady Gilman Lucas 
Castle Goodlatte Manzullo 
Chabot Goodling Martini 
Chambliss Goss McCollum 
Chenoweth Graham McCrery 
Christensen Greenwood McDade 
Chrysler Gunderson McHugh 
Clinger Gutknecht McInnis 
Coble Hancock McIntosh 
Coburn Hansen McKeon 
Collins (GA) Hastert Metcalf 
Combest Hastings (WA) Mica 
Cooley Hayworth Miller (FL) 
Cox Hefley Molinari 
Crane Heineman Moorhead 

Ney Sanford Thomas 

b1710 

Norwood Saxton Thornberry 
Nussle Scarborough Tiahrt So the motion to lay on the table the 

Oxley Schaefer Torkildsen appeal of the ruling of the Chair was 
Parker Schiff 

Upton 

agreed to.

Vucanovich 
Waldholtz The result of the vote was announced

Paxon Sensenbrenner 

Petri Shadegg 
Pombo Shaw 

Walker as above recorded. 
Walsh

Porter Shays A motion to reconsider was laid on 

Wamp

Portman Shuster the table.

Watts (OK)

Pryce Skeen 

Weldon (FL) 

f

Quillen Smith (MI) 

Weldon (PA)
Quinn Smith (NJ) Weller PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE— 
Ramstad Smith (TX) 

White 

KEEPING THE HOUSE IN SESSION

Regula Solomon 

Whitfield 

TO CONSIDER BILL REGARDING

Riggs Souder Wicker 

Roberts Spence Wolf DEBT CEILING TO AVOID DE-
Rogers Stearns Young (AK) FAULT OF FULL FAITH AND 
Rohrabacher Stump Young (FL) 

CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES 

Ros-Lehtinen Talent Zeliff 

Roth Tate Zimmer Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Roukema Tauzin Speaker, I offer a privileged resolution 
Royce Taylor (MS) 

(H. Res. 354) and ask for its immediate
Salmon Taylor (NC) 

consideration. 
NOES—187 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:


Abercrombie Gibbons Olver 
Ackerman Gonzalez Ortiz H. RES. 354 
Andrews Gordon Orton 

Whereas the inability of the House to pass

Baesler Gutierrez Owens 

a bill to raise the public debt limit will cause

Baldacci Hall (OH) Pallone 

the Federal Government to default on its ob-

Barcia Hall (TX) Pastor 
Barrett (WI) Hamilton 

Payne (NJ) ligations and affect the dignity and integrity 
Beilenson Harman Payne (VA) of House proceedings; and 
Bentsen Hastings (FL) Pelosi Whereas the inability of the House to pass 
Berman Hefner Peterson (FL) a bill to raise the public debt limit will cause 

Bevill Hilliard Peterson (MN) 

severe hardship on Federal employees, Fed-
Bishop Hinchey Pickett 

eral contractors, and the American people

Bonior Holden Pomeroy 

and cause millions of American citizens to

Borski Hoyer Poshard 

Rahall hold the House in disrepute: Now, therefore,

Boucher Jackson (IL) 
Brewster Jackson-Lee Rangel be it 
Browder (TX) Reed Resolved, That upon the adoption of this 

Brown (CA) Jefferson Richardson resolution, the Speaker of the House shallRivers

Brown (FL) Johnson, E. B. take such action to keep the House in ses-
Brown (OH) Johnston 

Roemer 

sion until the House considers a clean bill re-

Roybal-Allard

Cardin Kanjorski 

garding the debt ceiling to avoid default of

Clay Kaptur Rush 

the full faith and credit of the United States.

Sabo 
Sawyer 

Clayton Kennedy (MA) 

Clement Kennedy (RI) The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
Clyburn Kennelly Schroeder 

BARRETT of Nebraska). This question is

Schumer 
Collins (IL) Kleczka 

Coleman Kildee 

Scott similar to questions previously raised, 
Collins (MI) Klink Serrano and, as indicated on page 321 of the 
Condit LaFalce 

Sisisky 

manual, debate on questions of order is

Skaggs

Conyers Lantos 

Skelton for the information of the Chair, and is

Costello Levin 
Coyne Lewis (GA) Slaughter thus within his discretion. 

Cramer Lincoln Spratt 

b

Danner Lipinski Stark 1715 
de la Garza Lofgren 

Stenholm 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 

DeFazio Lowey Stokes 

Studds Speaker, I would like to be heard on

DeLauro Luther 
Dellums Maloney Stupak the privileged resolution. 

Deutsch Markey Tanner The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
Dicks Martinez Tejeda 

BARRETT of Nebraska). The Chair will

Thompson 

Dixon Matsui Thornton hear from the gentlewoman from 
Doggett McCarthy Thurman Texas, and one other Member who 
Dooley McDermott 

Dingell Mascara 

Torres 

would care to speak on the matter, and

Doyle McHale Torricelli 

Towns from two Members from the other side,

Durbin McKinney 
Edwards McNulty Traficant if that should be the case, or whether 

Engel Meehan Velazquez the resolution constitutes a question ofEshoo Meek 

Vento 

privilege.

Visclosky 
Farr Mfume Volkmer PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES 
Fattah Miller (CA) Ward 

Evans Menendez 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr.

Waters

Fazio Minge 

Speaker, I have a parliamentary in-

Fields (LA) Mink Watt (NC) 
Flake Moakley Waxman quiry. 
Williams

Foglietta Mollohan The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
Ford Montgomery Wilson 

tlewoman will state it.

Frank (MA) Moran Wise 
Frost Murtha 

Woolsey Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 

Furse Nadler Wyden Speaker, I would ask your indulgence. 
Gejdenson Neal Wynn 

This question is a weighty question.

Yates

Gephardt Oberstar 

Several Members have asked permis-

Geren Obey 
sion to speak on the privileged resolu-
NOT VOTING—17 tion because it is quite distinct from 
Becerra Johnson (SD) Rose the previous one in that it asks that we 

Crapo Herger Morella Bryant (TX) Lewis (CA) Sanders not recess in order to work on this 
Cremeans Hilleary Myers Chapman Manton Seastrand 

matter. I would ask the Speaker’s in-

Cubin Hobson Myrick Filner Meyers Smith (WA) 
Cunningham Hoekstra Nethercutt Green Packard Stockman 

dulgence on adding at least another 
Davis Hoke Neumann Hayes Radanovich Member to speak on each side. I would 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1183 

appreciate the Speaker’s indulgence on 
that. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Inasmuch 
as a line has been pretty well determined 
because of the prior resolution, 
and the similarity of this resolution, 
it would be the hope of the Chair 
that he could limit discussion on the 
procedural question to the two Members 
per side. 

Ms. MCKINNEY. Mr. Speaker, I have 
a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman 
will state it. 

Ms. MCKINNEY. Mr. Speaker, who 
made that determination that the debate 
on this privileged resolution 
would be limited? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. It is the 
Chair’s discretion as indicated on page 
321 of the manual. 

The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Texas [Ms. JACKSON-LEE]. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, although appreciating the 
ruling, I disagree and believe that this 
is, in fact, singular and distinct. 

Mr. Speaker, rule IX, section 1 in 
particular, speaks to questions of privilege 
affecting the rights of the House 
collectively, its safety, dignity, and the 
integrity of its proceedings. 

But second, Mr. Speaker, it talks 
about affecting the rights, reputation 
and conduct of Members individually. 
And, therefore, we can see in that rule 
that there may be actions taken collectively 
by this body that would put this 
House in ill repute in the eyes of its 
constituents, in the eyes of other Members, 
and in the eyes collectively, of 
the American people. 

Mr. Speaker, I would affirm that 
recessing this House in light of the failure 
of the leader’s privileged resolution 
to pass a clean debt ceiling will befall 
upon this House in the eyes of the 
American people a reputation that we 
would not be proud of. The House of 
Representatives will be held in disrepute 
by world leaders, international financial 
institutions, and most importantly 
the citizens of this country, if it 
does not pass a bill relating to the debt 
ceiling. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my contention that 
this is a grave matter, and in many 
ways affects the dignity and integrity 
of these House proceedings. The Secretary 
of the Treasury has stated that 
the Federal Government will be in default 
of its financial obligations if the 
debt ceiling limit is not raised and a 
$5.8 billion interest payment made very 
soon. 

In accordance with the responsibilities 
of his office, Secretary Rubin has 
already sent a letter on January 22, 
1996, to the congressional leadership 
stating under the current conditions 
the U.S. Treasury will no longer be 
able to fulfill all of its financial obligations. 


Clearly, Mr. Speaker, we have been 
on notice and we are on notice that actions 
by this body would put it in disrepute 
and have it viewed as not performing 
its responsibilities. 

As we are aware, Mr. Speaker, the financial 
reputation of an organization 
is based solely upon the financial history 
it has established. Mr. Speaker, it 
has been an undeniable fact that this 
House was given 38 days of notice of 
the impending financial dilemma. If 
this body fails to pass a bill, which we 
have already done so by rejecting the 
leader’s privileged resolution, then we 
would not be in good standing. 

May I remind the Speaker that rule 
IX of the House states questions of 
privilege go to the dignity and reputation 
of this House. 

Mr. Speaker, might I also say that, if 
on February 26, when we have the obligation 
of sending out to millions of 
Americans Social Security checks, I 
can tell my colleagues that if those 
checks go out with no clean debt ceiling, 
they will bounce. If that is not a 
blight on the integrity of this House, 
then I do not know what is. 

Mr. Speaker, if I may personally say, 
having had the privilege of going to 
Bosnia, visiting with the people of 
those nations, Bosnia, the former 
Yugoslavia and Croatia, when making 
a very weighty decision by this body as 
to whether we would go in as peacekeeping 
troops in this effort, I had the 
privilege of talking to the men and 
women who are now serving in Bosnia. 
The only thing they asked of us is: Will 
the American people be with us? 

Mr. Speaker, here we stand on the 
House floor about to recess and go 
home and jeopardize the opportunity 
and the responsibility to pay those 
military personnel by March 1. Mr. 
Speaker, I think that we have come to 
a point legitimately under rule IX that 
we must stand up because we provide a 
harm to the American people. That 
harm is the inability to pay Social Security; 
the inability to pay veterans’ 
benefits; the inability to pay our military 
personnel; and, yes, the disrepute 
that will fall upon this House and this 
Nation when it is not able to pay its responsibilities 
and uphold the full faith 
and credit of this Nation. 

Mr. Speaker, I would ask that we not 
recess and we stand with the American 
people. Do not bring a lack of dignity 
on this House on the American people. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does 
any other Member wish to be heard on 
the question of privilege? 

Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
address the question of privilege. 

Mr. Speaker, here we go again. The 
folks who brought two Government 
shutdowns are now threatening to 
bring our Nation to the brink of default 
one more time. They are doing 
this in one more attempt to force their 
extreme agenda on the American people. 


That is right, once again the Gingrich 
Republicans have the Nation teetering 
on the edge of crisis, and instead 
of working to avoid disaster, the 
Speaker and his gang want to leave 
town this weekend. 

My colleagues heard me. They want 
to leave the Nation’s full faith and 

credit, as well as the fate of millions of 
Social Security and veterans’ beneficiaries, 
hanging by a thread until 
Congress reconvenes 3 weeks from now. 

Mr. SOLOMON. Regular order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair would remind the gentlewoman 
to confine her remarks to the question 
of privilege. 

Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, that is 
right. Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask 
why the motion to adjourn is a privilege 
and the resolution to prevent adjournment 
is not a privilege. I would 
suggest that we be able to speak on either 
side of adjourning or not adjourning, 
equally. And I would hope that I 
could then have another Member of our 
caucus speak to this same issue. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Has the 
gentlewoman completed her statement? 


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to ask why, if the motion to adjourn 
is a privilege, that the motion 
not to adjourn is not the same privilege. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Are 
there other Members who wish to 
speak to the matter? 

The gentleman from New York [Mr. 
SOLOMON] is recognized. 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, it is not 
appropriate for me to refer to the next 
bill on Social Security that will come 
up, but I will advise my colleagues to 
look at it after we finish. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise to argue briefly 
that the resolution does not constitute 
a question of the privileges of the 
House under rule IX. 

As recently as 4:50 p.m. today, a few 
minutes ago, the Chair rules against a 
resolution purporting to raise a question 
of privilege, on the grounds that it 
effected a change in House rules by 
providing for passage of a specified bill. 

The resolution before us is only a 
slight modification of the previous resolution, 
by requiring the Speaker to 
take action to keep the House in session 
until the House considers certain 
legislation. As such, the resolution attempts 
to change House rules by altering 
the duties of the Speaker as specified 
in House rule number I. 

Presumably, the Speaker would even 
be required to not recognize anyone 
who offered a constitutionally privileged 
motion to adjourn. This is not 
only changing House rules, but it actually 
violates the Constitution of the 
United States. I would, therefore, urge 
the Chair to rule against the resolution 
in conformity with the Chair’s previous 
rulings and House precedents, and I 
would urge the Speaker to rule. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania [Mr. WALKER]. 

Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, the resolution 
is obviously a resolution of the 
same nature as those that have been 
ruled on previously by Speakers extending 
back for several decades. 

The cause being brought by the gentlewoman 
from Texas [Ms. JACKSONLEE] 
is under rule IX. This is obviously 


H 1184 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

not a question of privilege under the 
provisions of rule IX, and so, therefore, 
I request that the Chair rule against 
this matter as a question of privilege. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair is prepared to rule. 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY 

Ms. MCKINNEY. Mr. Speaker, I have 
a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman 
will state it. 

Ms. MCKINNEY. Mr. Speaker, is it 
not true that there is probably a rule 
in the rule book for anything trying to 
obstruct what we are trying to do over 
here? 

Mr. SOLOMON. Regular order. That 
is ridiculous. 

Ms. MCKINNEY. Is that not true, Mr. 
Speaker? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. That is 
not a parliamentary inquiry. 

The Chair is prepared to rule on this 
matter. The resolution offered by the 
gentlewoman from Texas alleges that 
the failure of the House to take a specified 
legislative action impairs its dignity 
and the integrity of its proceeding 
and lowers it in public esteem. On that 
premise, it resolves that the Speaker 
keep the House in session until it considers 
a pertinent legislative measure. 

The resolution offered by the gentlewoman 
from Texas, like those offered 
on February 7, and December 22, 1995, 
and on January 3 and January 24, 1996, 
and earlier today, attempts to advance 
a legislative proposition as a question 
of the privileges of the House. 

For the reasons just stated by the 
Chair when ruling that the resolution 
offered by the gentleman from Missouri 
did not constitute a question of 
privileges of the House, the Chair holds 
that the resolution offered by the gentlewoman 
from Texas [Ms. JACKSONLEE] 
does not affect the rights of the 
House collectively, its safety, dignity, 
or the integrity of its proceedings 
within the meaning of clause 1 of rule 

IX. Rather, it proposes to impose a particular 
legislative schedule on the 
House, precluding an adjournment of 
the House until a specified legislative 
measure is considered, as an antidote 
for the alleged disrepute of previous inaction. 
Therefore, the resolution does not 
constitute a question of privilege under 
rule IX. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, because I believe that we 
should not recess but should work, I 
appeal the ruling of the Chair. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is: Shall the decision of the 
Chair stand as the judgment of the 
House? 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I move 
to table the appeal of the ruling of the 
Chair. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from New York [Mr. 
SOLOMON] to lay on the table the appeal 
of the ruling of the Chair. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. NAYS—181 

Speaker, I object to the vote on the Abercrombie Gibbons Olver 
Ackerman Gonzalez Ortiz

ground that a quorum is not present 

Andrews Gordon Orton 
and make the point of order that a Baesler Gutierrez Owens 
Baldacci Hall (OH) Pallone

quorum is not present. 

Barcia Hall (TX) Pastor 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evi-Barrett (WI) Hamilton Payne (NJ) 
Bentsen Harman Payne (VA)

dently a quorum is not present. 

Berman Hastings (FL) Pelosi 

The Sergeant at Arms will notify ab-Bevill Hefner Peterson (FL) 
Bishop Hilliard Peterson (MN)

sent Members. 

Bonior Hinchey Pickett 
Borski Holden Pomeroy

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Boucher Hoyer Poshard

vice, and there were—yeas 229, nays Brewster Jackson (IL) Rahall 

181, not voting 23, as follows: Browder Jackson-Lee Rangel 
Brown (CA) (TX) Reed 
[Roll No. 27] Brown (FL) Jefferson Richardson 
Brown (OH) Johnson, E. B. Rivers 
YEAS—229 Cardin Johnston Roemer 
Clay Kanjorski Roybal-Allard

Allard Frelinghuysen Myrick 

Clayton Kaptur Rush

Archer Frisa Nethercutt 

Clement Kennedy (MA) Sabo

Armey Funderburk Neumann 

Clyburn Kennedy (RI) Sawyer

Bachus Gallegly Ney 

Coleman Kennelly Schroeder

Baker (CA) Ganske Norwood 

Collins (IL) Kildee Schumer

Ballenger Gekas Nussle 

Collins (MI) Klink Scott

Barr Gilchrest Oxley 

Conyers LaFalce Serrano

Barrett (NE) Gillmor Parker 

Costello Lantos Sisisky

Bartlett Gilman Paxon 

Coyne Levin Skelton

Barton Goodlatte Petri 

Cramer Lewis (GA) Slaughter

Bass Goodling Pombo 

Danner Lincoln Spratt

Bateman Goss Porter 

de la Garza Lofgren Stark

Portman

Beilenson Graham 

DeFazio Lowey Stenholm

Bereuter Greenwood Pryce 

DeLauro Luther Stokes

Quillen

Bilbray Gunderson 

Dellums Maloney Studds

Quinn

Bilirakis Gutknecht 

Deutsch Markey Stupak

Ramstad

Bliley Hancock 

Dicks Martinez Tanner

Regula

Blute Hansen 

Dingell Mascara Tejeda

Riggs

Boehlert Hastert 

Dixon Matsui Thompson

Roberts

Boehner Hastings (WA) 

Doggett McCarthy Thornton

Rogers

Bonilla Hayes 

Dooley McDermott Thurman

Rohrabacher

Bono Hayworth 

Doyle McHale Torres

Ros-Lehtinen

Brownback Hefley 

Durbin McKinney Torricelli

Roth

Bryant (TN) Heineman 

Edwards McNulty Towns

Roukema

Bunn Herger 

Engel Meehan Traficant

Royce

Bunning Hilleary 

Eshoo Meek Velazquez

Salmon

Burr Hoekstra 

Evans Menendez Vento

Sanford

Burton Hoke 

Farr Mfume Visclosky

Saxton

Buyer Horn 

Fattah Miller (CA) Volkmer

Scarborough

Calvert Hostettler 

Fazio Minge Ward

Schaefer

Camp Houghton 

Fields (LA) Mink Waters

Schiff

Campbell Hunter 

Flake Moakley Watt (NC)

Sensenbrenner

Canady Hutchinson 

Foglietta Mollohan Waxman

Shadegg

Castle Hyde Ford Montgomery Williams 
Chabot Inglis Shaw 
Frank (MA) Moran Wise

Shays

Chambliss Istook Frost Murtha Woolsey

Shuster

Chenoweth Jacobs Furse Nadler Wyden

Skaggs

Christensen Johnson (CT) Gejdenson Neal Wynn

Skeen

Chrysler Johnson, Sam Gephardt Oberstar Yates

Smith (MI)

Clinger Jones Geren Obey

Smith (NJ)

Coble Kelly 

Smith (TX) 

NOT VOTING—23

Coburn Kim 

Smith (WA)
Collins (GA) King Solomon Baker (LA) Hobson Packard 
Combest Kingston Souder Becerra Johnson (SD) Radanovich 
Cooley Klug Bryant (TX) Kasich Rose

Stearns 
Stump

Cox Knollenberg Callahan Kleczka Sanders 
Crane LaHood Talent Chapman Kolbe Seastrand 
Crapo Largent Tate Condit Lewis (CA) Spence 

Tauzin

Cremeans Latham Filner Manton Stockman 
Cubin LaTourette Green Meyers

Taylor (MS)
Cunningham Laughlin 

Taylor (NC)
Davis Lazio 

Thomas b1746 

Deal Leach 

Thornberry

DeLay Lewis (KY) So the motion to lay on the table the

Tiahrt 
Diaz-Balart Lightfoot Torkildsen appeal of the ruling of the Chair wasDickey Linder 

Upton agreed to.

Doolittle Lipinski 

Vucanovich 
Dornan Livingston 

The result of the vote was announced

Waldholtz 
Dreier LoBiondo Walker as above recorded. 
Duncan Longley 

Walsh A motion to reconsider was laid on 

Dunn Lucas 

Wamp 

the table.

Ehlers Manzullo Watts (OK) 
Ehrlich Martini Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Speaker,

Weldon (FL) 
Emerson McCollum Weldon (PA) I wish to raise a matter that involves a ques-
English McCrery 

Weller tion of privileges of the House. Mr. Speaker, I

Ensign McDade 

White 
Everett McHugh 

affirm that the U.S. House of Representatives

Whitfield 
Ewing McInnis Wicker will be held in disrepute by world leaders, 
Fawell McIntosh 

Wilson international financial institutions, and most im-

Fields (TX) McKeon 

Wolf portantly, the citizens of this country, if it does

Flanagan Metcalf Young (AK) 
Foley Mica not pass a bill relating to the debt ceiling. It is

Young (FL) 
Forbes Miller (FL) Zeliff my contention that this is a grave matter that 
Fowler Molinari 

Zimmer in many ways affects the dignity and integrity

Fox Moorhead 
Franks (CT) Morella 

of the House proceedings and I am more than 
Franks (NJ) Myers able to prove this point unequivocably. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1185 

The Secretary of the Treasury has stated 
that the Federal Government will be in default 
of its financial obligations if the debt ceiling 
limit is not raised and a $5.8 billion interest 
payment made very soon. In accordance with 
the responsibilities of his office, Secretary 
Rubin sent a letter on January 22, 1996, to 
the congressional leadership stating that under 
the current conditions, the U.S. Treasury will 
no longer be able to fulfill all of its financial obligations 
very soon. 

Throughout our country’s history, investors 
have relied upon the words ‘‘the full faith credit 
of the United States’’ to guarantee the financial 
stability of this country. As you are fully 
aware, the financial reputation of an organization 
is based solely upon the financial history 
it has established. Mr. Speaker, it is an undeniable 
fact that this House was given 38 days 
notice of the impending financial dilemma and 
if this body fails to consider a bill regarding the 
debt ceiling and the impending debt payment 
not made on time, then the standing of the 
House will indeed be harmed. 

May I remind the Speaker that Rule IX of 
the House rules states that questions of privilege 
are those which affect the rights of the 
House collectively, its safety, dignity, and the 
integrity of its proceedings. As specified in the 
dictionary, the word dignity relates to ‘‘The 
quality or condition of being worthy,’’ as well 
as ‘‘The respect and honor associated with an 
important position.’’ 

Hence, this body’s decision not to address 
the debt limit problem will put into question, in 
the eyes of our creditors and our constituents, 
the reputation and fiscal integrity of this collective 
House. As evidence, it was announced 
last week by Moody’s Investors Service that it 
is considering lowering the credit rating of the 

U.S. Treasury bonds for the first time in history. 
Under Rule IX of the House rules, this 
series of events and their repercussions would 
certainly cause our creditors, constituents, and 
international partners to hold this House responsible. 
In addition to the irreparable damage that 
will be suffered, by the House, great harm will 
be done to millions of innocent American lives, 
young and old alike. The U.S. Government 
must make a $30 million payment to Social 
Security or these beneficiaries, dependent 
upon their monthly stipend for food, heat, and 
medicine, will be left without funds to meet 
these basic necessities of life. Also, 2.2 million 
veterans with service-connected disabilities 
and 300,000 survivors of veterans may receive 
for the first time in history bad checks 
effectively written by every Member of the 
House. 

Mr. Speaker, there is significant concern by 
many economists that our economy is headed 
for a recession, and any default caused by our 
inaction will certainly drive us to it. The default 
of this Government will create uncertainly and 
anxiety in the financial, business, and 
consumer markets; as a result, investments 
will slow, capitol spending will wither, and 
consumer confidence will die. The reactions 
will only exacerbate any recession tendencies 
within the economy, propelling the United 
States into an economic dive, no one wishes. 
Taken together with the additional effects already 
mentioned, it is plainly evident that this 
crisis affects the very financial underpinning of 
our country. 

The American people will be severely affected 
by any inability of this body to bring 

forth legislation to increase the debt ceiling. I 
contend that as a result, they will hold us, collectively 
and individually, responsible for their 
needless suffering and trauma. If that occurs, 
the reputation and conduct of each of us, in 
our representative capacity, will be called into 
question. Under rule IX, this too would be sufficient 
justification for my privileged resolution. 

Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin has nearly 
exhausted all other measures to avoid a Government 
default. This resolution must be considered 
privileged because the reputation of 
the House is at stake. American citizens are 
tired of the partisan wrangling that has echoed 
through these halls. They want the Government 
to fulfill its responsibilities and meet its 
obligations, just as they must. With complete 
certainty, the U.S. House of Representatives 
will be held responsible and the integrity of everything 
that we do here will be questioned for 
our failure to consider a bill relating to the debt 
ceiling. 

The House has voted to rise or extend the 
debt limit 33 times over the last 15 years to 
keep intact the good will, dignity and reputation 
of the U.S. Government and more specifically, 
this House; I do not see why we should 
now shirk the obligations we accepted upon 
our oath of office. We should not recess at 
this time, when America needs us to work to 
avoid a default on our debt. 

Mr. HALL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of the resolution not to adjourn until a 
debt limit extension has been approved—and 
yet I believe the resolution does not go far 
enough. I regret that we are even having to 
consider a debt limit extension—rather than a 
balanced budget proposal or, at the very least, 
the remaining appropriations bills that should 
have been approved 4 months ago. I regret 
that this Congress plans to adjourn for a 3week 
break when we have so much work left 
to do. 

Mr. Speaker, we should not go home until 
all the appropriations bills have been passed 
and approved by the President. We should not 
go home until this Congress produces a balanced 
budget proposal that can be supported 
by both parties and by the President. A majority 
of Americans want a balanced budget—a 
budget that makes the most use of their tax 
dollars and a budget that also is kind and fair 
to our seniors, our children, and our less fortunate 
citizens. 

Throughout the past year, Congress has 
had a golden opportunity to streamline Government, 
enact some needed reforms, and 
produce a balanced budget. But the shifting 
sands of time and politics have eroded that 
opportunity, and we are losing ground fast. 

Let us not let another opportunity pass to 
discharge our responsibility to our fellow citizens. 
Let’s stay and work until we’ve accomplished 
our Nation’s important business. 

f 


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 

OF H.R. 2924, THE SOCIAL SECU


RITY GUARANTEE ACT 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on Rules, I call up 
House Resolution 355 and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 355 
Resolved, That upon the adoption of this 
resolution it shall be in order to consider in 

the House the bill (H.R. 2924) to guarantee 
the timely payment of social security benefits 
in March 1996. The bill shall be debatable 
for one hour equally divided and controlled 
by the chairman and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means. 
The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit. 
The motion to recommit may include 
instructions only if offered by the Minority 
Leader or his designee. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Florida [Mr. GOSS] is recognized 
for 1 hour. 

(Mr. GOSS asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks 
and to include extraneous material 
for the RECORD.) 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose 
of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. FROST], pending which 
I yield myself such time as I may 
consume. During consideration of this 
resolution, all time given is for the 
purpose of debate only. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a straightforward, 
fair rule that allows for consideration 
of H.R. 2924, a bill to ensure 
that Social Security payments will not 
be needlessly delayed by the administration. 
Let me repeat that, Mr. Speaker. 
This is a bill to ensure that Social 
Security payments will not be needlessly 
delayed by the administration. 
In other words, the checks are going to 
go out, they are going to go out on 
time, they are going to be paid in full. 

Mr. Speaker, because this legislation 
involves a matter of simple fairness, 
and due to the predicted impending 
winter storm, we are bringing it up 
under the expedited authority granted 
earlier by this House. The rule provides 
for 1 hour of general debate, and preserves 
the right of the minority to 
offer a motion to recommit, with or 
without instructions. 

Mr. Speaker, we should not really 
have to be working on this matter at 
all. Despite the fact that this Congress 
will pass a responsible debt limit increase 
prior to the March 1 deadline, 
and despite the fact that the President 
has already vetoed two debt limit increases, 
the administration has suddenly 
called into question its ability to 
pay for the March Social Security benefits. 
President Clinton made suggestive 
remarks along these lines at State 
of the Union. Well Mr. Speaker, passage 
of H.R. 2924 will make absolutely 
clear that the Secretary of the Treasury 
has the authority to process and 
send these Social Security benefit 
checks—which are printed in late February. 
I find it appalling that the sanctity 
of the Social Security System 
should be brought into question in such 
a cynical manner. Yet we have listened 
to the President and some in this body 
employ similar scare tactics for: 
School lunches, Meals on Wheels, Medicare, 
and so on. Each time they resort 
to these threats, I think their credibility 
drops, and certainly the President’s 
ability to work in good faith with the 
majority of this Congress diminishes. 


H 1186 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

I would like to address the concerns 
raised by those who claim that Congress 
is somehow acting less than responsibly 
by going into a district work 
period before passing a full debt limit 
increase. I disagree—the truth is that 
this Congress has passed two debt limit 
measures, both vetoed by President 
Clinton. So, it is clear that in order to 
produce a bill that will pass Congress 
and be signed by the President, it must 
be negotiated. And these negotiations 
have not concluded. It makes little 
sense to keep Members in town waiting 
for the Clinton administration to get 
its act together, while Members could 
be spending time usefully working in 
their districts. That is where I am 
planning to spend the bulk of the upcoming 
work period—and the truth is 
that even when we are back in our districts 
we are still on call, ready to return 
at a moment’s notice to deal with 
the people’s business. So I would urge 
my colleagues to ignore the Clinton 
scare story du jour and support this 
rule and this bill which ensures Social 
Security checks are sent out on time 
payable in full. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, before I 
proceed any further, I yield 30 seconds 
to the gentlewoman from Oregon [Ms. 
FURSE]. 

(Ms. FURSE asked and was given permission 
to speak out of order.) 

CONGRATULATIONS TO SENATOR-ELECT WYDEN 

Ms. FURSE. Mr. Speaker, this is obviously 
a very important bill, and I 
would love to talk about it, but what I 
really want to talk about is the dean of 
my delegation, the Oregon delegation, 
and congratulate him for having become 
the newest Senator from the 
State of Oregon [Mr. WYDEN]. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I listened with great interest 
to my friend and colleague, the 
gentleman from Florida [Mr. GOSS], 
trying to blame the administration for 
what is going on here today. This, of 
course, is a classic case of the person 
who kills his parents and throws himself 
on the mercy of the court because 
he is an orphan. 

What the majority has done is stubbornly 
refused to schedule a clean debt 
ceiling vote prior to February 26. It is 
their refusal to schedule a vote before 
February 26 which jeopardizes, potentially 
jeopardizes Social Security 
checks being sent out. They are the 
ones that have caused this crisis, and 
now they are coming to the Congress 
and saying, we have to pass this bill because 
we want these Social Security 
checks to go out. If they had scheduled 
a debt ceiling vote in a timely manner, 
this would not be necessary. 

Mr. Speaker, why can we not just do 
the Nation’s business? Why do we have 
to continue to play these games? Why 
can we not just vote on a clean debt 
ceiling? 

I, for one, would like the House to 
have that opportunity this afternoon. 

At this hour, it appears the only option 
open to us is to amend this rule. In 
order to do that, we must defeat the 
previous question. It is my intention, 
therefore, to oppose ordering the previous 
question. 

Mr. Speaker, there seems to be no 
other way to bring a clean debt ceiling 
increase to a vote. I urge each and 
every Member of this body to oppose 
the previous question so that we can 
vote up or down on a debt ceiling increase. 


Mr. Speaker, the intentions of this 
legislation are honorable, but rather 
than perpetuating this Government by 
piecemeal funding, the far better 
course of action would be just to take 
up a clean debt ceiling tonight and pass 
it. If we do not defeat the previous 
question, we are passing up a golden 
opportunity to do the responsible 
thing. We should not continue to play 
chicken with the full faith and credit 
of the United States of America. 

Mr. Speaker, we are supposed to be 
here to do the Nation’s business, and 
the most pressing piece of business before 
us is to pass a debt ceiling to ensure 
that our Nation does not, for the 
first time in its 200-plus-year history, 
default on its obligations. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

I would suggest that the full faith 
and credit of the United States of 
America would be better served if we 
got our budget into balance. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from New Jersey 
[Mr. SAXTON]. 

(Mr. SAXTON asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks 
and include extraneous material.) 


Mr. SAXTON. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to shed some light on this issue in 
terms of the recent history of what we 
have been through, vis-a-vis the administration 
and claims made by the administration. 
As everybody knows, this 
rule is here, and the subsequent legislation, 
because the administration has 
stated that come February 26, they will 
be unable, because of the way the law 
is written, to cut the checks for Social 
Security beneficiaries. 

Obviously, everybody on our side of 
the aisle and, I assume, everybody on 
the other side of the aisle wants people 
to get their Social Security checks 
come the last day of this month or the 
first day of next. 

Now, the recent history of what this 
administration has done is that this 
action by the administration, as 
claimed by the administration, is simply 
not unparalleled. On November 12 
and 13 and 14 of this year, Secretary 
Rubin told us and the American people 
that we had to pass a debt ceiling because 
default on our inability to pay 
our bills would be unthinkable, and we 
agreed. 

What Secretary Rubin did not tell 
the American people was that there 

was already a plan in place to permit 
the United States Government to pay 
its bills by borrowing from trust funds. 
In other words, the Secretary went out 
of his way to create a situation in 
which the American people thought 
that the United States Government 
was going to default, knowing full well 
the entire time that they had been 
working since June 24 at least to put in 
place a mechanism and a plan whereby 
the trust funds would be tapped to 
avoid default and still claiming to tell 
us, the Congress of the United States 
and the American people, that we were 
going to face a horrible default. 

b1800 
Of course they wanted a clean debt 
ceiling. Now we hear just a few days 
ago that if we do not pass a clean debt 
ceiling, we will not be able to send out 
the Social Security checks. We are not 
going to let that happen. If there is a 
problem with the law, this bill 
straightens it out. We know that it is 
not a dollars problem. We know there 
is enough money there to do it. So the 
Secretary now claims that under the 
statutes as they presently exist, he 
does not have the flexibility to send 
out the Social Security checks for 
older Americans, Social Security beneficiaries, 
and therefore, we are now in 
another state of alarm where we have 
to pass a clean debt ceiling. 
This bill fixes the problem for the 
Secretary that he claims he has. I 
doubt if there is really a problem there 
any more than there was a real problem 
the last time around. But in this 
event, in this case, the rule permits the 
consideration of a bill to make sure 
that there is no reason why the Social 
Security checks cannot be mailed out. 
Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. KENNEDY]. 
Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I would like to address the remarks 
of the former speaker with regard 
to the issue of raiding the Social 
Security Trust Fund. Secretary Rubin 
has done everything humanly possible 
to try to avoid the default on the debt 
of this country that the Republican 
Congress has insisted upon. 
It was Secretary Rubin who wrote a 
letter to this Congress saying that he 
would not under any circumstances 
allow the Social Security Trust Fund 
to be raided for the purposes of continuing 
to pay our bills, No. 1. 
No. 2, there were elements of the Republican 
Party, on your side of the 
aisle, that started a movement to impeach 
Secretary Rubin for the very actions 
of him trying to avoid default. 
So here you come onto the House 
floor and condemn Secretary Rubin for 
his efforts to try to keep the country 
afloat. You suggest that he is the one 
who is trying to raid the Social Security 
trust fund. You do not have the 
willingness to enter into a debate or a 
colloquy with me to discuss the truth 
of what has actually occurred. 
The truth of what has occurred is 
very simply that a group of ideological 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1187 

zealots in the Republican Party have 
tried very hard to get an agenda called 
the contract on American passed. They 
have failed because the American people 
did not believe in the kinds of 
changes that the Republican contract 
called for. 

But rather than agreeing to the procedures 
of this House of Representatives 
that allow us to formulate compromise, 
you have gone back and insisted 
upon guerrilla tactics to force 
your own views on how this country’s 
budget ought to be balanced. It is not 
enough to balance the budget, it is not 
enough to do it in 7 years. It is not 
enough to do it with CBO numbers, it 
is not enough to do it with a tax cut, it 
has to be with the biggest tax cut that 
takes the money out of the pockets of 
working families and hands it to the 
richest people in the country. 

Only if that balanced budget, raiding 
the Medicare fund, raiding the Medicaid 
fund, is passed, will you allow the 
debts of this country to be paid. You 
ought to be ashamed. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11/2 
minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Texas, Mr. SAM JOHNSON. 

Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, this bill became necessary 
really because the President, Mr. Panetta, 
and Secretary Rubin have used 
our seniors as political pawns in the 
public debate. Instead of working on 
solving the problems remaining, the 
President has resorted to scare tactics, 
pure and simple, demagoguery to try to 
frighten our seniors on a variety of issues. 


But we as Americans cannot stand by 
while this administration blatantly 
misstates the facts to make seniors believe 
that their Social Security checks 
are in jeopardy. I find this outrageous. 
Leon Panetta himself back in 1993, believe 
it or not, said it is important to 
tie the debt limit to other disciplines 
people would like to put in place. 

Maybe he forgot about saying that, 
but I bet Leon did not forget about voting 
‘‘no’’ against debt limit increases 
two times back there because it did not 
have anything tied to it. These comments 
are ridiculous. I urge my colleagues 
to pass this bill, not only to reassure 
our seniors but to prevent the 
President from playing the scare game 
once again. The purpose of this bill is 
to ensure that seniors continue, as 
they have for the past 55 years, to receive 
their checks without fail. This 
will be another Republican promise 
that will not be broken, which is more 
than the President can say. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
[Mr. MOAKLEY]. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, this 
bill is a very very bad sign. It means 
it’s time to hold onto your hats, the 
Republicans are going to try it again. 

But this time, instead of closing 
down the Government for political reasons, 
they are going to try something 
else. They are going to force the country 
to default on its loans, for political 
reasons. 

And how do we know this, Mr. Speaker? 
Because this bill we are considering 
today will not avert the disastrous consequences 
of massive Federal default. 
It doesn’t even come close. It simply 
says, ‘‘Stop us before we hurt 43 million 
American seniors.’’ 

With this bill my Republican colleagues 
are admitting, ‘‘We’re gong to 
make the Government default, but we 
want you to raid the Social Security 
trust fund when we do.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, this is outrageous. It’s 
irresponsible, and it’s no way to run 
the Congress. 

The American people are sick and 
tired of these political games. They 
didn’t like their Government held hostage 
for the sake of politics, and they 
are going to like it even less when they 
find out what congressional Republicans 
are about to do to their mortgages. 


And it won’t stop there. 

For the sake of politics my Republican 
colleagues will stop benefits for 

3.2 million veterans. 
For the sake of politics they will not 
pay our troops in Bosnia. 
For the sake of politics they will 
delay pensions for 4.1 million civilian 
and military retirees. 

For the sake of politics they will 
leave bond holders holding worthless 
paper. 

And for the sake of politics they will 
hurt any and every American who tries 
to borrow money for a car, a house, or 
a college education. 

In fact, if you have a loan now, look 
out. Your interest rate may be about to 
go through the roof. 

I ask my colleagues, on behalf of a 
lot of very frustrated American citizens, 
stop these games. Congressional 
Republicans can’t possibly want to be 
remembered as the people who made 
the United States of America default 
on its loans for the first time in history. 


Such dangerous games would have 
far-reaching, devastating consequences 
for the entire country for years to 
come, and it’s definitely not something 
to write home about. 

Mr. Speaker, the American people 
don’t want their mortgage rates to go 
up. They want to get college loans, and 
they expect and deserve their military 
benefits. 

I urge my colleagues to defeat the 
previous question so that we can offer 
a clean debt limit extension and stop 
these games. 

The creditworthiness of the United 
States, and all of its consequences, is 
no place to pursue budget politics. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

It is important to note and the 
record should show that the distinguished 
gentleman from Massachusetts, 
who just spoke, voted for and attached 
to the 1993 debt limit bill the 
largest tax increase in history. There 
was nothing clean about that debt 
limit bill, I am sure he would agreed. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he 
may consume to the distinguished gen


tleman from Glens Falls, NY [Mr. SOLOMON]. 


Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from Sanibel, FL for 
yielding me this time and I join him in 
urging the adoption of this rule. 

Mr. Speaker, I sit here and I listen to 
this debate, and I just wonder if many 
of these people could really earn a living 
outside the beltway of this Congress, 
this Washington, unless of 
course they are lawyers, in which they 
pass all these doggone laws and people 
have to go and hire them then to defend 
them. I just quite do not understand 
it. 

This bill, and I would just say to the 
previous speaker and others, if you do 
not want to vote for this bill, vote it 
down. This bill says that we are going 
to enact a public debt limit extension 
before March 1. If you do not want to 
do that, vote it down. This bill guarantees 
that Social Security checks are 
going to go out on time. If you do not 
want them to go out on time, vote it 
down. 

Mr. Speaker, this bill is being 
brought forward to deal with an emergency 
situation raised by the President 
and the Secretary of the Treasury, and 
that is the threat of not sending out 
Social Security checks until the debt 
limit has been increased. That is what 
this is all about. 

Mr. Speaker, while the crisis may 
have been fabricated to scare seniors, 
we have to take the administration at 
their word, that they will carry out 
their threat whatever their motivations 
might be. We will take them at 
their word. 

Mr. Speaker, the bill this rule makes 
in order first restates the commitment 
made by the leaders of both Houses 
that we will enact a debt limit prior to 
March 1. That is what this bill says. 
The bill goes on to assure our country’s 
senior citizens that in the interim they 
will receive their Social Security 
checks on a timely basis in March. 
That is what this bill does. 

The bill then gives the Secretary of 
the Treasury the legal authority needed 
to issue obligations prior to March 
1, and we checked with Secretary 
Rubin, to ask him if he needed this authority, 
and he said yes, in an amount 
equal to the monthly Social Security 
benefits payable in March of this year, 
estimated at $30 billion. To further amplify 
on the legal status of this authority, 
this bill, which the Secretary of 
the Treasury Mr. Rubin says he needs, 
makes clear that this transaction will 
not count against the legal debt limit 
now in existence. 

Are you listening to that? 

Mr. Speaker, I think this is an important 
interim step to take in assuring 
our Nation’s seniors of the seriousness 
of our intention and commitment to 
not let their benefits lapse. But more 
importantly, it also signals to the rest 
of the country our clear intention not 
to let this Nation default on its obligations. 
We will increase the public debt 
limit. 


H 1188 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Mr. Speaker, why, as our Democratic 
colleagues have asked, do we not just 
raise the debt limit today? That is a 
good question. And I am here to answer 
it. 

The answer is that a majority of this 
House, including me, do not want to 
continue to raise the debt limit over 
and over and over again without taking 
decisive action to begin to reverse the 
curse of continuing deficit spending for 
as far as the eye can see. That is sickening, 
what you are doing to my children 
and my grandchildren. Instead of 
a glide path to a balanced budget, we 
are currently embarked on a collision 
course with financial disaster. 

At the very least, we need a substantial 
downpayment on a balanced budget 
that is agreeable to the Congress 
and the President. It is what Ronald 
Reagan used to do. He used to sit down 
with this Congress and negotiate. That 
agreement will not be easy to come by, 
but I am convinced we can have something 
that is acceptable prior to March 
1 if we sit down and work together. 

In the meantime, we do need this interim 
measure to ensure that Social 
Security benefit checks will go out and 
to assure our citizens and the world 
that this Government will not default 
on this Nation’s obligations. I cannot 
imagine that any Member of this House 
opposes or disagrees with those two 
very lofty yet critical essential purposes 
of this legislation. It is very clear 
in this bill. I therefore strongly urge 
adoption of the previous question and 
the rule and then the overwhelming 
passage of this bill. 

I want all of you standing up here 
with all of this rhetoric to come over 
here and tell me you are going to vote 
against this bill. You are not going to 
do it. You are going to vote for the bill 
because the bill is right and the American 
people want it. 

b1815 
Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. GIBBONS]. 
Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, this rule 
should ultimately pass, this resolution 
should ultimately pass. But it is not 
because it is a good rule, and it is not 
because it is a good resolution. It is because 
the Republicans will not let us 
do anything else. 
Since early this morning, I have been 
working with the Committee on Rules 
and with other people here in the 
House trying to get permission for the 
Democrats just to simply say we would 
like to have a vote on a permanent extension 
against default to the end of 
this fiscal year, and they will not let us 
have that vote. It is simply just a simple 
vote, like that. Now, we would not 
win that vote, but you know, we would 
at least have the opportunity to vote, 
but they have cut off our right to vote 
on that simple question. 
This resolution they present is the 
silliest thing I have ever seen. Ulti


mately, all it does is raise the debt 
ceiling by $29 billion until March 15, 
and then it snaps it back to where it is 
now. That is all it does. It has got a lot 
of other verbiage in it. It is the 
darndest dance I have ever seen. It runs 
all around the bush like I am doing 
right now, but it comes back to the 
same place, right back to the same 
place, they raise the debt ceiling. They 
cannot do that, because politically it is 
embarrassing for them to do that, and 
so we have got to dance this crazy 
dance. We have got to dance this crazy 
dance for their purposes. 

Mr. Speaker, I am willing to limit 
the debate here tonight. I am willing to 
cut out all of this garbage. Let us protect 
the credit of the United States. 
Let us not force our good country into 
default. I think we can all agree to 
that. 

If the Republicans will only let us 
have it until March 15, it may give 
them a little time for them to think 
their way out of this mess that they 
have gotten themselves into and they 
have gotten our country into, but you 
know, this is the silliest operation that 
I think I have ever seen in my 34 years 
around here. 

It should ultimately pass, but the 
rule is lousy. I would hope that by 
some luck, and it would be luck, that 
we could amend the rule, but you 
know, that is not going to happen. 

I would hope that they would allow 
just a simple vote on this floor that we 
could get over in 5 minutes to vote on 
whether or not we want this crazy 
dance or whether we want a permanent. 


I am trying to limit, cut out all of 
this long talk and get on and get to a 
vote. There is a snowstorm approaching. 
I would feel terrible if my long-
winded talk led to the death of some 
Member of this House or some member 
of this fine staff. 

We ought to get our business done 
and get it over with and get out of 
here. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. WELDON]. 

Mr. WELDON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, 
the record should show that the 
gentleman from Florida who just spoke 
voted for and attached to the 1993 debt 
limit bill the largest tax increase in 
history. I do not believe that was a 
clean debt ceiling increase. 

This is a good rule on a good bill. It 
is going to make sure Social Security’s 
recipients get their Social Security 
checks. 

I have a lot of elderly seniors in my 
district who rely on those checks. This 
is a good bill. Everybody in the body 
should support this. 

We are getting bogged down talking 
about how the minority wants a clean 
debt ceiling increase. Prior to coming 
to the Congress as a physician, I had 

the opportunity to treat AIDS patients, 
some of whom had acquired 
their AIDS through drug abuse. I had 
the opportunity to deal with drug addicts. 
I have to say there are some 
Members of this body who are addicted 
to spending taxpayers’ dollars, addicted 
to spending money that is not 
theirs, and it is just wrong. 

We put on the President’s desk two 
increases in the debt ceiling, and they 
had attached to them provisions that 
would get us to a balanced budget, and 
he vetoed them twice on two occasions, 
he said, ‘‘No,’’ and now we hear all of 
this clamor about a clean debt ceiling 
from a party that has Members like 
Senator CHRIS DODD in 1987, who is now 
the general chairman of the Democratic 
National Committee, who said it 
does not take any imagination, when 
he was attempting to pass a controversial 
financial industry legislation, 
questioned by the Reagan administration, 
he said, ‘‘I can attach an amendment 
to the debt ceiling bill which he 
has to sign, and the vote will be overwhelming.’’ 
In 1984, Senator TED KENNEDY 
tried to force his nuclear freeze 
legislation onto the debt limit, justifying 
his amendment as the most important 
issue of the day. 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I have a 
parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WALKER). The gentleman will state his 
parliamentary inquiry. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman 
in the chair is an authority on 
the rules of the House and I believe 
under the rules of the House, we may 
not mention individual Members of the 
other body by name. Is that correct? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
is correct. Members are not 
supposed to refer to Members of the 
other body by name nor actions of the 
other body as a part of their remarks. 

Mr. FROST. I urge the speaker in the 
well discontinue those actions. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Florida is recognized to 
proceed in order. 

Mr. WELDON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, 
If I could conclude, let me just say 
in 1982, in 1983, again in 1985 and 1986, 
the minority party has attached legislation 
to a debt ceiling increase. To 
hand this President a debt ceiling increase 
that does not have provisions in 
it to get us to a balanced budget would 
be to turn our backs on the people who 
voted us in as the majority party in 
November 1994, saying they want the 
budget balanced. 

Support this rule. It is a good rule. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I insert extraneous 
material at this point in the 
RECORD, as follows: 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1189 

FLOOR PROCEDURE IN THE 104TH CONGRESS; COMPILED BY THE RULES COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS 

Amendments

Bill No. Title Resolution No. Process used for floor consideration 

in order 

H.R. 1* ................................ Compliance ............................................................................................. H. Res. 6 Closed ........................................................................................................................................... None. 
H. Res. 6 ............................. Opening Day Rules Package .................................................................. H. Res. 5 Closed; contained a closed rule on H.R. 1 within the closed rule ............................................. None. 
H.R. 5* ................................ Unfunded Mandates ............................................................................... H. Res. 38 Restrictive; Motion adopted over Democratic objection in the Committee of the Whole to N/A. 
limit debate on section 4; Pre-printing gets preference. 
H.J. Res. 2* ......................... Balanced Budget .................................................................................... H. Res. 44 Restrictive; only certain substitutes ............................................................................................ 2R; 4D. 
H. Res. 43 ........................... Committee Hearings Scheduling ............................................................ H. Res. 43 (OJ) Restrictive; considered in House no amendments ...................................................................... N/A. 
H.R. 2* ................................ Line Item Veto ........................................................................................ H. Res. 55 Open; Pre-printing gets preference .............................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 665* ............................ Victim Restitution Act of 1995 .............................................................. H. Res. 61 Open; Pre-printing gets preference .............................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 666* ............................ Exclusionary Rule Reform Act of 1995 .................................................. H. Res. 60 Open; Pre-printing gets preference .............................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 667* ............................ Violent Criminal Incarceration Act of 1995 ........................................... H. Res. 63 Restrictive; 10 hr. Time Cap on amendments ............................................................................ N/A. 
H.R. 668* ............................ The Criminal Alien Deportation Improvement Act ................................. H. Res. 69 Open; Pre-printing gets preference; Contains self-executing provision ..................................... N/A. 
H.R. 728* ............................ Local Government Law Enforcement Block Grants ................................ H. Res. 79 Restrictive; 10 hr. Time Cap on amendments; Pre-printing gets preference ............................ N/A. 
H.R. 7* ................................ National Security Revitalization Act ....................................................... H. Res. 83 Restrictive; 10 hr. Time Cap on amendments; Pre-printing gets preference ............................ N/A. 
H.R. 729* ............................ Death Penalty/Habeas ............................................................................ N/A Restrictive; brought up under UC with a 6 hr. time cap on amendments ................................ N/A. 
S. 2 ...................................... Senate Compliance ................................................................................. N/A Closed; Put on Suspension Calendar over Democratic objection ............................................... None. 
H.R. 831 .............................. To Permanently Extend the Health Insurance Deduction for the Self-H. Res. 88 Restrictive; makes in order only the Gibbons amendment; Waives all points of order; Con-1D. 
Employed. tains self-executing provision. 
H.R. 830* ............................ The Paperwork Reduction Act ................................................................ H. Res. 91 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 889 .............................. Emergency Supplemental/Rescinding Certain Budget Authority ........... H. Res. 92 Restrictive; makes in order only the Obey substitute ................................................................. 1D. 
H.R. 450* ............................ Regulatory Moratorium ........................................................................... H. Res. 93 Restrictive; 10 hr. Time Cap on amendments; Pre-printing gets preference ............................ N/A. 
H.R. 1022* .......................... Risk Assessment .................................................................................... H. Res. 96 Restrictive; 10 hr. Time Cap on amendments ............................................................................ N/A. 
H.R. 926* ............................ Regulatory Flexibility .............................................................................. H. Res. 100 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 925* ............................ Private Property Protection Act .............................................................. H. Res. 101 Restrictive; 12 hr. time cap on amendments; Requires Members to pre-print their amend-1D. 
ments in the Record prior to the bill’s consideration for amendment, waives germaneness 
and budget act points of order as well as points of order concerning appropriating on a 
legislative bill against the committee substitute used as base text. 
H.R. 1058* .......................... Securities Litigation Reform Act ............................................................ H. Res. 105 Restrictive; 8 hr. time cap on amendments; Pre-printing gets preference; Makes in order the 1D. 
Wyden amendment and waives germaneness against it. 
H.R. 988* ............................ The Attorney Accountability Act of 1995 ............................................... H. Res. 104 Restrictive; 7 hr. time cap on amendments; Pre-printing gets preference ............................... N/A. 
H.R. 956* ............................ Product Liability and Legal Reform Act ................................................. H. Res. 109 Restrictive; makes in order only 15 germane amendments and denies 64 germane amend-8D; 7R. 
ments from being considered. 
H.R. 1158 ............................ Making Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions ...... H. Res. 115 Restrictive; Combines emergency H.R. 1158 & nonemergency 1159 and strikes the abortion N/A. 
provision; makes in order only pre-printed amendments that include offsets within the 
same chapter (deeper cuts in programs already cut); waives points of order against three 
amendments; waives cl 2 of rule XXI against the bill, cl 2, XXI and cl 7 of rule XVI 
against the substitute; waives cl 2(e) od rule XXI against the amendments in the Record; 
10 hr time cap on amendments. 30 minutes debate on each amendment. 
H.J. Res. 73* ....................... Term Limits ............................................................................................ H. Res. 116 Restrictive; Makes in order only 4 amendments considered under a ‘‘Queen of the Hill’’ pro-1D; 3R 
cedure and denies 21 germane amendments from being considered. 
H.R. 4* ................................ Welfare Reform ....................................................................................... H. Res. 119 Restrictive; Makes in order only 31 perfecting amendments and two substitutes; Denies 130 5D; 26R. 
germane amendments from being considered; The substitutes are to be considered under 
a ‘‘Queen of the Hill’’ procedure; All points of order are waived against the amendments. 
H.R. 1271* .......................... Family Privacy Act .................................................................................. H. Res. 125 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 660* ............................ Housing for Older Persons Act ............................................................... H. Res. 126 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 1215* .......................... The Contract With America Tax Relief Act of 1995 .............................. H. Res. 129 Restrictive; Self Executes language that makes tax cuts contingent on the adoption of a 1D. 
balanced budget plan and strikes section 3006. Makes in order only one substitute. 
Waives all points of order against the bill, substitute made in order as original text and 
Gephardt substitute. 
H.R. 483 .............................. Medicare Select Extension ...................................................................... H. Res. 130 Restrictive; waives cl 2(1)(6) of rule XI against the bill; makes H.R. 1391 in order as origi-1D. 
nal text; makes in order only the Dingell substitute; allows Commerce Committee to file a 
report on the bill at any time. 
H.R. 655 .............................. Hydrogen Future Act ............................................................................... H. Res. 136 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 1361 ............................ Coast Guard Authorization ..................................................................... H. Res. 139 Open; waives sections 302(f) and 308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act against the bill’s N/A. 
consideration and the committee substitute; waives cl 5(a) of rule XXI against the committee 
substitute. 
H.R. 961 .............................. Clean Water Act ..................................................................................... H. Res. 140 Open; pre-printing gets preference; waives sections 302(f) and 602(b) of the Budget Act N/A. 
against the bill’s consideration; waives cl 7 of rule XVI, cl 5(a) of rule XXI and section 
302(f) of the Budget Act against the committee substitute. Makes in order Shuster substitute 
as first order of business. 
H.R. 535 .............................. Corning National Fish Hatchery Conveyance Act ................................... H. Res. 144 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 584 .............................. Conveyance of the Fairport National Fish Hatchery to the State of H. Res. 145 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
Iowa. 
H.R. 614 .............................. Conveyance of the New London National Fish Hatchery Production Fa-H. Res. 146 Open ............................................................................................................................................. N/A. 
cility. 
H. Con. Res. 67 ................... Budget Resolution .................................................................................. H. Res. 149 Restrictive; Makes in order 4 substitutes under regular order; Gephardt, Neumann/Solomon, 3D; 1R. 
Payne/Owens, President’s Budget if printed in Record on 5/17/95; waives all points of 
order against substitutes and concurrent resolution; suspends application of Rule XLIX 
with respect to the resolution; self-executes Agriculture language. 
H.R. 1561 ............................ American Overseas Interests Act of 1995 ............................................. H. Res. 155 Restrictive; Requires amendments to be printed in the Record prior to their consideration; N/A. 
10 hr. time cap; waives cl 2(1)(6) of rule XI against the bill’s consideration; Also waives 
sections 302(f), 303(a), 308(a) and 402(a) against the bill’s consideration and the committee 
amendment in order as original text; waives cl 5(a) of rule XXI against the 
amendment; amendment consideration is closed at 2:30 p.m. on May 25, 1995. Self-executes 
provision which removes section 2210 from the bill. This was done at the request 
of the Budget Committee. 
H.R. 1530 ............................ National Defense Authorization Act FY 1996 ......................................... H. Res. 164 Restrictive; Makes in order only the amendments printed in the report; waives all points of 36R; 18D; 2 
order against the bill, substitute and amendments printed in the report. Gives the Chair-Bipartisan. 
man en bloc authority. Self-executes a provision which strikes section 807 of the bill; 
provides for an additional 30 min. of debate on Nunn-Lugar section; Allows Mr. Clinger 
to offer a modification of his amendment with the concurrence of Ms. Collins. 
H.R. 1817 ............................ Military Construction Appropriations; FY 1996 ...................................... H. Res. 167 Open; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against the bill; 1 hr. general debate; Uses House N/A. 
passed budget numbers as threshold for spending amounts pending passage of Budget. 
H.R. 1854 ............................ Legislative Branch Appropriations ......................................................... H. Res. 169 Restrictive; Makes in order only 11 amendments; waives sections 302(f) and 308(a) of the 5R; 4D; 2 
Budget Act against the bill and cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against the bill. All points of Bipartisan. 
order are waived against the amendments. 
H.R. 1868 ............................ Foreign Operations Appropriations ......................................................... H. Res. 170 Open; waives cl. 2, cl. 5(b), and cl. 6 of rule XXI against the bill; makes in order the Gil-N/A. 
man amendments as first order of business; waives all points of order against the 
amendments; if adopted they will be considered as original text; waives cl. 2 of rule XXI 
against the amendments printed in the report. Pre-printing gets priority (Hall) 
(Menendez) (Goss) (Smith, NJ). 
H.R. 1905 ............................ Energy & Water Appropriations .............................................................. H. Res. 171 Open; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against the bill; makes in order the Shuster N/A. 
amendment as the first order of business; waives all points of order against the amendment; 
if adopted it will be considered as original text. Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.J. Res. 79 ......................... Constitutional Amendment to Permit Congress and States to Prohibit H. Res. 173 Closed; provides one hour of general debate and one motion to recommit with or without in-N/A. 
the Physical Desecration of the American Flag. structions; if there are instructions, the MO is debatable for 1 hr. 
H.R. 1944 ............................ Recissions Bill ........................................................................................ H. Res. 175 Restrictive; Provides for consideration of the bill in the House; Permits the Chairman of the N/A. 
Appropriations Committee to offer one amendment which is unamendable; waives all 
points of order against the amendment. 
H.R. 1868 (2nd rule) ........... Foreign Operations Appropriations ......................................................... H. Res. 177 Restrictive; Provides for further consideration of the bill; makes in order only the four N/A. 
amendments printed in the rules report (20 min. each). Waives all points of order 
against the amendments; Prohibits intervening motions in the Committee of the Whole; 
Provides for an automatic rise and report following the disposition of the amendments. 
H.R. 1977 *Rule Defeated* Interior Appropriations ............................................................................ H. Res. 185 Open; waives sections 302(f) and 308(a) of the Budget Act and cl 2 and cl 6 of rule XXI; N/A. 
provides that the bill be read by title; waives all points of order against the Tauzin 
amendment; self-executes Budget Committee amendment; waives cl 2(e) of rule XXI 
against amendments to the bill; Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 1977 ............................ Interior Appropriations ............................................................................ H.Res. 187 Open; waives sections 302(f), 306 and 308(a) of the Budget Act; waives clauses 2 and 6 of N/A. 
rule XXI against provisions in the bill; waives all points of order against the Tauzin 
amendment; provides that the bill be read by title; self-executes Budget Committee 
amendment and makes NEA funding subject to House passed authorization; waives cl 
2(e) of rule XXI against the amendments to the bill; Pre-printing gets priority. 

H 1190 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

FLOOR PROCEDURE IN THE 104TH CONGRESS; COMPILED BY THE RULES COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS—Continued 

Amendments

Bill No. Title Resolution No. Process used for floor consideration 

in order 

H.R. 1976 ............................ Agriculture Appropriations ...................................................................... H. Res. 188 Open; waives clauses 2 and 6 of rule XXI against provisions in the bill; provides that the N/A. 
bill be read by title; Makes Skeen amendment first order of business, if adopted the 
amendment will be considered as base text (10 min.); Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 1977 (3rd rule) ........... Interior Appropriations ............................................................................ H. Res. 189 Restrictive; provides for the further consideration of the bill; allows only amendments pre-N/A. 
printed before July 14th to be considered; limits motions to rise. 
H.R. 2020 ............................ Treasury Postal Appropriations .............................................................. H. Res. 190 Open; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against provisions in the bill; provides the bill be N/A. 
read by title; Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.J. Res. 96 ......................... Disapproving MFN for China .................................................................. H. Res. 193 Restrictive; provides for consideration in the House of H.R. 2058 (90 min.) And H.J. Res. 96 N/A. 
(1 hr). Waives certain provisions of the Trade Act. 
H.R. 2002 ............................ Transportation Appropriations ................................................................ H. Res. 194 Open; waives cl. 3 0f rule XIII and section 401 (a) of the CBA against consideration of the N/A. 
bill; waives cl. 6 and cl. 2 of rule XXI against provisions in the bill; Makes in order the 
Clinger/Solomon amendment waives all points of order against the amendment (Line 
Item Veto); provides the bill be read by title; Pre-printing gets priority. *RULE AMENDED*. 
H.R. 70 ................................ Exports of Alaskan North Slope Oil ........................................................ H. Res. 197 Open; Makes in order the Resources Committee amendment in the nature of a substitute as N/A. 
original text; Pre-printing gets priority; Provides a Senate hook-up with S. 395. 
H.R. 2076 ............................ Commerce, Justice Appropriations ......................................................... H. Res. 198 Open; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against provisions in the bill; Pre-printing gets pri-N/A. 
ority; provides the bill be read by title.. 
H.R. 2099 ............................ VA/HUD Appropriations ........................................................................... H. Res. 201 Open; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against provisions in the bill; Provides that the N/A. 
amendment in part 1 of the report is the first business, if adopted it will be considered 
as base text (30 min.); waives all points of order against the Klug and Davis amendments; 
Pre-printing gets priority; Provides that the bill be read by title. 
S. 21 .................................... Termination of U.S. Arms Embargo on Bosnia ...................................... H. Res. 204 Restrictive; 3 hours of general debate; Makes in order an amendment to be offered by the ID. 
Minority Leader or a designee (1 hr); If motion to recommit has instructions it can only 
be offered by the Minority Leader or a designee. 
H.R. 2126 ............................ Defense Appropriations .......................................................................... H. Res. 205 Open; waives cl. 2(l)(6) of rule XI and section 306 of the Congressional Budget Act against N/A. 
consideration of the bill; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI against provisions in the bill; 
self-executes a strike of sections 8021 and 8024 of the bill as requested by the Budget 
Committee; Pre-printing gets priority; Provides the bill be read by title. 
H.R. 1555 ............................ Communications Act of 1995 ................................................................ H. Res. 207 Restrictive; waives sec. 302(f) of the Budget Act against consideration of the bill; Makes in 2R/3D/3 Bi-
order the Commerce Committee amendment as original text and waives sec. 302(f) of partisan. 
the Budget Act and cl. 5(a) of rule XXI against the amendment; Makes in order the Bliely 
amendment (30 min.) as the first order of business, if adopted it will be original text; 
makes in order only the amendments printed in the report and waives all points of order 
against the amendments; provides a Senate hook-up with S. 652. 
H.R. 2127 ............................ Labor/HHS Appropriations Act ................................................................ H. Res. 208 Open; Provides that the first order of business will be the managers amendments (10 min.), N/A. 
if adopted they will be considered as base text; waives cl. 2 and cl. 6 of rule XXI 
against provisions in the bill; waives all points of order against certain amendments 
printed in the report; Pre-printing gets priority; Provides the bill be read by title. 
H.R. 1594 ............................ Economically Targeted Investments ....................................................... H. Res. 215 Open; 2 hr of gen. debate. makes in order the committee substitute as original text ............ N/A. 
H.R. 1655 ............................ Intelligence Authorization ....................................................................... H. Res. 216 Restrictive; waives sections 302(f), 308(a) and 401(b) of the Budget Act. Makes in order N/A. 
the committee substitute as modified by Govt. Reform amend (striking sec. 505) and an 
amendment striking title VII. Cl 7 of rule XVI and cl 5(a) of rule XXI are waived against 
the substitute. Sections 302(f) and 401(b) of the CBA are also waived against the substitute. 
Amendments must also be pre-printed in the Congressional record. 
H.R. 1162 ............................ Deficit Reduction Lock Box .................................................................... H. Res. 218 Open; waives cl 7 of rule XVI against the committee substitute made in order as original N/A. 
text; Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 1670 ............................ Federal Acquisition Reform Act of 1995 ................................................ H. Res. 219 Open; waives sections 302(f) and 308(a) of the Budget Act against consideration of the N/A. 
bill; bill will be read by title; waives cl 5(a) of rule XXI and section 302(f) of the Budget 
Act against the committee substitute. Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 1617 ............................ To Consolidate and Reform Workforce Development and Literacy Pro-H. Res. 222 Open; waives section 302(f) and 401(b) of the Budget Act against the substitute made in N/A. 
grams Act (CAREERS). order as original text (H.R. 2332), cl. 5(a) of rule XXI is also waived against the substitute. 
provides for consideration of the managers amendment (10 min.) If adopted, it is 
considered as base text. 

H.R. 2274 ............................ National Highway System Designation Act of 1995 .............................. H. Res. 224 Open; waives section 302(f) of the Budget Act against consideration of the bill; Makes H.R. N/A. 
2349 in order as original text; waives section 302(f) of the Budget Act against the substitute; 
provides for the consideration of a managers amendment (10 min.) If adopted, it 
is considered as base text; Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 927 .............................. Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act of 1995 .......................... H. Res. 225 Restrictive; waives cl 2(L)(2)(B) of rule XI against consideration of the bill; makes in order 2R/2D 
H.R. 2347 as base text; waives cl 7 of rule XVI against the substitute; Makes Hamilton 
amendment the first amendment to be considered (1 hr). Makes in order only amendments 
printed in the report. 
H.R. 743 .............................. The Teamwork for Employees and managers Act of 1995 .................... H. Res. 226 Open; waives cl 2(l)(2)(b) of rule XI against consideration of the bill; makes in order the N/A. 
committee amendment as original text; Pre-printing get priority. 
H.R. 1170 ............................ 3-Judge Court for Certain Injunctions ................................................... H. Res. 227 Open; makes in order a committee amendment as original text; Pre-printing gets priority .... N/A. 
H.R. 1601 ............................ International Space Station Authorization Act of 1995 ......................... H. Res. 228 Open; makes in order a committee amendment as original text; pre-printing gets priority .... N/A. 
H.J. Res. 108 ....................... Making Continuing Appropriations for FY 1996 .................................... H. Res. 230 Closed; Provides for the immediate consideration of the CR; one motion to recommit which ........................ 
may have instructions only if offered by the Minority Leader or a designee. 
H.R. 2405 ............................ Omnibus Civilian Science Authorization Act of 1995 ............................ H. Res. 234 Open; self-executes a provision striking section 304(b)(3) of the bill (Commerce Committee N/A. 
request); Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 2259 ............................ To Disapprove Certain Sentencing Guideline Amendments ................... H. Res. 237 Restrictive; waives cl 2(l)(2)(B) of rule XI against the bill’s consideration; makes in order 1D 
the text of the Senate bill S. 1254 as original text; Makes in order only a Conyers substitute; 
provides a senate hook-up after adoption. 
H.R. 2425 ............................ Medicare Preservation Act ...................................................................... H. Res. 238 Restrictive; waives all points of order against the bill’s consideration; makes in order the 1D 
text of H.R. 2485 as original text; waives all points of order against H.R. 2485; makes in 
order only an amendment offered by the Minority Leader or a designee; waives all points 
of order against the amendment; waives cl 5Ó of rule XXI (3/5 requirement on votes 
raising taxes). 
H.R. 2492 ............................ Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill .................................................. H. Res. 239 Restrictive; provides for consideration of the bill in the House ................................................. N/A. 
H.R. 2491 ............................ 7 Year Balanced Budget Reconciliation Social Security Earnings Test H. Res. 245 Restrictive; makes in order H.R. 2517 as original text; waives all pints of order against the 1D 
H. Con. Res. 109 ................. Reform. bill; Makes in order only H.R. 2530 as an amendment only if offered by the Minority 
Leader or a designee; waives all points of order against the amendment; waives cl 5Ó 
of rule XXI (3/5 requirement on votes raising taxes). 
H.R. 1833 ............................ Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 1995 ................................................. H. Res. 251 Closed ........................................................................................................................................... N/A. 
H.R. 2546 ............................ D.C. Appropriations FY 1996 .................................................................. H. Res. 252 Restrictive; waives all points of order against the bill’s consideration; Makes in order the N/A. 
Walsh amendment as the first order of business (10 min.); if adopted it is considered as 
base text; waives cl 2 and 6 of rule XXI against the bill; makes in order the Bonilla, 
Gunderson and Hostettler amendments (30 min.); waives all points of order against the 
amendments; debate on any further amendments is limited to 30 min. each. 
H.J. Res. 115 ....................... Further Continuing Appropriations for FY 1996 .................................... H. Res. 257 Closed; Provides for the immediate consideration of the CR; one motion to recommit which N/A. 
may have instructions only if offered by the Minority Leader or a designee. 
H.R. 2586 ............................ Temporary Increase in the Statutory Debt Limit ................................... H. Res. 258 Restrictive; Provides for the immediate consideration of the CR; one motion to recommit 5R 
which may have instructions only if offered by the Minority Leader or a designee; self-
executes 4 amendments in the rule; Solomon, Medicare Coverage of Certain Anti-Cancer 
Drug Treatments, Habeas Corpus Reform, Chrysler (MI); makes in order the Walker amend 
(40 min.) on regulatory reform. 
H.R. 2539 ............................ ICC Termination ...................................................................................... H. Res. 259 Open; waives section 302(f) and section 308(a) ........................................................................ ........................ 
H.J. Res. 115 ....................... Further Continuing Appropriations for FY 1996 .................................... H. Res. 261 Closed; provides for the immediate consideration of a motion by the Majority Leader or his N/A. 
designees to dispose of the Senate amendments (1hr). 
H.R. 2586 ............................ Temporary Increase in the Statutory Limit on the Public Debt ............ H. Res. 262 Closed; provides for the immediate consideration of a motion by the Majority Leader or his N/A. 
designees to dispose of the Senate amendments (1hr). 
H. Res. 250 ......................... House Gift Rule Reform ......................................................................... H. Res. 268 Closed; provides for consideration of the bill in the House; 30 min. of debate; makes in 2R 
order the Burton amendment and the Gingrich en bloc amendment (30 min. each); 
waives all points of order against the amendments; Gingrich is only in order if Burton 
fails or is not offered. 
H.R. 2564 ............................ Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 ........................................................... H. Res. 269 Open; waives cl. 2(l)(6) of rule XI against the bill’s consideration; waives all points of order N/A. 
against the Istook and McIntosh amendments. 
H.R. 2606 ............................ Prohibition on Funds for Bosnia Deployment ........................................ H. Res. 273 Restrictive; waives all points of order against the bill’s consideration; provides one motion N/A. 
to amend if offered by the Minority Leader or designee (1 hr non-amendable); motion to 
recommit which may have instructions only if offered by Minority Leader or his designee; 
if Minority Leader motion is not offered debate time will be extended by 1 hr. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1191 

FLOOR PROCEDURE IN THE 104TH CONGRESS; COMPILED BY THE RULES COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS—Continued 

Amendments

Bill No. Title Resolution No. Process used for floor consideration 

in order 

H.R. 1788 ............................ Amtrak Reform and Privatization Act of 1995 ...................................... H. Res. 289 Open; waives all points of order against the bill’s consideration; makes in order the Trans-N/A. 
portation substitute modified by the amend in the report; Bill read by title; waives all 
points of order against the substitute; makes in order a managers amend as the first 
order of business, if adopted it is considered base text (10 min.); waives all points of 
order against the amendment; Pre-printing gets priority. 
H.R. 1350 ............................ Maritime Security Act of 1995 ............................................................... H. Res. 287 Open; makes in order the committee substitute as original text; makes in order a managers N/A. 
amendment which if adopted is considered as original text (20 min.) unamendable; preprinting 
gets priority. 
H.R. 2621 ............................ To Protect Federal Trust Funds .............................................................. H. Res. Closed; provides for the adoption of the Ways & Means amendment printed in the report. 1 N/A. 
hr. of general debate. 
H.R. 1745 ............................ Utah Public Lands Management Act of 1995 ....................................... H. Res. 303 Open; waives cl 2(l)(6) of rule XI and sections 302(f) and 311(a) of the Budget Act against N/A. 
the bill’s consideration. Makes in order the Resources substitute as base text and waives 
cl 7 of rule XVI and sections 302(f) and 308(a) of the Budget Act; makes in order a 
managers’ amend as the first order of business, if adopted it is considered base text (10 
min.). 
H. Res. 304 ......................... Providing for Debate and Consideration of Three Measures Relating N/A. Closed; makes in order three resolutions; H.R. 2770 (Dorman), H. Res. 302 (Buyer), and H. 1D; 2R 
to U.S. Troop Deployments in Bosnia. Res. 306 (Gephardt); 1 hour of debate on each. 
H. Res. 309 ......................... Revised Budget Resolution .................................................................... H. Res. 309 Closed; provides 2 hours of general debate in the House ......................................................... N/A. 
H.R. 558 .............................. Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act ... H. Res. 313 Open; pre-printing gets priority ................................................................................................... N/A. 
H.R. 2677 ............................ The National Parks and National Wildlife Refuge Systems Freedom H. Res. 323 Closed; consideration in the House; self-executes Young amendment ...................................... N/A. 
Act of 1995. 
PROCEDURE IN THE 104TH CONGRESS 2D SESSION 

H.R. 1643 ............................ To authorize the extension of nondiscriminatory treatment (MFN) to H. Res. 334 Closed; provides to take the bill from the Speaker’s table with the Senate amendment, and N/A. 
the products of Bulgaria. consider in the House the motion printed in the Rules Committee report; 1 hr. of general 
debate; previous question is considered as ordered. 

H.J. Res. 134 ....................... Making continuing appropriations/establishing procedures making H. Res. 336 Closed; provides to take from the Speaker’s table H.J. Res. 134 with the Senate amendment N/A. 
H. Con. Res. 131 ................. the transmission of the continuing resolution H.J. Res. 134. and concur with the Senate amendment with an amendment (H. Con. Res. 131) which is 
self-executed in the rule. The rule provides further that the bill shall not be sent back to 
the Senate until the Senate agrees to the provisions of H. Con. Res. 131. 
H. R. 1358 ........................... Conveyance of National Marine Fisheries Service Laboratory at H. Res. 338 Closed; provides to take the bill from the Speaker’s table with the Senate amendment, and N/A. 
Gloucester, Massachusetts. consider in the House the motion printed in the Rules Committee report; 1 hr. of general 
debate; previous question is considered as ordered. 
H.R. 2924 ............................ Social Security Guarantee Act ................................................................ H. Res. 355 Closed ........................................................................................................................................... N/A. 

* Contract Bills, 67% restrictive; 33% open. ** All legislation 1st Session, 56% restrictive; 44% open. *** Legislation 2d Session. 100% restrictive; 0% open. **** All legislation 104th Congress 60% restrictive; 40% open. 
***** Restrictive rules are those which limit the number of amendments which can be offered, and include so-called modified open and modified closed rules as well as completely closed rules and rules providing for consideration in the 
House as opposed to the Committee of the Whole. This definition of restrictive rule is taken from the Republican chart of resolutions reported from the Rules Committee in the 103d Congress. ****** Not included in this chart are three 
bills which should have been placed on the Suspension Calendar. H.R. 101, H.R. 400, H.R. 440. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from New 
York [Mr. RANGEL]. 

(Mr. RANGEL asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I was just 
talking to my dear friend, the gentleman 
from New York [Mr. SOLOMON], 
who sits over there, but I asked him to 
yield when he was reading the paper 
there, because I wanted to make it 
abundantly clear that as he extends 
this debt limit, as he gives us the ability 
for the United States to pay off its 
obligations, that he is only doing it for 
the old people on Social Security, he 
says, he says. 

So it means that these people have a 
lot of compassion, but they give it to 
us a little bit at a time. Who knows, 
maybe the disabled veterans will get 
some political attention over there, 
and we will get another 15 days. How 
about the widows of those who died defending 
our country? How about the 
crippled, the veterans in the hospital? 
Oh, I know, you want to make Clinton 
change the rules. You do not want to 
do it at election time. You cannot do it 
with overriding a veto, and so what we 
are going to do is select who will receive 
their benefits. 

Do you think the United States Congress 
should be doing this? And of all of 
the committees that is doing this to 
the American people, it is the Committee 
on Rules. What substance jurisdiction 
do you have to select one group of 
Americans, people who serve their 
country, which groups you decide will 
receive their checks on time? And we 
get 15 days. Well, thank you, Mr. 
Chairman for 15 days we get. Thank 
you. Maybe when we come back, the 
rest of the veterans and all the Ameri


mately the rest of the world would say, 
Can you trust the United States of 
America? Just as far as you can check 
with the chairman of the committee 
that determines when they pay their 
debts. 

All I can say is this, if you think we 
screwed this place up for 40 years, you 
have broken the record, because you 
have brought to this Congress Members 
who are more anxious to change the 
policies that we have had in the last 40 
years than to legislate. We are not 
doing this by legislating. We are doing 
it by fear, and it is wrong. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentlemen from New 
York [Mr. SOLOMON], the distinguished 
chairman, who is making sure that everybody 
gets their paycheck. 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker and my 
colleagues, do you know that every single 
day that passes by, the national 
debt goes up another $600 million? 
Think about that, $600 million a day. 
Every day it goes up $600 million, that 
means there are $600 million less to 
help all of those people that truly need 
it. 

You people on that side of the aisle, 
more than anyone else, ought to be 
standing up here trying to put an end 
to this deficit spending that is actually 
ruining this country and turning it 
into a sea of red ink. 

The Record should show the gentleman 
from New York voted for an attachment 
to the 1993 debt limit bill, 
the largest tax increase in history. 
There was nothing clean about that 
debt limit bill. 

What is different now? Nothing. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. LEVIN], another member of 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 

MON], the answer is in 1993 the debt 
ceiling extension was part of an overall 
package. We were not trying to blackmail 
the White House. You are; you 
are. 

Look, this is nothing but a 2-week 
extension. That is all this is. Yes, from 
March 1 to March 15, 2 weeks. 

And why the reference to Social Security? 
It is because if there were no 
extension, Social Security payments 
would, indeed, be jeopardized, contrary 
to the earlier communications from 
your side. But, look, the other obligations 
are also going to be paid, not 
only Social Security. 

So really you are voting for a 2-week 
straight debt ceiling extension. You 
put in Social Security, because some of 
your extremists do not want to vote for 
a debt extension of any kind, and then 
it says in here Congress intends to pass 
an increase in the public debt limit before 
March 1, 1996. 

Why do you not pass it tonight? I will 
tell you why, you have got an addiction 
of some kind playing with fire. 
You have been burned twice in terms of 
the CR: You played with fire, twice 
burned, you want to burn yourself 
again. 

But I think the main reason is you do 
not know what else to do, so you are 
doing the same thing all over again. 
That is the problem. You do not have a 
game plan, so you punt. 

The trouble is this is not a game. 
This is the lives of Americans that you 
are playing with lightly. 

Stop the blackmail. Pass a clean debt 
ceiling period, and do it tonight. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11/2 
minutes to the gentleman from Michigan 
[Mr. SMITH], a member of the Committee 
on the Budget. 

b1830 

cans who deserve their checks, you Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I say to the Mr. SMITH of Michigan. Mr. Speak-
might give them 10 or 15 days, and ulti-gentleman from New York [Mr. SOLO-er, I just sort of handed out this sheet 


H 1192 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

to both sides as a reminder to us that 
we have not given clean debt ceiling increases. 
So it seems like tonight, with 
this clean increase in borrowing authority 
for the Federal Government to 
make sure that we get by the rest of 
this month and into toward mid-
March, that we should pass it and 
say,‘‘Look, it is a good first step, let us 
move on.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, to the gentleman from 
Michigan, I would still like to point 
out that the last couple debt limit bills 
that we had represented a huge tax increase 
of $137 billion over the 5-year period 
in 1990 when there was pressure on 
President Bush. Again, there was a 
large $252 billion tax increase in 1993. 
Some of these put pressure on an administration. 
So the debt ceiling is not 
very wholesome, not being used as leverage. 


As we researched the records, Treasury 
does not have the right to withhold 
Social Security payments. The trouble 
is they have not managed cash flow, so 
they are out of money right now. They 
have no legal authority to withhold 
payments for Social Security or any 
other trust fund when there are surpluses 
coming into those trust funds. 

This action tonight is to give money 
back to Treasury because they have 
not had the kind of cash flow management 
that allows them to pay Social 
Security benefits and the other retirement 
benefits. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
[Mr. BENTSEN]. 

Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. Speaker, just so I 
can set the Record straight so my colleagues 
over here do not make a mistake, 
I was not here in 1993. In fact, I 
was in the private sector, in fact outside 
the Beltway, where I was earning 
a living in an industry very similar to 
what we are talking about. In fact, my 
friend from New York, I have been in 
the private sector for a while, while 
you have been in the Congress, in the 
public sector, since I have been in high 
school. Quite some time. 

If I wanted to, I could come down 
here, we could come down here as 
Democrats and we could say fine, go 
ahead and crash the capital markets of 
the United States. You will make Herbert 
Hoover look like an economic genius 
if you do this. But that is wrong. 
It is wrong for this country. This is a 
scary situation. 

My other colleague from Texas said 
it is scary. Yes, it is very scary, because 
if we allow the Nation’s debt to 
default, we will pay forever. If we do it 
for a day, it will be like Chernobyl; it 
will last for years and years. 

Moody’s said over the years that you 
could invest in treasuries because they 
would not default. This is from 1994. 
They said last week that they think 
they are going to default now, and they 
are looking to downgrade the debt. 
That is going to affect at least $300 billion 
of State and local debt and school 
debt. Mr. Druckmiller, your expect, 
came out last week and said this was a 

failed strategy and you should not do 
it. 

Now, let us understand this bill. You 
are going to give the Treasury $30 billion, 
but the Treasury needs another 
$55 billion to meet the payments. Now, 
I tried to find in the Washington Times 
so I could explain to you when Treasury 
bonds come due. They come due on 
the 1st and 15th of the month. The 
Washington Times does not carry the 
Treasury thing, maybe that is why 
there is a misunderstanding here. But 
the fact of the matter is that this is totally 
irresponsible. 

My colleague talks about the private 
sector. If you were on the board of a 
corporation that had a debt payment 
coming due in 29 days and you decided 
that you were going to take the board 
to Hawaii instead of staying here and 
working on it, the stockholders would 
throw you out, and they would be right 
for doing it. 

If you were a homeowner and you did 
not have the money to pay your mortgage 
and decided you would take a vacation 
instead, the bank would come 
and take your house and they would 
have the right to do that. 

That is what we are doing. We are 
not going to deal with the problem; we 
are going to go on a vacation. I find 
that hard to believe, regardless of 
whether I am a Democrat or a Republican. 
What has gotten into us here? It 
is incredible. It is simply incredible. 

You tell us by March 1 you will get 
this done. My friends, you did not 
make the date for the appropriations 
bills; you did not even bring half of 
them to the floor by the end of the fiscal 
year. How are we to believe you 
will do this by March 1? You know 
what you are going to do? You are 
going to default on the debt that our 
children, my children, your children, 
your grandchildren are going to have 
to pay for, for money you already spent 
in previous years. That is simply unconscionable. 


Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio 
[Mr. BOEHNER], the distinguished chairman 
of the conference. 

Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, the 
Congress of the United States and the 
Government of the United States is not 
going to default on its debt, not now 
nor in the future. But if we are at some 
point going to increase the debt limit, 
which we are going to do the last week 
of February, we are going to make a 
downpayment for the future of our 
children and theirs. 

For 30 years politicians in this town 
have done the same thing, pile up the 
debt, pile up the debt, and imprison our 
children and theirs. So every child born 
in America today owes $19,000 as their 
share of the national debt. A child born 
this year will pay $187,000 over the 
course of their lifetime in taxes just to 
pay the interest on the national debt 
that their parents and their grandparents 
have left for them. That is unconscionable. 


What is the President of the United 
States asking? Raise the debt limit. 

Let us have more debt. The fact is, it is 
time to get serious about balancing the 
budget of the United States and saving 
the future for our kids and theirs. Oh, 
but no, we do not want to do that. The 
President says we can agree on the 
numbers, but we will save the policies 
until later: The same kind of Washington 
gimmicks, the same kind of smoke 
and mirrors that have been used in this 
town to say one thing and do something 
else, year after year after year. 

What we are saying on our side of the 
aisle is it is time to get serious. It is 
time for no more gimmicks, no more 
tricks. It is time to do the right thing 
to save the future for our kids and 
theirs, and we are going to do it. 

Now, in the meantime we want a 
downpayment on extending the debt 
limit of this country. We ought to 
make some generous effort in a bipartisan 
way to move us toward saving the 
future, and we ought to do it over the 
next couple of weeks so that when we 
get back here on the 26th, we can have 
a bill that can be agreed to. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from North 
Carolina [Mr. HEFNER]. 

Mr. HEFNER. Mr. Speaker, if I could 
enter into a colloquy with the previous 
speaker, could I ask a question of the 
gentleman from Ohio? The gentleman 
from Ohio just made a statement that 
the U.S. Government was not going to 
default now, not ever. Let me ask you 
this question: Suppose that you put the 
conditions on the extension of the debt 
and the President of the United States 
does not blink and refuses to sign the 
budget or whatever downpayment you 
call it. Are you going to let the United 
States default on its obligations? 

Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. HEFNER. I yield to the gentleman 
from Ohio. 

Mr. BOEHNER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
sure the President of the United States 
would like to make a downpayment toward 
balancing the budget just as 
much as you would and we would. 

Mr. HEFNER. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming 
my time, the gentleman just made 
a statement that we will not default on 
our obligations now, not ever. He had 
no qualifications; he was just taking 
for granted that everything is going to 
fall in place and they would yield to 
blackmail demands. What he is saying 
is unless they do, you will let the U.S. 
Government default. Enough is enough. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 11/2 
minutes to the gentlewoman from Connecticut 
[Ms. DELAURO]. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, it is 
time to get serious and it is time to 
stop the blackmail. It is the extremists 
in the House Republican conference 
that are playing political chicken with 
the credit rating of the United States. 
That is what it is about, is our credit 
rating. This Government has always 
paid its bills. For 220 years, through a 
Civil War and a Great Depression. 

Paying our bills is not just important 
to the bond market and to the investment 
bankers on Wall Street. If this 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1193 

nation defaults, the consequences will 
be most sharply felt by ordinary Americans. 
It is not only Wall Street, it is 
Main Street who pays the price. If this 
bill passes, Social Security checks will 
not bounce, and that is a good thing. 
But what about the countless other 
consequences of default? What about 
students whose college loan rates are 
set by the Government borrowing rate? 
What about people who bought their 
homes with adjustable rate mortgages, 
and what about those who hold credit 
cards? 

At a time when too many Americans 
are swamped with bills, they are afraid 
that they cannot afford to pay their 
bills. These are people who have not 
seen a raise in their salaries in months 
and years. A Government default would 
make paying their bills all the more 
expensive. This tactic hits working 
families in their pocketbooks. 

Mr. Speaker, we can easily avoid this 
crisis. Let us pass a bill that prevents 
default by lifting the debt ceiling and 
that protects the credit rating and the 
honor of this great Nation of ours. 

Mr. FROST. Does the gentleman not 
have any speakers at this point? 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, may I inform 
the Chair and the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas that I have one 
other speaker who is on his way, and 
possibly we will have some stimulation 
in the debate here from somebody who 
is here. We are looking at winding 
down, but I am in the range of three or 
four Members. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
[Mr. DOGGETT]. 

Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, our Republican 
colleagues have, of course, already 
voted four times in this very 
Congress to adjust the debt limit to the 
full amount necessary. But now that it 
really counts, now that we are up 
against the line, they break their 
promise to the American people. 

They whine and moan about a budget 
deficit, but as soon as the President 
proposes a balanced budget calculated 
by their numbers, the Speaker declares 
defeat. A broken promise. You see, that 
is the watchword of this Gingrich Republican 
leadership: Promises made, 
promises broken. The Republicans 
promised to give us a country that is 
governed responsibly, and then they 
come forward and waste $1.5 billion 
with two Government shutdowns that 
were totally unnecessary, which even 
Speaker GINGRICH has now confessed 
was an error. 

They promised to guarantee the fiscal 
integrity of this country, and now 
they act in a way that constitutes the 
biggest broken promise in American 
economic history. They promise to 
breach the promise of the full faith and 
credit of this country. 

Republican promises made and Republican 
promises broken, the whole 
story of the 104th Congress. They have 
broken so many promises in this Congress 
to the American people, they now 
want to go out and break somebody 

else’s promise, and that is the promise 
that generations of Americans have 
stood by to protect the fiscal integrity 
of this country. 

Can any responsible American, regardless 
of party, regardless of philosophy, 
conceivably be out there saying, 
Oh, go to Washington. Do not pay the 
bond holders. Do not pay those who 
rely on U.S. savings bonds. Just bring 
everything to a halt and default until 
you get your way? 

Mr. Speaker, that is precisely what 
has been advocated here tonight. Nobody 
but a crackpot would advance 
that point of view. But indeed, while 
that might have been true a few years 
ago, and though we just heard promises, 
let us listen to what the Speaker 
of the House of the United States said: 
‘‘I don’t care what the price is. I don’t 
care if we have no bonds for 30 days.’’ 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Florida [Mr. MICA]. 

Mr. MICA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman for yielding me this time. 

Mr. Speaker, tonight our action is 
really about choices. The administration 
and the other side of the aisle has 
made their choices. They would choose 
in fact to cut off payments for Social 
Security and maybe veterans at this 
point if in fact they run out of additional 
money to steal. In fact, the 
irony of this is they have been stealing 
and robbing Federal retirement trust 
funds to keep the indebtedness extended 
for this country. 

b1845 
So tonight is really about choices. 
We have seen on TV they are going to 
stop the printing presses. They do not 
want us to pay seniors. 
Mr. Speaker, that is not what the Republicans 
want to do tonight. We want 
to see, in fact, that our seniors receive 
their check. We want to tell seniors 
that, in fact, we have made a different 
choice, that we think that we should 
choose in this budget whether people 
should continue to be paid for not 
working; whether we should pay illegal 
immigrants who come in and get better 
health and medical and housing benefits 
than our seniors and our veterans. 
Those are some of the choices before 
us, and that is part of the choice in our 
budget, in our proposal. And we are 
going to face that measure and those 
choices. 
So, tonight the choice is we stop the 
show, we stop printing the funny 
money or continue in a responsible 
fashion. We set a deadline, and that is 
what we have been doing and what we 
have been trying to do to get this Nation’s 
finances in order. So our choice 
is to pay seniors tonight, to pass this 
rule, and to act responsibly, and we 
will meet our debt obligations; but we 
will not continue to drive this country 
further and further into debt, in an irresponsible 
fashion. 
Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota 
[Mr. VENTO]. 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, this H.R. 
2924 is about the most convoluted piece 
of legislation that I have seen in terms 
of what is going on. They say, the Republicans 
that they bring this bill to 
us, that they intend to extend the debt 
limit. Well, why do they not just do it? 
No, they bring this 2-week bill. In 
other words, the bad news is the fact 
that they feel the necessity for a 2 
week measure. 

If we take them at their word, the 
face value of what this bill says, we are 
going to avert the possibility that the 
Social Security checks are going to 
bounce March 1. We want them to go 
out, and we all want to be on the side 
of those receiving Social Security. But 
the bad news is that the veterans’ 
checks are going to bounce, that they 
are not going to cash those, that the 
soldiers and sailors that get checks, 
even those in Bosnia, will not be able 
to cash them. The contractors who 
have done work in good faith will not 
be able to cash checks. 

The fact is that this result would result 
in the ultimate Government shutdown. 
Already this year for 4 weeks out 
of 16, the irresponsibility in terms of 
the way that this majority Republican 
Party has run this Congress has resulted 
in partial shutdown of the Government. 
The fact is, yes, things were 
attached to the debt ceiling limit. But 
under Reagan and under Bush, and 
under Clinton, the Democrats got an 
agreement with them. We could find 
common ground and compromise to 
achieve this, so we averted the default 
of bonds, the credit rating of the country 
wasn’t harmed. 

We have been through Reagan and 
Bush and Clinton. We did it through 
World War I, then World War II, the 
Depression, the recessions, but all of a 
sudden now my Republican colleagues 
cannot do that. They cannot come to a 
agreement, and that is what the bad 
news is in terms of this bill. 

Mr. Speaker, yes, we ought to protect 
Social Security, but we ought to protect 
the faith and credit of this Nation. 
We ought to really prevent the type of 
economic shock wave and damage that 
this proposal pretends to do through 
intention but not action. The fact that 
the Republicans want to pass just this 
measure of platitudes, shows that they 
do not understand what they are doing, 
I think this action unfortunately underlines 
the experience and the credibility 
of what has been said over here 
for 2 months. What has been said by 
the Speaker and their leader, over the 
past year that is in fact if default 
comes, it comes. Let us just accept it 
says Speaker GINGRICH. That is unacceptable 
says this Member. The only 
snow job is not the one outside; there 
is one going on in here tonight from 
the majority Republicans. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, the record 
should show that the gentleman who 
just spoke so eloquently voted to attach 
to the 1993 debt limit bill the largest 
tax increase in history. There was 
nothing clean about that debt limit 
bill. 


H 1194 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
distinguished gentleman from Florida 
[Mr. FOLEY]. 

Mr. FOLEY. Mr. Speaker, all the 
screaming needs to subside. This Government 
has been running deficit for a 
long time. Our credit card is about to 
be canceled. Our checkbook is dry. 

In America’s communities, if we had 
produced the types of budgets this Congress 
has over the last 40 years, we 
would have had our home foreclosed, 
our credit card canceled, our checkbook 
confiscated, and we would be sent 
to jail. 

Everybody is yelling about the full 
faith and credit of this Government, 
and many Members that have been on 
this floor screaming have been the ones 
who have run up, through the use of 
their Member card, this card that they 
give us when we are sworn into office, 
the credit card of the United States, 
they have been running deficits each 
and every budget year. And now there 
is screaming going on about the full 
faith and credit of the United States of 
America. 

People have to accept responsibility 
for being the ones that charged the balance. 
If we give our child a credit card 
with a $500 balance and they run out 
and use it in one day and we scream at 
them for not paying the bill, we have 
helped get them the credit. We have 
taught them to spend maybe recklessly. 


I agree that the faith and credit of 
this Government is essential. This bill 
will allow the temporary borrowing of 
additional monies to cover Social Security. 
My grandmother depended on 
her Social Security before she died. 
She worked as a maid in a Travel 
Lodge motel. She was not a wealthy 
women. She had $10,000 in the bank. 
That is all the money she had in her 
life. Social Security was important to 
her, as it is to every other American. 

Mr. Speaker, we are allowing the 
debt limit to increase to provide for 
that, but we are not perpetrating the 
sham on the American public with $200 
billion in excess spending year in and 
year out and call that democracy, call 
that compassion, call that good government. 
We need to stop the yelling, 
start working on the problems that 
face America. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from New 
York [Mr. SCHUMER]. 

(Mr. SCHUMER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. Speaker, well, 
my colleagues know we have heard a 
lot of talking here. We just heard about 
giving a child a credit card. And what 
they are advocating on that side is 
once the child spends on the credit 
card, maybe the child should not have, 
the parents are saying we will not pay. 
That is un-American. That is being a 
deadbeat. That has nothing to do with 
resolving the child’s behavior in the future. 
That has to do with the past obligation 
that was incurred by the family 

that people on this side are saying we 
will not pay. 

Mr. Speaker, the average homeowner 
does not have the opportunity to renege 
on his or her mortgage. The average 
credit card purchaser does not have 
the opportunity to renege on his or her 
credit card. These people are struggling. 
They cannot do it, and at the 
height of irresponsibility, some of the 
leaders of this Nation are saying, well 
our country can do it. What lesson is 
that to the child we are talking about? 
I would say that to the gentleman from 
Florida. 

Mr. Speaker, is it happenstance that 
we are playing this ridiculous game of 
chicken? Is it just unbelievable that we 
could say we would renege on our debt? 
Let us listen to what Speaker GINGRICH 
said: ‘‘The President will veto a number 
of things and then we will put them 
all on the debt ceiling. And then he 
will decide how big a crisis he wants.’’ 

That is good government? That is responsibility? 
That is bullying at best, 
and lunacy, irresponsible lunacy at 
worst. Here is another quote from the 
Speaker: ‘‘I do not care what the price 
is, I do not care if we have no executive 
offices, and no bonds for 30 days. Not at 
this time.’’ 

He just said that in September. Mr. 
Speaker, there is a lot of blame going 
on. Some extremist, immature freshmen 
are saying let us let the country 
default on its debt. But it came from 
the Speaker. He should be ashamed of 
himself. 

Mr. SMITH of Michigan. Regular 
order. 

Mr. SCHUMER. He knows that the 
credit rating of the America is at 
stake. It is a shame. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, the Record 
should show that the gentleman from 
New York who just spoke voted for an 
attached 1993 debt limit bill, the largest 
tax increase in history. There was 
certainly nothing clean about that 
debt limit bill either, and I suspect 
that the gentleman from New York 
would not agree with my conclusion 
that it is not responsible parenting to 
stop children from runaway spending. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from New 
Jersey [Mr. PALLONE]. 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, there 
was a lot of talk on the Republican side 
of the aisle tonight about scare tactics, 
but I have to tell my colleagues I am 
really scared tonight. Until this 
evening, I did not really believe that 
the Republicans would actually default 
on the debt. Now I believe that they 
will. 

Mr. Speaker, I listened to what the 
gentleman from Ohio said, that in 
order to avoid default there would have 
to be a downpayment on the balanced 
budget. I listened to the gentleman 
from New York who said that, in order 
to prevent default, there would have to 
be certain commitments made by our 
side of the aisle by March 1. 

Now I see a resolution coming before 
us that says that we will extend the 

debt ceiling with regard to Social Security. 
What is happening here is the 
same kind of hostage atmosphere that 
we saw with the Government shutdown. 
The Republicans are saying that 
we are going to go home. We are going 
to come back at the end of the month 
when there are a few days before March 

1. And if we on the other side do not do 
certain things and make certain commitments, 
if we do not vote for certain 
things that they want, then they are 
going to default. 
So I do not believe it when they say 
that they are not going to default. The 
bottom line is if they are willing to say 
tonight that they will only extend the 
debt ceiling for Social Security, I have 
no guarantee that they will extend the 
debt ceiling on anything else. I think 
that is the height of irresponsibility. 

We are talking about defaulting on a 
debt that is going to downgrade the 
credit rating of these United States in 
a way that has never happened before. 
The bottom line is that if that happens, 
there is no precedent for it. There 
is no way of ever recovering from it, 
whether it is mortgage interest rates, 
whether it is interest rates on car payments, 
whether it is the securities in 
our general credit rating. Other countries 
that hold our Government bonds 
may decide they want to sell them. 

We have no idea what kind of uncharted 
waters we will be walking into 
if we ever default on the debt. This resolution 
tonight ways that Congress intends 
to pass an increase in the public 
debt limit before March 1, 1996. But if 
my colleagues listen to the other side, 
there is no reason to believe that. 

Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield such 
time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from New York [Mr. SOLOMON], 
the distinguished chairman of the Committee 
on Rules. 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I am 
going to speak from this side because I 
am going to quote one of the most distinguished 
members in the Clinton administration 
when I finish. 

But it is no coincidence, and I have 
been keeping track, that almost every 
single speaker that has spoken from 
the Democrat side of the aisle is listed 
by the National Taxpayers Union as 
the biggest spenders. They classify us. 
Biggest spenders in the Congress. Almost 
every one of them. That is important 
to note. 

Let me read to my colleagues the 
Washington Post, March 25, 1993, that 
is about 2 years ago. Now listen carefully 
to this, because this is the statement 
that was made by the present 
chief of staff of President Clinton. Listen 
to this because it will really turn 
this thing around. 

He said: The Clinton administration 
has waited as long as possible to seek 
an increase in the debt ceiling so that 
lawmakers, that is you and me, ladies 
and gentlemen, so that lawmakers can 
vote for budget resolutions designed to 
rein in deficits before being asked to 
increase Federal borrowing. Now, this 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1195 

is Mr. Leon Panetta. He said it is im-that maiden on February 29, this coun-having a little trouble understanding 
portant to tie, listen to this, it is im-try is in enormous, enormous trouble. what, therefore, the problem really is. 
portant to tie it, the debt limit, he Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of 

says, to other discipline people would 
like to put in place. 

That is what Leon Panetta said. That 
is exactly what we are doing here. Secretary 
Rubin has said he does not need 
this authority until March 1. We want 
to wait as long as we can to get as 
much of the savings as we can to put 
the fiscal house in order of the people 
of this country. That is what we are 
doing. Come over here and vote for this 
good bill. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge a no vote on the 
previous question. If the previous question 
is defeated, I shall offer an amendment 
to the rule which would make in 
order an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute to provide for a clean debt 
ceiling. 

This amendment consists of the text 
of H.R. 2409 and provides for a clean 
debt ceiling increase for a full year. 
This number is the same figure that 
was in the Republican budget resolution 
and reconciliation bill. Our country’s 
economy is far too important to 
be used as a political pawn. We cannot 
risk the catastrophe that will occur 

should we default on our Nation’s 
debts. 
b1900 

Let us stop the game playing and 
pass a clean debt ceiling. I urge Members 
on both sides of the aisle to take 
the moral high ground and to vote 
down the previous question, so the substitute 
amendment can be considered 
by the full House. 

Mr. Speaker, I include for the 
RECORD a copy of the amendment: 

The amendment referred to is as follows: 


At the end of the resolution add the following 
new section: 

‘‘Section—. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this resolution, it shall be in 
order without intervention of any point of 
order to consider an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of 

H.R. 2409, if offered by the Minority Leader 
or his designee. The amendment shall be considered 
as read and shall be debatable for 60 
minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on 
the amendment.’’. 
Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, again, I 
urge that we defeat the previous question. 
This is a very serious matter. It is 
the other side of the aisle that will not 
bring a debt ceiling vote to the floor 
this week. They bring only this little 
piece of it. It is an important piece, 
and we will want Social Security 
checks to go out, but they will not 
bring a debt ceiling increase. 

Mr. Speaker, they want to take this 
right to the brink. They want to walk 
us up to 2 or 3 days before the deadline, 
and hope that the perils of Pauline will 
somehow rescue the lady from the 
track, as the train heads to hear. If the 
people on the other side have miscalculated, 
and if the train in fact runs over 

self such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I many times watched 
the Perils of Pauline, and I never actually 
saw the train run over the victim. 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to close 
with a couple of points. First of all, 
this has been a very intriguing debate 
about the rule. I do not think I have 
heard the rule mentioned, more than in 
passing at the beginning, but we have 
had a pretty good debate on some other 
things. 

I frankly have gotten to see my colleague, 
the gentleman from Florida, 
my good friend, the distinguished ranking 
member of the Committee on Ways 
and Means, show us that in addition to 
his extraordinary oratory, he has exemplary 
footwork as well in the well of 
the House, and I commend him on that. 
That was certainly a fresh moment in 
my experience in the U.S. Congress. 

Mr. Speaker, some on the other side 
have mentioned that we are going on 
vacation. If Members are going on vacation 
over there, I wish them well. I 
do not believe anybody over here is 
planning to go on vacation. We have a 
considerable amount of work to do. We 
are doing some negotiating. We will be 
in our district in a work period. I know 
some of us will actually be here working 
on committee work as well, as is 
our custom. If those Members have 
time to go on vacation on the other 
side of the aisle and can work it into 
their schedules, they are fortunate, indeed. 


Mr. Speaker, the next question I 
wanted to raise very briefly is this sort 
of switching of the debate from what is 
really adding on, piling onto a $5 trillion 
national debt an unlimited 
amount of money for the future without 
any kind of control. That is really 
what Members are proposing to do. 
What you are doing, however, is 
switching the subject and saying ‘‘My 
gosh, if we do not do that, we are affecting 
the full faith and credit of our 
country.’’ I think that is very bizarre. 

The people who keep score about full 
faith and credit are more interested in 
us getting control of our spending now. 
That is the signal they are looking for. 
I would suggest, Mr. Speaker, that if 
we do not do the responsible thing, we 
will in fact do more damage to the full 
faith and credit, which, or course, nobody 
wants to cause any problem for in 
any way. 

The next thing that has happened, 
Mr. Speaker, my friend, the gentleman 
from New York, said we are going to 
have a big vote on this. We are indeed 
going to have a big vote on this. We are 
going to get probably a unanimous 
vote on this piece of legislation. Who 
would vote against sending out the Social 
Security checks? Who would vote 
against making sure those checks were 
not going to bounce? It seems to me 
that is a pretty good proposition to 
vote for. We have a good rule, we have 
a good proposition to vote for. I am 

talk about gloom and doom and the 
sky falling. I would suggest, Mr. 
Speaker, that those who are talking 
about all this red hot partisan rhetoric, 
self-fulfilling rhetoric I hope it is not, 
about the world ending and the full 
faith and credit coming apart and so 
forth, need to go back and look at their 
voting records. I did not read them all 
because of time, but most everybody, 
as the chairman has said, who got the 
low rating from the NTU for being big 
spenders are also the people who, by 
and large, have voted for the largest 
tax increase in history, and that was 
attached to a debt limit bill, so let us 
get real. 

The other point I would make is I 
would suggest that Alan Greenspan’s 
pulse rate is probably more important 
to the interest rates than the debate 
we are having here today in terms of 
the well-being of our economy, so I 
urge that we pass this rule and get on 
with it. We will then pass this legislation 
and remove anxiety. 

Mr. Speaker, I move the previous 
question on the resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on ordering the previous 
question. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I object to 
the vote on the ground that a quorum 
is not present and make the point of 
order that a quorum is not present. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evidently 
a quorum is not present. 

The Sergeant at Arms will notify absent 
Members. 

Pursuant to the provisions of clause 5 
of rule XV, the Chair announces that 
he will reduce to a minimum of 5 minutes 
the period of time which a vote by 
electronic device, if ordered, will be 
taken on the question of the adoption 
of the resolution. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 229, nays 
178, not voting 26, as follows: 

[Roll No. 28] 
YEAS—229 
Allard Bunning Cubin 
Archer Burr Cunningham 
Armey Burton Davis 
Bachus Buyer Deal 
Baker (CA) Calvert DeLay 
Ballenger Camp Diaz-Balart 
Barr Campbell Dickey 
Barrett (NE) Canady Doolittle 
Bartlett Castle Dornan 
Barton Chabot Dreier 
Bass Chambliss Duncan 
Bateman Chenoweth Dunn 
Bereuter Christensen Ehlers 
Bilbray Chrysler Ehrlich 
Bilirakis Clinger Emerson 
Bliley Coble English 
Blute Coburn Ensign 
Boehlert Collins (GA) Everett 
Boehner Combest Ewing 
Bonilla Condit Fawell 
Bono Cooley Fields (TX) 
Boucher Cox Flanagan 
Brownback Crane Foley 
Bryant (TN) Crapo Forbes 
Bunn Cremeans Fowler 


H 1196 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Fox 
Franks (CT) 
Franks (NJ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Frisa 
Funderburk 
Gallegly 
Ganske 
Gekas 
Gilchrest 
Gillmor 
Gilman 
Goodlatte 
Goodling 
Goss 
Graham 
Greenwood 
Gunderson 
Gutknecht 
Hancock 
Hansen 
Hastert 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayes 
Hayworth 
Hefley 
Heineman 
Herger 
Hilleary 
Hobson 
Hoekstra 
Hoke 
Horn 
Hostettler 
Houghton 
Hunter 
Hutchinson 
Hyde 
Inglis 
Istook 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Kasich 
Kelly 
Kim 
King 
Kingston 
Klug 
Knollenberg 
LaHood 
Largent 

Abercrombie 
Ackerman 
Andrews 
Baesler 
Baldacci 
Barcia 
Barrett (WI) 
Beilenson 
Bentsen 
Berman 
Bevill 
Bishop 
Bonior 
Borski 
Brewster 
Browder 
Brown (CA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brown (OH) 
Cardin 
Clayton 
Clement 
Clyburn 
Coleman 
Collins (MI) 
Conyers 
Costello 
Coyne 
Cramer 
Danner 
de la Garza 
DeFazio 
DeLauro 
Dellums 
Deutsch 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Dixon 
Doggett 
Dooley 
Doyle 
Durbin 
Edwards 
Engel 
Eshoo 

Latham 
LaTourette 
Laughlin 
Lazio 
Leach 
Lewis (KY) 
Lightfoot 
Linder 
Livingston 
LoBiondo 
Longley 
Lucas 
Manzullo 
Martini 
McCollum 
McCrery 
McDade 
McHugh 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McKeon 
Metcalf 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Molinari 
Moorhead 
Morella 
Myers 
Myrick 
Nethercutt 
Neumann 
Ney 
Norwood 
Nussle 
Oxley 
Parker 
Paxon 
Petri 
Pombo 
Porter 
Portman 
Pryce 
Quillen 
Quinn 
Ramstad 
Regula 
Riggs 
Roberts 
Rogers 
Rohrabacher 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roth 

NAYS—178 

Evans 
Farr 
Fattah 
Fazio 
Fields (LA) 
Flake 
Foglietta 
Ford 
Frank (MA) 
Frost 
Furse 
Gejdenson 
Gephardt 
Geren 
Gonzalez 
Gordon 
Gutierrez 
Hall (OH) 
Hall (TX) 
Hamilton 
Hastings (FL) 
Hefner 
Hilliard 
Hinchey 
Holden 
Hoyer 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jacobs 
Jefferson 
Johnson (SD) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnston 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kennedy (MA) 
Kennedy (RI) 
Kennelly 
Kildee 
Kleczka 
Klink 
LaFalce 
Lantos 
Levin 

Roukema 
Royce 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Saxton 
Scarborough 
Schaefer 
Schiff 
Sensenbrenner 
Shadegg 
Shays 
Shuster 
Skeen 
Smith (MI) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Solomon 
Souder 
Spence 
Stearns 
Stockman 
Stump 
Talent 
Tate 
Tauzin 
Taylor (MS) 
Taylor (NC) 
Thomas 
Thornberry 
Tiahrt 
Torkildsen 
Upton 
Vucanovich 
Waldholtz 
Walker 
Walsh 
Wamp 
Watts (OK) 
Weldon (FL) 
Weldon (PA) 
Weller 
White 
Whitfield 
Wicker 
Wolf 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Zeliff 
Zimmer 

Lewis (GA) 
Lincoln 
Lipinski 
Lofgren 
Lowey 
Luther 
Maloney 
Markey 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy 
McDermott 
McHale 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meehan 
Meek 
Menendez 
Miller (CA) 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Mollohan 
Montgomery 
Moran 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Neal 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 
Orton 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pastor 
Payne (NJ) 
Payne (VA) 
Pelosi 
Peterson (FL) 
Peterson (MN) 
Pickett 
Pomeroy 
Poshard 
Rahall 
Rangel 

Reed Slaughter Traficant 
Richardson Spratt Velazquez 
Rivers Stark Vento 
Roemer Stenholm Visclosky 
Roybal-Allard Stokes Volkmer 
Rush Studds Ward 
Sabo Stupak Waters 
Sawyer Tanner Watt (NC) 
Schroeder Tejeda Waxman 
Schumer Thompson Williams 
Scott Thornton Wise 
Serrano Thurman Woolsey 
Sisisky Torres Wyden 
Skaggs Torricelli Yates 
Skelton Towns 
NOT VOTING—26 
Baker (LA) Green Packard 
Becerra Harman Radanovich 
Bryant (TX) Kolbe Rose 
Callahan Lewis (CA) Sanders 
Chapman Manton Seastrand 
Clay Martinez Shaw 
Collins (IL) Meyers Wilson 
Filner Mfume Wynn 
Gibbons Ortiz 
b1922 

So the previous question was ordered. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Mrs. COLLINS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, 
during rollcall vote No. 28 on House 
Resolution 355 I was unavoidably detained. 
Had I been present, I would 
have voted ‘‘nay’’. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WALKER). The question is on the resolution. 


The resolution was agreed to. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE 

A message from the Senate by Mr. 
Lundregan, one of its clerks, announced 
that the Senate had passed 
with an amendment a bill of the House 
of the following title: 

H.R. 2657. An act to award a congressional 
gold medal to Ruth and Billy Graham. 
f 


REQUEST TO DISCHARGE COMMITTEE 
ON AGRICULTURE AND COMMITTEE 
ON WAYS AND MEANS 
FROM FURTHER CONSIDERATION 
OF H.R. 2854, AGRICULTURE MARKET 
TRANSITION ACT 

Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committees 
on Agriculture and Ways and 
Means be discharged from further consideration 
of the bill H.R. 2854, the Agriculture 
Market Transition Act, and 
that it shall be in order today to consider 
the bill in the House, and that all 
points of order against the bill and 
against its consideration be waived; 
and that the previous question be considered 
as ordered on the bill and any 
amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate on the bill, to be 
equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Agriculture; 

(2) one amendment, if offered, by Representative 
DE LA GARZA of Texas or 
his designee, said amendment to be debatable 
for not to exceed 1 hour, to be 
equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and a Member opposed 
thereto, and all points of order against 
the amendment be waived; and (3) one 
motion to recommit, with or without 
instructions. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the guidelines consistently issued by 
successive speakers and recorded on 
page 534 of the House Rules Manual, 
the Chair is constrained not to entertain 
the gentleman’s request until it 
has been cleared by the bipartisan floor 
and committee leaderships. 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY 

Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. Speaker, I have a 
parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state it. 

Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. Speaker, I know 
that the Agriculture Market Transition 
Act, H.R. 2854, has been cleared for 
floor consideration by the Republican 
side. Am I to understand that the Democrat 
side has objection to consideration 
of this bill? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair cannot respond to that. That is 
not an appropriate parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. ROBERTS. It may not be appropriate, 
but it sure as hell is true. 

Mr. VOLKMER. Regular order, Mr. 
Speaker, Regular order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair is attempting to keep order. The 
gentleman from Missouri and his comrades 
are not helping at the moment. 

f 


PROVIDING FOR ADJOURNMENT 
OF THE HOUSE FROM THURSDAY, 
FEBRUARY 1, 1996, TO MONDAY, 
FEBRUARY 26, 1996, AND 
ADJOURNMENT OR RECESS OF 
THE SENATE FROM THURSDAY, 
FEBRUARY 1, 1996, OR THEREAFTER, 
TO MONDAY, FEBRUARY 
26, 1996 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I offer a 
privileged concurrent resolution (H. 
Con. Res. 141) and ask for its immediate 
consideration. 

The Clerk read the concurrent resolution, 
as follows: 

H. CON. RES. 141 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the 
Senate concurring), That when the House adjourns 
on the legislative day of Thursday, 
February 1, 1996, it stand adjourned until 

12:30 p.m. on Monday, February 26, 1996, or 
until noon on the second day after Members 
are notified to reassemble pursuant to section 
2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever 
occurs first; and that when the Senate 
recesses or adjourns at the close of business 
on Thursday, February 1, 1996, Tuesday, February 
6, 1996, Wednesday, February 7, 1996, 
Thursday, February 8, 1996, Tuesday, February 
13, 1996, Wednesday, February 14, 1996, 
or Thursday, February 15, 1996, pursuant to a 
motion made by the majority leader or his 
designee in accordance with this resolution, 
it stand recessed or adjourned until 3 p.m. on 
Monday, February 26, 1996, or until noon on 
the second day after Members are notified to 
reassemble pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent 
resolution, whichever occurs first. 
SEC. 2. The Speaker of the House and the 
majority leader of the Senate, acting jointly 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1197 

after consultation with the minority leader Wicker Young (AK) Zeliff 
of the House and the minority leader of the Wolf Young (FL) Zimmer 
Senate, shall notify the Members of the 

NOES—199

House and Senate, respectively, to reassemble 
whenever, in their opinion, the public in-Abercrombie Geren Obey 
terest shall warrant it. 

Ackerman Gonzalez Olver 
Andrews Gordon Ortiz 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without Baesler Gutierrez Orton 

objection, the previous question is or-Baldacci Hall (OH) Owens 
Barcia Hall (TX) Pallone

dered. 

Barrett (NE) Hamilton Pastor

There was no objection. 

Barrett (WI) Harman Payne (NJ) 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Beilenson Hastings (FL) Payne (VA) 
question is on the concurrent resolu-

Bentsen Hefner Pelosi 
Bereuter Hilliard Peterson (MN)

tion. 

Berman Hinchey Pickett 
The question was taken; and the Bishop Holden Pomeroy 

Speaker pro tempore announced that Bonior Hoyer Poshard 
Borski Jackson (IL) Rahall

the ayes appeared to have it. 

Boucher Jackson-Lee Ramstad 

RECORDED VOTE Brewster (TX) Rangel 

Browder Jacobs Reed

Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. 

Brown (CA) Jefferson Richardson

Speaker, I demand a recorded vote. 

Brown (FL) Johnson (CT) Rivers 
A recorded vote was ordered. Brown (OH) Johnson (SD) Roberts 

The vote was taken by electronic de-Brownback Johnson, E. B. Roemer 

Bunn Johnston Roukema

vice, and there were—ayes 207, noes 199, 

Cardin Kanjorski Roybal-Allardanswered not voting 28, as follows: Christensen Kaptur Rush 

[Roll No. 29] 

Clay Kennedy (MA) Sabo 
Clayton Kennedy (RI) Sawyer

AYES—207 

Clement Kennelly Schroeder 
Allard Franks (NJ) Mica Clyburn Kildee Schumer 
Archer Frelinghuysen Miller (FL) Coleman Kleczka Scott 

Armey Frisa Molinari Collins (IL) Klink Serrano 
Bachus Funderburk Moorhead Collins (MI) LaFalce Sisisky 
Baker (CA) Gallegly Morella Combest Lantos Skaggs 
Ballenger Gekas Myers Condit Latham Skelton 
Barr Gilchrest Myrick Conyers Leach Slaughter 
Bartlett Gillmor Nethercutt Costello Levin Spratt 
Barton Gilman Neumann Coyne Lewis (GA) Stark 
Bass Gingrich Ney Cramer Lightfoot Stenholm 
Bateman Goodlatte Norwood Danner Lincoln Stokes 
Bilbray Goodling Oxley de la Garza Lipinski Studds 
Bilirakis Goss Parker DeFazio Lofgren Stupak 
Bliley Graham Paxon DeLauro Lowey Tanner 
Blute Gunderson Petri Dellums Luther Taylor (MS) 
Boehlert Gutknecht Pombo Deutsch Maloney Tejeda 
Boehner Hancock Porter Dicks Markey Thompson 
Bonilla Hansen Portman Dixon Mascara Thornberry 
Bono Hastert Pryce Doggett Matsui Thornton 
Bryant (TN) Hastings (WA) Quillen Dooley McCarthy Thurman 
Bunning Hayes Quinn Doyle McDermott Torres 
Burr Hayworth Regula Durbin McHale Torricelli 
Burton Hefley Riggs Edwards McKinney Towns 
Buyer Heineman Rogers Engel McNulty Traficant 
Calvert Herger Rohrabacher Eshoo Meehan Velazquez 
Camp Hilleary Roth Evans Meek Vento 
Campbell Hobson Royce Farr Menendez Visclosky 
Canady Hoekstra Salmon Fattah Miller (CA) Volkmer 
Castle Hoke Sanford Fazio Minge Ward 
Chabot Horn Saxton Fields (LA) Mink Waters 
Chambliss Hostettler Scarborough Flake Moakley Watt (NC) 
Chenoweth Houghton Schaefer Foglietta Mollohan Waxman 
Chrysler Hunter Schiff Ford Montgomery Williams 
Clinger Hutchinson Sensenbrenner Frank (MA) Moran Wise 
Coble Hyde Shadegg Frost Murtha Woolsey 
Coburn Inglis Shays Furse Nadler Wyden 
Collins (GA) Istook Shuster Ganske Neal Wynn 
Cooley Johnson, Sam Skeen Gejdenson Nussle Yates 
Cox Jones Smith (MI) Gephardt Oberstar 

Crapo Kasich Smith (NJ) 
Cremeans Kelly Smith (TX) NOT VOTING—28 
Cubin Kim Smith (WA) 

Baker (LA) Gibbons Peterson (FL)

Cunningham King Solomon 

Becerra Green Radanovich

Davis Kingston Souder 

Bevill Greenwood Ros-Lehtinen

Deal Klug Spence 

Bryant (TX) Kolbe Rose

DeLay Knollenberg Stearns 

Callahan Lewis (CA) Sanders

Diaz-Balart LaHood Stockman 

Chapman Manton Seastrand

Dickey Largent Stump 

Crane Martinez Shaw

Doolittle LaTourette Talent 

Dingell Meyers Wilson

Dornan Laughlin Tate 

Fawell Mfume

Dreier Lazio Tauzin 

Filner Packard

Duncan Lewis (KY) Taylor (NC) 
Dunn Linder Thomas 
Ehlers Livingston Tiahrt 

b1948

Ehrlich LoBiondo Torkildsen 
Emerson Longley Upton 

Mr. CHRISTENSEN and Mr. NUSSLE

English Lucas Vucanovich 
Ensign Manzullo Waldholtz changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to no.’’ 
Everett Martini Walker 

So the concurrent resolution was

Ewing McCollum Walsh 
Fields (TX) McCrery Wamp agreed to. 
Flanagan McDade Watts (OK) 

The result of the vote was announced

Foley McHugh Weldon (FL) 
Forbes McInnis Weldon (PA) as above recorded. 
Fowler McIntosh Weller 
Fox McKeon White 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
Franks (CT) Metcalf Whitfield the table. 

THE SOCIAL SECURITY 
GUARANTEE ACT 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 355, I call up the 
bill (H.R. 2924) to guarantee the timely 
payment of Social Security benefits in 
March 1996, and ask for its immediate 
consideration in the House. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The text at H.R. 2924 is as follows: 

H.R. 2924 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. TIMELY PAYMENT OF MARCH 1996 SO


CIAL SECURITY BENEFITS GUARAN


TEED. 

(a) FINDINGS.— 
(1) Congress intends to pass an increase in 
the public debt limit before March 1, 1996. 
(2) In the interim, social security beneficiaries 
should be assured that social security 
benefits will be paid on a timely basis in 
March 1996. 
(b) GUARANTEE OF SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT 
PAYMENTS.—In addition to any other authority 
provided by law, the Secretary of the 
Treasury may issue under chapter 31 of title 
31, United States Code, obligations of the 
United States before March 1, 1996, in an 
amount equal to the monthly insurance benefits 
payable under title II of the Social Security 
Act in March 1996. 
(c) OBLIGATIONS EXEMPT FROM PUBLIC DEBT 
LIMIT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Obligations issued under 
subsection (b) shall not be taken into account 
in applying the limitation in section 
3101(b) of title 31, United States Code. 
(2) TERMINATION OF EXEMPTION—Paragraph 
(1) shall cease to apply on the earlier of— 
(A) the date of the enactment of the first 
increase in the limitation in section 3101(b) 
of title 31, United States Code, after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, or 
(B) March 15, 1996. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WALKER). Pursuant to House Resolution 
355, the gentleman from Texas 
[Mr. ARCHER] will be recognized for 30 
minutes, and the gentleman from New 
York [Mr. RANGEL] will be recognized 
for 30 minutes. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Texas [Mr. ARCHER]. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within 
which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material 
on H.R. 2924, the bill now under consideration. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, the debate we are entering 
into today really should not have 
to occur at all. 

Our Nation is a great nation. We are 
financially sound, and our credit is secure. 
We always have, and we always 
will pay our bills on time and in full. 

Regardless of the occasional wrangling 
that goes on between the White 
House and the Congress, we have always 
found a way to protect the full 
faith and credit of the United States of 


H 1198 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

America, and this year will be no different. 
Republicans in Congress have 
pledged that we will take action to 
raise the debt limit prior to March 1. 
We will fulfill our responsibility, and I 
am confident that the President will 
fulfill his by signing the legislation 
that will come before the end of this 
month. 

That is why I deeply regret President 
Clinton and his advisers have fanned 
the political flames of fear by raising 
the specter that Social Security checks 
will not go out as a result of the current 
debate. 

Mr. Speaker, the bill before us is designed 
to protect America’s seniors 
from the scare campaign President 
Clinton and his allies have been waging 
for political purposes. The Social Security 
checks will go out, and everyone 
knows it. The President is wrong to 
scare senior citizens, and he should not 
use them as pawns in this budget debate. 


But in an effort to reassure our seniors, 
this bill will give them a guarantee 
that they will get their checks no 
matter what President Clinton does. 
With the passage of this bill, President 
Clinton has no excuse not to send out 
Social Security checks. Seniors have 
worked all of their lives and have already 
paid for their Social Security 
checks. The Social Security fund contains 
their money. Seniors deserve 
peace of mind, and this bill gives it to 
them. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, there is no need to debate 
this bill. I do not see where there 
is any need to debate what is going on 
here when the whole world knows exactly 
what it is. 

This has nothing to do with protecting 
the full faith and credit of the 
United States of America. 

The majority party has seen fit to select 
who they want to protect, so this 
week it is the Social Security beneficiaries. 
Who knows, three weeks from 
now it may be the widows, those that 
are left behind from our veterans or 
those that are disabled. Who knows 
how they want to issue their compassion? 


The only question we should have to 
vote on is whether this Congress is prepared 
to pass a clean long-term debt 
ceiling bill. The majority, without consultation, 
without compromise, have 
decided themselves that the only thing 
they want to do is to extend it for a 
couple of weeks to protect the Social 
Security beneficiaries. I hope, Mr. 
Speaker, and Members of the other 
side, that over this so-called break 
when we should be here working that 
you might decide that you want to extend 
that compassion to each and 
every American who deserves not only 
their check but deserves to know that 
the full faith and credit of the United 
States of America will stand tall, notwithstanding 
the fact that there is a 

serious disagreement between both 
sides of the aisle on what our policy 
should be. This should be clean. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Speaker, with the 
understanding and agreement that we 
have had with the minority, I have no 
further speakers, but I will close and 
will yield myself the balance of my 
time with that understanding. 

Mr. Speaker, the individuals that the 
gentleman from New York just referred 
to will also have their checks protected 
by this legislation. Let that be understood. 


But this debate is really not about 
Social Security, and it is not about default. 
It is about our Nation’s debt. Our 
debt stands at over $4.9 trillion and 
growing. 

For a family of 4, their share is 
$72,000, increasing each week by $89, 
each month by $383, and each year by 
$4,594. Sometime, someday, someone 
has to pay this debt, and that someone 
is today’s younger workers, their children, 
and their children’s children. 

What do the Democrats want to do 
with this debt problem? They want us 
to respond by sending more debt to our 
children. It is business as usual. They 
want us to pass a so-called clean debt 
limit. 

Most of them do not support a balanced 
budget, and they want to borrow 
our Nation’s way into deeper debt and 
eventual bankruptcy and default, and 
that is why we believe it is highly appropriate 
to attach to the 1995 debt 
limit bill legislation that puts a down 
payment on deficit reduction and tax 
relief. 

Their strategy is borrow, default and 
blame Republicans. Democrats used 
the 1993 debt limit bill to pass the largest 
tax increase in history, an increase 
even President Clinton admitted was 
‘‘too much.’’ The Democrats think it is 
OK to pass tax hikes on debt limit 
bills, but they oppose reducing spending, 
shrinking the Federal Government, 
and leaving more money in the 
taxpayers’ pockets as a part of the 1995 
debt limit bill. 

b2000 
Republicans believe that there is 
nothing clean, Mr. Speaker, about leaving 
more debt to our children. It is 
wrong to give our children more debt, 
and if the President’s State of the 
Union speech was more than idle 
words, he will agree with our plan to 
put a reasonable and responsible down 
payment on the deficit, on the debt 
limit bill later this month. 
We have kept in this House of Representatives 
every promise we made to 
the American people, and today we can 
assure them we will pass a debt limit 
bill before the first of March. We need 
to pass this bill now to assure and 
guarantee to senior citizens that their 
Social Security checks will go out. 

Mr. GILMAN. Mr. Speaker. I rise to speak in 
support of H.R. 2924, the Social Security 
Guarantee Act. As Congress continues to ne


gotiate with the administration on how to balance 
the budget if is imperative that we ensure 
that Social Security benefits will be paid 
on time. 

It is not right that our Nation’s seniors be 
held hostage to any partisan bickering and the 
failure of the administration to come forward 
with a credible, workable balanced budget. Instead, 
Congress should be doing all it can to 
ensure that our seniors receive their Social 
Security checks on time. As many of us know, 
their Social Security check is all some of our 
seniors have to help pay for their food and 
shelter. 

Accordingly, I urge my colleagues to fully 
support this important measure. 

Mr. SMITH of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, the 
Secretary of Treasury has repeatedly warned 
of the impending collapse of our financial system 
if Republicans did not give up on their 
quest for a balanced budget and simply increase 
the debt limit. His lack of credibility is 
now established. 

His recent statements about not having 
enough cash to make retirement payments on 
March 1 is again designed to put political 
pressure on the Congress in hopes that Congress 
will abandon the balanced budget and 
allow the addition of more debt to the trillions 
that our children will be responsible for. 

This bill will ensure that Social Security payments 
must be made on March 1. It does not 
add to the debt, but it does allow Treasury to 
overcome a timing problem that they have created 
by their claim that they cannot manage 
the cash of this country. 

Under normal circumstances Treasury 
would sell bonds a few days before benefit 
payments are due with a settlement date the 
same as the benefit payment date. Then the 
trust fund is disinvested and the debt limit has 
returned to what it was. Because we are at 
the debt limit Treasury cannot use this normal 
procedure. 

Because the Social Security Trust is void of 
any cash, Treasury must sell securities to 
make benefit payments that come due. This 
bill will allow these securities to be sold outside 
the debt limit, then as the benefit payments 
are met the trust fund securities will be 
redeemed. The securities which were sold will 
then come under the debt limit, so by March 
15, when all benefit checks have been paid, 
the debt will be the same as it was before. 

Congress makes the decision about what 
the pattern of debt will be in the future. The 
current Congress, however, no longer directly 
controls the amount of spending that will occur 
in the near future. This is because of the 
growth of entitlement programs. In 1955, nearly 
nine-tenths of the Federal budget was discretionary 
programs. Today only about one-
third of the budget is discretionary. Congress 
can only alter the spending pattern to match 
its wishes with regard to the time path of debt 
by amending statutes which authorize the entitlement 
programs. Although it is true through 
budget reconciliation Congress does authorize 
mandatory spending, and can thus make 
changes, Congress recently offered such legislation 
under the guise of the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1995. This legislation was vetoed by 
the President. Unlike an appropriations bill, 
which if vetoed results in no spending and no 
additional debt, a veto of a reconciliation bill, 
or changes in mandatory spending through 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1199 

new authorizing legislation, results in continued 
spending under the old programs. The results 
is that, in the case of mandatory spending, 
Congress cannot affect a change and 
alter the time path of debt without the consent 
of the President, unless it has a two-thirds majority 
to override the President’s veto. 

Due to the inextricable link between the entitlement 
programs and the future debt of the 
Federal Government, there is an inextricable 
link between the budget bills and the debt 
limit. To argue that the debt limit is not to be 
tied into the budget process is to miss this 
vital point. Congress’s last hold on its authority 
to borrow money under article 1, section 8 is 
the debt limit. Because the amount of debt 
that will be needed in the future is directly related 
to the amount of spending that will 
occur, the authority to borrow under section 8 
is tied directly to Congress’ authority to spend 
under article 1, section 9. It is quite appropriate 
to link budget bills to debt limit increases. 


Historically, this has been the case. Indeed, 
with the decrease in the share of the budget 
that is accounted for by discretionary spending, 
the linkage has become ever closer. In 
1993, H.R. 2264 raised the debt limit in the 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, which included 
a tax increase of $250 billion. 

In 1990, the debt limit increase incorporated 
the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1990, which 
also included large tax increases. 

In 1987 and 1985 the debt limit increases 
were included in the debate over Gramm-Rudman 
I and II. In recent years, a clean permanent 
increase in the debt limit simply doesn’t 
occur. 

Thomas Jefferson: I place economy among 
the first and most important of Republican virtues, 
and public debt as the greatest of dangers 
to be feared. 

Mr. STOKES. Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly 
urge my colleagues to support the passage of 
a clean debt limit extension bill. The American 
people must clearly understand why this is so 
critical. If the Congress fails to pass the measure 
before the first of March, the Government 
will not be able to pay its bills. 

For the first time in history, Social Security 
and Veterans’ benefits checks could bounce, 
citizens’ tax refunds could be withheld, those 
doing business with the Government could not 
be paid including hospitals, and mortgage payments 
could increase. 

With so much work left to be done on critical 
pieces of legislation—especially the debt 
limit, I strongly urge my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle not to recess. This irresponsible 
approach to the management of the 
Government must end. The Republicans’ politically 
contrived shutdown of the Federal 
Government has already cost the country over 
$1.5 billion. This did not reduce the deficit, it 
increased the deficit. Such blatant waste must 
not be tolerated. 

The GOP majority in Congress is continuing 
to recklessly and needlessly place the country’s 
economic future and seniors’, veterans’, 
and children’s quality of life and standard of 
living at risk in order to give a tax break to the 
rich. 

This hostile takeover must end. We would 
not tolerate such threats to our economy, our 
national security, and our children’s future 
from our foreign colleagues, and the American 
people must not tolerate political tactics that 
could lead to economic ruin from our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle. 

Fowler Lewis (GA) Roth 
Fox Lewis (KY) Roukema

Mr. Speaker, the House must not adjourn. 

We are 4 months into the 1996 fiscal year, 

Frank (MA) Lightfoot Roybal-Allardand it is now time to start action on the fiscal Franks (CT) Lincoln Royce 

year 1997 budget, yet action is still pending on Franks (NJ) Linder Rush 
Frelinghuysen Lipinski Sabo

5 of the 13 fiscal year 1996 appropriations 

Frisa Livingston Salmon

bills. 

Frost LoBiondo Sawyer 
I strongly urge my colleagues to stop hold-Funderburk Lofgren Saxton 
ing the American people hostage, put an end 

Furse Longley Scarborough 
Ganske Lowey Schaefer

to operating the Government on piecemeal 

Gejdenson Lucas Schiff 
continuing resolutions—pass a clean debt limit Gekas Luther Schroeder 

extension bill, and complete action on the re-Gephardt Maloney Schumer 
Geren Manzullo Scott

maining fiscal year 1996 appropriations bills. 

Gilchrest Markey Sensenbrenner

Mr. STOKES. Mr. Chairman, we 

Gillmor Martini Serrano 
choose not to respond, and I yield back Gilman Mascara Shadegg 
the balance of my time. 

Gonzalez Matsui Shays 
Goodlatte McCarthy Shuster

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 

Goodling McCollum Sisiskyback the balance of my time. Gordon McCrery Skaggs 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Goss McDade Skeen 
Graham McDermott Skelton

WALKER). Pursuant to House Resolu-

Greenwood McHale Slaughter

tion 355, the previous question is or-Gunderson McHugh Smith (MI) 
dered. Gutierrez McInnis Smith (NJ) 
Gutknecht McIntosh Smith (TX)

The question is on the engrossment 

Hall (OH) McKeon Smith (WA)

and third reading of the bill. 

Hall (TX) McKinney Souder 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed Hamilton McNulty Spence 

and read a third time, and was read the Hancock Meek Spratt 

Hansen Menendez Stark

third time. 

Harman Metcalf Stearns 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Hastert Mica Stenholm 

question is on the passage of the bill. Hastings (FL) Miller (CA) Stockman 
Hastings (WA) Miller (FL) Stokes

The question was taken; and the 

Hayes Minge Studds

Speaker pro tempore announced that 

Hayworth Mink Stumpthe aye appeared to have it. Hefley Molinari Stupak 
Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Speaker, I object Hefner Mollohan Talent 

Heineman Montgomery Tanner

to the vote on the ground that a 

Herger Moorhead Tate 
quorum is not present and make the Hilleary Moran Tauzin 

point of order that a quorum is not Hilliard Morella Taylor (MS) 
Hinchey Murtha Taylor (NC)

present. 

Hobson Myers Tejeda

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evi-

Hoke Myrick Thomas 
dently a quorum is not present. Holden Nadler Thompson 
The Sergeant at Arms will notify ab-

Horn Neal Thornberry 
Hostettler Nethercutt Thornton

sent Members. 

Houghton Neumann Thurman 
The vote was taken by electronic de-Hoyer Ney Tiahrt 

vice, and there were—yeas 396, nays 0, Hunter Norwood Torkildsen 
Hutchinson Nussle Torres

not voting 37, as follows: 

Hyde Oberstar Torricelli 
[Roll No. 30] Inglis Obey Towns 

YEAS—396 

Istook Olver Traficant 
Jackson (IL) Ortiz Upton

Abercrombie Bunn Deal 

Jackson-Lee Orton VelazquezAckerman Bunning DeFazio 

(TX) Owens Vento 

Allard Burr DeLauro 

Jefferson Oxley Visclosky

Andrews Buyer DeLay 

Johnson (CT) Pallone Volkmer 
Archer Camp Dellums 

Johnson (SD) Parker Vucanovich 

Armey Campbell Deutsch 

Johnson, E. B. Pastor Waldholtz 

Bachus Canady Dickey 

Johnson, Sam Paxon Walker 
Baesler Cardin Dicks 

Johnston Payne (NJ) Walsh 

Baker (CA) Castle Dingell 

Jones Payne (VA) Wamp

Baldacci Chabot Dixon 

Kanjorski Pelosi Ward 
Ballenger Chambliss Doggett 

Kaptur Peterson (MN) Waters 

Barcia Chenoweth Dooley 

Kasich Petri Watt (NC)

Barr Christensen Doolittle 

Kelly Pickett Watts (OK)
Barrett (NE) Chrysler Dornan 

Kennedy (MA) Pombo Waxman 

Barrett (WI) Clay Doyle 

Kennedy (RI) Pomeroy Weldon (FL)

Bartlett Clayton Dreier 

Kennelly Porter Weldon (PA)
Barton Clement Duncan 

Kildee Portman Weller 

Bass Clinger Dunn 

Kim Poshard White 

Bateman Clyburn Durbin 

King Pryce Whitfield 
Beilenson Coble Edwards 

Kingston Quillen Wicker 

Bentsen Coburn Ehlers 

Kleczka Quinn Williams 

Bereuter Coleman Ehrlich 

Klink Rahall Wise 
Bilbray Collins (GA) Emerson 

Klug Ramstad Wolf 

Bilirakis Collins (IL) Engel 

Knollenberg Rangel Woolsey

Bishop Collins (MI) English 

LaHood Reed WydenBliley Combest Ensign 

Lantos Regula Wynn

Blute Condit Eshoo 

Largent Richardson Yates 

Boehlert Conyers Evans 

Latham Riggs Young (AK)
Boehner Cooley Everett 

LaTourette Rivers Young (FL)

Bonilla Costello Farr 

Laughlin Roberts Zeliff 

Bonior Cox Fattah 

Lazio Roemer Zimmer 
Bono Coyne Fawell 

Leach Rogers

Borski Cramer Fazio 

Levin Rohrabacher 

Boucher Crane Fields (LA) 
Brewster Crapo Fields (TX) NOT VOTING—37 
Browder Cremeans Flake 

Baker (LA) Burton Ewing

Brown (CA) Cubin Flanagan 

Becerra Callahan Filner

Brown (FL) Cunningham Foglietta 

Berman Calvert Gallegly

Brown (OH) Danner Foley 

Bevill Chapman Gibbons

Brownback Davis Forbes 

Bryant (TX) Diaz-Balart Green

Bryant (TN) de la Garza Ford 


H 1200 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Hoekstra Meyers Sanders Thank you for your consideration in this There was no objection.
Jacobs Mfume Sanford 

matter. 

Kolbe Moakley Seastrand 
LaFalce Packard Shaw 
Lewis (CA) Peterson (FL) Solomon 
Manton Radanovich Wilson 
Martinez Ros-Lehtinen 
Meehan Rose 

b2018 

Mrs. CLAYTON changed her vote 
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’ 

So the bill was passed. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Mr. SANFORD. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. 
30, my wife Jenny is about to have our third 
child and the doctor says if I don’t leave now 
I will be missing the big event. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ 

f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably 
absent during the votes on default legislation. 
If I had been present, I would have voted 
‘‘nay’’ on the motions to table the appeal of 
the ruling of the Chair with regards to the resolutions 
offered by Mr. GEPHARDT (rollcall No. 

26) and Ms. JACKSON-LEE (rollcall No. 27), I 
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on the ordering of the 
previous question on House Resolution 355 
(rollcall No. 28). I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on 
H. Con. Res. 141 (rollcall No. 29). I would 
have voted ‘‘yea’’ on H.R. 2924 (rollcall No. 
30). 
f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, due to a hearing 
on future energy policy by the House Resources 
Committee, which I served as chairman, 
I was unavoidably detained, and thus 
unable to vote for final passage of H.R. 2924. 

Had I been present, I would have voted 
‘‘yea’’ on the Social Security Guarantee Act— 

H.R. 2924. I feel it is absolutely imperative to 
express Congress’ intention to pass legislation 
increasing the public debt limit before March 
1, 1996, and ensure that March Social Security 
benefits will be paid on time. 
Senior citizens should not be held hostage 
on account of the budget deliberations we are 
holding today. I will continue to fight for a balanced 
budget by the turn of the century, and 
at the same time, protect America’s obligations 
to its seniors. 

f 


RESIGNATION AS MEMBER AND 

ELECTION AS MEMBER OF COM


MITTEE ON THE BUDGET 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF) laid before the House the following 
resignation as a member of the 
Committee on the Budget: 

FEBRUARY 1, 1996. 
Hon. NEWT GINGRICH, 
Speaker of the House, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to your letter 
dated Jan. 29, 1996, I hereby resign as a 
member of the House Committee on the 
Budget, effective immediately. 

Sincerely, 
PETE HOEKSTRA, 

Member of Congress. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 

objection, the resignation is accepted. 

There was no objection. 

Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Republican Conference, I 
offer a privileged resolution, House 
Resolution 357, and ask for its immediate 
consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution as follows: 
H. RES. 357 
Resolved, That the following named Member 
be, and he is hereby, elected to the following 
standing committee of the House of 
Representatives: 
Committee on Budget: Mr. Neumann of 

Wisconsin. 

The resolution was agreed to. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


DESIGNATION OF HON. CONSTANCE 

A. MORELLA TO ACT AS SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE TO SIGN ENROLLED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
THROUGH FEBRUARY 
26, 1996 
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker of the 
House: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

February 1, 1996. 

I hereby designate the Honorable Constance 
A. Morella to act as Speaker pro tempore 
to sign enrolled bills and joint resolutions 
through Monday, February 26, 1996. 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, the designation is agreed to. 

There was no objection. 

f 


RESIGNATION FROM THE HOUSE 
OF REPRESENTATIVES 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following resignation 
from the House of Representatives: 


WASHINGTON, DC, 

January 19, 1996. 

Hon. NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Attached herewith is a 
copy of my letter of resignation as presented 
to the Governor of the State of Maryland, 
the Honorable Parris N. Glendening. 

Effective February 18, 1996, I am resigning 
as Representative to the United States Congress 
from Maryland’s 7th Congressional District. 


Sincerely, 

KWEISI MFUME, 

Member of Congress. 

f 


REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 2281 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that my name be withdrawn 
as a cosponsor of H.R. 2281. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Connecticut? 

f 


AWARDING CONGRESSIONAL GOLD 

MEDAL TO RUTH AND BILLY 

GRAHAM 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent to take from the 
Speaker’s table the bill (H.R. 2657) to 
award a congressional gold medal to 
Ruth and Billy Graham, with the Senate 
amendment thereto and concur in 
the Senate amendment. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The Clerk read the Senate amendment, 
as follows: 

Page 4, strike out lines 8 through 19. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Delaware? 

Mr. FLAKE. Mr. Speaker, reserving 
the right to object, and of course I will 
not object to this particular bill, but I 
yield to the gentleman from Delaware 
[Mr. CASTLE] so that he might explain 
the Senate changes in H.R. 2657. 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, Members 
may recall that in the past week or 
two, we passed H.R. 2657, which was a 
bill to award a congressional gold 
medal to Ruth and Billy Graham. 
Members on both sides of the aisle, 
with the exception of one, voted for 
this. It was supported almost unanimously 
in this body, 403 ‘‘yes’’ votes at 
that time, and there was no known opposition. 


Mr. Speaker, tonight the Senate 
amended H.R. 2657 deleting section 5, 
and it is a small change to the legislation. 
But because it takes some time to 
get this ready, they wanted to run this 
through tonight to get it done. Mr. 
Speaker, we have no objection to the 
change and wanted to put it before the 
House tonight. 

Mr. FLAKE. Mr. Speaker, reclaiming 
my time, I, of course, concur with the 
changes of the Senate. I am proud to 
share with the gentleman from Delaware 
[Mr. CASTLE] in our support of 
this particular legislation and for Reverend 
and Mrs. Billy Graham. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge our colleagues to 
congratulate them for putting themselves 
in the position to be worthy of 
having a medal of honor named after 
them. 

Mr. Speaker, I withdraw my reservation 
of objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Delaware? 

There was no objection. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


GRANTING MEMBERS OF THE 
HOUSE PRIVILEGE TO REVISE 
AND EXTEND REMARKS IN CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD ON LEGISLATIVE 
DAY OF TODAY 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that for the legislative 
day of today, all Members be permitted 
to extend their remarks and to 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1201 

include extraneous material in that 
section of the RECORD entitled Extension 
of Remarks. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is their 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Delaware? 

There was no objection. 

f 


AUTHORIZING THE SPEAKER AND 
MINORITY LEADER TO ACCEPT 
RESIGNATIONS AND MAKE APPOINTMENTS, 
NOTWITHSTANDING 
ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that notwithstanding 
adjournment of the House until 
Monday, February 26, 1996, the Speaker 
and the minority leader be authorized 
to accept resignations and to make appointments 
authorized by law or by the 
House. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is their 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Delaware? 

There was no objection. 

f 


DISPENSING WITH CALENDAR 

WEDNESDAY BUSINESS ON 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1996 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the business 
in order under the Calendar Wednesday 
rule be dispensed with on Wednesday, 
February 28, 1996. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is their 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Delaware? 

There was no objection. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of May 12, 1995, and 
under a previous order of the House, 
the following Members will be recognized 
for 5 minutes each. 

f 


THE NATION’S BUSINESS HAS NOT 
BEEN TAKEN CARE OF 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Missouri [Mr. VOLKMER] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. VOLKMER. Mr. Speaker, and 
what few Members are left, here we go 
again. It is interesting to see how this 
House has been run. We have not done 
very much. We took all last year, we 
ended up doing less than what they 
have done all the way back to 1933. We 
have not really done the Nation’s businesses. 


We have never appropriated now two, 
I guess, the D.C. appropriation bill has 
finally been passed but there is still 
one hanging over in the Senate. We had 
to appropriate the money for the foreign 
affairs by continuing resolution. 

Now we have all run home. I do not 
know what for. I do not know why everybody 
is going home. I am not. I am 
staying, and I will be honest. If my colleagues 
want to do something tomor


row, I will be here tomorrow. If my colleagues 
want to do something next 
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, anytime 
next week, I can be here. The following 
week? I could be here. 

We have to run off. And my farmers 
back home and all over this Nation, especially 
in the South, there is a great 
deal of uncertainty about what kind of 
program they are going to have or even 
if they are going to have a program. To 
be honest with my colleagues, the way 
the Committee on Agriculture and the 
chairman thereof and the Members of 
the majority have decided to go, there 
is not going to be a program. The bill 
that came out of that committee, if 
that is the bill that goes to the President, 
is going to be vetoed. It has already 
been vetoed once. It will be vetoed 
again. 

Now if my colleagues want to wait 
until March or sometime to find out 
that we really have not done anything, 
so be it. There is nothing I can do 
about that. I am not in control. I am 
not in the majority. 

I do not know why the Members 
voted to adjourn until February 26. We 
could easily do a farm bill next week. 
Now, in 1977, when we had a farm bill, 
we had it under an open rule and it 
took about 4 days to do it. In 1981, 
when we did a farm bill, we had an 
open rule, and it took about 31/2 to 4 
days to do. In 1985 it took about a 
week, 5 days to do it. In 1990, 3 days to 
do it again. 

But the chairman of the Committee 
on Agriculture we presently have has 
requested an almost completely closed 
rule. 

b2030 
One amendment in the nature of a 
substitute, one motion to recommit, 
that is it. Everybody else, shut up. In 
other words, I, who come from a rural 
district and have a lot of farmers, have 
some ideas about agriculture, but have 
no opportunity on this floor at all to 
offer even one amendment. 
Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. Speaker, will 
the gentleman yield? 
Mr. VOLKMER. I yield to the gentleman 
from Georgia. 
Mr. CHAMBLISS. Did the gentleman 
ask for an amendment to the bill in the 
meeting the other day? I missed it. Did 
the gentleman offer an amendment the 
other day? 
Mr. VOLKMER. I sure did, to get rid 
of the three-entity rule. The one that 
permits—it is my time, Mr. Speaker. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Missouri has the time. 
Mr. VOLKMER. I offered an amendment 
to get rid of the three-entity 
rule, the one that under that bill gives 
the big cotton farmer down in Texas 
and other places, and some of the rice 
farmers, $80,000 a year, folks, for 7 
years. They do not even have to farm. 
I do not think that is right. 
I do not think we need welfare in agriculture. 
My farmers do not want freedom 
to farm or freedom not to farm. 
My farmers, even the best, and I just 

talked to one again yesterday, he has 
been very active in Missouri. It does 
not take a position on this farm bill of 
yours. I do not know of many farmers 
in my area of northern Missouri that 
do. 

They do not want to be paid by the 
Government. They want money from 
the marketplace. That is where they 
want their money. Yet you want to 
give them money every year; even if 
they make 1 million bucks, or if they 
make $100,000, you want to give them 
money. They do not want your money 
under those circumstances. 

They will be willing to take the 
money if the times are bad and they 
need it and prices are low; then, yes, 
they would like to have a little help to 
get through. I am willing to give them 
that help. But I do not think it is right 
to give major corporations in this 
country, major corporations, $80,000 a 
year, even if they make a half a million 
on their farm operations. 

At the same time, you are cutting 
back on all other programs, and the 
biggest thing out of this whole farm 
bill mess, the biggest thing out of this 
mess, what they are doing on the majority 
side is they are cutting $13 billion 
in the next 7 years out of agriculture, 
$13 billion out of agriculture. 
Why? So they can give their wealthy 
friends a big tax break. It is all part of 
the tax-break money. 

It is not necessary. If you looked at 
the Democratic coalition budget, you 
do not have to make that cut in agriculture. 
We do not have to do that. 

Let us stay here next week and do a 
farm bill, a good farm bill, and not the 
lousy freedom not to farm. You do not 
have to farm to get your payment, 
folks. 

f 


1999 WOMEN’S WORLD CUP 
TOURNAMENT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from Maryland [Mrs. MORELLA] 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mrs. MORELLA. Mr. Speaker, in an 
effort to support the continued growth 
of women’s sports in general, and of 
women’s soccer in particular, I, along 
with 37 House colleagues, have introduced 
a resolution recognizing and supporting 
the efforts of the U.S. Soccer 
Federation in bringing the 1999 Women’s 
World Cup tournament to the 
United States. 

Recent evidence demonstrates that 
there is unprecedented interest in the 
sport of soccer in the United States— 
the 1994 men’s games had the highest 
attendance and the largest viewership 
of any World Cup ever. On the heels of 
this success, the U.S. Soccer Federation 
has resolved to submit a formal 
bid to the Federation Internationale de 
Football Association [FIFA] to host 
the 1999 Women’s World Cup. 

The Women’s World Cup tournament, 
like the men’s, is hosted every 4 years 
by a different country. It is considered 
the most important women’s soccer 


H 1202 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

tournament in the world; the 1995 
Women’s World Cup was broadcast to 
millions of fans in 67 nations. 

Our country’s previous participation 
in this event has displayed to the world 
the abilities and dedication of our gifted 
female athletes. The U.S. National 
Team won the inaugural title in 1991, 
and finished third in last year’s event 
before sold-out crowds. We now have 
the opportunity to afford the American 
people the chance to see their athletes 
represent them in person at the highest 
level. 

In order for the U.S. Soccer Federation 
to successfully submit a bid to the 
Federation Internationale de Football 
Association, it must show that it has 
the support of our Government. In 1987, 
a similar resolution was passed to demonstrate 
support for the U.S. bid to 
host the 1994 World Cup. Additionally, 
the White House has already pledged 
its support for the event and will designate 
a senior administrative official 
to be its representative to the Women’s 
World Cup. 

This is an exciting time of growth for 
women’s athletics and U.S. soccer. By 
supporting the U.S. Soccer Federation’s 
bid to host the 1999 Women’s 
World Cup tournament, we can help be 
a part of this growth and reaffirm our 
commitment to American athletic excellence 
and the good will and competitive 
spirit that these games represent. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia 
[Ms. NORTON] is recognized for 5 minutes. 


[Ms. NORTON addressed the House. 
Her remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.] 

f 


NCI ELIMINATES MAMMOGRAPHY 
GUIDELINES 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from New York [Mr. TOWNS] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, in 1989, the 
National Cancer Institute [NCI] recommended 
that women age 40 to 49 undergo 
biennial mammography screening 
and an annual mammography at 
age 50. Six years later, without the 
consensus of any medical or cancer organizations 
and against the recommendation 
of its own national advisory 
board, NCI eliminated its mammography 
guidelines for women in the 
40 to 49 age group. 

Last Congress, Mr. Speaker, the Subcommittee 
on Human Resources and 
Intergovernmental Relations, which I 
formerly chaired, found that the elimination 
of these guidelines was without 
scientific foundation. In fact, the subcommittee 
issued a report entitled 
‘‘Misused Science: The National Cancer 
Institute’s Elimination of Mammography 
Guidelines for Women in Their 
Forties.’’ In that report, we recommend 
that ‘‘NCI further research on 

American women, in the 40 to 49 age 
group, to determine the importance of 
mammography screening. 

Fortunately, others have produced 
new research to demonstrate that both 
early detection and screening in younger 
women can be beneficial in combating 
this disease. Of the 180,000 cases of 
breast cancer that are diagnosed each 
year at least two-thirds, if detected 
early enough, give women the choice of 
a breast-conserving procedure—a 
lumpectomy, rather than a mastectomy. 
Moreover, a recent CBS investigative 
report by Michele Gillen has 
highlighted the importance of mammography 
screening in the early detection 
of breast cancer and the inability 
of the NCI to explain its abrupt 
changes to the guidelines in 1993. 

Even more troubling is the fact that 
the Gillen investigation has uncovered 
that NCI now wants to back away from 
recommending any mammographies for 
women age 50 and over. 

This kind of callous attitude could 
lead to insurance companies refusing 
to cover the cost of mammography 
screenings. Over 40,000 women will die 
from this disease in 1996. If you can 
recommend an appropriate daily allowance 
for vegetables in the American 
diet, you should be able to recommend 
life-saving screenings for American 
women. 

I say to NCI tonight don’t eliminate 
the only tool American women have to 
protect themselves against breast cancer. 
Retain the original 1989 guidelines 
for mammography screenings and self-
breast exams. 

f 


THINK TWICE, COMMUNIST CHINA, 

BEFORE YOU USE FORCE 

AGAINST TAIWAN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from California [Mr. HORN] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. HORN. Mr. Speaker, the diplomatic 
recognition of the government in 
Beijing in 1979 did not end our relationship 
with Taiwan. The Taiwan Relations 
Act of 1979 formally reiterated 
United States support for the people of 
Taiwan. Since 1979, U.S. relations have 
grown steadily closer with both the 
People’s Republic and the Republic of 
China within the framework of ‘‘One 
China, Two Systems.’’ Despite the 
growing interaction of the United 
States with both governments, a dark 
cloud hangs over future peaceful development. 
This dark cloud is the refusal 
of the Beijing Government to renounce 
the use of force against Taiwan. 

Beijing still regards Taiwan as a renegade 
province that is destined to return 
to the motherland of China—by 
peaceful means if possible, by force if 
necessary. If the people of Taiwan freely 
and fairly choose to reunite with the 
mainland—which they have not yet 
done—then that is their business. If the 
people of Taiwan are forced to reunite 
with the mainland—or are intimidated 
into doing so—then that situation will 

become the business of the whole 
world, including the United States of 
America. The people of Taiwan are 
friends of the United States, as we are 
friends with them. We respect the aspirations 
of the Taiwanese and support 
them in the pursuit of their dreams. 

Increasingly, the people of Taiwan 
also seek a role in governing themselves—
a dream that will be fully realized 
on March 23 when they freely elect 
their own president and national assembly. 
This free election is the culmination 
of years of reform in the political 
process in Taiwan. It is an obvious 
contradiction to those who say 
that Asian cultures cannot and do not 
support widespread democratic reforms. 
That is the view by many of the 
autocrats of Asia. Sadly, it is also the 
view within some Western circles. 
March 23 will be an historic date in the 
advance of freedom during this troubled 
century. 

There is no freedom for the 1.1 billion 
people of mainland China. There is 
growing economic freedom. But the 
aging Communist oligarchy that rules 
the People’s Republic of China is out of 
step with the aspirations of its own dynamic 
citizenry. 

Now, in recent weeks, officials of the 
government in Beijing have recklessly 
escalated their rhetoric, threatening 
the lives of not only the people of Taiwan, 
but even the United States. In an 
appalling turn, the veiled threat of nuclear 
destruction has been leveled 
against Taiwan and the United States. 
Apparently, the mainland Chinese believe 
that the people of the United 
States, and Congress, will be cowed by 
their bluster. They are wrong. 

Shortly before the invasion of South 
Korea in June, 1950, it was suggested by 
the American Secretary of State that 
the Korean peninsula was outside of direct 
United States interests. This 
played a large part in encouraging the 
leaders of North Korea that the United 
States would not interfere with their 
plans to reunify Korea by force. The recently 
dedicated memorial on the Mall 
to the thousands of Americans who 
died to prevent aggression is proof that 
they were wrong. It would be a tragic 
mistake for the current leaders in 
Beijing to make the same mistake that 
their then allies in North Korea made 
nearly a half century ago. It is time for 
the President to clarify a somewhat 
stealth China policy that could invite 
disaster for the people of China, Taiwan, 
and the United States. 

The United States supports peace, 
and will welcome the opportunity to 
discuss and resolve our current differences 
with the people of China. The 
people of the United States have no 
dispute with the Chinese. We share 
many of the same interests. We agree 
on many important issues. It would be 
foolish to throw away years of careful 
progress. That progress has led to mutual 
friendship and mutual respect. 
That progress should not stop over aggressive 
moves that threaten peace. 
Unfortunately, recent actions by the 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1203 

Government of the People’s Republic of 
China suggest that these hopes are not 
important to that current government. 

This, however, begs an important 
question: Is this situation important to 
the Chinese people? Do the people of 
China support the bellicose statements 
of their government? We have no way 
of knowing because, of course, their 
government has not asked them, and 
does not care what its own people 
think. This is why the United States 
supports Taiwan, and that is a fundamental 
reality that those in Beijing 
cannot ignore. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask consent to include 
the House Republican Policy Committee 
statement concerning ‘‘Communist 
China’s Taiwan Invasion Threat.’’ 

COMMUNIST CHINA’S TAIWAN INVASION THREAT 
On January 30, Communist China’s Premier 
Li Peng emphasized that in trying to 
absorb Taiwan as ‘‘a region of China . . . in 
the final analysis, we cannot promise to give 
up the use of force.’’ 
This statement is the latest example of the 
PRC ratcheting up unsubtle threats against 
Taiwan. In recent weeks, Chinese Communist 
leaders told American visitors that 
the PRC was preparing a plan for a sustained 
attack on Taiwan should it pursue a policy 
that they deemed too ‘‘independent.’’ These 
threats against Taiwan were coupled with 
threats of attack on the U.S. should we seek 
to protect Taiwan—a remarkable slap in the 
face to the President after three years of the 
Administration’s ‘‘engagement’’ policy, and 
in a region the Administration has highlighted 
as its top foreign policy priority. 
While a number of observers have been 
startled by Communist China’s most recent 
provocations, its threats against Taiwan are 
part of a pattern aggressive behavior in territorial 
deputes in the Asia-Pacific region. 
Moreover, Communist China’s economy and 
military structure have recently undergone 
enormous changes, including a sustained 
nine-percent economic growth rate and dramatic—
and ominous—transformation of the 
military’s force structure and doctrine. This 
recent growth and modernization of the 
Communist Chinese military threatens vital 

U.S. national security interests in Asia. 
A GROWING PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY 
Trends in People’s Liberation Army (PLA) 
expenditures for foreign military technology 
over the last decade reveal an emphasis on 
force projection through air and naval 
power, with a 2:3:5 ration for the Communist 
Chinese Army, Navy, and Air Force respectively. 
In 1992, Admiral Liu Hauqing, Vice-
Chairman of the Central Military Commission 
and the PRC’s highest ranking military 
officer, publicly affirmed that the PLA Air 
Force and Navy would remain primary recipients 
of funding for foreign military technology 
and weapon systems. Recent notable 
purchases include: 26 Su 27 Soviet fighters 
from Russia (with an additional 26 under negotiation); 
24 Mil Mi 17 helicopters from Soviet 
Union; 10 I1–76 heavy transport planes 
from Russia; In-flight refueling technology; 
100 Russian S–300 surface-to-air missiles and 
four mobile launchers; Rocket engines and 
missile guidance technology from Russia; 
Uranium enrichment technology and nuclear 
reactors from Russia; Airborne Early Warning 
(AEW) technology from Israel; Stinger 
anti-aircraft missiles from the U.S.; 100 
Klimov/Sarkisov RD33 jet engines from Russia; 
Avionics from US for F–8II fighters; Artillery 
munitions production equipment 
from the U.S.; Mark 46 MOD 2 anti-submarine 
torpedoes from U.S.; 50 T–72 tanks 

from Russia; and 2–4 Kilo-class conventional 
submarines from Russia. 

The PLA has recently given a greater degree 
of attention to development of combined 
arms, rapid deployment units, air mobility, 
and a blue-water naval capability. 
Doctrinal changes, weapon systems modernization, 
and imports of advanced foreign 
weapons systems indicate an interest in increasing 
the PRC’s ability to project power 
beyond its borders. Similarly, Beijing has 
announced its plans to develop two 45,000-ton 
aircraft carriers within the next decade, and 
the PLA is already capable of conducting 
military actions in close proximity to China’s 
borders. 

The PLA’s greater emphasis on force 
project through the development of naval 
and air power resulted in substantial 
changes in budget allocations. The PRC’s official 
defense budget has expanded every 
year since 1989, for an increases of 141 percent. 
The annual increase are as follows: 
1989, 13%; 1990, 15.5%; 1991, 12%; 1992, 13.8%; 
1993, 13.9%; 1994, 20.3%; and 1995, 25%. 

Beijing argues that these six years of hikes 
were offset by 130 percent inflation. Yet the 
PRC’s stated defense budget does not include 
research and development, military education, 
and extra-budgetary appropriations, 
such as the 1992 purchase of 26 Shukhoi-27 
fighters from Russia. Modest salaries, free 
housing, and free medical services represent 
far lower outlays for pay and benefits for 
military personnel than in the West; hence, 
more of the PRC’s defense budget goes to 
hardware. 

Assessing the real value of Communist China’s 
defense budget is extraordinarily difficult 
because of the aforementioned vehicles, 
unknown levels of civilian production 
from the PRC’s military-industrial complex, 
and Beijing’s reluctance to publish accurate 
statistics. As a result, comparative analyses 
of the PRC’s defense budget range from $18 
to $90 billion. 

CHINESE COMMUNIST AGGRESSION IN DISPUTES 
WITH TAIWAN AND ELSEWHERE 

The recent PLA buildup in land, sea, and 
air forces and the overall increase in military 
spending in the last six years are fueling 
the fears of Communist China’s neigh-
bors—especially Taiwan. The buildup aggravates 
a number of longstanding disputes in 
Asia involving the PRC. series of overt Communist 
Chinese provocations have further 
heightened tensions in the region. 

One of Asia’s most volatile strategic issues 
is the relationship between the PRC and Taiwan. 
Beijing has repeatedly declared its intent 
to use military force against Taiwan 
should the latter move toward independence. 
The PLA regularly holds large-scale combined 
air and naval exercises in close proximity 
to Taiwan. The most recent exercises 
coincided with Taiwan’s national legislative 
elections and were designated to browbeat 
the Taiwanese electorate and show that 
Beijing is serious about using force in the 
event the island chooses an independent 
course. The PRC fired six nuclear-capable 
missiles in July 1995 about 100 miles north of 
Taiwan, shortly after Taiwanese President 
Lee Teng-hui’s visit to his alma mater, Cornell 
University. 

The PRC’s belligerence has recently been 
raised to a new plane. Chinese Communist 
political and military leaders told former 
Assistant Secretary of Defense Chas Freeman 
that the PRC had drafted plans to attack 
Taiwan with conventional missile 
strikes for 30 days if President Less refuses 
to desist in his calls for international recognition. 
Beijing’s threatening statements 
and actions towards Taiwan are profoundly 
troubling, at a time when Taiwan prepares 
to fully enter the worlds family of democ


racies by holding its first free presidential 
election in March 1996. 

Ownership of the Paracel and Spratly Islands 
is one of the most contentious territorial 
issues in Asia. The strategically-located 
Spratly Islands extend some seven 
hundred miles south of mainland China and 
hold oil and natural gas reserves of an estimated 
45 billion tons, valued at $1.5 trillion. 
The island chains are claimed by seven nations 
(the PRC, Brunei, Taiwan, Vietnam, 
Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines), 
with five (all but Brunei and Indonesia) deploying 
military forces in the area. 

In July 1992, Vietnam signed a contract for 
Spratly Island oil exploration rights with 
the Mobil Oil Corporation. Exploration was 
blocked by PLA naval forces. And in February 
1995, Communist China was discovered 
to have established an outpost on Mischief 
Reef, located in part of the Spratly Islands 
claimed by the Philippines. In March, the 
Philippine Navy responded by destroying 
small structures and concrete markers the 
PRC had erected on three reefs. Since then, 
PLA and Philippine warships have provoked 
each other, and both nations have detained 
the other’s fishing ships in the area. 

Communist China has additional territorial 
disputes with Japan over the 
Senkaku-Shoto Islands and with India concerning 
the Himalayan frontier, a dispute 
that led to armed conflict between India and 
China in 1962. Moreover, the Communist regime 
faces separatist movements in the 
northwestern provinces of Xinjiang, Ningxia, 
Inner Mongolia and Tibet. The PLA build-up 
has ominous implications for how the PRC 
might employ expanded military capabilities 
both abroad and at home. 

U.S. INTERESTS AND CLINTON ADMINISTRATION 
VACILLATION 
The U.S. has an immense economic stake 
in stability in the Asia-Pacific region, which 
accounts for more than 36 percent of U.S. 
international trade. Seventy percent of Asia-
Pacific oil transits the South China Sea and 
the Spratly Island chain. Communist China’s 
bellicose approach to territorial disputes in 
that region could affect a significant part of 
American foreign commerce. 

The United States has a substantial stake 
in supporting fledgling and established democracies 
in Asia, and a special stake in supporting 
Taiwan. Taiwan is America’s sixth 
largest trading partner, with hard currency 
reserves of over $90 billion. Also, the Taiwan 
Relations Act of 1979 implies a commitment 
of U.S. assistance in the event of foreign aggression. 


Recently, as a sign of its commitment to 
Taiwan, the Congress initiated legislation to 
permit the sale of F–16 aircraft to that nation 
and to support Li Teng-hui’s visit to the 

U.S. Unfortunately, the Clinton Administration 
has made its commitment to supporting 
Taiwan anything but crystal clear. In the 
event of military attack by the PRC on Taiwan, 
a senior State Department official was 
quoted by U.S. News & World Report on October 
30, 1995 as saying, Clinton Administration 
policy is ‘‘meant to be ambiguous. . . . 
You don’t really know what would happen 
until you get there . . . we would not be in 
a position to react with force. We would not 
elect to do that I’m sure.’’ Such a posture 
seems quite unambiguous, and it’s small 
wonder that the Chinese Communist leaders 
view the Administration’s policy as a green 
light to bully Taiwan—or worse. One Chinese 
leader told Chas Freeman that the PRC does 
not fear retribution from the U.S. because 
American leaders ‘‘care more about Los Angeles 
than they do about Taiwan,’’ which the 
former Clinton Administration official interpreted 
as a threat to use nuclear weapons 
against the U.S. should it defend Taiwan. 

H 1204 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Clinton’s Taiwan policy is not an isolated 
case of weakness encouraging the PRC’s bellicosity. 
The Clinton Administration has 
squandered U.S. credibility through a dizzying 
series of policy flip-flops and retreats in 
the region. The most noticeable reversal to 
the PRC was on most-favored nation (MFN) 
trade status. Candidate Clinton excoriated 
President Bush for kowtowing to the PRC’s 
leadership after the Tianenmen massacre of 
June 1989. In May 1993, Clinton issued an Executive 
Order formally linking the PRC’s 
MFN status to progress on human rights in 
Communist China, which he had charged 
Bush with overlooking. Then, on May 26, 
1994—almost exactly one year after the Executive 
Order—President Clinton tore up the 
Order, separating MFN trade status from 
human rights. 

Another Asian policy cave-in that did not 
go unnoticed in the PRC followed the Administration’s 
May 16, 1995 threat to slap 100 percent 
tariffs on luxury cars exported by Japan 
to the United States as a result of a Section 
301 unfair trade practices case involving sale 
of autoparts in Japan. On June 28, 1995, the 
Administration cast aside its threat in a 
‘‘compromise’’ in which Japan made no commitments 
to particular numbers of foreign 
autoparts it had to buy or of dealerships that 
would sell foreign cars. And yet again Clinton’s 
vow not to allow the North Korean tyranny 
to retain nuclear weapons was promptly 
followed by the August 12, 1995 ‘‘framework 
agreement,’’ in which the Administration 
rewarded Communist North Korea for its 
nuclear weapons program with aid and reactor 
technology. Whatever the merits of Clinton’s 
ultimate position, the fact that he was 
so willing to alter his policies in the face of 
any resistance has not been lost on the Chinese 
Communists. 

CONCLUSION 

Asian nations are concerned because the 
Chinese Communist leadership has historically 
shown a willingness to use military 
force to settle disputes within what it regarded 
as its sphere of influence. The PLA 
has seen battle at least 11 times since the inception 
of the Chinese Communist dictatorship 
in 1949. China’s build-up of naval forces 
is designed to expand this sphere by enhancing 
its ability to project force; this program 
has already spawned a naval arms race 
among Asian nations. These developments 
have created mounting regional instability. 

Its vast size, population, economy, and air 
and naval force projection capabilities make 
Communist China a tremendous regional 
power. The PRC’s growing force-projection 
capabilities are further destabilizing the 
Asia-Pacific region. The rising military profile 
of Communist China in that region—in 
terms of both capability and aggressive in-
tent—necessitates policies to protect American 
economic interests and the democracies 
in the region. And the greatest danger is to 
the Taiwanese democracy—which the PRC is 
now threatening to attack or invade. Despite 
repeated claims that the Asia-Pacific region 
is its top priority, the Clinton Administration 
has unwittingly encouraged Communist 
Chinese imperialism, and has completely 
failed to promote robust policies to counter 
these ominous trends. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Guam [Mr. UNDERWOOD] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

[Mr. UNDERWOOD addressed the 
House. His remarks will appear hereafter 
in the Extensions of Remarks.] 

MEXICO MUST GET SERIOUS 

ABOUT STOPPING DRUG TRAF


FICKING 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from California [Mr. MILLER] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. MILLER of California. Mr. 
Speaker, today I am proud to join my 
colleagues, Senators DIANNE FEINSTEIN 
and ALPHONSE D’AMATO, by introducing 
bills to force Mexico to crack down on 
drug trafficking and money laundering 
operations as that country has 
pledged—but failed—to do. 

The bills would prohibit the extension 
next month of United States guarantees 
for multibillion dollar loans to 
Mexico, deny applications for entry of 
Mexican commercial vehicles into the 
United States under NAFTA, and express 
the sense of the House that Mexico 
has not cooperated in antinarcotics 
efforts, and therefore should not be certified 
under the Foreign Assistance 
Act. 

All of these measures would remain 
in effect until Mexico meets specified 
conditions proving it is taking steps to 
eradicate drug activities. Senators 
FEINSTEIN and D’AMATO introduced this 
legislation this week and I am introducing 
identical legislation here today. 
I applaud them for their initiative in 
this area. 

Last year, Congress approved President 
Clinton’s request to guarantee $20 
billion in loans to Mexico following an 
economic crisis there. The year before 
that we passed NAFTA, a free-trade 
agreement that gives Mexico special 
and unique access to America’s markets. 
And now, next month, President 
Clinton will likely ask Congress to approve 
the extension of loan guarantees 
to Mexico for at least 6 months, and 
possibly longer. 

But the President will be unable in 
good faith to certify that Mexico has 
met its obligation to crack down on 
drug smuggling, money laundering, and 
government corruption as it has 
pledged to do. 

Mexico is one of the most significant 
source countries for the transport of 
narcotic and psyshotropic drugs into 
the United States. The Drug Enforcement 
Agency estimates that 75 percent 
of all cocaine available in the United 
States travels through Mexico, up to 80 
percent of all foreign-grown marijuana 
in the United States originates in Mexico, 
and 90 percent of the chemical used 
to make the drug speed flows through 
Mexico before infecting our neighborhoods. 


But, Mexico is not only shipping 
drugs to the United States, it is also 
shipping its drug smugglers. Nearly 90 
percent of drug smugglers arrested at 
the border are Mexican. Mexico is also 
a major transshipment point for Columbian 
drugs and drug money. And 
because it has no reporting requirements 
for large cash transactions, Mexico 
has become a haven for drug money 
laundering. 

To make matters worse, Mexico is 
also preventing the United States from 

enforcing our own drug laws. The United 
States has 165 extradition requests 
pending with Mexico. And despite our 
extradition treaty with that country, 
Mexico has never allowed the extradition 
of a single Mexican national, 
even though we are supposed to be 
close allies. In fact there are reports 
that leaders of drug cartels, known to 
the Mexican Government and its police, 
are frequently seen in public. Apparently 
they have no reason to be 
afraid: reports are rampant of widespread 
government corruption , extending 
possibly even to higher levels of 
power. 

Time and time again, the United 
States treats Mexico like a trusted ally 
and what we get in return is an increase 
in drugs flowing from Mexico to 
the United States poisoning our kids 
and making the American ‘‘War on 
Drugs’’ ineffectual. 

Why should the American taxpayer 
support Mexico’s Government or its 
economy when Mexico is undermining 
American antidrug laws? We should 
not. 

We should not extend multibilliondollar 
loans to Mexico, provide foreign 
aid, or allow entry of their commercial 
vehicles without evidence that Mexico 
is taking concrete steps to eradicate 
drug activities. We have too much at 
stake—in America’s schoolyards, workplaces, 
and homes—to tolerate this 
level of inaction on such an important 
issue. 

Again, I applaud Senators FEINSTEIN 
and D’AMATO for their initiative in this 
area and I encourage all my colleagues 
to join me in cosponsoring these three 
pieces of vital legislation. 

Mr. Speaker, I submit the following 
for the RECORD: 
SENSE OF THE SENATE RESOLUTION THAT 
MEXICO SHOULD NOT BE CERTIFIED 
Expresses the sense of the Senate that the 
President should not certify: 

(1) Mexican cooperation with international 
drug enforcement efforts; or 
(2) that is it in the vital national interests 
of the U.S. to give this aid notwithstanding 
Mexico’s noncooperation. 
If the President does not make these certifications, 
the result would be: a 50% reduction 
in U.S. aid to Mexico; and the United 
States not supporting the provision of multilateral 
development bank assistance by various 
international bodies. 

The resolution sets out the basis for this 
recommendation: 

Mexico is one of the most significant 
source countries for the transport of drugs 
into the United States. 

Mexico has failed to prevent or punish 
money laundering. 

The Drug Enforcement Administration estimates 
that at least 75 percent of all cocaine 
available in the United States travels 
through Mexico. 

Various U.S. drug enforcement agencies estimate 
that 70 to 80 percent of all foreign-
grown marijuana in the United States originates 
in Mexico. 

According to U.S. Customs Service, 69.5 
percent of those arrested for drug smuggling 
at border stations in the United States are 
Mexican Nationals. 

The Drug Enforcement Administration has 
stated that drug smugglers have been flying 
airplanes carrying 10 to 20 tons of cocaine at 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1205 

a time into Mexico, which then return to Co-Mr. TIAHRT. Mr. Speaker, clearly we works the second shift at the Boeing 
lombia with 20 to 30 million dollars of U.S. are having a very difficult time achiev-Company? How long does he have to 
currency. 

ing a balanced budget. After taking the stand at his machine to pay enough 

FEINSTEIN LEGISLATION ON MEXICAN 
TRUCKING COMPANIES AND NAFTA 

On December 18, 1995, the Secretary of 
Transportation indefinitely postponed the 
approval of applications from Mexican 
trucking companies seeking cross-border access 
to points in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona 
and California. 

The legislation I have introduced would require 
three things occur before pending applications 
can be approved: 

(1) The Secretary of Transportation must 
certify to Congress that Mexican carriers are 
in compliance with U.S. size, weight, insurance 
and hazardous materials requirements; 
(2) The President must certify to Congress 
that Mexico is taking sufficient steps to 
combat international narcotics trafficking 
pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291k(b)); and, 
(3) The Congress approves the application 
by passing a prescribed joint resolution. 
SENATOR FEINGSTEIN’s MEXICO LOAN 
GUARANTEE LEGISLATION 

1. Unless the President of the U.S. certifies 
Mexico’s progress on drug enforcement issues, 
Mexico should not receive the benefits 
of the loan guarantees. The certification addresses 
the following: 
(1) Complies with all outstanding requests 
for extradition by the United States. 
(2) Enacts and implements effective 
‘‘money laundering’’ laws. 
(3) Takes action to prevent Mexico’s drug 
profiteers from taking advantage of plans to 
‘‘privatize’’ formerly public assets, such as 
banks. 
(4) Enacts effective laws to inspect and 
license trucks, cars and aircraft, as well as 
their owners and operators to assist drug 
crime enforcement. 
(5) Enacts effective laws to control the 
import of major pre-cursor chemicals for 
methamphetamines and other narcotics. 
(6) Takes specific action to effect the 
arrests of Mexican drug cartel leaders or 
other individuals involved in organized 
crime. 
(7) Adopts a comprehensive program for 
drug enforcement and assists U.S. law enforcement 
to take effective action. 
(8) Implements a plan and takes specific 
action dedicated to detecting and halting the 
large scale air transportation of narcotics. 
(9) Take specific action to prosecute graft 
and corruption among civilian government 
and military officials that assist drug production/
smuggling. 
(10) Allows for asset forfeiture of property 
derived through fraud in connection with the 
loans or any illegal activity, such as drug 
trafficking. 
2. Legislation would prohibit further disbursements 
from the Treasury Department’s 
Exchange Stabilization Fund (ESF). 
3. Legislation would require repayment of 
any short-term swaps within 90 days and prohibit 
any new medium-term swaps entirely. 
4. Legislation would prohibit the exercise 
of the six month renewal option. 
f 


b2145 

THE VALUE OF A BALANCED 
BUDGET 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Under a previous order of 
the House, the gentleman from Kansas 
[Mr. TIAHRT] is recognized for 5 minutes. 


brunt of opinion from the liberal 
media, this Congress has been wondering 
why the President has vetoed so 
many reforms. 

As a freshman, I ran on the principle 
of sound fiscal policy and a balanced 
budget, and as a part-time college instructor 
at Kansas Newman College, I 
taught the value of a balanced budget 
in economics classes. It was confirmed 
by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, 
Alan Greenspan: A balanced 
budget means a stronger economy. It 
means more jobs. It means more money 
in the pockets of working people. 

But the President is staunch in defending 
the status quo, in defending big 
government and preventing Congress 
from right-sizing the Federal Government, 
which must happen if we ever 
hope to balance the budget. Instead, he 
is protecting big government waste. 

For example, there is Clinton’s Secretary 
of Energy, who is a congenital 
flier. Secretary O’Leary traveled more 
than 100 trips, 16 overseas. She has 
leased Madonna’s luxury jet, taking 
some of those trips. The Government 
Accounting Office audited two of the 
overseas trips. They cost $1.7 million 
and there are $255,000 of expenses that 
are unaccounted for. 

When you consider Travelgate, where 
the White House fired Billy Dale and 
seven other employees and drag Mr. 
Dale through the court system for 2 
years over $18,000, it seems inconsistent 
that we would allow Secretary 
O’Leary to go without accounting for 
that quarter of a million dollars. 

And then there is Clinton’s Secretary 
of Commerce, out-of-town Brown. His 
travel budget is 150 percent of his predecessor’s, 
Robert Mosbacher. As reported 
in the Washington Times, an 
audit by a Department inspector general 
said, and I quote: 

In Mr. Brown’s case, the auditors found the 
Secretary seems to have been habitually accompanied 
by a slew of private-sector deadbeats 
masquerading as consultants who collectively 
still owe the government, that is, 
the taxpayers, $360,000 for unpaid advances. 

Going on, it says, 

One wonders whether any of them were the 
same Democratic Party fat cats who routinely 
accompanied Mr. Brown around the 
world, grabbing their slice of the pie to 
which they no doubt felt entitled by virtue 
of their huge donations to the Democratic 
National Committee before, during and after 
Mr. Brown’s tenure as chairman of the 
Democratic Party. 

That article goes on to talk about 
how the Inspector General uncovered 
unpaid charges on government credit 
cards. Three hundred Commerce Department 
employees were delinquent 
on their payments on government credit 
cards. Six hundred people, some of 
them not even government employees, 
who have government credit cards, 
were using the government credit cards 
at automatic teller machines, ATM’s, 
to get cash. 

Can you imagine what it is like for 
taxpayers like David Walker, who 

taxes to cover the cash that has been 
withdrawn at the Commerce Department? 


Those dollars were very much wasted. 
How long are we going to put up 
with this? I think we have put up with 
it for too long. I hope that the President 
will stop defending this tremendous 
waste, stop condoning this tremendous 
waste, stop defending and 
condoning the status quo, balance the 
budget. Our families do not deserve 
this type of treatment. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from Ohio [Ms. KAPTUR] is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

[Ms. KAPTUR addressed the House. 
Her remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.] 

f 


TRIBUTE TO KWEISI MFUME 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from California [Ms. PELOSI] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, earlier 
this evening I heard it announced that 
our colleague, Representative KWEISI 
MFUME, was submitting his resignation 
to the Congress of the United States. 
Tonight he cast his last vote, a vote 
which followed hundreds of votes in 
support of people across this country. I 
was pleased to serve in the Congress 
with him but especially on the Banking 
Committee a number of years ago when 
we both came to the House of Representatives. 
On that committee Congressman 
MFUME was a champion for 
affordable housing, for low-income 
housing, for consumer credit for all 
Americans and for access to loans for 
people who wanted to gain equity in 
business but who had been banned from 
doing so, also for those who wanted to 
buy homes but who had been red-lined 
in the past. 

Congressman MFUME served very well 
in the Chair that you occupy now, Mr. 
Speaker. He knew how to keep order in 
the House. He did so with great dignity. 
But he also knew how to raise a 
ruckus in the name of social justice. 
We will all miss him greatly here. I feel 
as a Californian, I rise to speak about 
Congressman MFUME, and he is a representative, 
as you know, from Baltimore, 
MD, because I, too, am a native 
of Baltimore. My father Thomas 
D’Alesandro served as a Member of 
Congress for parts of Mr. MFUME’s district 
that he now represents. So I was 
sorry not to be part of the Maryland 
delegation’s tribute yesterday to Congressman 
MFUME but my committee 
assignments prevented me from doing 
that. Nonetheless, I am proud to have 
been a colleague of Mr. MFUME’s. 

I wish him and the NAACP much success 
under this new, fresh leadership 
and know that every Member of this 


H 1206 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Congress who has ever served with him 
will be proud to make that boast. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to once again 
commend Mr. MFUME for his great 
service to this House of Representatives. 


f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Michigan [Mr. SMITH] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

[Mr. SMITH of Michigan addressed 
the House. His remarks will appear 
hereafter in the Extensions of Remarks.] 


f 


HOUSE FAILS TO PASS FARM BILL 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Georgia [Mr. CHAMBLISS] 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 
Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. Speaker, I 
would certainly commend the gentlewoman 
from California for her kind 
words about Congressman MFUME. 
Members on both sides of the aisle are 
going to miss him. He spoke with a lot 
of emotion and from his heart and 
spoke with a lot of reason in a House 
that does not always exercise reasonableness, 
and he will be missed. 
I have with me tonight my colleague 
and agriculture friend from Iowa, TOM 
LATHAM. We come here tonight out of a 
sense of terrible frustration for what is 
going on in the agriculture business in 
this House. 
We made an attempt today to bring 
the 1995, and here we are in 1996, farm 
bill to the floor for a vote. The Committee 
on Agriculture has worked very 
diligently and very hard over the last 
13 months trying to formulate and 
change the agricultural policy in this 
country to ensure that we have strong 
and viable agricultural programs moving 
into the 21st century. We met all 
day on Tuesday to discuss what is now 
the new form of the farm bill that is 
the second bill that has been passed by 
that committee, the first one having 
been a part of the Balanced Budget Act 
of 1995 that unfortunately was vetoed 
by President Clinton. Had that bill not 
been vetoed, our farmers would have 
had back in December the ability to 
plan and determine what they were 
going to be able to do with their farm 
operation for 1996. But that did not 
happen. So we came back to the table 
on Tuesday of this week. We again 
brought forth the bill that was contained 
in the Balanced Budget Act of 
1995, debated it thoroughly in the Committee 
on Agriculture on Tuesday and 
were in great hopes that it would come 
to the floor today. But, unfortunately, 
our friends on the other side of the 
aisle would not agree with us to bring 
this bill up today. 
TOM, I know you share that same 
frustration and I know your folks in 
Iowa are as upset as I am and you are 
and as my farmers in Georgia are. 
Mr. LATHAM. You are exactly right. 
I appreciate the chance to visit with 
you about it. 

I do not know how to explain to my 
farmers in Iowa who last year were 
devastated by floods in southern Iowa 
going down into northeast Missouri, 
what to tell those people, why a group 
of people, led by the leadership on the 
minority side, would stop a farm bill 
that would finally give them some 
hope, give them some income next 
year. Just continuing what we have 
now would give them no income next 
year. These people are going to be 
asked to pay back their deficiency payments. 


If you will remember just last week, 
we tried to put the farm bill on the 
continuing resolution and once again, 
because of the leadership of the minority 
party, they threatened a filibuster 
on the continuing resolution and thereby 
stopped the farm bill at that time. 

I am very discouraged at this point, 
because even though we were promised 
cooperation so that we could advance a 
farm bill, it was not brought forth from 
the minority. 

We will continue to work very hard 
and during the next few weeks to make 
sure that we do get an agreement, that 
we get a farm bill. It is needed very 
much for people who are in desperate 
straits at this time. 

Mr. CHAMBLISS. We are leaving 
here today. We voted on and passed a 
bill to adjourn this House until the 
26th day of February. So we know it is 
going to be then. You are going to have 
the same problem in going home to 
your farmers and saying, ‘‘Folks, you 
know, we’re not even going to be able 
to take this bill up until the 26th of 
February,’’ and it really will not make 
any difference whether we took it up in 
advance of that or not because the Senate 
is out until the 26th of February, 
they have already said that, and we are 
sort of going to be in limbo until then. 

I am very frustrated, I am very upset 
about this, and I certainly hope that 
during these next 3 weeks as we are out 
of this House, that all Members on 
both sides of the aisle are going to take 
the opportunity to sit back and reflect 
on the fact that 2 percent of the population 
of this country feed 100 percent 
of the population of this country, as 
well as many, many other hundreds of 
thousands and millions of folks all 
across this world, because we grow not 
only the finest quality and most abundant 
agricultural products in the world 
but the cheapest agricultural products 
in the world. 

b2100 
Our farmers need good, solid farm 
programs to ensure that they are able 
to get some sort of return on their investment 
to keep them going. That has 
been our goal in this farm bill from 
January 4, 1995, when we started last 
year. It is still our goal. 
Mr. LATHAM. You are exactly right, 
and this farm bill is real reform, a way 
of getting our farmers to respond to 
the market rather than the government 
control, the centralized control 
that we have had in the past, and look


ing at the floor here, I mean, there are 
three people on the floor here this 
evening. If it had not been for what 
happened this evening because of the 
minority’s technical procedural glitch 
they put in, we could be having this 
farm bill debate right now and passing 
the farm bill for the people at home. 

Mr. CHAMBLISS. I thank the gentleman 
for joining me tonight. I know 
you have the same deep regret that I 
do that we do not right now have a 
farm bill in place that we could have 
had tonight. We will continue to work 
over the next 3 weeks and hopefully on 
February 26 we will come back in the 
frame of mind to get it done and get it 
done soon. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Under a previous order of 
the House, the gentleman from Nebraska 
[Mr. BEREUTER] is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

[Mr. BEREUTER addressed the 
House. His remarks will appear hereafter 
in the Extensions of Remarks.] 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from North Carolina [Mrs. 
CLAYTON] is recognized for 5 minutes. 

[Mrs. CLAYTON addressed the House. 
Her remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.] 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from New York [Mrs. MALONEY] 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

[Mrs. MALONEY addressed the 
House. Her remarks will appear hereafter 
in the Extensions of Remarks.] 

f 


HERE THE CONGRESS GOES AGAIN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from West Virginia [Mr. WISE] 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. WISE. Mr. Speaker, I am going 
to follow up on the previous speakers a 
little bit. 

Mr. Speaker, here the Congress goes 
again, quite literally goes right out 
that door, heads for the airport, heads 
for the trains, heads for the highway, 
heading home. 

Of course, it has been a rough week 
that the Speaker’s leadership has presented 
to the Congress. The Congress 
has been in session all of 2 days of 
which part of it was being here for a 
joint session to hear the President of 
France, Mr. Chirac. There was a well-
known Republican Attorney General 
named John Mitchell who served under 
President Nixon who had a saying, I believe 
it was Attorney General Mitchell, 
that when the going gets tough, the 
tough get going. The Republican leadership 
had modified that a little bit to 
when the going gets tough, it is time to 
go, go home, go anywhere, get out of 
here, because the going is tough right 
now. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1207 

By March 1, this country will default 
on its debt, that is right, for the first 
time in 209 years, this country runs the 
risk of defaulting on the national debt. 

Now, I might express, Mr. Speaker, 
this is not debt, this is not voting to 
extend the debt ceiling so that you can 
borrow more for future spending. This 
is simply acknowledging and paying 
the debts you have already incurred. If 
you do not like future spending then 
you do it the old-fashioned way, you 
legislate it so you do not have any 
more. You cut the programs. This is 
honoring the country’s debt that it 
owes. 

The previous gentlemen talked about 
the farm bill. Yes, that is also in crisis, 
and, yes, the Congress ought to be here 
working on it. 

But why is it not being brought up 
tonight? They provided the answers 
themselves. It came out of committee 
on Tuesday. There are many of us, such 
as myself, who are not on the Committee 
on Agriculture. The rules of the 
House provide for a 3-day layover so 
you can study these bills, and yet this 
Republican leadership is not willing for 
this House to be in session tomorrow, 
Monday, Saturday, whatever it takes 
to get this bill done. 

You know, Mr. Speaker, everyone 
knows about credit ratings. America’s 
families worry a great deal about keeping 
their credit ratings solvent. Why is 
not this congressional leadership worrying 
as much about keeping the Federal 
Government’s credit rating? 

I was thinking about this the other 
day, Mr. Speaker, as I wanted to look 
at our mortgage. We have an adjustable 
rate mortgage, and so we keep our 
mortgage and we keep a lot of our important 
papers like a lot of Americans 
keep their important papers in a metal 
box under the bed. We do that, we keep 
it in a metal box because if there is a 
fire, they will be protected, or a flood, 
those important papers like a mortgage 
will be protected, perhaps even 
from prying hands. 

But you know, Mr. Speaker, there is 
one danger, one crisis that a metal box 
cannot protect, metal, concrete, steel, 
Teflon, you name it, cannot protect 
against, and that is from a default. 
That is from interest rates going up on 
variable rate loans. That metal box 
cannot protect our variable rate mortgage 
from the $1,200 that the average 
family will pay additional if this country 
goes into default. That metal box 
cannot protect future car payments 
from being 2 to 3 percent higher. That 
metal box cannot protect us against 
these credit rates, Visa credit rates, 
Visa, MasterCharge, and so on, from 
going up. That metal box cannot protect 
us from the higher rates we will 
have to pay for our children to go to 
school. That metal box cannot protect 
us. Just as that metal box cannot protect 
this family, and a lot of us are 
families, guess what happens if this 
country goes into default, that metal 
box cannot protect the country. 

The country has a metal box, and in 
it it keeps Social Security, it keeps 

veterans payments, it keeps payments 
to veterans, honors its obligations to 
contractors. What happened to the 
country’s metal box? Why cannot that 
be protected? 

This Congress voted by a narrow 
margin to go home instead of making 
sure that metal box was secure. The 
fact of the matter is that failing to 
deal with the deficit or failing to deal 
with the debt ceiling, Mr. Speaker, 
failure to keep this country from going 
into default now can only worsen the 
deficit, because this country will have 
to pay more for the inevitable borrowing 
that is going to take place. 

I voted against adjourning, Mr. 
Speaker. This Congress needs to stay 
here until it gets this problem worked 
out, until it gets the farm bill worked 
out we have got to preserve the credit 
rating for the United States. 

The first time in 209 years it has really 
gotten to this point. Does anyone 
really want to push the country to this 
edge? 

Mr. Speaker, in preserving the credit 
rating of the United States, this Congress 
could preserve a lot of credit for 
itself. We should not be going local this 
week. 

f 


FAREWELL TO REPRESENTATIVE 
MFUME 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Virginia [Mr. SCOTT] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
pay tribute to a great American, a 
great humanitarian, a great representative 
of the people, a great friend— 
KWEISI MFUME, whose letter of resignation 
from this body was read earlier tonight. 
The event of the 104th Congress 
brought with it many changes. Many of 
these changes do not bode well for African-
Americans, other minorities, the 
elderly, the poor, students, and working 
class Americans. Knowing this, I 
cannot be totally saddened by the departure 
of my distinguished colleague 
from this body, because I know that 
this leaving Congress is truly for the 
greater good of all these groups and the 
American community at large. Representative 
KWEISI MFUME’s leadership 
is needed elsewhere at this time, and I 
look forward to supporting his efforts 
in his new role as President and CEO of 
the NAACP. 

The NAACP is gaining the experience 
and leadership of a man who recognizes 
the importance of coalition building— 
he has shown his ability to move coalitions 
towards their goals without sacrificing 
principle. The NAACP is gaining 
the knowledge of a man who recognizes 
the importance of economic development 
and empowerment, and one 
who has used his legislative experience 
to advance the causes of small and minority-
owned businesses and to encourage 
banks to invest in economic development 
opportunities within inner city 
communities. The NAACP is gaining 
the expertise of the former chairman of 

the Congressional Black Caucus, who 
during his tenure, elevated the Black 
Caucus to a position of national prominence. 


KWEISI MFUME now takes on a new 
challenge—to rebuild the NAACP and 
elevate its prominence. With this is 
mind, I cannot be saddened by is departure—
there is too much to look forward 
to. 

f 


A HISTORICAL DATE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of May 
12, 1995, the gentleman from California 
[Mr. DORNAN] is recognized for 60 minutes 
as the designee of the majority 
leader. 
Mr. DORNAN. Mr. Speaker, I am sure 
glad that there is an outstanding member 
of the freshman class and a friend 
and compadre in the chair. I like to 
feel good vibrations coming down on 
the back of my neck from that lofty 
high perch up there. 
Today is a historical day for me personally, 
Mr. Speaker. Today is the first 
day that when we adjourn here, that I 
will be a full-time candidate for the 
Presidency of the United States. My 
eight worthy men of high character 
who are all out there competing have 
been full-time candidates for an entire 
year. 
I declared in this well at this lectern 
on February 7 last year, which was the 
40th anniversary of my receiving my 
Air Force wings of silver. It was the 
25th anniversary of the POW–MIA 
bracelet I still wear, No. 1, for a master 
sergeant, Jimmy Holt, from Hope, AK, 
one of the heroes from Hope who went 
missing on February 7 of 1968, right at 
the end of the infamous Tet offensive, 
and in the whole year, the leader of the 
other Chamber set the schedule so he 
was a full-time candidate whenever he 
felt like it. He has 100 percent attendance 
record last year and this year, 
never missed a vote. When there were 
three Senators in, when my friend Mr. 
SPECTER of Pennsylvania was in, all he 
had to do was watch the leader. When 
he left, they left. He went to New 
Hampshire, they followed him, or he 
went to Iowa or somewhere else. The 
other five are all literally full-time. 
My friends Allen Keyes and Pat Buchanan 
gave up their broadcasting and 
writing careers, to their credit, and 
have been full-time candidates for a 
year. 
The two millionaires, multi millionaires, 
make $15 million a year, Morry 
Taylor, and Steve Forbes, Malcolm 
Forbes, Jr., worth $500 million or so, 
they have been full-time candidates, 
turning their corporations over to chief 
operating officers, and Lamar Alexander 
on ‘‘Meet the Press’’ this Sunday 
said he draws almost $300,000 a year 
from his law firm in Nashville, from 
Howard Baker’s law firm. He has been 
a full-time candidate for 3 years. They 
have all raised among them tens, 
twenties of millions of dollars. It is almost 
all gone, and the only one with 


H 1208 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

the bottomless purse, kind of like Ross men in, then they pluralize it, ‘‘support here in the House. I am sorry you do 
Perot this go-around, is Steve Forbes, our troops.’’ not take my recommendation, but God-

and the media is just rocketing him to 
stardom, because he spent about $18 
million on commercials. 

So now I get in the fray full time 
starting tonight, and obviously there is 
not much you can do in 3 weeks. I have 
been a chairman of two subcommittees. 
Here is the difference: Which has voted 
for the 30th time, Mr. Speaker? The 
Senate has voted once this year. Last 
year we were in session 30 to 40 days 
more than they were. Are you aware we 
voted 272 times, each vote taking between 
15 to 20 minutes, 272 more votes 
in this House. This is the House of the 
Contract With America, the revolutionary 
House, and even in a normal 
year, it is the appropriations House. 
All taxing bills and all money spending 
bills originate in this Chamber. 

So I have no regrets. It has been the 
most successful year of my life. I have 
go so much DNA invested in the defense 
authorization and appropriation 
bills that my staff kiddingly called one 
the ‘‘Dornan Authorization Bill,’’ and 
in a shootout with Clinton on three 
major items he stripped out of the authorization 
bill, which is on his desk as 
I speak, and he will either veto it, 
which nobody predicts, or pass it after 
having ripped out of it the language on 
no U.S. troops under foreign command; 
I wrote that language for the Contract 
With America. It went into the bill, 
went through a tougher conference 
with the Senate. He demanded it come 
out. He wants U.S. troops under U.N. 
and foreign command. 

No. 2, no missile defense. I do not 
care whether you call it Strategic Defense 
Initiative, as took place under 
Reagan in his third year, with Dr. Teller’s 
guidance and that of an absolute 
American Paul Revere hero, three star 
general, Gen. Danny Graham who is 
buried with full military honors, 15cannon 
salute at Arlington, the son of 
an Army sergeant, honored West Point 
graduate. Danny Graham brought me 
into his organization High Frontier. I 
ran the American Space Frontier PAC 
for him the 2 years I was gerrymandered 
out of the Congress between 
being sworn in in 1977, where I had 2 
years, 1983 and 1984, out. That was the 
year of the nuclear freeze nonsense, 
and I traveled all over. I think I hit all 
50 States for Danny Graham on defending 
the American homeland. 

Clinton demanded that national missile 
defense on line by 2003 by ripped 
out of the defense authorization bill. 
Out. 

No. 3, the unconstitutional right that 
he claims and mysteriously the leader 
of the Senate subscribes to, that he has 
the constitutional right to send American 
troops at his whim to Somalia, to 
Bosnia, to Haiti, back to Somalia, to 
Rwanda, Chechnya, Tibet, anywhere in 
the world, and all he has to do is to say 
to this Chamber ‘‘ah, ah, ah, ah, I just 
bailed out a radioman into Tibet, we 
must support our trooper on the 
ground.’’ The next day, if he gets two 

b2115 

You cannot exercise your constitutional 
right to control the armies and 
the navies that you raise. It is totally 
the prerogative of the President. 

I carry around my Constitution. Here 
it is right here. Article 2, section 2, 
‘‘The President shall be commander-inchief 
of the Army and Navy and of the 
United States.’’ That is only 16 words. 
Take the action words. ‘‘President,’’ 
‘‘commander.’’ That is all. It does not 
say anything else. It is followed by 18 
words, ‘‘and of the militia of the several 
states,’’ thirteen at that time, 
‘‘when they are called into the actual 
service of the United States.’’ They had 
no National Guard or full-time militia. 
Every Minute Man went back to his 
plow. So that is it. It says nothing. 

But for the Congress of the United 
States it, it delineates we shall have 
the power to raise armies and build navies, 
and that means what they will be 
paid, what they will wear, their colors, 
their numbers, where they will be posted 
or bivouacked or stationed throughout 
the world, what they will fly, what 
they will shoot, how many ships they 
will have, how fast they will go, how 
much we will spend on intelligence, on 
research and development. Every single 
weapon system, from the Beretta pistol, 
the Sig Saur for the Special 
Forces, or up to the new F–22 or the 
joint advanced tactical fighter we are 
developing. All of that is determined 
by this Congress. 

Where did Clinton or the leader of 
the Senate think that these two words, 
‘‘President,’’ ‘‘commander,’’ embodied 
in 16 baffled words there, where did this 
give him the right to send Americans 
into the minefields of Bosnia? Of 
course, it did not, and every scholar 
worth his salt across this country, and 
particularly the scholarly people over 
at the Library of Congress, say he does 
not have that constitutional right. 

Now, what about Michael New, Specialist 
Michael New, the outstanding 
paramedic specialist in the 3d Division 
in Germany, court-martialed a little 
over a week ago, a bad conduct discharge. 


Amazing. I spoke with Michael. Only 
one other Congressman, no, one Senator, 
has ever spoken to him, and did 
not give him much time. But I advised 
Michael to go to Macedonia; that I 
agreed with him it was illegal to order 
our men to wear a blue beret or put on 
a blue U.N. arm band, but I told him 
that was our battle here in the Congress, 
and I would win it for him; to 
bite his lip, go down there, take that 
order. 

He said no, sir, I respectfully am not 
going to do it. My parents are behind 
me. I asked if he was married. He said 
no. I said all right, if your parents are 
in your corner, you are walking in a 
minefield. You are liable to get a discharge 
you will not like, but I am still 
going to continue to fight the battle 

speed. I guess you are showing a lot of 
courage of your conviction. 

Now he has a bad conduct discharge. 
He is appealing, so he remains on the 
payroll until then. I just sent a letter 
over to the Army asking them to delineate 
every single thing he can do and 
what course they expect us to take 
when there is, I think, soon to be a majority 
in this body and in the U.S. Senate, 
that feels that they only raise 
their hand to swear to uphold the Constitution 
of the United States. 

Here before me, sent to me by a 
young enlisted man who just took this 
oath of office, and his name is a 
mouthfull, he took this oath to sign up 
in the Army for 4 years on 28 November, 
1995. His first name is Allen, I am 
going to spell his last name. C-H-E-RN-
O-M-A-S-H-E-N-T-S-E-V. 

He sent this to me to show what they 
sign. It has not changed from the time 
I took it at 19 years of age to go in the 
Air Force, took it less than 2 years 
later to become an aviation cadet, took 
it again as a Second Lieutenant on 
February 7, 1955, as I mentioned at the 
top of my remarks, and then I took it 
again after a break to go back on active 
duty in the reserves, and I have 
taken it in this Chamber nine times, 
the first time holding the hand of our 
youngest daughter, kind of snuck on 
the floor as a teenager, and then I held 
the hand of several grandchildren the 
last two or three Congresses. So I have 
taken it 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 times. Here is 
the oath for enlisted men. 

I, ROBERT K. DORNAN, (I did this January 
30, 1953, wow, 42 years and 2 days 
ago.) I, ROBERT K. DORNAN, do solemnly 
swear that I will support and defend 
the ‘‘Constitution of the United 
States’’ against all enemies, foreign 
and domestic; that I will bear true 
faith and allegiance to the same; and 
that I will obey the orders of the President 
of the United States and the orders 
of the officers appointed over me 
according to the regulations and the 
uniform code of military justice, so 
help me God. 

Now, therein lies the problem of the 
court martial of Specialist Michael 
New. He wanted to defend the Constitution 
and its laws, and he said he was 
torn by the verbal orders he was getting 
from his officers through the 
President of the United States. So he 
was torn, and the court martial came 
down on the side of the following the 
direct orders of his commanders. That 
is why I advised him to go on to Macedonia 
and let us fight the battle here. 

Here is an officer’s oath, and this for 
warrant officers too. I, ROBERT K. DORNAN, 
(I first took this February 7, 1955, 
having been appointed an officer in the 
Air Force of the United States in the 
grade of Second Lieutenant,) do solemnly 
swear that I will support and defend 
the Constitution of the United 
States against all enemies, foreign and 
domestic; that I will bear true faith 
and allegiance to the same, that is the 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1209 

Constitution, and that I take this obligation 
freely, without any mental reservation 
or purpose of evasion, and 
that I will well and faithfully discharge 
the duties of the office upon which I 
am about to enter, so help me God. 

Now, did you notice the difference 
there, Mr. Speaker? There is no mention 
of the President and no mention of 
the orders of officers appointed over 
me. If Michael New were a brand new 
Second Lieutenant, would he have had 
a stronger case in that court martial 
that he was bearing true faith and allegiance 
to the Constitution that he 
swore to support and defend? And the 
Constitution does not talk about wearing 
the regalia of any foreign power or 
of serving anything but your United 
States Constitution. Certainly not a 
UN charter! 

Now, what is happening from Bosnia? 
People in my cloakroom, and I will bet 
in the other, were shocked at this front 
page article on the great Washington 
Times last Monday, the 29th, four days 
ago. ‘‘Put on a happy face, troops in 
Bosnia told.’’ ‘‘Praise Clinton if press 
asks,’’ an Army written guide says. 
Tusar Air Force Base, Hungary, this is 
by Bill Gertz, a great reporter who 
spent three weeks to a month embedded 
with the troops over there. 

U.S. troops are grumbling about a 
pamphlet that advises them to tell any 
inquiring reporter they have full confidence 
in their commanders from 
President Clinton on down. The pamphlet 
entitled ‘‘answers you can use’’ 
was prepared by the Army’s 5th Corps 
and has been distributed to all Army 
troops in Bosnia to help them deal with 
pesky press inquiries. One suggested 
answer is U.S. forces are competent, 
are trained and competent leaders. We 
have pride in our leadership from the 
President on down and full trust in 
their decision. 
The problem is, not all of the soldiers 
feel that way. ‘‘That one answer particularly 
got me,’’ said a colonel, who 
asked not to be named. A female sergeant 
with the 4th Aviation Brigade 
passed at Koperzar Airfield, that is also 
in Hungary, last stop before Bosnia, 
also took issue. It says she voted for 
Clinton, but never again. The story 
gets more interesting as you get into 
it. 

So I called up the Pentagon and said 
I want that 5th Corps pamphlet. No results 
to this day. But, Mr. Speaker, as 
you well know, I have my ways, and I 
got hold of the pamphlet, a reasonable 
fax copy thereof. 5th Corps emblem. 
Fifth Corps media reference card. 
Guidelines for dealing with civilian 
news media. 

I find this extremely offensive. Listen 
to this, Mr. Speaker. 

I just read that line, U.S. forces are 
competent and have trained and competent 
leaders. We have pride in our 
leadership, from the President on 
down, and full trust in their decisions. 

U.S. forces have a long tradition of 
working with the United Nations. (Yes, 
like in Somalia. Nineteen dead American 
heroes, including two Medal of 
Honor winners.) And are confident in 
our abilities to work together in their 
missions. 

It goes on to say, you will not respond 
‘‘no comment.’’ It says you may 
not discuss future plans and operations, 
of course, foreign policy matters, 
operational capabilities, or give 
opinions or hypothesized situations. 

‘‘Stay in your lane, soldier!’’ 

If a reporter comes to your unit and 
is unescorted by a public affairs officer 
or escort, well, how do you handle 
Ernie Pyle in these circumstances? 
Refer them to the joint information 
bureaus. If they are escorted you may 
answer their questions, but inform 
your chain of command immediately 
about their presence in your area. 

Do not make off the record statements. 
Assume that a reporter’s recorder 
is always on. Anything you say 
to the reporters will be used. 

And the thing that just blows me 
away is that they are not supposed to 
say ‘‘no comment.’’ I thought that was 
pretty standard. 

Now, this reporter, who was embedded 
with the troops, continues with 
some fascinating observations. Listen 
to this: Some soldiers said they were 
offended by the attempt to guide their 
responses. The guidelines include that 
list of do’s and don’ts I just went 
through. 

Be positive in your answers. This is 
your opportunity to tell the public 
what a great job you are doing. 

In Bosnia? 

We are trained, ready and fully prepared 
to conduct peace operations. 

Now here is where it starts to sound 
like we want our soldiers to be automatons, 
maybe ‘‘Coneheads from the 
planet Remulac.’’ ‘‘We are trained, 
ready and fully prepared to conduct 
peace operations.’’ 

Here is another good one. We are not 
here to fight, but we have the capability 
when required to enforce the treaty 
and to protect ourselves. 

Another: We are disciplined and 
trained force. We understand our mission 
and the rulings of engagement. 

Another: U.S. forces have a long tradition 
of working with the United Nations 
and NATO. We are confident in 
our abilities to work together in this 
mission. 

Many soldiers privately expressed 
dislike of Mr. Clinton, who avoided 
service in the military during the Vietnam 
War. One soldier said he lost all 
respect for President after he learned 
about Mr. Clinton’s efforts to avoid 
being drafted. One Lt. Colonel confided 
that he disliked the President, and was 
careful not to express his opinions 
when enlisted personnel were around. 

Good. Do not, colonel. 

Another captain, I think I will not 
use his name, a spokesman for the 
Army in Hungary, referred questions 
about the pamphlet to another captain, 
he is in a world of hurt, so I will not 
mention his name either, who took 
part in writing the guidelines. He 
would not return a telephone call. 

Now, this reporter, an excellent reporter, 
I might add, told me that the 
men ride around in their Humvees sitting 
on one leg. They pull one leg up 
under them so if they have the misfortune 
to hit a land mine, they will at 
least salvage one leg. Guess what? 
John Martin Begosh, who is now 
recuperating at home with part of his 
foot torn away, severe injuries to his 
lower leg, I understand from this reporter 
was sitting on his foot when his 
Humvee hit that land mine, and it 
saved the leg that he was keeping 
under him on top of a piece of armor 
plating to protect his body from a land 
mine. 

The three British soldiers and the 
Swedish soldier were not so lucky. 
They all died a few days ago. We are all 
holding our breath, hoping that will 
not happen to one of our Americans. 

Now, we had a Conference today, 
with the 236 Republicans, I think just 
about everybody was there, and this 
issue of Michael New, what Clinton demanded 
be stripped out of the defense 
authorization bill, and I left out something 
I had worked very hard on, and 
that was this whole Bosnia operation, 
no U.S. troops under foreign command. 

You will recall I brought an amendment 
up the hard way, all the way 
through conference, battling all the 
way, without help from the leadership 
from either House in the majority 
party, brought it to the Floor, and 
shocked the leadership here by almost 
cutting off the funds to Bosnia. My 
amendment got 210 votes to 218. I had 
some of my best conservative friends in 
this House take orders beyond what 
they wanted to do and voted against 
me. I would have only needed 4 votes to 
tie that and the Speaker to vote with 
me to win 215 to 214. 

b2130 
Mr. Speaker, 13 lieutenants went the 
other way, lieutenants of the leadership. 
So there were things that maybe 
I was not aware of on deals that had 
been made to soften the budget deal 
when it fell apart anyway, that this 
House would not stand in the way of 
Mr. Clinton’s unconstitutional prerogative 
to send our troops anyway. He 
wanted it. His win. 
This whole thing started by an offhanded 
comment 2 years ago that he 
said he would give 25,000 troops to the 

U.N. to help extract the U.N. forces 
that were there, the way we used 15,000 
to extract in a fighting withdrawal. We 
did not have to shoot, our forces from 
the failed U.N. mission in Somalia. 
So today at the conference it came 
up. Some of the freshmen said, what 
actually did Clinton write to Colonel 
Holmes, the Bataan Death March survivor, 
head of the ROTC in Arkansas? I 
told the conference that I would put it 
in the RECORD again tonight for the 
twelfth time, and I would also put in 
Colonel Holmes’s letter 23 years later 
to the American people. And I think 
this time I will reverse the order. 

This is a letter from Colonel Eugene 
Holmes. I had dinner with him a year 


H 1210 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

ago this month on the 24th, and his 
lovely wife Irene. He still is as tall at 
6-foot-4 and distinguished looking as he 
ever was as an Army officer when he 
was captured on Bataan. Survived the 
Bataan Death March. Ditched an order 
to join the infamous prison ships that 
we inadvertently bombed killing almost 
5,000 of the men who had survived 
21/2 years of torturous captivity by the 
Japanese. He did not go. His friends 
died and he survived. 

Here is what he wrote September 7, 
1992. It was published in the aforementioned 
great newspaper, The Washington 
Times. No other outlet in the country 
would publish this letter. I have 
never heard of it being published in a 
single newspaper anywhere in our wonderful 
50 States except The Washington 
Times: 

September 7, 1992, memorandum for 
the record. Subject, Bill Clinton and 
the University of Arkansas ROTC program. 
Each page is signed. The news 
media circulated rumors that he was 
near death. He is healthy, as my dinner 
attested to a year ago. And he just did 
not want to hassle with sharper media 
types. He put the truth out as he saw 
it. They claimed his daughter wrote 
this. She did not. He wrote it. And if 
this man had more witnesses he would 
have won the Medal of Honor. He holds 
the second highest honor in the United 
States, the Distinguished Service 
Cross. 

To the American people, but nobody 
knew it, there have been many unanswered 
question as to the circumstances 
surrounding Bill Clinton’s 
involvement with the ROTC department 
at the University of Arkansas. 
Prior to this time, I have not felt the 
necessity for discussing the details. 
The reason I have not done so before is 
my poor physical health, a consequence 
of participation in the Bataan Death 
March and subsequent three-and-a-half 
year interment in Japanese POW 
camps has precluded me from getting 
into what I felt was unnecessary involvement. 


However, present polls show, September 
1992, that there is imminent danger 
to our country of a draft dodger becoming 
the Commander in Chief of the 
armed forces of the United States. 
While it is true, as Mr. Clinton has 
stated, that there were many others 
who avoided serving their country in 
the Vietnam war, they are not aspiring 
to be President of the United States. 

The tremendous implications of the 
possibility of his becoming Commander 
in Chief of the United States armed 
forces compels me now to comment on 
the facts concerning Mr. Clinton’s evasion 
of the draft. This account would 
not have been imperative had Bill Clinton 
been completely honest to the 
American public about this matter. 
But, as Mr. Clinton replied on a news 
conference this evening, September 5, 
1992, after being asked another particular 
about his dodging the draft, quote, 
almost everyone concerned with these 
incidents are dead. I have no more 
comments to make. 

An aside here: that was not true. The 
lady head of the draft board said that 
he told her that ‘‘I am too educated to 
serve as an enlisted man.’’ 

Colonel Holmes continues: Since I 
may be the only living person, he did 
not know he was not the only one, who 
can give a firsthand account of what 
actually transpired, I am obliged by 
love for my country and my sense of 
duty to divulge actually what happened 
and make it a matter of record. 

Keep in mind, Mr. Speaker, about 20 
Americans died in his arms or in his influence 
those 31/2 years of Japanese brutal 
captivity. ‘‘Mr. Clinton came to see 
me in my home in 1969 to discuss his 
desire to enroll in the ROTC program 
at the University of Arkansas.’’ 

Another important footnote: I asked 
Colonel Holmes why he remembered 
this one student over all those years 
because he also commanded the ROTC 
at the University of San Francisco. He 
said this was the only student that 
ever came to see him in 10 years in all 
those years. He said he did not let him 
in his home but spoke to him in the 
back and front yard back and forth as 
the Colonel continued gardening. We 
engaged in an extensive, approximately 
2-hour interview. At no time during 
this long conversation about his desire 
to join the program did he inform me 
of his involvement, participation, and 
actual organizating of protests against 
the United States’ involvement in 
Southeast Asia. He was shrewd enough 
to realize, had I been aware of his activities, 
he would not have been accepted 
in the ROTC program as a potential 
officer in the United States Army. 

What Colonel Holmes did not know, 
and I informed him of it, was that Clinton 
has already flunked his naval officer’s 
test and then in England at 
Lakenheath Air Force Base he flunked 
his Air Force officer’s test and then decided 
no way was he so educated. Even 
though he was not going to classes at 
Oxford, but ditching them to demonstrate 
against our policy in all of 
Southeast Asia, that included Laos and 
Cambodia, he decided he was not going 
to serve as an enlisted man. 

The next day I began to receive 
phone calls regarding Bill Clinton’s 
draft status. I was informed by the 
draft board that it was of interest to 
Senator Fulbright’s office that Bill 
Clinton, a Rhodes scholar—that should 
read Rhodes candidate scholar—only 
three people in the class failed to complete 
the program. He was one of the 
three. Another was a Mississippi student 
who has since died of AIDS who 
Clinton brags that the greatest thing 
he did was write a letter to help this 
Mississippi student to dodge the draft, 
that he should be admitted to the 
ROTC program. 

I received several such calls from the 
chief of staff of the governor’s office. 
His wife thought Fulbright had called 
and he corrected her, that, no, the 
chief of staff had. The general message 
conveyed by the head of the draft board 
to me was that the Senator Fulbright’s 

office was putting pressure on the draft 
board, and they needed my help. I then 
made the necessary arrangements to 
enroll Mr. Clinton in the ROTC program 
in the University of Arkansas. 

Remember Clinton had already graduated 
a year out of the Jesuit Catholic 
Georgetown University. He had already 
had a year in England ditching class. 
And so he was going to have to go back 
and take ROTC classes with undergraduates, 
go to one summer camp, and 
on a short abbreviated program because 
he would have been training for a 
lawyer there and would join the JAG 
Corps. It was a special program that 
the Colonel told BOB DORNAN had just 
been created in the nick of time for 
Clinton. 

Holmes continues: I was not saving, 
he is quoting from Clinton’s letter, I 
was not saving him from serving his 
country, as he erroneously thanked me 
for in his letter from England, dated 
December 3, 1969. I was making it possible 
for a Rhodes scholar to serve in 
the military as an officer. Lawyer, 
eventually. In retrospect I see that Mr. 
Clinton had no intention of following 
through with this agreement to join 
the Army ROTC program at the University 
of Arkansas or to attend the 
University of Arkansas law school 
ever. I had explained to him the necessity 
of enrolling at the University of 
Arkansas as a student in order to be eligible 
to take the ROTC program as an 
undergraduate at the university. He 
never enrolled at the University of Arkansas, 
but instead enrolled at Yale 
after going back to Oxford. 

I believe that he purposely deceived 
me using the possibility of joining the 
ROTC as a ploy to work with the draft 
board to delay his induction to get a 
new draft classification. Actually, he 
destroyed and suppressed his induction. 
I never heard of that in my entire life. 
The December 3 letter written to me by 
Mr. Clinton was subsequently taken 
from the file by Lieutenant Colonel 
Clint Jones, my executive officer, and 
was placed into the ROTC files so that 
a record would be available in case the 
applicant should again petition to 
enter the ROTC program. Never. 

Important footnote, Mr. Speaker: 
Colonel Holmes never kept this letter 
over 23 years. Lieutenant Colonel Clint 
Jones, as much to hurt Colonel Holmes 
as to hurt Clinton, kept the letter. 
Clinton had some confederates break 
into the ROTC building, steal all of his 
records when he was getting ready to 
run for Congress in 1974, 4 years later. 
And all of those records, including the 
original of the letter, disappeared, or a 
copy. The original had been purloined 
by Lieutenant Colonel Clint Jones to 
hurt Colonel Holmes. 

Fascinating piece of investigative 
work by yours truly that nobody in the 
media knows to this day. And why? Because 
Colonel Holmes did not like the 
way Clint Jones was downgrading the 
captains who were military, what do 
they call them, professors of military 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1211 

science. And he was mistreating a Korean 
decorated veteran who was a master 
sergeant making him sharpen pencils 
and carry out wastebaskets. And 
this ultimate statuesque Distinguished 
Service Cross colonel, Bataan Death 
March survivor said: Colonel Jones, I 
am taking the sergeant out from under 
your control and also all of these 
young captains. I will rate them. You 
are downgrading their efficiency reports. 
The whole system has slid to the 
high side up in the Pentagon and you 
are costing these people getting promotions. 
So that is what caused this 
bad blood. 

Colonel Holmes continues: The information 
in that letter, the infamous letter, 
alone would have restricted Bill 
Clinton from ever qualifying to be an 
officer in the United States military. 
To this day, do the men in Tuzla know 
that? To this day, he could never apply 
to even get a secret clearance to serve 
in the CIA, the FBI, any police department, 
most of them, and never the 
Coast Guard Academy or any of our 
four military services ever. This letter 
ended that forever. 

Only by getting elected to the House, 
the Senate, or the Presidency or to be 
a governor or a ROTC program would 
he never in his whole life have access 
to top secret material. Even more significant 
was Clinton’s lack of veracity 
in purposely defrauding the military by 
deceiving me both in concealing his 
antimilitary activities overseas and his 
counterfeit intentions for later military 
service. These actions cause me to 
question both his patriotism and his 
integrity. 

Mr. Speaker, if that line had been 
written about Ronald Reagan or 
George Bush, certainly Richard Nixon, 
it would have been on the evening news 
over and over and over again. I read it 
again: These actions cause me to question 
both Mr. Clinton’s patriotism and 
his integrity. This from a Bataan 
Death March survivor. 

When I consider the caliber, the bravery 
and the patriotism of the fine 
young soldiers whose deaths I have witnessed 
and whose funerals I have attended, 
when I reflect on not only the 
willingness but the eagerness that so 
many of them displayed in their earnest 
desire to serve their country, and 
he told me story after story with their 
names that he and Irene recall to this 
day it is untenable and incomprehensible 
to me that a man who was not 
merely unwilling to serve his country 
but actually protested against its military 
should ever be in the position of 
Commander in Chief of our armed 
forces. 

I write this declaration not only for 
the living and future generations, but 
for those who fought and died for this 
country. If space and time permitted, I 
would include the names of the ones I 
knew and fought with. And along with 
them I would mention my younger 
brother, Bob, who was killed during 
World War II and is buried in Cambridge, 
England. He was killed at the 

age of 23, about the age Bill Clinton 
was when he was over in England protesting 
the war. He had the age exact. 

Another footnote Mr. Speaker, when 
I went over for the 50th anniversary of 
Normandy, we went to a ceremony in 
Cambridge, England. I looked for Bob 
Holmes’s grave and found it. He died on 
board a B–17 coming over the English 
Channel. This wall of all the missing 
hundreds and hundreds of men who 
crashed into part of Europe and were 
never found or died in the English 
channel. Bob’s remains are buried 
there. 

I visited the grave, then went back to 
my seat with my wife. And then in 
came the Clintons, waving at the 
crowd. A Spitfire, Mustang and B–17 
flew over at a very low altitude, pushed 
the minimums. There was hardly a dry 
eye in the place. All I could think of is 
over there is Bob Holmes’s grave; died 
at 23 for his country. And here is the 
first draft dodger to ever serve in the 
position of our Commander in Chief. 

I go back to Colonel Eugene J. 
Holmes’s concluding paragraph: I have 
agonized over whether or not to submit 
this statement to the American people. 
But I realize that even though I served 
my country by being in the military 
for over 32 years and having gone 
through the ordeal of months of combat 
under the worst of conditions followed 
by years of imprisonment by the 
Japanese, it is not enough. I am writing 
these comments to let everyone 
know that I love my country more 
than I do my own personal security and 
well-being. 

He was worried, Mr. Speaker, releasing 
this letter: I will go to my grave 
loving these United States of America 
and the liberty for which so many men 
have fought and died. Because of my 
poor physical condition this will be my 
final statement. 

He is actually in very good physical 
condition. He did not want to hassle 
with the liberal dominant media culture, 
and I can understand that. 

I will make no further comments to 
any of the media regarding this letter. 

He did not want to tell the Lt. Col. 
Clint Jones story. And he released this 
letter, and the media had already made 
their choice between Bush and Clinton, 
so they ignored it. 

b2145 
So they ignored it. 
Now, here is the infamous letter, and 
it gives new meaning to the word ‘‘infamous.’’ 
All of the freshmen and sophomores 
wanted me to go put this in 
again; they did not want me to go look 
it up from 1991 or 1993, where I have put 
it in about 10 times. Here is the letter 
that Bill Clinton wrote to Col. Eugene 
Holmes, Director of the ROTC program, 
University of Arkansas, on December 
3, 1969. 
He drew a low lottery number, 319, I 
believe, on the 1st; applied for Yale on 
the 2d, still being mentored by all of 
his political friends in Arkansas; and 
on the 3d he wrote this letter to 

Holmes and it is filled with inaccuracies. 


‘‘I am sorry to be so long in writing, 
Colonel. I know I promised to let you 
hear from me at least once a month.’’ 

Colonel Holmes does not remember 
that promise at all. He did not think he 
was going back to Oxford; he thought 
he was going back to Arkansas. 

‘‘And from now on you will.’’ 

Never wrote again. 

‘‘But I have to have some time to 
think about this first letter. Almost 
daily, since my return to England, I 
have thought about writing, about 
what I want to and ought to say.’’ 

Pause. 

On Lincoln’s birthday, Feb. 12, 1992, 
with Clinton sitting there, having been 
given this letter after it popped up in 
the press, having been given this letter 
by Rich Kaplan, one of Clinton’s Renaissance, 
Hilton Head, SC friends, he 
gave this letter to Clinton, Rich 
Kaplan. 

Head of ABC Evening News to this 
day, Peter Jennings, he had been Ted 
Koppel’s producer for 14 years, he 
called Ted and said, ‘‘Ted, put Clinton 
on.’’ Clinton was running third in New 
Hampshire and in free fall. And since I 
am running 5th, 6th, 7th, or 8th, I know 
what that must have felt like. He had 
spent the money that I do not have. 

And Rich Kaplan gave the letter to 
Clinton to prepare for 3 days. Koppel 
puts him on, the whole show, and goes 
into overtime as though it is Margaret 
Thatcher or some world leader. While 
Clinton sits there, biting his lower lip, 
Koppel read the entire letter. That ate 
up the whole first part of the show, 
which I am going to do now. 

I will continue, second paragraph. 
‘‘First, I want to thank you, not just 
for saving me from the draft, but for 
being so kind and decent to me last 
summer,’’ 1969, ‘‘when I was as low as I 
have ever been. One thing which made 
the bond we struck,’’ 2 hours in his garden, 
‘‘in good faith somewhat palatable 
to me was my high regard for you personally. 
In retrospect, it seems that 
the admiration might not have been 
mutual had you known a little bit 
more about me, about my political beliefs 
and activities.’’ 

Footnote: This was no Joan Baez 
peace-worker who said ‘‘A pox on both 
of your houses’’ and would quote St. 
Francis: ‘‘Where there is hatred, let me 
so love.’’ No, no, he was pro-Hanoi, pro-
Ho Chi Minh, the George Washington of 
his country. 

We, the interventionists, the imperialists. 
We know the whole routine of 
these teachings that Clinton conducted 
at the University of London, School of 
Economics, after hours. That is the 
school where JFK spent some time. 

He says, ‘‘At least you might have 
thought me more fit for the draft than 
for ROTC. Let me try to explain. As 
you know, I worked for 2 years in a 
very minor position on the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee. I did it for 
the experience and the salary, but also 
for the opportunity, however small, of 


H 1212 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

working every day against a war I opposed 
and despised, with a depth of 
feeling I have reserved solely for racism 
in America before Vietnam. I 
marched with Martin Luther King.’’ 

I can respect that, but he was just a 
16-year-old. 

‘‘I did not take the matter lightly, 
but studied it carefully, and there was 
a time when not many people had more 
information about Vietnam at hand 
than I did.’’ 

Good grief. What a braggadocio, foolish 
statement. 

‘‘I have written and spoken and 
marched against the war.’’ 

He did not tell any of this to Colonel 
Holmes. 

Mr. Speaker, before I continue my 
Special Order, let me add my words, 
that I too have enjoyed the friendship 
of Mr. KWEISI MFUME, and also can 
state emphatically that I have never 
met a harder-working Member of Congress 
or a better gentleman, or just a 
more upbeat person that saw no challenge 
in this life that he did not think 
he could solve personally or that all of 
us could not solve together. 

You have taken on a very tough job 
with one of the oldest and most respected 
civil rights organizations in 
America, the NAACP, and I think that 
you will bring it to its heights of new 
glory. I am going to miss you, KWEISI, 
and I am sorry that I was ahead of you. 
I was going to let you have your Special 
Order first, or course. 

Mr. Speaker, I think I have 20 minutes 
left. Let me speed this up. 

Here is Bill Clinton, writing from 
somewhere in Yale. I think he was 
sleeping on Strobe Talbott’s floor, 43 
Lechner Road; he did not even register 
to live in a dormitory at Oxford, never 
went to class; took his Rhodes scholarship 
money and never pursued it, never 
tested and left for Yale in the spring of 
1970 after a curious trip to Moscow, 
Prague, Helsinki, Leningrad, and other 
Scandinavian countries. 

So here he is writing somewhere. 
Strobe Talbott, by the way, is number 
2 at the State Department; he had 
hoped to make him number 1. That is 
why they put in Warren Christopher, 
but they did not plan on JESSE HELMS 
becoming chairman of the Foreign Relations 
Committee in the Senate. So 
everything is kind of dead in the water. 

Clinton continues in the third paragraph 
of the Dec. 3, 1969 letter: ‘‘Let me 
try to explain,’’ to Colonel Holmes. ‘‘As 
you know, I worked for 2 years in a 
very minor position on the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee. I did it for 
the experience and the salary, but also 
for the opportunity, however small, of 
working every day against a war I opposed 
and despised with a depth of feeling 
I had reserved solely for racism in 
America before Vietnam. I did not take 
the matter lightly, but studied it carefully, 
and there was a time when not 
many people’’—I have been over there 
eight times as a journalist—‘‘had more 
information about Vietnam than I 
did.’’ 

He has never been there. 

‘‘I have written and spoken and 
marched against the war. One of the 
national organizers of the Vietnam 
moratorium is a close friend of mine.’’ 

I guess that would be David Mixner, 
who helped raise $4 million in the homosexual 
community. 

‘‘After I left Arkansas last summer, I 
went to Washington to work in the national 
headquarters of the moratorium,’’ 
right before he met with Colonel 
Holmes and after, and then he went 
up to Martha’s Vineyard for another 
big organizing session. 

‘‘Then to England to organize the 
Americans here for demonstrations October 
15 and November 16.’’ 

One demonstration was the new Mobe 
committee; the other was the moratorium 
committee. I do not know which 
was which. 

‘‘Interlocked with the war is the 
draft issue, which I did not begin to 
consider separately until early 1968.’’ 

Yes, graduating from Georgetown 
when they had announced there would 
be no more deferments for graduate 
studies. How he swung that, no one 
knows. 

‘‘For a law seminar at Georgetown, I 
wrote a paper on the legal arguments 
for and against allowing within the Selective 
Service System the classification 
of Selective Conscientious Objection 
for those opposed to participation 
in a particular war, not simply to ‘participation 
in war in any form.’ ’’ 

Mr. Speaker, imagine if Specialist 
Michael New had quoted from this letter 
and used 23-year-old Bill Clinton, 
who I believe is a year older than he is, 
to use this as his rationale why he 
would serve honorably but not go to 
Macedonia in that particular situation 
wearing the U.N. powder-blue beret. 

Back to the Clinton letter. ‘‘From 
my work I came to believe that draft 
system itself is illegitimate. No government 
really rooted in limited parliamentary 
democracy should have the 
power to make its citizens fight and 
kill and die in a war they may oppose, 
a war which even possibly may be 
wrong, a war which in any case does 
not involve immediately the peace and 
freedom of the Nation.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, does Bosnia involve immediately 
the peace and freedom of the 
Nation? Young people would quickly 
say, I do not think so. 

Continuing the letter: ‘‘The draft was 
justified in World War II because the 
life of the people collectively was at 
stake. Individuals had to fight’’— 

No, they did not. We had 6 million 

draft dodgers in World War II. 

—‘‘if the Nation was to survive.’’ 

No, that is wrong. We had about a 
million and a half. We had 6 million 
people who were turned away. Out of 
the 18 million drafted, 6 million were 
told, you are not properly schooled or 
you are too heavy, you are too skinny, 
or you cannot do enough pushups or 
chinups. You are too weak. Six million 
were turned away of the 18 million that 
were drafted, and then lots were turned 
away that tried to join. 

Some came back and back and back 
and made it, even with one eye, even 
with curved spines. Those that really 
wanted to serve in many cases got by. 
Roger Young won the Medal of Honor 
on the island of New Georgia in the 
Solomons, and he only had one eye. 
Took his eye test like that, both with 
the same eye. 

Now, he continues: ‘‘That individuals 
had to fight, if the Nation was to survive, 
for the lives of their countrymen 
and their way of life. Vietnam is no 
such case, nor was Korea an example 
where, in my opinion, certain military 
action was justified, but the draft was 
not, for the reasons stated above.’’ 

Do not think I did not think of that 
line, and why I left before he spoke at 
my war where I was in pilot training 
when it ended, mercifully, at the dedication 
of the Korean Memorial on its 
43d anniversary last July 27, 1995, 42d 
anniversary of it ending. 

‘‘Because of my opposition to the 
draft and the war, I am in great sympathy 
with those who are not willing to 
fight, kill, and maybe die for their 
country; i.e., the particular policy of a 
particular government.’’ 

Thank heaven, Michael New had the 
integrity not to use that line, Mr. 
Speaker. 

‘‘Right or wrong. Two of my friends 
at Oxford are conscientious objectors. I 
wrote a letter of recommendation for 
one of them to his Mississippi draft 
board, a letter which I am more proud 
of than anything else I wrote at Oxford 
last year.’’ 

He did not write much; he never went 
to class, Mr. Speaker. 

‘‘One of my roommates is a draft resister 
who is possibly under indictment.’’ 


This is the fellow that committed 
suicide whose picture is in Clinton’s 
bedroom. 

‘‘And may never be able to go home 
again. He is one of the bravest, best 
men I know. His country needs men 
like him more than they know. That he 
is considered a criminal is an obscenity.’’ 


The problem was he came home, he 
turned himself in. The FBI said, we 
have no more interest in you, the war 
is winding down. His family was not 
happy with what he had done, they had 
a military tradition, and that is when, 
let me see if I recall his name, Frank 
Aller, A–L–L–E–R, tragically committed 
suicide two years after this in 1971 
when no one was looking for him. 
Hardly a brave act when he could have 
gone on with his life. 

‘‘The decision not to be a resister and 
the related subsequent decisions were 
the most difficult of my life. I decided 
to accept the draft in spite of my beliefs 
for one reason: To maintain my 
political viability within the system.’’ 

Those are the words that Ted Koppel 
repeated: ‘‘To maintain my political 
viability within the system.’’ The fact 
is, he never went back into the draft 
system. 

‘‘For years I have worked to prepare 
myself for a political life characterized 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1213 

by both practical, political ability and 
concern for rapid social progress. It is 
a life I feel compelled to try to lead. I 
do not think our system of government 
is by definition corrupt, however dangerous 
and inadequate it has been in 
recent years.’’ 

The society may be corrupt, but that is not 
the same thing. And if that is true, we are all 
finished, anyway. When the draft came, despite 
political convictions, I was having a 
hard time facing the prospect of fighting a 
war I had been fighting against, and that is 
why I contacted you. 

b2200 
Law school and being a JAG, a Judge 
Advocate, is hardly being under fire. 
ROTC was the only way left in which I 
could possibly but not positively avoid both 
Vietnam and resistance. 
In other words, he did not have the 
courage to be identified as a resistance 
person. 
Going on with my education, even coming 
back to England, played no part in my decision 
to join ROTC. I am back here and would 
have been at Arkansas Law School because 
there is nothing else I can do. In fact, I 
would liked to have been able to take a year 
out perhaps to teach in some small college or 
work on some community action project and 
in the process to decide whether to attend 
law school or graduate school and how to 
begin putting what I have learned to use. 
Well, Sergeant Jimmy Holt of Hope, 
Arkansas goes missing in Vietnam, not 
found to this day. 
But the particulars of my personal life are 
not nearly as important to me as the principles 
involved. After I signed the ROTC letter 
of intent to you, I began to wonder 
whether the compromise I had made with 
myself was not more objectionable then the 
draft would have been because I had no intention 
in the ROTC program in itself and 
all I seem to have done was protect myself 
from physical harm. 
Mr. Speaker, in other words, he did 
not want to be a lawyer and wear the 
Army uniform. He wanted to go to Yale 
Law School and not to Arkansas Law 
School. 
‘‘Also I began to think I had deceived 
you, not by lies, there were none’’— 
that is not what Colonel Holmes 
wrote—‘‘but by failing to tell you all 
the things I’m writing now. I doubt 
then that I had the mental coherence 
to articulate them.’’ 
The Colonel told me he was very articulate 
as a 23-year-old student, following 
him from the front yard to the 
back yard during two hours of gardening, 
back and forth. 
Back to the letter. 
At that time after we had made our agreement 
and you had sent my 1–D deferment to 
my draft board, the anguish and loss of my 
self-respect and self-confidence really set in. 
I bet, Mr. Speaker. 
I hardly slept for weeks and kept going by 
eating compulsively. 
Does that sound familiar? What were 
they doing in Vietnam? Sleeping, and 
kept going by eating compulsively? 
I read until exhaustion brought sleep. Finally 
on September 12 I stayed up all night 
writing a letter to the chairman of my draft 
board. 

And preparing for the demonstrations 
on October 15 and November 16 
that he mentioned in the first paragraph. 


‘‘I sent a letter to the chairman of 
my draft board saying basically what is 
in the preceding paragraph, thanking 
him for trying to help me in a case 
where he really couldn’t and stating 
that I couldn’t do the ROTC after 
all’’—I can’t do it—‘‘and would he 
please draft me as soon as possible. 

Nobody has ever found that letter, I 
doubt it was ever written. So does 
Colonel Holmes. Oh. 

I never mailed the letter. But I did carry it 
on me every day until I got on the plane to 
return to England. I didn’t mail the letter 
because I didn’t see in the end how my going 
in the Army and maybe going to Vietnam 
would achieve anything except the feeling 
that I had punished myself and gotten what 
I had deserved. 

And maybe given the integrity to tell 
young men to go die in Somalia, 19 of 
them, and to tell them to go drive over 
land mines in Bosnia. 

So I came back to England to try to make 
something of the second year of my Rhodes 
scholarship. 

Footnote. And ditched every class 
and flunked out and left. 

‘‘And that is where I am now, writing to 
you, because you have been good to me and 
have a right to know what I think and feel. 
I am writing too in the hope that my telling 
this one story will help you to understand 
more clearly how so many fine people have 
come to find themselves still loving their 

country but loathing the military. 

Loathing the military, 

To which you and other good mean have 
devoted years, lifetimes to the best service 
you could give.’’ 

In Vietnam, people who went a few 
steps further than Clinton were rolling 
grenades into the tents of what they 
call lifers, sergeants and officers from 
the academies who were giving their 
life to military service, and killed 
them, and the names are on the wall, 
only known to God how many, but I 
know of at least 10, men that were 
murdered by the man under them because 
of both drugs and the poisonous 
atmosphere, some of which was developed 
in the other body and this body 
during this incredible war in Vietnam. 

He says, 

Loathing the military to which you and 
other men have devoted years, lifetimes to 
the best service you could give. To many of 
us, it is no longer clear what is service and 
what is disservice, or if it is clear, the conclusion 
is likely to be illegal. 

I debated men who had the guts to go 
to jail, and I respected them, like Joan 
Baez’s husband David Harris, student 
body president, Stanford. It is the people 
who hid out like this and let others 
go in their place and then wanted to be 
commander-in-chief some day that perplex 
me. 

Closing paragraph. 

Forgive the length of this letter, Colonel. 
There was much to say. There is still a lot to 
be said but it can wait. Please say hello to 
Colonel Jones for me. Merry Christmas. Sincerely, 
Bill Clinton. 

That would be Lieutenant Colonel 
Clint Jones, who stole this letter out of 
the ROTC files to keep it and use it at 
some point against Colonel Holmes because 
Holmes had disciplined Colonel 
Jones, and when the files were stolen 
from the ROTC building and destroyed—
and we are looking for a lot of 
missing files this day, a quarter of a 
century later—Colonel Jones gets a 
good-bye and a Merry Christmas from 
Bill Clinton. 

Mr. Speaker, one of the networks attacked 
me tonight, I think unfairly, so 
I do not have to ask for a point of personal 
privilege. I will fix it right now. 

It is over an amendment that I have 
on the defense authorization bill to 
give an honorable discharge and 6 
months to get their affairs in order to 
everybody who has tragically contracted 
the AIDS HIV virus. Surgeons 
General and the Surgeon Admiral of 
the Navy, which handles the Marine 
Corps, and the Air Force and the Army 
have all told me, sometimes on the 
record, but always off the record, that 
they do not think people who have the 
HIV virus, who cannot contribute to 
the walking blood bank in the military, 
who have to be brought home 
from every country in the world where 
they serve, taken out of their aircraft, 
their helicopters, off the ships, out of 
the submarines, out of the Abrams 
tanks, the fighting vehicles, the 
Humvees, nobody in Bosnia, Somalia or 
Haiti carrying the HIV virus, that they 
all have to be brought back stateside, 
for the Marines and the Navy and only 
two wonderful States with a high tourist 
budget, California and Virginia, 
have to be within 300 miles of a hospital 
for treatment, and then since 
they have been taken out of a combat-
ready job and brought home from overseas, 
we fire, we pink slip with an honorable 
discharge but not 6 months 
other people who are healthy, who are 
part of the walking blood bank, are 
trainable for combat and can go be deployed 
overseas any day of the week. 
Those people are let out of the military 
so that these people can be trained at 
our tax expense into their new job. 

Mr. Speaker, I knew when I saw the 
article in the Post yesterday that this 
woman—and I must take her at her 
word and believe her, even though she 
is anonymous, using a false name, 
Marie—was in the ‘‘Post’’ saying that 
her husband contracted AIDS through 
unprotected sex, the implication is 
cheating on her, and that is a tragedy, 
brought it home to her. 

Remember, this Congress has done 
nothing in a decade to force doctors to 
call the roommate, the live-in 
girlfriend, the homosexual roommate, 
the fiancee or the wife of a person who 
has the HIV virus and tell them that 
that person can kill them. I have read 
that it takes about 700 normal intercourse 
events to contract heterosexual 
contact AIDS, and no doctor in this 
country, and the chief doctor in the 
military, Dr. Joseph, who sent me a 
book that is frightening about his battle 
with the New York health services, 


H 1214 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

not to win this battle, and that we still 
have not won it. 

So the husband came home, the doctor 
could not call the wife, he infected 
her, and then he dies and widows her 
with one child. Fortunately the child 
was conceived, because breast milk is 
one way you transmit the HIV virus, 
and now she is a sergeant, 10 years, left 
alone. 

All I could do was say that she must 
be patriotic and accept this honorable 
discharge 6 months from now, and not 
expect us to keep 1,100 people on active 
duty when the doctors in the military 
tell me that the largest group of the 3 
is probably 500 or more people, young 
people, who are conned by our deteriorating 
culture into sticking a dirty 
needle in their arm, and that to help a 
woman in this tragic situation we have 
to keep 500 people who broke the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice, who 
played Russian roulette with a dirty 
drug needle and lost, that they get 
cover because of this one tragic case? 

There are no more tainted blood people 
left on active duty. The last one 
died 3 years ago. We have all learned on 
this floor, from the limited debate on 
the worst plague in American history, 
almost going to pass the flu epidemic 
in 1919 that killed millions of senior 
citizens, we are getting there. 

We have now lost more young men in 
their prime of life than were killed in 
combat in World War II. Three hundred 
twelve thousand in World War II, depending 
on your encyclopedia or your 
military records, 350,000 to AIDS if you 
put bisexuals and drug users, a mixed 
category, in with homosexuals. And 
then we add about 10 or 20,000 cases, Dr. 
Koop, the Surgeon General, told me, 
that were attributed to the primary 
cause of death, pneumonia, dementia, 
heart failure, cancer, rather than put 
down that it was AIDS that broke 
down their immune system and caused 
the death. So they add another 10 or 
20,000 on there from 1980 through 1983 
when doctors mercifully, it is understandable, 
tried to help the family 
keep some privacy on what killed their 
young loved male adult and some few 
women. 

So here we are with the networks 
structuring this thing as though, and 
they keep saying this, the Army Times 
said it, the networks have said it, the 
Post said it and the New York Times 
calling any of us who voted for this, 
which is a majority of the House and 
Senate and the majority of conferees, 
calling us anti-AIDS bigots. They keep 
saying these men stay on the job and 
that they are healthy. 

No, by definition they are not 
healthy, that is why they cannot give 
blood. By definition we in this Congress 
added them to the Americans 
with Disabilities Act. Every HIV person 
in this country is considered disabled, 
so they are not healthy. 

Then they stay on the job, and this is 
where I want to stay down and plead 
with people to listen. They do not stay 
on the job if they are a pilot, a heli


copter pilot, on a ship, a sub or in a 
tank or in an artillery unit or a paratrooper 
or special forces. They are 
given a safe job in the States, never to 
be deployed again. 

Mr. Speaker, I will put in my remarks 
and several other articles that I 
wrote about the Clinton letter comparing 
it to the letter of Major Sullivan 
Ballew in the Civil War, and I will put 
in my explanation of why this is fair, 
and it has to do with readiness, only to 
give an honorable discharge and 6 
months to prepare to go into civilian 
life and special health treatment that a 
car accident victim does not get if they 
have a career-ending injury while serving 
in uniform in our military services. 

Mr. Speaker, I submit for the RECORD 
my news releases and some key letters 
on this HIV-military controversy: 
DORNAN PROVISION ON HIV/COMBAT READI


NESS PASSES AS PART OF FISCAL YEAR 1996 

DEFENSE CONFERENCE BILL 

‘‘The necessity of retaining personnel who 
have been found to be HIV positive imposes 
significant problems for all the services, but 
especially the Navy. . . . The immediate discharge 
of HIV infected members would increase 
personnel readiness. . . .’’ commented 
Admiral Frank Kelso, former Chief of Naval 
Operations, in response to an inquiry by Congressman 
Robert K. Dornan of California. 
Dornan, Chairman of the House Subcommittee 
on Military Personnel, successfully 
passed a provision in the FY 1996 Defense 
Conference which would accomplish this 
goal. 

Dornan’s legislation would require discharge 
of HIV+ military personnel, who, because 
of their condition, are unable to deploy 
overseas or participate in most other combat 
requirements such as flying aircraft, serving 
on board ship, or operating as a ground infantryman. 
A Pentagon quality-of-life task 
force echoed Dornan’s concerns in a recent 
report which stated, ‘‘The Defense Department 
should enforce non-deployable policies.’’ 
Currently, HIV-infected members, 
though permanently non-deployable, are allowed 
to remain on active duty until they 
develop full-blown aids. 

‘‘This is an issue of readiness and fairness,’’ 
said Dornan. ‘‘In a time of increased 
defense downsizing, we cannot afford to keep 
on active duty personnel who are not fully 
deployable worldwide. We also must be fair 
to those who are fully deployable. They 
should not have to spend additional time 
away from friends and family because they 
have to remain overseas in place of someone 
who is not deployable.’’ 

Dornan points to the statement of an active 
duty Marines Corps company commander, 
who wrote, ‘‘By not being able to rotate 
from our non-deploying company, my 
one HIV Marine kept another Marine from 
leaving a deploying unit. This may not seem 
like much to some Congressmen. . ., but I’m 
sure it meant a lot to the guy and his family 
who had just spent 54% of their last three 
years separated due to normal deployment 
patterns.’’ 

The defense conference report will now be 
sent to the President and hopefully signed 
into law. 

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, HEADQUARTERS, 
U.S. MARINE CORPS, 

Washington, DC, July 23, 1993. 

Hon. ROBERT K. DORNAN, 

House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. DORNAN: Thank you for your letter 
of July 1, 1993, concerning Marine Corps 

policy governing HIV positive 
servicemembers. 

Navy and Marine Corps regulations require 
that discharge proceedings be initiated 
through the disability evaluation system in 
cases of HIV–1 positive servicemembers who 
are found unfit for duty. Members who are 
found fit for duty are retained; however, 
they must be assigned within the United 
States to a unit that is not normally programmed 
for deployment. Further, they 
must be assigned within 300 miles of a Medical 
Treatment Facility (MTF) designated by 
the Surgeon General that is capable of providing 
the care required by HIV–1 positive 
members. The MTF’s designated are the 
Naval Hospitals at San Diego and Oakland, 
California, Bethesda, Maryland, and Portsmouth, 
Virginia. 

The costs associated with retaining HIV–1 
positive Marines have not yet been analyzed. 
It must be noted, though, that the total 
number of HIV–1 positive Marines currently 
on active duty represents an extremely small 
percentage of our total force. 

Marines who are HIV–1 positive are not assigned 
to ship’s detachments or to extended 
deployments afloat, although HIV–1 positive 
officers are not precluded from embarking on 
ships for short durations for training exercises, 
or from participating in training deployments 
within the United States or its 
territories. Federal Aviation Administration 
regulations prohibit HIV–1 positive 
servicemembers from flying aircraft or being 
certified as pilots. Navy instructions also restrict 
the assignment of HIV–1 positive aviators 
to duty as both pilot and aircrew 
aboard military aircraft. Further limitations 
on the assignment of HIV–1 positive Marines 
to operational units or specific duties may 
be established based on the necessity to protect 
the health and safety of the HIV–1 positive 
member and of other military personnel. 

Current Department of Defense regulations 
governing physical disability prohibit the 
determination of unfitness based solely on a 
servicemember’s inability to perform his or 
her duties worldwide, a provision that does 
not apply exclusively to HIV–1 positive 
servicemembers. The Marine Corps supports 
a recent recommendation by the Director, 
Naval Counsel of Personnel Boards that this 
prohibition be removed. 

We consider this a manpower issue vice a 
medical issue. The deployed time for certain 
Marine units currently exceeds the Navy’s 
guidelines, and the retention of non-
deployable Marines prevents us from filling 
those billets with Marines who are worldwide 
deployable. This not only impacts readiness 
but also increases the deployment tempo of 
fully fit Marines. 

I trust this information will be of assistance 
to you. 
Very Respectfully, 

C. E. MUNDY, JR., 
General, U.S. Marine Corps, 
Commandant of the Marine Corps. 

CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS, 

September 2, 1993. 

Hon. Robert K. Dornan, 

House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. DORNAN: Thank you for your letter 
of July 1, 1993, concerning our HIV policy 
and the problems associated with caring for 
HIV infected personnel. 

The necessity of retaining personnel who 
have been found to be HIV positive imposes 
significant problems for all the Services, but 
especially Navy. Assignment limitations 
cause significant disruption in the sea/shore 
rotation for all our personnel. 

The Department of Defense (DoD) requires 
assignment of HIV infected service members 
only within the continental United States 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1215 

due to the high priority assigned to the continued 
medical evaluations; Alaska, Hawaii, 
and Puerto Rico lack Navy medical treatment 
facilities required by HIV infected 
members. 

HIV infected members are not eligible for 
service on ships, due to insufficient medical 
treatment facilities aboard; however, HIV infected 
members do continue to perform in 
their rating in shore duty billets in close 
proximity to adequate medical care. Members 
who normally are assigned to a flight 
assignment are grounded when found to be 
HIV infected. This is consistent with established 
procedures for other medical conditions. 
Fifty-five percent of all Navy ratings 
serve the majority of their careers at sea. All 
HIV infected members in sea duty intensive 
ratings no longer take their turn for assignment 
to a ship, drastically altering an already 
tight sea/shore rotation schedule. HIV 
infected Physicians, Nurses, Dentists, Hospital 
Corpsmen (HM), and Dental Technicians 
(DT) are not allowed to perform exposure, 
invasive procedures. 

HIV is an expensive disease to treat. Costs 
are not limited solely to providing medical 
care. The average length of time between diagnosis 
of an HIV infection and medical separation 
is approximately 4 years. Members 
are not medically separated until they display 
clinical illness symptoms. 

An asymptomatic active duty member’s 
medical care consists of an initial hospitalization 
for a thorough medical evaluation 
and staging, and periodic reevaluations 
conducted semiannually. The cost of an initial 
evaluation is approximately $4,000 and 
reevaluations cost $2,400. Medications such 
as AZT cost approximately $2,200 per year. 
Total lifetime treatment adds up to approximately 
$208,000. This figure does not include 
time lost from their assigned duty station, 
psychological counseling, travel to and from 
the medical center or the costs of separation. 

The Navy has approximately 787 HIV infected 
active duty members, 35 officers and 
752 enlisted. The average FY–93 cost in pay 
and benefits to retain one officer is $71,436 
and $30,541 for each enlisted member on active 
duty. The total pay and benefits for the 
787 personnel is $25,467,092 for this fiscal 
year. 

A member found medically unfit for duty 
is transferred to the Temporary Disability 
Retirement List (TDRL) and provided a 30 
percent minimum disability benefit and continued 
Navy medical care. We place the 
member on the Permanent Disability Retirement 
List (PDRL) and provide a 100 percent 
disability benefit and continued Navy medical 
care when the member’s condition deteriorates. 
The Navy has medically retired 
1,193 HIV infected members since the beginning 
of the program in 1986. An estimated 
lifetime treatment cost (not including pay 
and benefits) for all the infected retirees is a 
total of $248,144,000. Only members who become 
eligible for the Temporary or Permanent 
Disability Retirement Lists are provided 
continued treatment at a Navy medical 
treatment facility. All members discharged 
for other reasons are eligible for 
Veterans Administration care upon separation. 


The immediate discharge of HIV infected 
members would increase personnel readiness 
during a time of significant downsizing. Additionally, 
it would allow the Navy to replace 
the 787 infected members with members 
who are healthy and world-wide assignable. 
Sea/shore rotation schedules would be 
readjusted, thereby increasing readiness. 
Discharging these members would place the 
responsibility of monitoring the physical 
condition of HIV infected members on the civilian 
sector. 

If I may be of any further assistance, 
please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely, 
FRANK B. KELSO II, 

Admiral, U.S. Navy. 

NON COMMISSIONED 
OFFICERS ASSOCIATION 
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 

Alexandria, VA, June 7, 1994 

Hon. ROBERT K. DORNAN, 

House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. DORNAN: The Non Commissioned 
Officers Association of the USA (NCOA) 
strongly supports the proposal contained in 
the House version of the FY 1995 Defense Authorization 
Bill (H.R. 4301) that ensures that 
all members of the military be physically 
and medically worldwide deployable. 

During a time when manpower levels of the 
military services have been and continue to 
be reduced to minimum levels, NCOA believes 
that the taxpayers of this country 
should reasonably expect that all 
servicemembers serving in the military services 
be able to serve wherever and whenever 
needed. If necessary readiness capabilities 
are to be realized from a ‘‘boot-on-theground’’ 
standpoint, everyone in uniform 
must be eligible for deployment under field 
conditions. NCOA further believes that failure 
to adhere to such a policy presents false 
strength indicators and will undoubtedly result 
in unfair assignment practices and rapidity 
for those who meet and maintain established 
deployability criteria. 

NCOA is opposed to any legislative effort 
to reduce or lessen the deployability requirements 
of H.R. 4301. 

Sincerely, 

MICHAEL F. OUELLETTE, 

Sergeant Major, U.S. 
Army, (Retired), 
Director of Legislative Affairs. 

Here is my ‘‘Dear Colleague’’ on this, 
Mr. Speaker: 

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OR MINISTRY OF 
PROPAGANDA? 

DEAR COLLEAGUE: I’m sure you’ll share my 
outrage after reading the following article 
from the January 29, 1996 edition of the 
Washington Times regarding a ‘‘Media Reference 
Card’’ issued to our troops in Bosnia. 
This is another blatant attempt by this administration 
to use our military for purposes 
other than national security. In this case, 

U.S. troops—troops risking their lives 
against land mines and terrorists in the cold 
of winter—are being directed to tell reporters 
they have full faith in the President and 
the United Nations! Besides the article, I’m 
also including a copy of part of the card it-
self—Disgusting! 
Sincerely, 
ROBERT K. DORNAN, 

U.S. Congressman. 
PUT ON A HAPPY FACE, TROOPS IN BOSNIA 

TOLD—PRAISE CLINTON IF PRESS ASKS, 

GUIDE SAYS 

Taszar Air Base. Hungary—U.S. troops are 
grumbling about a pamphlet that advises 
them to tell any inquiring reporter they 
have full confidence in their commanders, 
from President Clinton on down. 

The pamphlet, titled ‘‘Answers You Can 
Use,’’ was prepared by the Army’s V Corps 
and has been distributed to all Army troops 
in Bosnia to help them deal with pesky press 
inquiries. 

One suggested answer is: ‘‘U.S. forces are 
confident in our trained and competent leaders. 
We have pride in our leadership, from 
the president on down, and full trust in their 
decision.’’ 

The problem is, not all of the soldiers feel 
that way. 

‘‘That one [answer] particularly got me,’’ 
said a colonel who asked not to be named. 

A female sergeant with the 4th Aviation 
Brigade, based at Kaposvar Air Field, also 
took issue with the statement. ‘‘I voted for 
him [Mr. Clinton] last time, but not this 
time,’’ said the sergeant, who also declined 
to be named. 

Some soldiers said they were offended by 
the attempt to guide their responses. 

The guidelines include a list of do’s and 
don’ts for speaking with reporters, including 
an admonition not to discuss ‘‘political or 
foreign policy matters . . . or give opinions 
on hypothetical situations.’’ 

They also contain commonsense suggestions 
about not revealing classified information 
or details of future plans and operations 
or operational capabilities. 

Soldiers are advised not to say ‘‘no comment’’ 
but instead to answer difficult questions 
by saying ‘‘We don’t comment on future 
operations’’ or ‘‘I’m not qualified to answer 
that question.’’ 

The troops also are told never to lie to reporters 
and not to interfere with news gatherings. 


‘‘Be positive in your answers,’’ the guide 
says. ‘‘This is your opportunity to tell the 
public what a great job you and your unit 
are doing.’’ 

Other handy news bites suggested by the 
guide include the following: 

· ‘‘We are trained, ready and fully prepared 
to conduct peace operations.’’ 

· ‘‘We area not here to fight but we have 
the capability, when required, to enforce the 
treaty and to protect ourselves.’’ 

· ‘‘We are a disciplined and trained force. 
We understand our mission and the rules of 
engagement.’’ 

· ‘‘U.S. forces have a long tradition of 
working with the United Nations and NATO 
and are confident in our abilities to work together 
in this mission.’’ 

Many soldiers privately expressed dislike 
of Mr. Clinton, who avoided service in the 
military during the Vietnam War. One soldier 
said he lost all respect for the president 
after he learned about Mr. Clinton’s efforts 
to avoid being drafted. 

One lieutenant colonel confided that he 
disliked the president but was careful not to 
express his opinions when enlisted personnel 
were around. 

Capt. Mark Darden, a spokesman for the 
Army in Hungary, referred questions about 
the pamphlet to Capt. Robert Hastings, who 
took part in writing the guidelines. Capt. 
Hastings did not return a telephone call 
seeking comment. 

ANSWER YOU CAN USE—V CORPS MEDIA REF


ERENCE CARD—GUIDELINES FOR DEALING 

WITH CIVILIAN NEWS MEDIA 

1. Throughout this operation, there will be 
excessive media coverage of Army activities. 
Reporters will be present everywhere in the 
area of operations. They are allowed to 
record your actions and activities. Politely 
ask them to stay out of your way, but you 
should not interfere with their news gathering 
activities. If there is time and it doesn’t 
interfere with your mission, you may answer 
their questions as long as you follow the 
guidelines on this card. 
2. Don’t make ‘‘off the record’’ statements 
to reporters. Assume that a reporter’s recorder 
is always on. Anything you say to reporters 
can be used in their reports. 
3. If a reporter comes to your unit and is 
not escorted by a Public Affairs Officer or 
main escort, refer them to the Joint Information 
Bureau. If they are escorted, you 
may answer their questions, but inform your 
chain of command about their presence immediately. 

H 1216 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

4. You are not required to talk to the have had the privilege of serving here, gress, a unique class, I think, in many 
media. If you do, you have the responsibility 
to protect classified information and the security 
and privacy of your fellow soldiers. Do 
not discuss anything outside your area of expertise 
and do not speculate. 

5. You may not discuss future plans and operations, 
political or foreign policy matters, 
operational capabilities, or give opinions on 
hypothetical situations. ‘‘Stay in your 
lane.’’ 
6. Don’t say ‘‘no comment.’’ Simply state 
‘‘we don’t comment on future operations,’’ or 
‘‘I’m not qualified to answer that question.’’ 
7. Never lie to the media. If you can’t answer 
a question or don’t know the answer, 
say so. Suggest where, or with whom the answer 
may be found. 
8. Be brief and concise in answering questions. 
Use simple language, not military jargon 
or acronyms. 
9. Think before you speak. When asked a 
question, stop, think, and then answer. 
10. If you accidentally say something inappropriate, 
say so. Ask the reporter not to use 
your comment, and then report the incident 
to your commander. 
11. Don’t allow yourself to be badgered by 
the media. If necessary, politely end the 
interview and contact your commander or 
the PAO. 
12. If you observe a reporter recording or 
viewing something classified, take immediate 
steps to protect the information and 
report the incident to your commander. 
Under no circumstances should you try to 
take notes, film or equipment from a reporter. 
Get the reporter’s name and organization 
for your report. 
13. Be positive in your answers. This is 
your opportunity to tell the public what a 
good job you and your unit are doing. 
f 


CONTINGENT ADJOURNMENT OF 
THE HOUSE FROM CALENDAR 
DAY OF FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 
1996 TO TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 
1996 

Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the 
House adjourns on the calendar day of 
Friday, February 2, 1996 (legislative 
day of Thursday, February 1, 1996), it 
stand adjourned until 8 p.m. on Tuesday, 
February 6, 1996, unless the House 
sooner receives a message from the 
Senate transmitting its concurrence in 
House Concurrent Resolution 141, in 
which case the House shall stand adjourned 
pursuant to that concurrent 
resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Texas? 

Mr. MFUME. Mr. Speaker, reserving 
the right to object, and I will not object, 
I do want to, for the RECORD, indicate 
that the minority has been consulted 
on the unanimous-consent request. 
We understand the merits of it 
and the necessity of it, and we have no 
objections at this time. 

Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. MFUME. I yield to the gentleman 
from Texas. 

Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Speaker, under the 
gentleman’s reservation, I would like 
to just take a moment to say farewell 
to my good friend from Maryland, Mr. 
MFUME. I have enjoyed my time that I 

and we have worked well together, and 
I must say that I can say, as my grandfather 
said about many of his acquaintances, 
that the gentleman from Maryland 
is indeed, as my grandfather 
would have said, a gentleman, a scholar 
and a poor judge of good whiskey, 
and I thank you for having allowed me 
the privilege of being your friend in 
this body. 

Mr. MFUME. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the distinguished gentleman very much 
for his kind remarks and for his friendship 
over the last decade as we have 
served together on a number of committees, 
fought a number of battles, 
and at the end of the day recognized 
that friendships really do matter and 
the ability to work together and compromise 
really is what this body is all 
about. I thank the gentleman for his 
kind remarks. 

Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman. 

Mr. MFUME. Mr. Speaker, I withdraw 
my reservation of objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

f 


FAREWELL ADDRESS BY KWEISI 
MFUME 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of May 12, 1995, the gentleman 
from Maryland [Mr. MFUME] is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee 
of the minority leader. 

Mr. MFUME. Mr. Speaker, for those 
Members that are still in their offices 
and others who are watching, this is in 
fact probably the last time that I will 
come into the well of the House of Representatives 
to address this Chamber 
and to address the people of the United 
States in this capacity. 

As many of you know, on the 18th of 
this month, I will conclude my service 
here in the House of Representatives, 
lay my resignation forward, and move 
from that point on on the 18th into a 
new capacity, that being the President 
and CEO of the NAACP. 

Mr. Speaker, I come to the well with 
mixed emotions but I come nonetheless 
because this has been for me a place of 
partisan wrangling and a place quite 
frankly to make amends. This well is 
used by Members for a number of 
things, most of which is to talk about 
their legislation, but it also, I think, 
ought to be a pulpit from which we 
seek to bridge a better understanding 
of one another, from which we try to 
build coalitions and from which we try 
to understand not just the Members of 
this Chamber but ourselves differently 
and also the millions upon millions of 
people throughout the United States 
who watch on a daily basis our actions 
as Members of this august body. 

I came here, Mr. Speaker, 10 years 
ago, in the class of 1986. We were 51 in 
number and we were a part of what was 
known then as the historic 100th Con-

respects, but a class nonetheless that I 
regret having to depart from as many 
others have before me. 

b2215 

But those were different days, and in 
many respects this was a different Congress 
and, indeed, perhaps even this 
was a different Nation. 

I have fond memories of the years 
that I have served in this capacity. I 
would be remiss if I did not thank the 
people of Baltimore City and Baltimore 
County that comprise the Seventh Congressional 
District of Maryland for 
vesting in me year after year both in 
this capacity and previously in a local 
capacity their trust, their goodwill to 
represent them here in elected office. 
They have been good to me over the 
years, returning me to office with 84 
percent of the vote in a day and in an 
age where there is a great deal of cynicism, 
when totalities are considered 
landslides if they approach 65 percent. 
So in that respect, I have been blessed. 

I have also been blessed in these 10 
years to have an opportunity to serve 
with a number of distinguished Members 
of the House, many of whom are 
still here, others who have gone on to 
other careers, and some of whom are no 
longer on this Earth. 

I remember the days of serving with 
Claude Pepper of Florida, a distinguished 
gentleman who had in his 
heart of hearts one desire and one true 
commitment, to try to bring about 
change in this body with respect to 
how we viewed those in the twilight of 
their lives. I listened to Claude Pepper 
from this well as others did as he continued 
to talk about why we needed 
catastrophic health care in this country 
and why we ought to understand 
the treasure chest that we have and the 
repository that we have in our senior 
citizens, why we had to have a sensitivity 
toward them as we must have a 
sensitivity toward young people. 

I remember Sil Conte of Massachusetts, 
a Republican who understood 
partisan debate and partisan discourse, 
but, who at the end of the day, recognized 
that we were all the same people 
cut in many respects from the same 
cloth and given, if we were lucky, the 
same challenge in this institution to 
heal and bring us together. Sil Conte 
passed away many years ago also, but 
it is the memory of him and Claude 
Pepper that reverberate in this Chamber, 
the memory of Mickey Leland 
coming from Houston, TX, with the desire 
to represent not only those in his 
district but those around the country 
who were voiceless and, indeed, ultimately 
those around the world who had 
no voice who in the end gave his life on 
a mountaintop in Africa trying to feed 
the hungry and to clothe the naked. 

So it has been an interesting 10 
years. Having served as I have under 
three Presidents, I have developed at 
least a different appreciation beyond 
what I learned in the classroom about 
the relationship between the legislative 
branch and the executive branch of 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1217 

Government. Coming here as I did 
under Ronald Reagan’s administration 
and leaving as I prepare to do now 
under the administration of Bill Clinton, 
it has for me been enlightening, 
and it has also been humbling. 

Someone asked me today what things 
do you think about when you think 
about leaving this Chamber, and I said 
what I will miss most of all are the 
people, those who are here who serve 
now, those who were here, and perhaps 
even those who are running now in districts 
around the country because they 
have a desire to come here and to help 
this institution. I would caution those 
people, wherever they may be, no matter 
what State or region of this country, 
who seek to serve to remember 
that service has with it a great sense of 
humility, that these seats before us in 
which we sit day in and day out are not 
our seats. They belong to the people of 
the district that we represent. They 
are on temporary loan to us, and if we 
learn nothing else, if we are fortunate 
enough to get here, we must remember 
that at some point in time, and at 
some day in time we must return those 
seats to them. 

I think about at this moment many 
of the major bills that have gone 
through this House in the last 10 years, 
how we debated in one of the more finest 
hours of this Congress the whole 
issue of the gulf war, whether or not 
there ought to be an American involvement, 
and to what extent that ought to 
be, a debate that carried over several 
days, and I think brought out the best 
of Members of this body on both sides 
of the aisle in a very wrenching issue 
that 5 years ago confronted us in the 
starkest of ways and one that we were 
able to come to grips with. I remember 
the passage of the Americans with Disabilities 
Act when people in this country 
with all sorts of disabilities were 
thought somehow in some way to be 
second-class citizens, and many even 
thought that they had no rights or 
privileges that the law and this Congress 
were bound to respect, and when 
STENY HOYER of Maryland and others 
got together and allowed me to be a 
part of the sponsorship of that very 
historic piece of legislation, how even 
then people found problems with it. 
And yet you ask the disabled have 
their lives changed as a result of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, and 
most would say it in fact has. 

I remember in 1990 the desire to deal 
with what we thought was a rather aggressive 
Supreme Court, a Supreme 
Court that had turned back a number 
of civil rights cases, for whatever reason 
had begun moving judicially toward 
the right at a great speed, and 
how in that year we prepared for what 
was to ultimately be introduced in the 
next year the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 
and everyone then thought that we 
would either pass this or we would not 
pass it on the merits of the bill. But regrettably 
the merits got lost in the 
sauce, and people began to throw 
things on the table that were not here. 

They spoke of quotas. They played the 
race card. They fanned the fears of everybody 
in this body to the extent that 
we became as polarized as the problems 
that we were trying to solve. But we 
worked on that day in and day out, 
month after month. Serving as an 
original cosponsor and as a conferee, 
watching as we did when the White 
House vetoed the bill and then working 
diligently because we did not give up to 
try to come up with something that 
would pass this body, we ultimately did 
that. It became known as the Civil 
Rights Act of 1991, and also became 
known as one of this body’s most shining 
moments of the last 10 years. 

Some of you recall the 5-year deficit 
reduction plan spearheaded by the 
Democratic leadership in this instance, 
ultimately passed by the full House 
that gave us real deficit reduction at a 
time in our history when people talked 
about it and if you were ready to move 
forward with it. 

I could go on and on about what I 
consider to be the best moments of this 
body. But let me also talk about those 
moments that were far from the best, 
and in many instances became the 
worst, those moments when we fought 
beyond the principle and the power of 
ideas, when our ideas were put aside 
and put asunder so that we might then 
in a very emotional and gut sort of way 
deal with things that had nothing to do 
with the power of ideas and nothing to 
do with the right to object on principle, 
but went to the personal nature 
of Members of this body, personal attacks 
that not only belittled the person 
making them but lowered, I think, 
the dignity and the esteem of this 
body, times when we decided to talk 
about one’s orientation or times when 
we laughed at the fact that one was in 
a minority group or times when we 
even spoke in a very strange, discordant 
way about what was wrong with 
the Democratic Party or what was 
wrong with the Republican Party on a 
personal level; the low points of this or 
any other Congress, those instances 
when we got out of the lofty, privileged, 
and blessed positions of being 
Members of Congress that would come 
here and debate the issue and debate 
the power of ideas and to stand on principles, 
and when we lowered ourselves 
to make very personal and vicious attacks 
at one another. I know the sort 
of tense debating that takes place in 
this body. I understand the emotion 
and the passion that comes with it. 

But I would caution those who continue 
to serve and those who seek to 
serve to remember that the words that 
are inscribed behind me on this desk 
that speak of tolerance and justice and 
union and the words above me that say 
‘‘In God we trust’’ must in fact be 
words that we live by. Otherwise, we 
lose our ability to effectuate the hearts 
and minds of other people and to effect 
change in such a way that we then 
have added to what we consider to be 
the lifestyle and the decor and the 
principles of America and instead have 

detracted from them in a very evil and 
vicious way. 

Now, I need to say just a couple of 
things, if I might, about staff. Obviously 
my own personal staff who year 
after year served with me, worked with 
me, believed in me, trusted me, became 
a family and became the kind of staff 
that I have been very proud of; I had a 
very, very low turnover rate in those 10 
years, and I took a great deal of pride 
in that, because I think if you treat 
people as people, if you let them know 
what is expected of them and you give 
them goals and objectives and you 
allow them to work toward them, people 
then give you the maximum 
amount of productivity. People give 
you everything they have, and people 
in turn feel like people. They feel like 
they are included. I say that about my 
personal staff. 

But I say it also about the committee 
staffs that serve this institution. Oh, 
they are significantly reduced from 
what they used to be. Maybe that is 
good, and maybe it is not so good. But 
they are still people, and they serve 
every committee of this institution, 
and they serve day in and day out, and 
they do not get a lot of fanfare or notoriety. 
But we are empowered as Members 
of Congress, because we have their 
wisdom and because we have their 
views and because we have what they 
give us in terms of their friendship. 

Finally, it also includes the staff 
that works this floor. Some of you who 
watched the debate and the discussion 
on C–SPAN oftentimes will get a 
glimpse of some of the people who work 
here. Many of you will never get to 
know, however, the special people that 
they are, because they are people with 
their own unique stories, their own 
unique beliefs. They are Republican 
and they are Democrat, they come 
from different regions, they are different 
in many respects, but they serve 
this institution long hours, laboring 
day in and day out. Oh, they get a salary 
for it, true. But they also do it because 
they recognize how important 
this institution is, and the function of 
this institution is to the society that 
we all love and the society that we all 
come to embrace as Americans. 

I have had some partisan battles here 
like all of us. I leave this place not 
with regrets but with fond memories. I 
leave it also with an understanding of 
what it takes to find true compromise 
and what it takes also to find true respect. 
I know that respect is earned, 
that it ought to be reciprocal, but it 
must first be earned. 

And so I leave to take up the leadership 
of the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People, the 
NAACP, 87 years old, formed in 1909 in 
an apartment in Manhattan, brought 
together by a number of converging 
forces in the first decade on this century, 
not that different from converging 
forces in the last decade of this 
century. 

Charles Kellogg, in his book that 
chronicles the first two decades of the 


H 1218 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

NAACP writes about those forces when 
he says it was in fact a retreat judicially 
by a Supreme Court that had 
begun to render decisions that were 
moving the Negro back and not moving 
him forward. He spoke also about a 
Congress that was very reactionary in 
their moment and legislated in such a 
reactionary way that they were polarizing 
the country and not always bringing 
it together. He spoke about the 
periodicals of the intellectuals that, in 
their own way and through an academic 
entree, decided to talk about 
what was in fact wrong with people, so 
that in order for you to justify how you 
felt, you had now the periodicals of the 
intellectuals that talked about inferiorities 
that were genetic and otherwise, 
and he also talked about the need 
among the Negroes in this country to 
find a way to organize, to do the best 
they could to bring the best from them, 
to add and to contribute to the society. 

But when you look at those converging 
forces that were there in 1909 in the 
first decade of this century and you 
look at the converging forces that are 
here now in 1996 in the last decade of 
that century, the similarities are 
frightening. There is still a Supreme 
Court that is legislating or, rather, 
rendering judicial decisions, as was the 
case in 1909, that are making it more 
difficult, not less difficult, for the 
Negro, as it were, to empower himself 
or herself and to move into the mainstream 
of American society. They 
talked about then, and there pretty 
much is today, reactionary forces in 
the Congress of the United States that 
legislate in such a way that we polarize 
communities too often and polarize 
people. 

There is, as there was then, the periodicals 
of the intellectuals. We refer to 
them now as the bell curve. They are 
the academic entrees that talk about 
inferiority being genetic, thereby giving 
one the basis to legislate accordingly. 


b2230 
Mr. Speaker, and then there is also, 
as there was then, the need among African-
Americans to understand that in 
bringing out the best in ourselves, and 
in working with other people, that we 
could, in fact, and will, contribute 
mightily to the fabric of the Nation 
that we all have come to love. 
So, because it is the NAACP and because 
it is the same organization that 
offered the word ‘‘coalition’’ in the 
civil rights struggle and meant it, and 
means it today; because it is still prepared 
to work with all people; because 
it welcomes the support of Latinos, of 
like-minded whites, of Asians, of Native 
Americans, of people throughout 
the African diaspora in this country 
and elsewhere; because it recognizes 
that one must not be measured by 
their religious beliefs but, rather, what 
they have in their heart and what they 
bring to the table in the spirit of real 
compromise. That young people, those 
who were 4 and 5 and 6 years of age, to


night really represent in a mirror 
image what this Nation will look like 
20 years from now and why their fate is 
so desperately sealed to our fate. And 
because it understands also that as a 
historic American institution, it has a 
mission and a mandate to do all that it 
can as the NAACP, to once again try to 
heal our Nation, and to bring people together 
and to forge a new day. 

We focus so much in our society on 
differences. Our differences of race, our 
differences of religion, our differences 
of ethnicity, our differences of opinion, 
that so much time is spent on differences 
that we have little time left 
over to spend on similarities, those 
ways in which we are all alike. 

Everybody in this country believes 
that, if they could, they would like to 
have a better life for their children 
than they had. That is a very big similarity. 
Every person in this country 
wants to believe that they can have 
safe streets and a safe community. 
They want to think they can educate 
their children. They want to think 
they can grow old and die and watch 
America be a better nation at the point 
of their death as opposed to the point 
of their birth. Similarities that cut 
across race and gender and religion and 
everything else. 

But when we focus on differences 
only, and focus on them in a negative 
way, we do a disservice. I think cultural 
differences are important. I think 
every cultural and religious group and 
ethnic group and racial group in this 
country ought to hold proudly to their 
heritage, ought to find ways and monuments 
that speak to them and pass on 
those traditions to another generation. 

Those are positive differences that in 
the aggregate make America what she 
is. But when we focus on differences for 
the purpose of putting people down, 
and developing inferiorities, when we 
focus on differences to point out what 
is wrong instead of what is right, we do 
a disservice. 

America at her best has treated such 
differences with a blend of common 
sense and compassion. America at her 
worst has treated those differences 
with the empty evenhandedness of 
Marie Antoinette. And so I would say 
to this Chamber and to all who serve 
here and in fact those who seek to 
serve, that we have a bigger mission in 
life because we carry a sacred trust. We 
asked to come to this body. We asked 
for people to vest their votes and their 
support in us. We asked for the opportunity 
to cast important votes. 

We came here because we asked to be 
here, and someone heard us in the majority 
and we were elected. But it is a 
sacred trust, so we are responsible for 
more. 

And as such, we must do more and 
worry less about whether or not we are 
going to get reelected in 2 years, and 
worry more about what kind of nation 
we help to build. 

So, I leave this Chamber and this institution 
to do, as Kipling said, and 
that is to take ‘‘the road less trav


eled.’’ The road less traveled is still the 
road less certain. But in traveling it, if 
we navigate properly, if we understand 
what our road signs are, if we keep our 
eyes on our objective and on our mission, 
if we seek to be the good Samaritan 
on the way, and if we believe in our 
heart of hearts that at the end of that 
road there is a reward not for ourselves 
but for our country, then we do the 
sort of service that I think we can and 
must provide as people of America, 
from all walks of life and from all religions 
and races who understand the 
gift of this country. What makes it so 
very special is the unique way in which 
we have grappled with our problems 
and, because we are so diverse, we have 
before us a very unique and special history. 


When you read Gibbons, ‘‘Rise and 
Fall of the Roman Empire’’ and other 
empires, there are certain things that 
are always precursors to those declines. 
Fortunately, every time we 
have met a precursor in this country, 
whether it was the evil institution of 
slavery; whether the denial of suffrage 
to women; whether it was the second 
class citizenship to minorities, we have 
tried to recognize those precursors 
when we met them and to recognize 
also that, if we did not deal with them, 
then all that led to the decline of other 
great empires would in fact lead to the 
decline of America. 

I think we can still do that. We can 
still understand when things are 
wrong. We can still have the courage 
enough to recognize that the salvation 
of this Union is utmost. And if we are 
daring enough and believing enough 
both in God We Trust and in ourselves, 
then we will find a way to do that. 

And this Union will be secure and 
safe for generations still unborn. So I 
bid a fond farewell to the Chamber and 
to all that I have served with. To those 
who taught me and to those who I have 
had a chance to teach, I shall be back 
again and again in another capacity. 
But I shall always be forever fond of 
the 10 years that I have served as a 
Member of the U.S. Congress. 

Mr. Speaker, it has been said that the 
NAACP is the oldest and largest organization 
of its kind in the world—and it is. 

It is said that it is the most effective of its 
kind—and it is. It said that it is the most consulted, 
most militant, most feared, and most 
loved organization of its kind in the world— 
and it is. 

We have been charged with this from the 
genesis of our beginnings, in 1909. 

Just a few moments ago we stood, ankle 
deep in mud in the roadways of the Old 
South, after blacks had trudged through hot 
fields and dusty hills to the ballot box only to 
be turned away due to the manufactured 
grandfather clauses, literacy clauses and, poll 
taxes. But we fought back. 

In 1915, we stood side-by-side and took the 
battle back to the white marble chamber of the 
Supreme Court, where those racist tools of 
disenfranchisement were found to be in violation 
of the Constitution. But the battle did not 
end there. 

Just a few moments ago in history, a black 
man could not walk down a road, could not go 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1219 

into a store, could not go into a courtroom 
without the threat of a noose hanging over his 
head or a torch being thrust into his life. 

Two years after the NAACP was founded, in 
a grimy steel town in southwestern Pennsylvania, 
a seriously wounded black man was 
charged with killing a police officer. He never 
had the chance to prove his innocence. 

A mob of people dragged him from his hospital 
room in Coatesville and burned him alive. 
A conspiracy of silence prevented the mob 
leaders from receiving the justice they deserved. 
Racism was alive in the North. 

On November 14th, 1915, southerners were 
witness to one of the most notoriously racist 
films of all time: D.W. Griffith’s ‘‘Birth of A Nation.’’ 
In it, reconstruction was distorted, emancipation 
was assailed, and blacks were reviled. 
And the heroes of the movie were the 
Ku Klux Klan. 

From 1910 to 1919, 840 African-Americans 
were lynched in the United States of America. 

In a Texas town in May of 1916, a mentally 
retarded black teenager was convicted of murdering 
a white woman. He would never have 
a chance at an appeal. 

He was seized by a mob and taken to the 
public square. Before a crowd of 15 thousand 
people, fire and flames were the center of attention 
in what was then called ‘‘the Waco 
Horror’’ as the boy was tortured and burned 
alive. 

When black soldiers were baited and harassed, 
they in the end would pay the harshest 
penalties. On a hot Houston day in 1917, race 
prejudice against members of the 24th Infantry 
let to violence. Seventeen whites and two 
blacks were dead when the smoke cleared. 

A court martial sent 41 members of the all-
black unit to life in jail. Four others were given 
long prison terms. And 20 of them were condemned 
to death. One-fifth of the condemned 
men were summarily executed without even 
the benefit of an appeal. 

It was the NAACP that worked long and 
hard through four presidential administrations. 
Eventually 10 lives were saved, and the last 
man from the 24th Infantry was released from 
jail—21 years later. The battle did not end 
there. 

In 1919, there was rampant brutality and 
military occupation of the Republic of Haiti. 
Three thousand citizens there were cut down 
by troops who claimed they were ‘‘bandits.’’ 

Censorship was rampant, news of the brutalities 
inflicted by the troops on our brothers 
and sisters there was suppressed. Why? The 
forces occupying Haiti were from the United 
States of America. 

The NAACP pressured President Wilson. 
James Weldon Johnson went to Haiti and 
showed the world through his writings what 
kind of inhumanity was being visited upon the 
people there by the troops sent from the nation 
calling itself the land of the free. 

It was this great organization that helped 
Haiti create an organization for independence, 
one modeled on our own. When they came to 
New York to lobby for their freedom, the offices 
they used their were the NAACP. 

The NAACP learned early the political game 
and played presidential candidates off presi


dential incumbents. When Woodrow Wilson 
wouldn’t listen to us, Warren Harding would, 
and then President Wilson sat up and took notice. 


Through the actions of the NAACP, the military 
presence was cut back. Through their investigations, 
the abuses were brought to light. 
And with the continued pressure, American 
occupation of Haiti was fully ended — almost 
20 years later. And the battle did not end 
there. 

From 1920 to 1927, 304 people were 
lynched in the United States of America. 

The NAACP was issued a challenge to help 
end lynching by the philanthropist Philip Peabody. 
Peabody would help us help ourselves 
by donating ten-thousand dollars and more if 
we could match his grant by fundraising on 
our own. 

It was the NAACP, massed and clad in 
white, that marched silently down New York’s 
Fifth Avenue, to protest treatment of African-
Americans. 

Four times anti-lynching laws were introduced 
and passed in this House of Representatives. 
Four times those laws went down to 
defeat due to stonewalling, filibustering and indifference 
in the Senate. But people paid attention. 


The esteemed and historic magazine of the 
NAACP, The Crisis was set upon by the Department 
of Justice as radical and seditious. In 
the end, it prevailed, and even flourished. 

In 1929, 10 lynchings were recorded for the 
year. 

But the battle could not end there. 

Just a few moments ago in history, in the 
second decade of the 20th century, we stood 
arm-in-arm, as the NAACP took to the hallways 
of the courts of the District of Columbia 
to fight again. We were denied the simple right 
to ride streetcars as we chose, marry as we 
chose or be promoted within the Armed 
Forces as we deserved. 

As this historic organization was in its infancy, 
African=Americans were limited within 
the military to two cavalry regiments and two 
infantry regiments. In many cases the only 
fighting seen by the rest of the blacks in uniform 
came only when the action got too close 
to the mess tent. 

African-Americans were fighting regularly for 
the right to become commissioned or even 
non-commissioned officers in the military then, 
with the highest-ranking black officer of the 
era having been cashiered on the grounds of 
so-called ‘‘physical disability.’’ 

Later on, the Army was found out. When it 
was proven that they were reluctant to promote 
Charles Young, a graduate of west Point 
and the highest ranking African-American in 
the military. It just would not do to have a 
black general in the Army — heavens no. 
Only a colonel would do, and they felt he 
could also retire that way, as a colonel. 

It was the NAACP that made sure Charles 
Young was restored again to active duty. But 
the battle did not end there. 

We had to fight for every inch, we had to 
fight for every right — even in the military, 
which nowadays is one of the most integrated 
aspects of American life. 

The Surgeon-General then, William Gorgas, 
felt what color you were determined who you 
worked on. It mattered not who was sick, who 
was ill, who was dying. Black nurses only 
nursed black wounds. Black dentists only fixed 
black teeth. Black doctors only saved black 
lives. And black units were still separate—and 
unequal. 

It was the NAACP in 1931 that organized 
the defense of the Scottsboro Boys who were 
unjustly accused of rape. And the legal battles 
intensified and this organization sharpened itself 
and began to come into its own. 

In 1938, when the Daughters of the American 
Revolution denied Diva Marian Anderson 
the use of Constitution Hall, it was once again 
the NAACP who took up the cause an fought 
for what was just and right. 

In the 1950’s, the desegregation battle 
began to take on a new urgency as the 
NAACP successfully battled against segregated 
public housing. And in 1954, it was 
the great Thourgood Marshall, who as the Director 
of the NAACP’s Legal Defense and 
Education Fund, fought and won that historic 
Surpreme Court case, Brown versus Board of 
Education, which outlawed once and for all the 
separate but equal doctrine in public education. 


The next year, the NAACP joined with other 
civil rights groups and concerned Americans 
by taking an active role in the Montgomery, 
Alabama bus boycott. This boycott was initiated 
after Rosa Parks made her valiant stand 
by refusing to give up her seat for a white 
passenger. 

As our Nation entered the turbulent 60’s, the 
NAACP was there, front and center. In 1963 
I remember marching the historic March on 
Washington from our black and white television. 
We couldn’t afford the bus trip from 
Baltimore, but I felt the power nevertheless. 

By 1965 the power of the NAACP had 
reached a new pinnacle when President Johnson 
signed the Voting Rights Act. After years 
of fighting for basic equality, the dream was finally 
becoming real. 

As the needs of the African American community 
have changed, so has this historic, beloved 
organization. In the 1970’s and 80’s the 
NAACP tackled educational excellence and 
established SAT Preparation clinics which 
helped raise the average test scores by 50 
points. And the organization continues to grow 
and meet the demands of the day. 

New efforts have been made to attack discrimination 
through legal and legislative 
means. Child welfare and mentoring programs 
have taken on a new urgency. Economic 
empowerment programs have been launched 
to make the logical next step in the civil rights 
movement. And just last month in Stone 
Mountain, Georgia we launched the new Voter 
Empowerment Project, which seeks to energize 
the electorate from the bottom up. This 
new effort was initiated because of court rulings 
that have eroded the Voting Rights Act. 


H 1220 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

Some of our gravest crises have come from 
within. This was an organization born of 
wealthy white liberals, nurtured by newspapers 
and brought into its own by the black intelligentsia. 


Booker T. Washington had honest differences 
of opinion with W.E.B. DuBois at the 
start of this organization. Washington’s Niagara 
Movement was in open disagreement with 
the new association tasked with the advancement 
of our peoples. It continued until Washington 
was dead, and debate and differences 
continue even now. 

W.E.B. DuBois differed with Walter White 
over the future of the NAACP and the finances 
necessary to run it. It continued until DuBois 
resigned. 
How little times change. 

It is time we stand up to say again—‘‘The 
battle begins here.’’ 

Where once it was poll taxes and literacy 
tests, now it is cries of reverse discrimination 
and a roll back of voting rights. 

When we once were subject to the noose 
and the torch, we are now plagued by the pipe 
and the needle and crimes against each other. 

Where once our mother and sister countries 
of Africa and Haiti were run through by colonization 
and occupation, so they are now by 
militarization and discrimination. 

We were not monolithic then, nor are we 
now. We have different agendas, we follow 
different drummers, we have differing destinies. 
But all of them are intertwined with who 
we are. 

If we cannot remind ourselves of the challenges 
overcome in the past, we will never 
overcome the obstacles set in our future. The 
battle begins here. 

We have fought in the courts—we can do 
so again, now. We have made presidents listen 
by the force of our numbers and our will. 
We can do so again, now. 

We can vote in greater numbers. . . 

Speak, in louder voices. . . 

Write, with sharper pens. . . 

Walk, with bigger strides. . . 

Act, with firmer conviction. . . 

Look forward, with stronger resolve. . . 

And fight . . . fight with the knowledge that 
history is on our side. We have won before. 
We can do so again, now. 

Just a few moments ago in history we overcame 
all that 41 percents, nine wars, and innumerable 
verdicts could put in our way. That 
is all history now. . 

The conscience of America is resting in our 
hands. We can cup them and nourish our 
freedoms or we can open them and see them 
blow to the winds. 

Let us pray that our hands, joined together, 
will know what’s right for us, our children and 
our future. 

And so, it is for me a high honor and a distinct 
privilege to be selected in the capacity of 
President-designate or our Nation’s largest 
and oldest civil rights organization. I am honored 
to have been chosen for this opportunity, 
and I am moved by the support that our Chairwoman, 
the members of the search committee 
and the members of the board have shown 
me. 

The decision to accept this new opportunity 
did not come lightly. For the last 16 years, I 
have served in elected office: seven years in 
local government and the last nine as a Member 
of the United States Congress. To the 
people of Baltimore, who year after year have 

given me the opportunity to represent them 
and who continue to vest their confidence and 
trust in my abilities, I am, and forever will be, 
grateful. 

At this point in time, however, I am convinced, 
without reservation, that I can best affect 
social, economic and political change in 
the broader capacity that the NAACP represents. 


As you all know, the NAACP is at a critical 
point in its history. In fact it is at the most critical 
point. Our focus must be on: First, increasing 
political power by organizing and energizing 
voters in every congressional district in 
America; second, emphasizing educational excellence 
and individual responsibility; and 
third, creating an infrastructure for 
empowerment and economic parity. There is 
much work to be done and the time for such 
work is now. We must, without equivocation or 
timidity, reclaim our rightful place as the voice 
of African-Americans and others who believe 
in the power and the premise that all persons 
are, in fact, created equal. The task before us 
will be significant, but all challenge is significant. 
The greater challenge will not be measured 
by its size, but rather by our willingness 
to accept it. As such, there must be an ever 
escalating crescendo of clear and consistent 
voices that become part of the national dialogue 
and the national debate. 

The extreme ultra-conservative policies of 
the far right wing in our nation are draconian 
and punitive. They are policies that punish the 
elderly, restrict the poor, and deny opportunity 
to our children. Those policies must be countered 
with effective and realistic responses 
that reflect our need as a society for inclusion 
and tolerance. We can only do that by reinvigorating 
the age-old concept of coalitions where 
people work together for the common good. 

Racism, sexism, anti-Semitism cannot, and 
will not, be allowed to enjoy a comfortable and 
quiet acceptance. The damaging divisions 
brought about by xenophobia cannot be allowed 
to color our thinking about those who 
come to our shores in search of a better life. 
Fear, which often finds its incubator in our refusal 
to stand up for what is right, will forever 
be challenged by a new NAACP—reunited 
and reinvigorated at the threshold of change. 

At the risk of understatement, we all know 
that the task ahead will not be easy. The time 
is now to restore the financial, spiritual and 
political health of this historic American institution. 
As such, we must move quickly toward 
that end, and my job is to provide the leadership 
to make that happen. Make no mistake 
about it, there will be change. It will be swift, 
it will be focused, and it will be constructive. 
Efficiency and fiscal integrity within the organization 
will not be just a concept. It must, in 
fact, become a reality. We will re-tool our apparatus 
and re-harness our energies. 

The time is now for a new generation to join 
the NAACP. While we value maturity and experience, 
we must also learn to cherish youth. 
Thus, I reach out today to a new generation 
to join in this effort. And I reach out to the current 
generation and say to you in the clearest 
of terms that it’s alright to come back home to 
the NAACP. 

We are at the crossroads of tremendous 
change in our nation. Despite the gains made 
by African-Americans, racism continues to divide 
our country and polarize people. We can 
stand by and watch in the comfort of our own 
circumstance, or we can step forward and 
dare to lead. 

The NAACP has a long and proud history 
filled with major accomplishments that have 
changed forever the America that we know 
and love. The lives of millions of our citizens 
who are black, white, Asian, and Hispanic 
have been made better because of it. Yet, our 
country is still in desperate need. 

In his renowned chronology of the NAACP 
from 1909 to 1920, Charles Kellogg begins his 
historical work with the following observation: 
‘‘In the first decade of the twentieth century 
few voices were raised in defense of the 
Negro and his rights as a citizen of the United 
States. Reactionary attitudes about race had 
been strengthened. [And] by 1909, the civil 
rights gained during reconstruction had been 
severely limited. The prevailing attitudes toward 
the Negro were reflected in the sensational 
press, in the hate literature, in the periodicals 
of the intellectuals, in court decisions 
reinterpreting the fourteenth and fifteenth 
amendments, and in legislation.’’ 

Eighty-six years later, in the last decade of 
the same century, again, few voices are being 
raised in defense of African-Americans and 
their rights as citizens of the United States. 
Reactionary attitudes about race regrettably 
continue to be strengthened. Civil rights 
gained during the second reconstruction have 
now also been severely limited. And, the prevailing 
attitudes toward minorities are still reflected 
in the sensational press, in the hate literature, 
in the periodicals of the intellectuals 
and in court decisions. 

Only a strong, revitalized and focused 
NAACP can accept the realities that were 
present in that first decade and readjust to the 
challenges still present in this last decade. 

I look forward to this gift of opportunity to 
serve in a different but continued public capacity 
and I thank God Almighty for continuing 
to bless me. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
join my colleagues Louis Stokes and Donald 
Payne in celebration of Black History Month. 
This special order has now become a time-
honored tradition in the House, and I always 
enjoy participating. 

Black History Month is a time of reflection 
and honor. During Black History Month, we recall 
and pay tribute to the towering achievements 
and inspiring contributions that African-
Americans have made to this country. It is a 
time to reflect on the progress we have made 
as a society based on the constitutional principles 
of liberty, equality, and justice. It also is 
a time to assess, as individuals, our personal 
role and responsibility to our fellow citizens, 
our children, and our Nation’s future. 

During Black History Month, we honor those 
men and women who influenced, shaped, and 
altered American life, culture, and politics— 
those who believed in a democracy that would 
not tolerate prejudice and discrimination, those 
who fought brutal injustice with the power of 
moral truth. 

We thank those who through their writings 
and teachings have enabled all of America to 
know and appreciate the African-American 
legacy, past struggles and present dreams. 
We pay tribute to American’s sports heroes, 
such as Arthur Ashe, the great activist and renowned 
humanitarian, who inspired all Americans 
with his courage. We honor the scientists 
and educators, who labored so hard to overcome 
the racial barriers in our society and 
proved that America could not afford to squander 
the talent and knowledge of African-Americans. 
We recall the words and visions of some 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1221 

of our Nation’s most revered ministers and 
theologians, such as Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr., who braved the wrath of society to change 
our society to fit the principles it espoused but 
did not practice. 

Black History Month has a broader significance 
as well. It is a critical prism through 
which to view America’s history overall. Our 
examination of this history is both painful and 
shameful, but it is also essential as only in this 
way can we appreciate the importance of this 
country’s ability to redress past injustices. 
Only with the awareness of past wrongs can 
we define our future as one in which the right 
to live with dignity and freedom from persecution 
will be accorded all Americans. Only with 
the knowledge or our heritage and the conviction 
that we are indeed a Nation of people 
‘‘endowed by their creator with certain 
unalienable rights,’’ can we practice the teachings 
of those whose legacy we remember 
today. 

One of our better teachers, who I would like 
to honor today is the Honorable Barbara Jordan. 
She left us just a few short weeks ago 
but her incredible spirit will remain with us forever. 


We all know of her impressive educational, 
political, and legal background. However, it 
ease her eloquence and sense of integrity 
which made here such a gifted leader. She 
championed opportunity, demanded equality, 
and vociferously espoused the principles of 
equal opportunity for all Americans. 

There are some in this body who carry with 
them a ‘‘Contract With America.’’ But it was 
Barbara Jordan who carried in her purse a 
copy of the U.S. Constitution which we as 
American legislators all need to uphold. During 
the historic Watergate hearings, it was Barbara 
Jordan who said, ‘‘My faith in the Constitution 
is whole, it is complete, it is total, and 
I am not going to sit here and be an idle spectator 
to the iminution, the subversion, the destruction 
of the Constitution.’’ As we celebrate 
Black History Month, it is my hope that every 
Member of this body heeds Barbara Jordan’s 
words. 

Mr. MARTINI. Mr. Speaker, February has 
been celebrated as Black History Month since 
1976, but the origins of this event date as far 
back as 1926 to Carter G. Woodson, a noted 
historian and author. Black History Month is a 
special month designed to recognize the heritage, 
contributions, and achievements of African-
Americans, and I rise today to recognize 
and pay tribute to the holistic experiences and 
culture of African-Americans. Their experiences 
have contributed so much to this great 
Nation, and their culture is an inseparable part 
of American culture. 

The 1995 National Black history theme, 
‘‘Reflections on 1895: Douglass, Du Bois, 
Washington’’ causes us to be reflective of the 
visions and dreams of three men of vigor who 
tenaciously championed the cause for freedom 
through vigilant, assertive, non-violent action. 
These three men personified resolve, dedication, 
and commitment, and with these characteristics 
they were able to alter the course of 
history. Their courage and successes empowered 
Black Americans. Their memories and 
accomplishments should empower all Americans. 


African-Americans have made great strides 
in recent years, assuming leadership positions 
in record numbers, and uniting to address and 
solve shared problems and ailments and cele


brate successes and victories. A great amount 
of opportunities exist in an increasingly expansive 
number of fields. African-Americans in the 
1990’s are finding that mobility and equal opportunity 
are the norm rather than the exception. 


At this time we should look to past and 
present leaders in the African-American community 
and heed their cries. Frederick Douglass, 
the foremost voice in the abolitionist 
movement of the nineteenth century called for 
freedom and equality; W.E.B. Du Bois, and 
editor, scholar, author, and civil rights leader 
called on Blacks to cultivate their own aesthetic 
and cultural values; Booker T. Washington, 
an educator and statesman advocated 
economic self-sufficiency, self-help, and moral 
advancement; and Martin Luther King, Jr., a 
cleric, educator, and recipient of the Nobel 
Peace prize, led the Civil Rights Movement in 
the 1950’s and 1960’s calling for equality. The 
list is expansive and we must not forget the 
prolific writings of Alice Walker, Toni Morrison, 
Richard Wright, and Ralph Ellison; the music 
of Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, and Ella Fitzgerald; 
and the courage and moral rectitude of 
Rosa Parks. 

These men and women have messages for 
us all. By rediscovering their hopes, aspirations, 
and successes we can forge ahead and 
continue where they left off. America is a special 
country indeed. We are privileged to be 
the most diversified, democratic country in the 
world. Our culture as a people is personified 
by our demographics. Everything that we are 
is interrelated to our history. Black History 
Month is not just for African-Americans, rather 
it is for all Americans. The separate but equal 
doctrine of the past has been abandoned, and 
a united and equal doctrine must be ushered 
in and secured; a nation divided is a nation at 
risk. The heritage, achievements, trials, tribulations, 
contributions, and successes of African-
Americans should be remembered 365 
days a year, not only in February. 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank both the 
Congressional Black Caucus for reserving a 
special order to observe Black History Month, 
and the gentleman from Maryland [Mr. 
CARDIN] for reserving a special order yesterday 
to honor our distinguished colleague, Congressman 
KWEISI MFUME. 

Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago this month, as a 
freshman Member of Congress, I delivered my 
first speech on the floor of the House of Representatives 
in honor of Black History Month. 
I could not have been more proud to dedicate 
my first address in this Chamber to the celebration 
of African-American freedom and accomplishment. 


As many of my colleagues know, I have a 
special link to the African-American struggle 
for freedom. Some 35 years ago, I rode 
though Mississippi as a freedom rider and witnessed 
first-hand the desperate and often brutal 
attempts to preserve segregation. In that 
summer of 1961, Mississippi was a war zone. 
Innocent black Americans were beaten and 
killed. Angry mobs attacked black men and 
women at will. Random gunfire contributed to 
an environment of terror and fear. 

I spent several months in a Mississippi 
State Penitentiary isolation cell as a result of 
my efforts in the struggle for equality. 

We have come a long way since then. 
Today, African-Americans have more opportunities 
open to them then ever before. African-
Americans attend our Nation’s finest schools, 

are some of America’s most successful entrepreneurs, 
and hold office at the highest levels 
of state and federal government. 

African-American children can base their 
hopes and dreams on a host of African-American 
heroes: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Rosa 
Parks, Thurgood Marshall, Maya Angelou, and 
many other who have led the fight for equality 
and justice. But we still have much to accomplish. 


Thousands of people whose names do not 
yield national recognition bravely continue the 
struggle every day for the rights of African-
American. The spirit of Black History Month 
applies to these local heroes who stand as 
more than a symbol of success to African-
American youth. These are people who offer a 
helping hand, a smiling face, or a word of encouragement 
to young African-Americans. 
These are people who make a personal and 
direct contribution to the lives of young African-
Americans in their communities. 

There are many such heroes in California’s 
50th Congressional District. As the focus of 
this year’s Black History Month is on African-
American women, I will mention one who, 
along with her husband, has made a profound 
difference in the San Diego community. 

Evelyn George of San Diego realized 18 
years ago that the money her husband, Aaron, 
spent on cigarettes could be used on something 
more constructive. She implored him to 
give up his smoking habit, and together they 
transformed their home into a Christmas wonderland 
for neighborhood children each December—
complete with ferris wheels, merrygo-
rounds, caroling angels, a nativity scene, 
and nearly 5,000 holiday lights. 

After 18 years, Aaron George has become 
known as the ‘‘Black Santa’’ of San Diego, 
handing out more than 2,700 candy canes, 
signing some 325 autographs, and posing for 
more than 250 pictures for area children this 
year alone. 

This Christmas was a difficult one for Mr. 
George. Evelyn, his wife of 42 years, passed 
away in July. In her honor, Aaron has promised 
to maintain the display every Christmas, 
bringing joy to the lives of hundreds of young 
San Diegans. 

There are thousands of other African-Americans 
in San Diego and across the Nation 
making unique and positive contributions to 
their communities. But there is also reason for 
concern in the African-American community. 
Division and hatred, always lurking in the 
depths of interracial relations, have begun to 
surface again with unprecedented ferocity, 
threatening the strides that whites and blacks 
have made together. 

No one understands this threat better than 
Congressman KWEISI MFUME. During his 9 
years in Congress, he has emerged as a national 
leader and advocate for the rights of African-
Americans. His leadership abilities were 
brilliantly displayed during his 2-year term as 
chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, 
a period during which the caucus achieved unprecedented 
levels of influence. 

Individuals of Congressman MFUME’s character 
and intelligence rarely are able to keep 
their value secret for long. It was to no one’s 
surprise, then, that Congressman MFUME was 
chosen to be chief executive officer of the 
NAACP, a proud organization that has fought 
for the rights of African-Americans since the 
early part of this century. 


H 1222 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

The House of Representatives will lose a 
great leader, an ardent advocate and a brilliant 
legislator as Congressman MFUME leaves 
to assume his new responsibility. But our loss 
is the NAACP’s gain. I am confident that Congressman 
MFUME will make great strides in 
the advancement of the rights of African-
Americans and continue his effort to improve 
interracial relations throughout the country. 
These goals are given special significance 
during the celebration of Black History Month. 

Mr. SABO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express 
my strong support for Black History 
Month. This year we are celebrating African-
American women of yesterday, today, and tomorrow. 
In Minnesota, we are fortunate to 
have a fine tradition of civic leaders who have 
dedicated their lives to enriching the lives of 
others through their selfless contributions. 
Today, I’d like to recognize three, among 
many, of the African-American women in Minnesota 
who have become shining role models 
for us all. 

In its brief history, the State of Minnesota 
has had many fine leaders who were also African-
American women. In 1923, Ethel Ray 
Nance—1899–1992—was the first black 
woman hired by the Minnesota Legislature 
and was the first black police woman in Minnesota. 
During her long life, Ms. Nance was 
an activist in several civil rights organizations, 
including the National Association for Advancement 
of Colored People [NAACP]. She 
also served as the director of research for the 
National Urban League. 

In more recent years, Nellie Stone Johnson, 
who celebrated her 90th birthday in December 
1995, has been one of the most outspoken 
and thoughtful leaders in Minnesota’s African-
American community. Generations of Minnesotans 
owe Nellie a great deal for her dedication 
to community building, to civil rights, 
and to economic fairness. In the tradition of 
Hubert Humphrey and Walter Mondale, Nellie 
Stone Johnson has been rock solid in her 
commitment to the most vulnerable in our society. 


Finally, representing a new generation of African-
American women leaders, Minneapolis 
Mayor Sharon Sayles Belton, elected in 1993, 
is the first African-American and the first female 
mayor of Minneapolis. Mayor Sayles 
Belton began her public service career immediately 
after college—when as a civil rights 
worker she traveled to Jackson, MS, to register 
voters. She later became the first African-
American president of the Minneapolis City 
Council. As mayor, she has continued her efforts 
to strengthen families and children by focusing 
on education, crime prevention, and 
the economic development of neighborhoods 
in the city. 

I am proud to say that these women, and 
many other African-Americans, have had an 
important impact on my life and the lives of 
many Minnesotans. I wish to thank them for 
their service to the community, the women’s 
movement, and the United States of America. 
All citizens should be grateful for their accomplishments 
and endeavors. Mr. Speaker, as 
we observe Black History Month, I commend 
Ethel Ray Nance, Nellie Stone Johnson, 
Mayor Sayles Belton, and all African-Americans 
for their contributions to our society. 

Mrs. COLLINS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to join my colleagues in proud observa


tion of Black History Month and its 1996 
theme, ‘‘African-American Women: Yesterday, 
Today, and Tomorrow.’’ I thank the chairman 
of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congressman 
PAYNE, and the distinguished gentleman 
from Ohio, Congressman STOKES, for once 
again reserving this annual special order. 

This year, as we celebrate the vital role 
which African-American women have played in 
our Nation’s growth and development, I would 
first like to spend a moment reflecting on the 
life of one of the most influential of these 
women who recently passed away, the Honorable 
Barbara Jordan of Texas. 

Having served with Barbara in this House, I 
can tell you first hand of the tremendous intellect, 
passion, and presence she commanded. 
As an untiring, articulate, and outspoken defender 
of the Constitution and the rights and 
liberties of all citizens, she was effective in ensuring 
access to legal services for the poor, 
advancing consumer protection at the Federal 
level, and securing a livable minimum wage 
for all working Americans among other numerous 
achievements. 

Morton Dean of ABC News summed up the 
overwhelming impact Barbara Jordan had on 
American society when he said, ‘‘Where she 
walked, barriers fell, historic barriers against 
blacks and women in politics. When she 
talked hearts swelled, awakened to America’s 
potential.’’ We will all miss her deeply. 

But before Barbara Jordan, Mr. Speaker, 
there were other African-American heroines 
who blazed a path of opportunity for her, and 
there will be many more who will come after. 
It is each and every one of these women that 
we also honor today. 

We all know of Hattie McDaniel, the first African-
American to win an Academy Award for 
her role in ‘‘Gone with the Wind’’ in 1939. Her 
breakthrough performance opened the door 
for other black actresses and performers such 
as Lena Horne, Cicely Tyson, Whoopi Goldberg, 
and Angela Basset to showcase their 
talents and skills on both the American and 
world stage and screen. 

Nor can we forget in the field of literature 
the incredible poetry of Phillis Wheatley and 
Maya Angelou, novels of Toni Morrison and 
Alice Walker, and writings of Jean Toomer 
and June Jordan. These African-American authors 
have lifted our spirits, our hopes, and 
our dreams with their thoughtful words and 
honest reflections. 

From inspirational words stem inspirational 
music and we would be remiss not to mention 
the incredible jazz vocals of ‘‘The First Lady of 
Song,’’ Ella Fitzgerald, or the deep rhythm and 
blues notes belted out by ‘‘The Queen of 
Soul,’’ Aretha Franklin. What about Billie Holiday, 
Mahalia Jackson, Sarah Vaughan, and 
Dinah Washington?—each of them being an 
exceptional African-American female artist of 
the modern era. 

In the world of sports, black women have as 
role models the outstanding track and field 
star Jackie Joyner-Kersee, holder of the world 
record in the heptathlon and winner of four 
Olympic medals in this event as well as Althea 
Gibson, the first African-American tennis player 
to participate in and win a championship at 
Wimbledon. 

I could go on and on for hours Mr. Speaker, 
elaborating on the lives of courageous abolitionists 
Sojourner Truth and Harriet Tubman, 

the great civil rights activists Rosa Parks and 
Fannie Lou Hamer, and such deft legislators 
as Shirley Chisolm and, as I have mentioned, 
Barbara Jordan. As you can see, African-
American women have an exceptionally rich 
history of contributions to this country, from 
the arts and athletics to politics and our overall 
social progress. It is therefore only fitting that 
this year’s observance of Black History Month 
recognizes and heralds the many accomplished 
and talented among us, before us, and 
those yet to come. 

Again, I thank my distinguished colleagues 
for this special order and yield back the balance 
of my time. 

f 


RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Pursuant to clause 12 of rule 
I, the House stands in recess subject to 
the call of the Chair. 

Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 38 
minutes p.m.), the House stood in recess 
subject to the call of the Chair. 

f 


AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. METCALF) at 12 o’clock 
and 1 minute a.m. 

f 


LEAVE OF ABSENCE 

By unanimous consent, leave of absence 
was granted to: 

Mrs. SEASTRAND (at the request of 
Mr. ARMEY) after 4:30 p.m. today and 
for the balance of the week on account 
of illness in the family. 

Mr. RADANOVICH (at the request of 
Mr. ARMEY) after 4:30 p.m. today on account 
of illness in the family. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED 

By unanimous consent, permission to 
address the House, following the legislative 
program and any special orders 
heretofore entered, was granted to: 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. MILLER of California) to 
revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material:) 

Mr. VOLKMER, for 5 minutes, today. 

Ms. NORTON, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. UNDERWOOD, for 5 minutes, today. 

Ms. KAPTUR, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. TOWNS, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mrs. CLAYTON, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. MILLER of California, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

Mrs. MALONEY, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. WISE, for 5 minutes, today. 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. BEREUTER) to revise and 
extend their remarks and include extraneous 
material:) 

Mr. TIAHRT, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. SMITH of Michigan, for 5 minutes, 
today. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1223 

Mr. BEREUTER, for 5 minutes, today. investigate and define a standard submarine for printing and reference to the proper 

Mr. CHAMBLISS, for 5 minutes, today. 

(The following Member (at her own 
request) to revise and extend her remarks 
and include extraneous material:) 


Ms. PELOSI, for 5 minutes, today. 

f 


BILLS PRESENTED TO THE 
PRESIDENT 

Mr. THOMAS, from the Committee 
on House Oversight, reported that that 
committee did on the following days 
present to the President, for his approval, 
bills of the House of the following 
title: 

On January 31: 

H.R. 2029. An act to amend the Farm Credit 
Act of 1971 to provide regulatory relief, and 
for other purposes. 
H.R. 2111. An act to designate the Federal 
building located at 1221 Nevin Avenue in 
Richmond, CA, as the ‘‘Frank Hagel Federal 
Building’’. 
H.R. 2726. An act to make certain technical 
corrections in laws relating to Native Americans, 
and for other purposes. 
H.R. 1868. An act making appropriations 
for foreign operations, export financing, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, and for other purposes. 
On February 1: 

H.R. 2353. An act to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to extend the authority of the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out 
certain reports from the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, and for other purposes. 
f 


ADJOURNMENT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
METCALF). Without objection and pursuant 
to an earlier order, the House 
stands adjourned. 

Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 2 minutes 
a.m.), under its previous order, the 
House adjourned until Tuesday, February 
6, 1996, at 8 p.m. 

f 


EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XXIV, executive 
communications were taken from 
the Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 


1997. A letter from the Chairman, Panama 
Canal Commission, transmitting the Commission’s 
report, including unaudited financial 
statements, covering the operations of 
the Panama Canal during fiscal year 1995, 
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 3722; to the Committee 
on National Security. 

1998. A letter from the Acting President 
and Chairman, Export-Import Bank of the 
United States, transmitting the semiannual 
report on tied aid credits, pursuant to Public 
Law 99–472, section 19 (100 Stat. 1207); to the 
Committee on Banking and Financial Services. 


1999. A letter from the Director, Defense 
Security Assistance Agency, transmitting 
notification concerning a technology base 
research and development project with the 
Netherlands (Transmittal No. 04–96), pursuant 
to 22 U.S.C. 2767(f); to the Committee on 

rescue system (Transmittal No. 03–96), pursuant 
to 22 U.S.C. 2767(f); to the Committee on 
International Relations. 

2001. A letter from the Director, Defense 
Security Assistance Agency, transmitting a 
report of those foreign military sales customers 
with approved cash flow financing in 
excess of $100 million as of October 1, 1995, 
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2765(a); to the Committee 
on International Relations. 

2002. A letter from the Director, Defense 
Security Assistance Agency, transmitting 
notification concerning the Department of 
the Navy’s proposed Letter(s) of Offer and 
Acceptance [LOA] to the United Kingdom for 
defense articles and services (Transmittal 
No. 96–21), pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2776(b); to 
the Committee on International Relations. 

2003. A letter from the Director, Defense 
Security Assistance Agency, transmitting a 
report containing an analysis and description 
of services performed by full-time U.S. 
Government employees during fiscal year 
1995 who are performing services for which 
reimbursement is provided under section 
21(a) or section 43(b), pursuant to section 
25(a)(6) of the Arms Export Control Act; to 
the Committee on International Relations. 

2004. A letter from the Director, Defense 
Security Assistance Agency, transmitting a 
report containing the status of loans and 
guarantees issued under the Arms Export 
Control Act, pursuant to section 25(a)(11) of 
the Arms Export Control Act; to the Committee 
on International Relations. 

2005. A letter from the Auditor, District of 
Columbia, transmitting a copy of a report 
entitled, ‘‘Review and Analysis of the District’s 
Accounts Receivable,’’ pursuant to 

D.C. Codes, section 47–117(d); to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 
2006. A letter from the Chairman, Advisory 
Commission on Intergovernmental Relations, 
transmitting the Commission’s 37th 
annual report of the Advisory Commission 
on Intergovernmental Relations, pursuant to 
42 U.S.C. 4275(3); to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

2007. A letter from the Comptroller General 
of the United States, transmitting the list of 
all reports issued or released in November 
1995, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 719(h); to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 


2008. A letter from the Chairman, 
Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
transmitting the annual report under the 
Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act 
for fiscal year 1995, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
3512(c)(3); to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

2009. A letter from the Secretary, Mississippi 
River Commission, Department of 
the Army, transmitting a copy of the annual 
report in compliance with the Government 
in the Sunshine Act for the Mississippi River 
Commission during the calendar year 1995, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(j); to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 

2010. A letter from the Director, United 
States Arms Control and Disarmament 
Agency, transmitting the annual report 
under the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity 
Act for fiscal year 1995, pursuant to 
31 U.S.C. 3512(c)(3); to the Committee on 
Government Reform and Oversight. 

2011. A letter from the Assistant Attorney 
General, transmitting a draft of proposed 
legislation entitled the ‘‘Federal Debt Collection 
Procedures Improvements Act of 
1995’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

f 


calendar, as follows: 
Mr. GOSS: Committee on Rules. House 
Resolution 355. Resolution providing for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 2924) to guarantee 
the timely payment of Social Security benefits 
in March 1996 (Rept. 104–460). Referred to 
the House Calendar. 
Mr. LEACH: Committee on Banking and 
Financial Services. H.R. 2406. A bill to repeal 
the United States Housing Act of 1937, deregulate 
the public housing program and the 
program for rental housing assistance for 
low-income families, and increase community 
control over such programs, and for 
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 
104–461). Referred to the Committee of the 
Whole House on the State of the Union. 

f 


PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 5 of rule X and clause 4 
of rule XXII, public bills and resolutions 
were introduced and severally referred 
as follows: 

By Mr. ARCHER (for himself, Mr. 
CRANE, Mr. THOMAS, Mr. SHAW, Mrs. 
JOHNSON of Connecticut, Mr. BUNNING 
of Kentucky, Mr. HOUGHTON, Mr. 
HERGER, Mr. MCCRERY, Mr. HANCOCK, 
Mr. CAMP, Mr. RAMSTAD, Mr. ZIMMER, 
Mr. NUSSLE, Mr. SAM JOHNSON, Ms. 
DUNN of Washington, Mr. COLLINS of 
Georgia, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. HAYES, 
Mr. LAUGHLIN, Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. ENSIGN, and Mr. 
CHRISTENSEN): 

H.R. 2924. A bill to guarantee the timely 
payment of Social Security benefits in 
March 1996; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
By Mr. HYDE (for himself, Mr. ARCHER, 
Mr. WELDON of Florida, Mr. MCCOLLUM, 
Mr. GEKAS, Mr. COBLE, Mr. 
SMITH of Texas, Mr. HASTERT, Mr. 
SCHIFF, Mr. THOMAS, Mr. CANADY, Mr. 
INGLIS of South Carolina, Mr. 
GOODLATTE, Mr. BOUCHER, Mr. CRANE, 
Mr. SHAW, Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut, 
Mr. MCCRERY, Mr. CAMP, Mr. 
CAMPBELL, Mr. SAM JOHNSON, Mr. 
CHRISTENSEN, Mr. GANSKE, Mr. LIPINSKI, 
and Mr. HANCOCK): 

H.R. 2925. A bill to modify the application 
of the antitrust laws to health care provider 
networks that provide health care services; 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
By Mr. EWING (for himself, Mr. 
DREIER, Mr. KOLBE, Mr. 
KNOLLENBERG, and Mr. MANZULLO): 

H.R. 2926. A bill to extend nondiscriminatory 
treatment—most-favored-nation 
treatment—to the products of certain 
nonmarket economy countries; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. BILBRAY (for himself, Mr. 
HUNTER, Mr. PACKARD, Mr. 
CUNNINGHAM, and Mr. FILNER): 

H.R. 2927. A bill to amend the Fair Housing 
Act regarding local and State laws and regulations 
governing residential care facilities; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. NEUMANN: 

H.R. 2928. A bill to amend title II of the Social 
Security Act to ensure the integrity of 
the Social Security trust funds by requiring 
the managing trustee to invest the annual 
surplus of such trust funds in marketable in-
terest-bearing obligations of the United 
States and certificates of deposit in depository 
institutions insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and to protect 
International Relations. REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON such trust funds from the public debt limit; 
2000. A letter from the Director, Defense to the Committee on Ways and Means.

PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

Security Assistant Agency, transmitting no-By Mr. MARKEY: 
tification concerning a cooperative project Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of H.R. 2929. A bill to amend title I of the 
to conduct a 12-month feasibility study to committees were delivered to the Clerk Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 


H 1224 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

1978 to deregulate the electric power industry; 
to the Committee on Commerce, and in 
addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 

By Mr. NEUMANN: 

H.R. 2930. A bill to amend title II of the Social 
Security Act to provide for an improved 
benefit computation formula for workers 
who attain age 65 in or after 1982 by providing 
a new 10-year rule governing the transition 
to the changes in benefit computation 
rules enacted in the Social Security amendments 
of 1977, and related beneficiaries and 
to provide prospectively for increases in 
their benefits accordingly, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
and in addition to the Committee on Commerce, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. LUTHER: 

H.R. 2931. A bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to expand the procurement program 
under which the Department of Defense 
assists State and local governments to 
purchase equipment suitable for counter-
drug activities to include the purchase of 
any law enforcement equipment to the Committee 
on National Security. 
By Mr. BURR (for himself, Mr. COBURN, 
Mr. STENHOLM, Mr. UPTON, Mr. BREWSTER, 
Mr. BILBRAY, Mrs. LINCOLN, and 
Mr. HEINEMAN): 

H.R. 2932. A bill to amend the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to revise the 
requirements of that act relating to the dissemination 
of scientific information on 
drugs; to the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mr. BALDACCI (for himself, Mr. 
LAFALCE, Mr. HILLIARD, Mr. SISISKY, 
Mrs. CLAYTON, Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. 
BENTSEN, and Mr. FLAKE): 

H.R. 2933. A bill to amend the Small Business 
Act concerning the level of participation 
by the Small Business Administration 
in loans guaranteed under the Export Working 
Capital Program; to the Committee on 
Small Business. 
By Mr. BLUTE: 

H.R. 2934. A bill to eliminate certain Federal 
programs and subsidies; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means, and in addition to 
the Committee on Agriculture, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. BUNN of Oregon (for himself, 
Mr. WHITE, Ms. DUNN of Washington, 
and Mr. YOUNG of Alaska): 

H.R. 2935. A bill to amend title 28, United 
States Code, to divide the Ninth Judicial Circuit 
of the United States into two circuits, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
By Mr. CHAPMAN: 

H.R. 2936. A bill to provide that if a member 
nation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, 
the Republic of Korea, or Japan 
does not agree, by the end of fiscal year 1997, 
to contribute to the United States for each 
fiscal year an amount equal to the full direct 
costs to the United States of U.S. military 
forces permanently stationed ashore in that 
country for that fiscal year, all such United 
States forces assigned in that country shall 
be withdrawn not later than the end of fiscal 
year 1999 and to provide that the amount of 
all such contributions and the amount of 
savings from such withdrawals shall be deposited 
in the Federal Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund; to the Committee on International 
Relations, and in addition to the 
Committees on National Security, and Ways 
and Means, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 


By Mr. CLINGER (for himself, Mr. 
ARMEY, Mr. DELAY, Mr. WALKER, Mr. 
BURTON of Indiana, Mr. DAVIS, Mr. 
FOX, Mr. HASTERT, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. 
BLUTE, Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. FRANK 
of Massachusetts, Mrs. MORELLA, 
Mrs. VUCANOVICH, Mr. BALLENGER, 
and Mr. EHRLICH): 

H.R. 2937. A bill for the reimbursement of 
legal expenses and related fees incurred by 
former employees of the White House Travel 
Office with respect to the termination of 
their employment in that Office on May 19, 
1993; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GOODLATTE (for himself, Mr. 
MOORHEAD, Mr. MCCOLLUM, Mr. 
SMITH of Texas, Mr. HOKE, and Mr. 
BRYANT of Tennessee): 

H.R. 2938. A bill to encourage the furnishing 
of health care services to low-income individuals 
by exempting health care professionals 
from liability for negligence for certain 
health care services provided without 
charge except in cases of gross negligence or 
willful misconduct, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GUNDERSON (for himself and 
Mr. BEREUTER): 

H.R. 2939. A bill to direct the Secretary of 
the Interior to conduct a pilot test of the 
Mississippi Interstate Cooperative Resource 
Agreement; to the Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. HAYES (for himself, Mr. TAUZIN, 
Mr. BAKER of Louisiana, Mr. JEFFERSON, 
and Mr. MCCRERY): 

H.R. 2940. A bill to amend the Deepwater 
Port Act of 1974; to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, and in addition 
to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. HEFLEY: 

H.R. 2941. A bill to improve the quantity 
and quality of the quarters of land management 
agency field employees, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Resources, 
and in addition to the Committee on Agriculture, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota: 

H.R. 2942. A bill to amend the Railroad Retirement 
Act of 1974 to prevent the canceling 
of annuities to certain divorced spouses of 
workers whose widows elect to receive lump-
sum payments; to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota (for 
himself and Mr. SKEEN): 

H.R. 2943. A bill to provide for the collection 
of fossils on Federal lands, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Resources, 
and in addition to the Committees on Agriculture, 
and Transportation and Infrastructure, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mrs. MALONEY: 

H.R. 2944. A bill to reform the financing of 
Federal elections, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on House Oversight, and in 
addition to the Committees on Commerce, 
the Judiciary, Government Reform and Oversight, 
and Ways and Means, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. MILLER of California: 

H.R. 2945. A bill to limit the provision of 
assistance to the Government of Mexico 
using the exchange stabilization fund established 
pursuant to section 5302 of title 31, 
United States Code, and for other purpose; to 
the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services. 
H.R. 2946. A bill to provide that applications 
by Mexican motor carriers of property 
for authority to provide service across the 
United States-Mexico international boundary 
line and by persons of Mexico who establish 
enterprises in the United States seeking 
to distribute international cargo in the United 
States shall not be approved until certain 
certifications are made to the Congress by 
the President and the Secretary of Transportation, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
H.R. 2947. A bill expressing the sense of the 
House regarding the failure of Mexico to cooperate 
with the United States in controlling 
the transport of illegal drugs and controlled 
substances and the denial of certain 
assistance to Mexico as a result of that failure; 
to the Committee on International Relations, 
and in addition to the Committee on 
Banking and Financial Services, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mrs. MINK of Hawaii: 

H.R. 2948. A bill to increase the amount authorized 
to be appropriated for additions to 
Haleakala National Park; to the Committee 
on Resources. 
By Ms. MOLINARI: 

H.R. 2949. A bill to strengthen Federal law 
with respect to the prohibitions against and 
penalties for acts which sabotage or otherwise 
threaten the safety of rail Transportation 
and mass transit; to the Committee 
on transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. NETHERCUTT (for himself, Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. COOLEY, Mr. HASTINGS 
of Washington, Mrs. CHENOWETH, and 
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota): 

H.R. 2950. A bill to preserve and strengthen 
the Foreign Market Development Cooperator 
Program of the Department of Agriculture, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Agriculture. 
By Mr. PETRI: 

H.R. 2951. A bill to protect United States 
taxpayers by preventing the use of Federal 
funds for construction of a dam on the American 
River at Auburn, CA; to the Committee 
on Resources, and in addition to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. PORTER (for himself, Mr. 
SHAYS, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. MANZULLO, 
and Mr. PETRI): 

H.R. 2952. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 and title II of the Social 
Security Act to reduce Social Security 
taxes, to reduce old-age insurance benefits 
by a corresponding amount, and to provide 
for the establishment of individual Social 
Security retirement accounts funded by payroll 
deductions and employer contributions 
equal to the amount of the tax reduction; to 
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
addition to the Committee on Economic and 
Educational Opportunities, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1225 

each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 

By Mr. PORTER (for himself and Mr. 
INGLIS of South Carolina): 

H.R. 2953. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 and the Social Security 
Act to provide for personal investment plans 
funded by employee Social Security payroll 
deductions; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
Economic and Educational Opportunities, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by 
the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. ROYCE: 

H.R. 2954. A bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to provide Federal penalties for 
stalking; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. SHADEGG: 

H.R. 2955. A bill to stop abuse of Federal 
collateral remedies; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 
By Mr. STUDDS: 

H.R. 2956. A bill to amend the 
Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986 to 
authorize the provision of certain disaster 
assistance to commercial fishermen through 
State and local government agencies and 
nonprofit organizations, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Resources. 
H.R. 2957. A bill to deauthorize a portion of 
the navigation project for Weymouth-Fore 
and Town Rivers, MA; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. STUPAK: 

H.R. 2958. A bill to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to make appropriate improvements 
to a county road located in the Pictured 
Rocks National Lakeshore, and to prohibit 
construction of a scenic shoreline drive 
in that national lakeshore; to the Committee 
on Resources. 
By Mr. TORKILDSEN (for himself, Ms. 
HARMAN, Mr. DELLUMS, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mr. SHAYS, Mr. GUNDERSON, 
Mr. STUDDS, Mr. CAMPBELL, Mr. 
WARD, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. BOEHLERT, 
Mr. BILBRAY, Mr. GILMAN, Ms. 
PELOSI, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, Mr. 
MEEHAN, Mrs. MALONEY, Mr. SABO, 
Mr. YATES, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. MARKEY, 
Mr. MILLER of California, Mr. 
FARR, Mr. WAXMAN, Mr. DEUTSCH, 
Ms. WATERS, Ms. RIVERS, Mr. MATSUI, 
Mr. BROWN of California, Mr. ACKERMAN, 
Ms. FURSE, Mrs. SCHROEDER, Mr. 
DEFAZIO, Mr. MARTINEZ, Mr. EVANS, 
Mr. BERMAN, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, 
Mr. HINCHEY, Ms. SLAUGHTER, 
Mr. NADLER, Mr. OLVER, Mr. STARK, 
Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, Mr. 
GEJDENSON, and Mr. KENNEDY of 
Rhode Island): 

H.R. 2959. A bill to repeal the requirement 
enacted in the National Defense Authorization 
Act for fiscal year 1996 for the mandatory 
discharge or retirement of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is HIV positive; to 
the Committee on National Security. 
By Mr. ZIMMER (for himself and Mr. 
BLUTE): 

H.R. 2960. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide that amounts 
derived from Federal grants in connection 
with revolving funds established in accordance 
with the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act will not be treated as investment 
property for purposes of section 148 of such 
Code; to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. BARTON of Texas (for himself, 
Mr. PETE GEREN of Texas, Mr. 
SHADEGG, Mr. HALL of Texas, Mr. 
SAXTON, Mr. ALLARD, Mr. ANDREWS, 
Mr. ARMEY, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. BAKER 
of California, Mr. BAKER of Louisiana, 
Mr. BALLENGER, Mr. BARR, Mr. 

BARRETT of Nebraska, Mr BARTLETT 
of Maryland, Mr. BLILEY, Mr. 
BOEHNER, Mr. BONILLA, Mr. 
BROWNBACK, Mr. BRYANT of Tennessee, 
Mr. BUNN of Oregon, Mr. 
BUNNING of Kentucky, Mr. BURR, Mr. 
BURTON of Indiana, Mr. CALLAHAN, 
Mr. CALVERT, Mr. CAMP, Mr. CHABOT, 
Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mrs. CHENOWETH, Mr. 
CHRISTENSEN, Mr. CHRYSLER, Mr. 
COBLE, Mr. COBURN, Mr. COLLINS of 
Georgia, Mr. COMBEST, Mr. COOLEY, 
Mr. COX, Mr. CRANE, Mr. CREMEANS, 
Mrs. CUBIN, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. 
DEAL of Georgia, Mr. DICKEY, Mr. 
DOOLITTLE, Mr. DORNAN, Mr. DUNCAN, 
Ms. DUNN of Washington, Mr. EMERSON, 
Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. FORBES, 
Mrs. FOWLER, Mr. FOX, Mr. FRANKS of 
New Jersey, Mr. FRANKS of Connecticut, 
Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, Mr. FRISA, 
Mr. FUNDERBURK, Mr. GANSKE, Mr. 
GILMAN, Mr. GOODLING, Mr. GOSS, Mr. 
GRAHAM, Mr. GREENWOOD, Mr. 
GUTKNECHT, Mr. HANCOCK, Mr. HANSEN, 
Mr. HASTERT, Mr. HASTINGS of 

Washington, Mr. HAYES, Mr. 
HAYWORTH, Mr. HEFLEY, Mr. 
HEINEMAN, Mr. HERGER, Mr. 

HILLEARY, Mr. HORN, Mr. HUNTER, 
Mr. HUTCHINSON, Mr. INGLIS of South 
Carolina, Mr. ISTOOK, Mr. SAM JOHNSON, 
Mr. JONES, Mrs. KELLY, Mr. 
KING, Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. KLUG, Mr. 
KNOLLENBERG, Mr. KOLBE, Mr. 
LARGENT, Mr. LATHAM, Mr. LAUGHLIN, 
Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, Mr. LIGHTFOOT, 
Mr. LINDER, Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. 
LUCAS, Mr. MANZULLO, Mr. MARTINI, 
Mr. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCCRERY, Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. MCINNIS, Mr. MCINTOSH, 
Mr. MCKEON, Mr. METCALF, Mr. MICA 
Mr. MILLER of Florida, Mrs. MYRICK, 
Mr. NEUMANN, Mr. NEY, Mr. NORWOOD, 
Mr. PACKARD, Mr. PARKER, Mr. 
PAXON, Mr. QUILLEN, Mr. QUINN, Mr. 
RADANOVICH, Mr. RAMSTAD, Mr. 
RIGGS, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. 
ROHRABACHER, Mr. ROYCE, Mr. SALMON, 
Mr. SANFORD, Mr. SCARBOROUGH, 
Mr. SCHAEFER, Mrs. SEASTRAND, Mr. 
SENSENBRENNER, Mr. SKEEN, Mr. 
SMITH of Texas, Mrs. SMITH of Washington, 
Mr. SOLOMON, Mr. SOUDER, 
Mr. SPENCE, Mr. STEARNS, Mr. STOCKMAN, 
Mr. STUMP, Mr. TALENT, Mr. 
TATE, Mr. TAUZIN, Mr. TAYLOR of 
North Carolina, Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. 
TIAHRT, Mr. TORKILDSEN, Mr. UPTON, 
Mrs. WALDHOLTZ, Mr. WAMP, Mr. 
WATTS of Oklahoma, Mr. WELDON of 
Florida, Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. WELLER, Mr. WICKER, Mr. 
YOUNG of Alaska, and Mr. ZELIFF: 

H.J. Res. 159. Joint resolution proposing an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States to require two-thirds majorities for 
bills increasing taxes; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
By Mr. SOLOMON: 

H. Con. Res. 141. Concurrent resolution 
providing for the adjournment of the two 
Houses; considered and agreed to. 
By Mr. BEREUTER (for himself, Mr. 
GILMAN, Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. HASTINGS 
of Florida, Mr. HOUGHTON, and 
Mr. PAYNE of New Jersey): 

H. Con. Res. 142. Concurrent resolution regarding 
the human rights situation in Mauritania, 
including the continued practice of 
chattel slavery; to the Committee on International 
Relations. 
By Mr. DOYLE (for himself, Mr. GRAHAM, 
Mr. MASCARA, Mr. LARGENT, Mr. 
HOLDEN, Mr. MCHALE, Mr. KANJORSKI, 
Mr. FATTAH, Mr. BORSKI, and Mr. 
KLINK): 

H. Con. Res. 143. Concurrent resolution expressing 
the sense of the Congress that the 
President should award a medal of honor to 
Wayne T. Alderson in recognition of acts 
performed at the risk of his life and beyond 
the call of duty while serving in the U.S. 
Army during World War II; to the Committee 
on National Security. 
By Mr. SAWYER (for himself, Mr. 
BONIOR, Mr. CLAY, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, 
Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. BAESLER, Mr. 
BALDACCI, Mr. BARCIA of Michigan, 
Mr. BECERRA, Mr. BEILENSON, Mr. 
BENTSEN, Mr. BEVILL, Mr. BISHOP, 
Mr. BORSKI, Mr. BREWSTER, Ms. 
BROWN of Florida, Mr. BROWN of California, 
Mr. BROWN of Ohio, Mr. 
CARDIN, Mr. CHAPMAN, Mrs. CLAYTON, 
Mr. CLEMENT, Mr. CLYBURN, Miss 
COLLINS of Michigan, Mrs. COLLINS of 
Illinois, Mr. COLEMAN, Mr. CONDIT, 
Mr. COYNE, Ms. DANNER, Mr. 
DEFAZIO, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DINGELL, 
Mr. DIXON, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. ENGEL, 
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. EVANS, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. FARR, Mr. 
FATTAH, Mr. FAZIO of California, Mr. 
FORD, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, 
Mr. FRAZER, Mr. FROST, Ms. FURSE, 
Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. PETE GEREN of 
Texas, Mr. GIBBONS, Mr. GENE GREEN 
of Texas, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Ms. HARMAN, 
Mr. HASTINGS of Florida, Mr. 
HEFNER, Mr. HILLIARD, Mr. HINCHEY, 
Mr. HOLDEN, Mr. HOUGHTON, Mr. 
HOYER, Mr. JACKSON, Ms. JACKSONLEE, 
Mr. JACOBS, Mr. JEFFERSON, Mr. 
JOHNSON of South Dakota, Ms. EDDIE 
BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSTON 
of Florida, Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, 
Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island, 
Mrs. KENNELLY, Mr. KILDEE, 
Mr. KLINK, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. LEWIS of 
Georgia, Mrs. LINCOLN, Mr. LIPINSKI, 
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. MCDERMOTT, Ms. 
MCKINNEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MARTINEZ, 
Mr. MATSUI, Mr. MEEHAN, Mrs. 
MEEK of Florida, Mr. MILLER of California, 
Mr. MINGE, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, 
Mr. MOAKLEY, Mr. MORAN, Ms. 
NORTON, Mr. OBERSTAR, Mr. OLVER, 
Mr. ORTIZ, Mr. ORTON, Mr. OWENS, 
Mr. PASTOR, Mr. PAYNE of New Jersey, 
Mr. PAYNE of Virginia, Ms. 
PELOSI, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, 
Mr. PETERSON of Florida, Mr. PICKETT, 
Mr. POSHARD, Mr. RAHALL, Mr. 
REED, Mr. ROEMER, Mr. ROMEROBARCELO, 
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. 
RUSH, Mr. SABO, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. 
SCOTT, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SKAGGS, Ms. 
SLAUGHTER, Mr. STARK, Mr. STENHOLM, 
Mr. STOKES, Mr. STUDDS, Mr. 
STUPAK, Mr. TANNER, Mr. THOMPSON, 
Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. TRAFICANT, Mr. 
UNDERWOOD, Ms. VELAZQUEZ, Mr. 
VENTO, Ms. WATERS, Mr. WATT of 
North Carolina, Mr. WAXMAN, Mr. 
WILLIAMS, Mr. WISE, Ms. WOOLSEY, 
Mr. WYNN, Ms. MCCARTHY, Mr. LUTHER, 
Mr. COSTELLO, Mr. SPRATT, Mr. 
CRAMER, Mr. TORRES, Mr. NADLER, 
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. BOUCHER, Ms. 
RIVERS, Mr. DOOLEY, Mr. VOLKMER, 
Mr. MURTHA, Mr. POMEROY, Mr. NEAL 
of Massachusetts, Mr. TORRICELLI, 
Mr. WARD, Mr. GONZALEZ, Mr. DICKS, 
Mr. SKELTON, Mr. FLAKE, Mr. MCNULTY, 
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. MOLLOHAN, Mr. 
KANJORSKI, Mr. TOWNS, Mr. MASCARA, 
Mr. MONTGOMERY, Mr. HALL of Texas, 
Mr. DE LA GARZA, Mr. FIELDS of Louisiana, 
Mr. OBEY, Mr. EDWARDS, Mr. 
DEUTSCH, and Mr. BROWDER): 


H 1226 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE February 1, 1996 

H. Con. Res. 144. Concurrent resolution expressing 
the sense of the Congress with regard 
to the amount that should be appropriated 
for fiscal year 1996 for federally assisted 
education programs and activities; to 
the Committee on Economic and Education 
Opportunities. 
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for himself, 
Mr. WOLF, Mr. SOLOMON, Mr. 
HOYER, and Mr. DURBIN): 

H. Con. Res. 1450. Concurrent resolution 
conerning the removal of Russian Armed 
Forces from Moldova; to the Committee on 
International Relations. 
By Mr. GEPHARDT: 

H. Res. 356. Resolution to protect the creditworthiness 
of the United States and avoid 
default of the United States Government; to 
the Committee on Rules. 
By Mr. ARMEY: 

H. Res. 357. Resolution electing Representative 
MARK W. NEUMANN of Wisconsin to the 
Committee on the Budget; considered and 
agreed to. 
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mr. DAVIS, and Mr. LUTHER): 


H. Res. 3580. Resolution amending the 
Rules of the House of Representatives to 
postpone final House action on legislative 
branch appropriations for any fiscal year 
until all other regular appropriations for 
that fiscal year are enacted into law; to the 
Committee on Rules. 
By Mrs. MORELLA (for herself, Mrs. 
LOWEY, Mr. MORAN, Mr. SCHAEFER, 
Mr. MCDERMOTT, Mr. BROWN of California, 
Mr. HOKE, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. 
GENE GREEN of Texas, Mr. OWENS, 
Mr. FOX, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, 
Mr. TORRES, Mr. BRYANT of 
Texas, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. JOHNSTON 
of Florida, Mr. MANTON, Mr. 
UNDERWOOD, Mr. LAFALCE, Mr. 
CUNNINGHAM, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. WILSON, 
Mr. THOMPSON, Mr. GEJDENSON, 
Ms. NORTON, Mr. FILNER, Mr. OBERSTAR, 
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. FROST, Mr. 
ROMERO-BARCELO, Mr. NADLER, Ms. 
PELOSI, Mr. BERMAN, Mr. WARD, Mr. 
REED, Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, 
Mr. BONIOR, and Mr. FOLEY): 

H. Res. 359. Resolution recognizing and 
supporting the efforts of the U.S. Soccer 
Federation to bring the 1999 Women’s World 
Cup tournament to the United States; to the 
Committee on International Relations. 
By Mr. VENTO (for himself, Mr. SCHUMER, 
Mr. KANJORSKI, Mr. LAFALCE, 
Mr. FLAKE, Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, 
Ms. VELAZQUEZ, Mrs. 
MALONEY, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. WATT 
of North Carolina, Mr. ACKERMAN, 
Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin, Mr. BENTSEN, 
and Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts): 


H. Res. 360. Resolution affirming the support 
of the House of Representatives for the 
preservation of the integrity of the full faith 
and credit of the United States of America; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. ZIMMER: 

H. Res. 361. Resolution amending the Rules 
of the House of Representatives to prohibit 
foreign travel by a retiring Member; to the 
Committee on Rules. 
f 


PRIVATE BILLS AND 
RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 1 of rule XXII, 

Mr. DOYLE introduced a bill (H.R. 2961) for 
the relief of Wayne T. Alderson; which was 
referred to the Committee on National Security. 


ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 

Under clause 4 of rule XXII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 65: Mr. WALSH. 
H.R. 103: Mr. BLILEY. 
H.R. 109: Mr. WISE. 
H.R. 134: Mr. ZELIFF. 
H.R. 135: Mr. ZELIFF. 
H.R. 136: Mr. ZELIFF. 
H.R. 138: Mr. ZELIFF. 
H.R. 141: Mr. ZELIFF. 
H.R. 143: Mr. ZELIFF. 
H.R. 218: Mr. TATE. 
H.R. 248: Mr. LEACH. 
H.R. 303: Mr. WALSH. 
H.R. 519: Mr. COX. 
H.R. 528: Mr. OWENS and Mr. CONDIT. 
H.R. 580: Mr. WISE. 
H.R. 878: Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, Mr. ENGLISH 
of Pennsylvania, Mr. WARD, Mr. QUILLEN, 
Mr. TORRICELLI, Mr. ROSE, Mr. 
GUTIERREZ, Mrs. KELLY, and Mr. DURBIN. 
H.R. 958: Ms. MCKINNEY and Mr. NADLER. 
H.R. 995: Mr. SAM JOHNSON. 
H.R. 1090: Mr. WISE. 
H.R. 1169: Mr. GEJDENSON. 
H.R. 1500: Mr. MCNULTY. 
H.R. 1621: Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin and 
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. 
H.R. 1684: Mr. OBERSTAR, Mr. THORNTON, 
Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. SOLOMON, and Mr. PORTER. 
H.R. 1711: Mr. HEFLEY. 
H.R. 1733: Mr. FARR. 
H.R. 1805: Mr. WARD, Mr. ROSE, Mr. 
MENENDEZ, and Mr. QUILLEN. 
H.R. 1889: Mr. JOHNSTON of Florida, Mr. 
RUSH, and Mr. CLEMENT. 
H.R. 1920: Mr. HOKE and Mr. LAFALCE. 
H.R. 1950: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 1972: Mr. OXLEY, Mr. JOHNSON of 
South Dakota, Mr. CAMPBELL, Mr. ISTOOK, 
and Mrs. FOWLER. 
H.R. 2011: Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 2209: Mr. OXLEY and Mr. GEKAS. 
H.R. 2214: Ms. WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 2270: Mr. SKEEN and Mr. CRANE. 
H.R. 2281: Mrs. THURMAN. 
H.R. 2416: Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. 
H.R. 2421: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. 
MOAKLEY, and Mr. OLVER. 
H.R. 2434: Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas, Mr. 
LAUGHLIN, Mr. POMEROY, Mr. BREWSTER, Mr. 
HEFLEY, Mr. FROST, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE 
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, and 
Mr. ABERCROMBIE. 
H.R. 2441: Mr. BURR and Mr. MINGE. 
H.R. 2445: Mr. COX. 
H.R. 2463: Mr. FRAZER. 
H.R. 2472: Ms. WOOLSEY, Mr. FAZIO of California, 
Mr. STARK, Mr. MILLER of California, 
Mr. SAXTON, and Mr. BRYANT of Texas. 
H.R. 2497: Mr. BREWSTER, Mr. GUNDERSON, 
Mr. DORNAN, Mr. ISTOOK, Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. 
FOLEY, Mr. MILLER of Florida, Mrs. FOWLER, 
Mr. GOSS, and Mr. BALLENGER. 
H.R. 2540: Mr. ALLARD, Mr. BACHUS, and 
Mr. DICKEY. 
H.R. 2548: Mr. MARTINI, Mr. FRAZER, and 
Mr. COBLE. 
H.R. 2579: Ms. WOOLSEY, Mr. LOBIONDO, Ms. 
PRYCE, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr. OLVER. 
H.R. 2585: Mr. VISCLOSKY. 
H.R. 2651: Mr. SABO. 
H.R. 2655: Mr. PETE GEREN of Texas. 
H.R. 2658: Mr. BRYANT of Texas. 
H.R. 2664: Mr. CHABOT and Mr. QUINN. 
H.R. 2676: Mr. WILSON, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, 
and Mr. LAUGHLIN. 
H.R. 2691: Ms. MCKINNEY and Mr. HILLIARD. 
H.R. 2697: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. CLEMENT, 
Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. CALVERT, and Mr. 
KENNEDY of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 2727: Mr. BAKER of Louisiana. 
H.R. 2731: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 2740: Ms. JACKSON-LEE, Mr. STOCKMAN, 
and Mrs. SMITH of Washington. 
H.R. 2757: Mr. CARDIN, Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. 
LATHAM, Mr. CANADY, and Mr. BONO. 
H.R. 2762: Mr. MINGE. 
H.R. 2776: Mr. BARCIA of Michigan, Mr. 
DAVIS, Mr. LEACH, Mr. PETERSON of Florida, 
Mr. HANSEN, Mr. FRAZER, Mr. JONES, Mr. 
BUNNING of Kentucky, Mr. DOYLE, Mr. 
MANZULLO, Mr. MCKEON, Ms. HARMAN, Mr. 
TOWNS, Mr. MOAKLEY, Mr. JEFFERSON, Ms. 
DELAURO, Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. KING, Mr. TALENT, 
Mr. TORRES, Mr. PAYNE of Virginia, Mr. 
LIPINSKI, Mr. BEREUTER, Mr. TORKILDSEN, 
Mr. SAXTON, Mr. HOYER, Mr. LIVINGSTON, and 
Mr. EHRLICH. 
H.R. 2777: Ms. MCKINNEY, Mr. JACOBS, Mr. 
GONZALEZ, Mr. THOMPSON, Mr. BEILENSON, 
Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, Mr. FROST, Mr. TORRES, 
and Mr. EVANS. 
H.R. 2778: Mr. BATEMAN, Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. 
MCKEON, Mr. JEFFERSON, Mr. PETRI, Mr. 
WELDON of Pennsylvania, Mr. GALLEGLY, Mr. 
SMITH of Texas, Mr. SHAYS, Mr. GOSS, and 
Mr. SKELTON. 
H.R. 2802: Mr. CRAPO, Mr. PAYNE of Virginia, 
Mr. MONTGOMERY, Mr. BEVILL, Mr. 
BALDACCI, Mr. PARKER, Mr. KINGSTON, and 
Mr. LIPINSKI. 
H.R. 2807: Mr. BARCIA of Michigan and Mr. 
BISHOP. 
H.R. 2811: Mr. HYDE, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. 
GONZALEZ, Mr. LAFALCE, Mr. SKELTON, Mr. 
DE LA GARZA, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. COLLINS of Illinois, 
Mr. CLAY, Mr. YATES, Mr. WAXMAN, 
Mr. MCDADE, Mr. WALKER, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, 
Mrs. SCHROEDER, Mr. STARK, Mr. MILLER 
of California, Mr. WILSON, Mr. QUILLEN, 
Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. MONTGOMERY, Mr. DINGELL, 
Mr. FRAZER, Mr. THOMPSON, and Mr. 
MCNULTY. 
H.R. 2827: Mr. FAWELL, Ms. PRYCE, Mr. 
MINGE, Mr. FARR, and Mr. QUINN. 
H.R. 2841: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 2854: Mr. EHLERS and Mr. GUNDERSON. 
H.R. 2856: Mr. OLVER. 
H.R. 2862: Mr. DINGELL, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. 
SERRANO, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. WOOLSEY, Mrs. 
CLAYTON, and Mr. TORRES. 
H.R. 2867: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. TAYLOR of 
North Carolina, Mr. RADANOVICH, and Mr. 
EMERSON. 
H.R. 2875: Ms. MOLINARI, Mr. FRISA, Mr. 
TOWNS, Mr. ACKERMAN, Ms. JACKSON-LEE, 
Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. GEJDENSON, and Mr. 
LAZIO of New York. 
H.R. 2894: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. HOEKSTRA, Mr. 
STUMP, Mrs. CUBIN, Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. 
POMBO, Mr. TATE, Mr. BAKER of California, 
Mr. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. DREIER, Mr. STOCKMAN, 
Mr. SHADEGG, Mr. FORBES, Mr. 
CHAMBLISS, Mr. JONES, Mr. SAM JOHNSON, 
Mr. FUNDERBURK, Mr. BALLENGER, Mr. NEUMANN, 
and Mr. CHABOT. 
H.R. 2900: Mr. WICKER, Ms. DUNN of Washington, 
Mr. PAXON, Mrs. LINCOLN, Mr. BREWSTER, 
Mr. KNOLLENBERG, and Mr. BAKER of 
Louisiana. 
H.R. 2921: Mr. BILIRAKIS. 
H.J. Res. 121: Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina, 
Mr. HEINEMAN, Mr. CRANE, Mr. MCCOLLUM, 
Mr. COBLE, Mr. HANSEN, Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. 
CALVERT, Mr. COOLEY, Mr. MOORHEAD, Mr. 
QUILLEN, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. HERGER. 
H. Con. Res. 23: Mr. BONIOR, Mr. ROTH, Mr. 
KENNEDY of Massachusetts, Mr. DAVIS, and 
Mr. LIVINGSTON. 
H. Con. Res. 47: Mr. WOLF, Mr. MCDADE, 
and Mr. CALVERT. 
H. Con. Res. 63: Mr. KLUG. 
H. Con. Res. 103: Mr. LEVIN, Mr. BERMAN, 
Mr. BILIRAKIS, and Mr. PORTER. 
H. Con. Res. 134: Mr. STUMP, Mr. EHRLICH, 
Mr. LATOURETTE, and Mr. LARGENT. 
H. Con. Res. 135: Ms. MCKINNEY, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Mr. DELLUMS. 
H. Con. Res. 138: Mr. BURTON of Indiana, 
Mr. STOCKMAN, Mrs. MEEK of Florida, and 
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H 1227 

H. Res. 30: Mr. PETE GEREN of Texas, Mr. DISCHARGE PETITIONS DISCHARGE PETITIONS— 
BALLENGER, Mr. TORKILDSEN, Mr. WATTS of 
ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS 

Oklahoma, Mr. COYNE, and Mr. GUTKNECHT. Under clause 3, rule XXVII, the fol-

H. Res. 346: Mr. GREENWOOD. lowing discharge petitions were filed: The following Members added their 
f 


DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 4 of rule XXII, sponsors 
were deleted from public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 1963: Mrs. KELLY and Mr. DAVIS. 
H.R. 2281: Mr. SHAYS. 
H.R. 2745: Mr. KLINK. 
Petition 9, January 30, 1996, by Mr. 
CONDIT on House Resolution 333, was signed 
by the following Members: Gary A. Condit, 
Blanche Lambert Lincoln, Mike Ward, Scotty 
Baesler, Tim Roemer, Bill K. Brewster, 
David Minge, Tim Holden, Jane Harman, Bill 
Orton, Thomas M. Barrett, Charles W. Stenholm, 
Thomas C. Sawyer, Pat Danner, Calvin 

M. Dooley, Glen Browder, Collin C. Peterson, 
Robert E. (Bud) Cramer, Jr., Earl Pomeroy, 
Bill Richardson, L.F. Payne, and Gene Taylor. 
names to the following discharge petitions: 


Petition 8 by Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts 
on House Resolution 292: Gerry E. 
Studds, Kweisi Mfume, Blanche Lambert 
Lincoln, John Joseph Moakley, Bill K. Brewster, 
William J. Coyne, Xavier Becerra, Calvin 
M. Dooley, Frank Tejeda, Maxine Waters, 
Henry A. Waxman, Paul E. Kanjorski, 
John J. LaFalce, James L. Oberstar, William 

P. Luther, Charles Wilson, Chaka Fattah, 
Jose E. Serrano, and Robert E. Andrews. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 104th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 142 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1996 No. 14 

The Senate met at 10:30 a.m. and was 
called to order by the President pro 
tempore [Mr. THURMOND]. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Lloyd John 
Ogilvie, offered the following prayer: 

Dear God, our Father, we thank You 
for the blessings You release when 
Your people pray. The President and 
Vice President and their families, the 
Justices of the Supreme Court, the 
Members of the House of Representatives, 
and the men and women of this 
Senate, along with those of us who are 
privileged to work with them, are recipients 
of the impact of the prayers of 
intercession prayed by millions of 
Americans around the clock. Help us to 
remember that You are seeking to answer 
these prayers as we receive Your 
wisdom and guidance. May we never 
feel alone or only dependent on our 
own strength. Your mighty power is 
impinging on us here as a result of people’s 
prayers. An unlimited supply of 
supernatural strength, wisdom, and vision 
from You is ready to be released. 

Also, remind us that our ability to 
receive is dependent on our willingness 
to pray for each other here as we work 
together in the Senate. We recommit 
ourselves to be channels of prayer 
power not only to our friends and those 
with whom we agree, but also for those 
with whom we disagree, those we consider 
our political adversaries, and especially 
those who test our patience, or 
those we need to forgive. So, lift our 
life together from a battle zone of combative 
words to a caring community of 
leaders who pray for and communicate 
esteem for one another. Thank You for 
giving us unity in spirit as we deal 
with diversity of ideas. In our Lord’s 
name. Amen. 

Senate 

RECOGNITION OF THE ACTING 
MAJORITY LEADER 

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
able acting majority leader, Senator 
LOTT, is recognized. 

Mr. LOTT. I thank the Chair. 

f 

THANKING THE SENATE CHAPLAIN 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, we thank 
our Chaplain for his assistance and his 
daily prayers and for his efforts this 
very morning with the Congressional 
Prayer Breakfast. We assure him of our 
prayers for him and his loved ones. We 
know it is a difficult circumstance he 
is dealing with at this time. 

f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, today, the 
Senate will resume consideration of S. 
1541, the farm bill. Under the previous 
order, all Senators should be aware 
that there will be two cloture votes 
today beginning at 1:30 p.m. Additional 
rollcall votes can be expected in order 
to complete action on the farm bill 
today. 

Also as a reminder, Senators have 
until 12 noon today to file first-degree 
amendments to the pending substitute 
and until 1 p.m. to file second-degree 
amendments. 

Today, there will be a joint meeting 
of Congress at 11:45 a.m. to hear an address 
by the President of France, President 
Chirac. Members should be in the 
Chamber at 11:25 in order to proceed to 
the House of Representatives for the 
address. 

Mr. President, I would like to also 
this morning make some brief remarks 
with regard to the need for truth in 
packaging on welfare reform. I observe 
the Senator from Indiana, the chairman 
of the Agriculture Committee is 
here. There may be a need for the others 
that are involved in the agriculture 
bill to come to the floor. So, if the Sen


ator will indulge me just a couple minutes, 
I would like to talk with regard 
to what is happening with welfare reform. 


f 

WELFARE REFORM 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, someday, 
perhaps a year from now, we will finally 
achieve genuine welfare reform 
to change welfare from the way we 
have known it, but it will not happen 
today. Indeed, it may not happen this 
year, not while President Clinton continues 
to brandish his veto pen against 
all efforts to clean up the welfare mess, 
to encourage work, and to help people 
who need assistance to get off welfare 
and get a job. 

His first veto of welfare reform received 
little notice because it was part 
of our larger Balanced Budget Act. 
That legislation was long and complicated, 
touching upon many different 
programs. So the President was able to 
block welfare reform in the process of 
opposing other provisions in the bill. 

His second veto of welfare reform 
likewise received scant attention because 
much of the country was distracted 
by the blizzard of 1996. It was 
vetoed late at night, and there was not 
much press coverage because most of 
official Washington was not paying attention. 
They were still concentrating 
on the overall budget agreement. 

Now the President has promised a 
third veto of welfare reform, and he has 
done so in a way that blatantly violates 
his previous pledges on this issue. 
In an interview that appeared in yesterday’s, 
that is Wednesday’s, Washington 
Post, the President made clear 
that his earlier endorsement of the 
welfare reform bill that passed the Senate 
last fall is no longer operative. 

The bill that passed the Senate was 

H.R. 4, which this body approved on 
September 19, 1995, by a strongly bipartisan 
vote of 87 to 12. It sailed through 
S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S671 


S672 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the Senate with the strong personal 
support of the President. But that was 
then, and now I guess his position has 
changed, based on this interview in the 
Washington Post. This is what Ann 
Devroy and John Harris reported in the 
Post interview: 

On welfare reform, Clinton said he has not 
given up hope that a compromise bill acceptable 
to him will be approved this year. But 
he set a new price for his signature on a welfare 
system overhaul, asserting that the Senate 
proposal he indicated he would support 
last fall will have to be changed for him to 
support it now. He called on Republicans to 
send him a revised bill that would contain 
fewer cuts in funding for food stamps, provide 
child care for welfare recipients who 
work and preserve current protections for 
disabled children. 

This is another example of the President’s 
acknowledged skill at packaging 
and repackaging his positions, but it is 
a far cry from what was actually involved 
in the legislation that we considered. 


The truth, as every Member of the 
Senate knows, is that the bill we 
passed last September was a compromise. 
A lot of work was put into 
that legislation by members of the 
committees involved, including the 
Senator from Connecticut, Senator 
DODD. That is why it gathered 87 votes 
on the Senate floor. It is why few Senators 
on both sides of the aisle opposed 
it. 

The truth is that the Senate-passed 
bill did provide additional funding for 
child care for welfare recipients. It earmarked 
$1 billion per year for child 
care assistance, and it provided another 
$3 billion over the next 4 fiscal 
years for child care in certain States. 
In sum, that was a few billion more 
than what President Clinton had called 
for in his budget. 

The truth is that the Senate-passed 
bill provided a base amount of $16.8 billion 
in welfare funding in each of the 
next 5 years; an additional $879 million 
for States with higher growth; a $1.7 
billion revolving fund for special borrowing; 
additional funds as incentive 
grants to States which make the most 
progress in getting persons off the welfare 
rolls; a $800 million emergency assistance 
fund; a contingency fund of up 
to $1 billion; $150 million for second 
chance homes for unwed mothers and 
more. 

The truth is that by returning control 
of public assistance to the States, 
the Senate-passed bill did not weaken 
protections for disabled children. On 
the contrary, 87 Members of the Senate, 
from both sides of the political 
aisle, voted to give flexibility to States 
in meeting the needs of those children. 

The truth is that the Senate-passed 
bill required an 80-percent maintenance 
of effort—80-percent maintenance 
of effort—by the States to allay 
any fears that benefits to the needy 
might be recklessly reduced. 

In fact, we made so many changes, 
we put in so much more money, that it 
was just marginally possible for this 
Senator to even vote for the bill. But it 

was a compromise; it was a step in the 
right direction, and, like a lot of others 
on both sides, I went along with it. 

But, based on what we are hearing 
from the administration, all that goes 
down the memory hole. The President 
is now upping the ante, demanding 
that the Congress give him a version of 
welfare reform not worthy of the name. 
His goal in doing so is obvious. Having 
campaigned on a promise to end welfare 
as we know it, he has done his utmost 
to end welfare reform as we know 
it, substituting in its place a gutted, 
toothless, costly sham. 

As far as this Senator is concerned— 
and I am certain I speak for a number 
of other Members of Congress—that 
just cannot happen. We are not going 
to betray our promise to the American 
people in order to get the President’s 
signature on a welfare bill. 

There is nothing worse than for Congress 
to say, as we have too many 
times in the past, that we have accomplished 
something with a bill, giving it 
a glorious sounding title, when there is 
no substance to it—and when there will 
be no glorious results when it is actually 
implemented. 

There are some things worse than no 
welfare reform. Phony reform is the 
main one. A welfare bill that leaves 
AFDC as an entitlement is phony reform. 
A welfare bill that keeps control 
of welfare in Washington in the Federal 
bureaucracy, in my opinion, is phony 
reform. A welfare bill that makes dependency 
more attractive by providing 
more benefits to more people is not 
genuine reform. 

The President’s latest comments on 
this subject present us with a stark 
choice between false reforms, misleading 
action, and nothing at all. He 
is probably hoping that, rather than return 
to the voters empty-handed, we 
will collude with him to give the public 
the appearance of reform, that we all 
declare victory, and it will be years before 
the taxpayers figure out they have 
been duped by what is called welfare 
reform. 

I do not believe the majority in Congress 
is going to play that game. We 
are not going to break faith with the 
American people on this issue. If welfare 
reform has to wait until next year, 
I guess it will be worth the wait. If welfare 
reform must wait until the veto 
pen has been removed from the President, 
then so be it. But that delay is 
not necessary. 

We can get genuine welfare reform. It 
can be one that will be supported in a 
bipartisan way, and it can be one that 
will be good for the people who now depend 
on the system and are looking for 
a way out. But that will take real cooperation. 
We must make sure that 
whatever we do is genuine reform that 
will produce the results we promised. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

f 

AGRICULTURAL MARKET 
TRANSITION ACT OF 1996 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
DEWINE). Under the previous order, the 

Senate will now resume consideration 
of S. 1541, which the clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A bill (S. 1541) to extend, reform, and improve 
agricultural commodity, trade, conservation, 
and other programs, and for other 
purposes. 

The Senate resumed consideration of 
the bill. 

Pending: 

Craig (for Leahy-Lugar) amendment No. 
3184, in the nature of a substitute. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
for debate is equally divided between 
now and 11:25. 

Mr. LUGAR addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Indiana. 

Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I yield 
myself as much time as I may require. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is recognized. 

Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, in beginning 
debate on S. 1541, the farm bill, let 
me just say that it is very important 
to farmers all over the country who 
have been notifying Senators and Members 
of the House that they want, certainly, 
a degree of certainty before 
they get into the fields to plant. 

They would like, as a matter of fact, 
to see the Congress at work on this 
vital legislation. In response to that, 
the distinguished majority leader has, 
in fact, called us to that cause today, 
as Senators are aware. 

This is a very important day. It is extraordinarily 
important legislation for 
all of America. Farmers want to know 
what is going to happen now. Hopefully, 
the Senate will provide that 
guidance through constructive action 
to completion and passage of this legislation 
today. 

Over a year ago, at the beginning of 
the 1995—and now 1996—farm bill debate, 
I posed 53 questions about future 
agricultural policy in this country. The 
answers to those questions made it 
clear that a status quo farm policy was 
not a good idea. S. 1541, the legislation 
before us today, represents a bold new 
direction. It answers the 53 questions 
that I asked and that other Senators 
posed in a broad review of farm policy 
in this country. 

There were five basic reasons to support 
Senate bill 1541. 

First of all, a good reason to support 
it is its simplicity of approach. Traditional 
farm policy is so arcane that 
even many U.S. Department of Agriculture 
officials can barely comprehend 
all of its complexity. The bill 
we consider today offers a straightforward, 
commonsense policy. 

Second, the bill offers certainty. 
Farmers who sign contracts will know 
their future payments for the next 7 
years. Taxpayers, importantly, will 
know precisely what money is going to 
be spent during the next 7 years and 
that the budget savings we have already 
debated in this Chamber are certain. 


That is especially important, Mr. 
President, because as you will recall, 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S673 

we debated a farm bill that has just expired, 
estimating that the taxpayers’ 
expense would be about $41 billion. In 
fact, the final cost to the bill was close 
to $57 billion due to all the contingencies, 
including the weather and foreign 
trade and demand. In this particular 
instance it was important for 
those of us who favor a balanced budget 
approach to know precisely how 
much was for agriculture, and for farmers 
to know precisely the payments 
that would come to them. 

Third, the bill does provide very substantial 
savings for taxpayers. With 
this bill, agriculture has done its part 
to help balance the Federal budget in 7 
years. Senate bill 1541 will reduce Federal 
spending by about $4.6 billion over 
the 7 years from a new baseline which 
reflects actual market prices in this 
country. 

I might add, Mr. President, that 
baseline recognizes that outlays, as expenditures 
by taxpayers, to the farm 
community will be $7 to $8 billion less 
than earlier anticipated largely because 
market prices for many of the 
farm programs are very high this year 
and, therefore, the normal deficiency 
payments do not kick in under those 
formulas. 

The fourth reason for supporting this 
legislation is its market orientation. 
Farmers’ payments will be the same 
even if they plant alternate crops. As a 
matter of fact, they will make planting 
decisions based on market forces, on 
the signs of prices in the market. 
Today planting decisions affect eligibility 
for Government payments, and 
subsidies have driven much of the business 
planning of many farmers. 

Under Senate bill 1541, farmers will 
have full planting freedom, thus, the 
label given to this act, the ‘‘freedom to 
farm,’’ the ability to manage your 
land, to make decisions for the market. 
We will end, in fact, Federal Government 
production controls. That is an 
important step forward all by itself. 

A fifth reason for support is that 
farmers support Senate bill 1541. This 
long-term plan for U.S. agriculture has 
been endorsed by a wide range of farm 
groups. National groups such as the 
American Farm Bureau and the National 
Corn Growers and State groups 
such as the Kansas Wheat Growers and 
the North Dakota Grain Growers have 
given strong endorsement to this legislation. 


Mr. President, the Senate has approved 
this bill once already as a part 
of the Balanced Budget Act. Unfortunately 
for our Nation, the President 
vetoed that act and thus vetoed the 
farm bill. That veto creates a problem 
for U.S. agriculture. Since commodity 
support programs were a part of the 
Balanced Budget Act, we are left with 
no workable farm program for many 
crops, except for the outdated 1949 and 
1938 laws, which could cause price supports. 
For wheat, for example, for 
those farmers who had allotments in 
that period of time almost 50 years 
ago, those price supports could triple. 

Now the Clinton administration confirms 
that implementing these old 
statutes, the 1949 and the 1938 acts, 
could add $10 to $12 billion to the cost 
of running farm programs for the 1996 
crops alone. That is clearly intolerable. 
We have talked, Mr. President, about 
savings as a part of the Balanced Budget 
Act. Failure to enact this legislation 
could mean that $10 to $12 billion in 
only 1 year alone would be added to the 
deficit. 

It is clear, Mr. President, that the 
Congress and the President will be ridiculed 
by the public for gridlock, for inactivity, 
for myopia, given the apparent 
crisis that lies immediately ahead 
of us. The new bill must be fiscally responsible. 


Proposals to raise loan rates, as some 
of our colleagues want to do, potentially 
is a very expensive option. And 
some of our colleagues have charged, in 
fact, that we have delayed writing a 
farm bill and that the Senate bill 1541 
was written without full participation, 
without hearings. 

Mr. President, Congress did produce a 
farm bill. It passed two Houses and 
went as a part of the Balanced Budget 
Act to the President. President Clinton 
vetoed it, and only that veto has prevented 
timely passage of new farm 
laws. 

Second, the Senate Agriculture Committee 
held thorough hearings. The 
committee held 15 farm bill hearings in 
1995 involving 157 witnesses from all 
over our country. Additional and 
lengthy hearings were held on farm 
legislation in the Budget Committee. 
Every conceivable approach to farm 
policy was discussed in those hearings. 

Much of the farm bill has, in fact, 
been developed in a bipartisan way. In 
July 1995, the Agriculture Committee 
of the Senate gave preliminary, but 
unanimous, approval to four titles of 
the farm bill. They cover trade, farm 
credit, research, and rural development. 
Since then, there have been further 
bipartisan efforts on a miscellaneous 
title and a conservation title. 

Some of our colleagues have declined 
to be involved in the balanced budget 
amendment consideration. They informed 
us in the Agriculture Committee 
that they would not vote for the 
cuts required by the Balanced Budget 
Act. We were told that we would have 
to pass that act with Republican votes 
alone in the committee, and we did so. 
If some colleagues feel left out at this 
point, it is because they chose to be 
left out. They were within their rights 
to take that option, but it is strange 
now to hear complaints about a process 
that included 15 full hearings and very 
thorough debate before passage of the 
farm bill from the Senate Agriculture 
Committee. 

I suspect the real complaint is with 
the substance of the bill. It calls for 
the end of Government planting controls. 
It calls for freedom to farm. It 
provides an entirely new outlook for 
American agriculture, which I find 
very exciting as a farmer, as somebody 

who has walked through this legislation 
not only as a legislator but as one 
who is subject to it. 

I will say, Mr. President, parenthetically, 
with the exception of the distinguished 
Senator from Iowa, Senator 
GRASSLEY, I am the only farmer on the 
committee, the only one that might be 
visibly affected by this legislation and 
have some idea of how it actually 
works. So from that standpoint, I have 
a sense of liberation about the process, 
which is shared, I might say, by farmers 
in the State of Ohio, the State of 
the distinguished Chair, and Indiana, 
and, in large number, farmers in Iowa, 
whom I have been visiting the last 2 
days. They want action, and that is 
why I am here as opposed to staying 
another day with friends in Iowa with 
whom I have been visiting. 

Fundamentally, a few of our colleagues 
do not want to reduce spending 
on farm programs. That is their privilege, 
but most of us believe they are 
mistaken. Most farmers know that 
they, as well as other Americans, will 
benefit from a balanced budget. They 
know as well that our Nation will be 
stronger for that, and they know that 

S. 1541 defines exactly what the farm 
commitment is, and it is an acceptable 
commitment to farm groups. 
Therefore, Mr. President, S. 1541 is a 
bold departure from the past. It is 
clearly a new direction. It will reduce 
Federal spending and Federal deficits 
with certainty. It will reform farm programs 
and give them both certainty 
and much greater simplicity, and it 
will prepare U.S. agriculture for what 
promises to be a very exciting new century. 


One of the great ironies of consideration 
of farm legislation during the 
past year is that initially we talked in 
terms of Federal programs very similar 
to the ones which we now have. As the 
Chair knows, for the large program 
crops—corn, wheat, cotton, and rice— 
target prices are established. If the 
market prices are below those target 
prices, farmers may receive deficiency 
payments, the difference between the 
two, the target price and the market 
price, for the crop history on the covered 
acreage they have in the plan for 
which they have signed. These are the 
so-called deficiency payments. Others 
would call them subsidies. They have 
mounted up to very large totals in 
some years. 

In this particular year of the farm 
bill, suddenly, export demand took off 
in a very dynamic way. The Chinese 
changed from becoming exporters to 
very strong importers. That provided 
new opportunities for the United 
States in Southeast Asia, but our traditional 
customers in Europe and in 
Japan come in for much stronger orders 
really across the border. Cattle 
feeders and hog producers throughout 
this country have continued to feed 
large herds of livestock and, despite 
the rising price of feed, have continued 
the size of those herds. 


S674 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Mr. President, we have a situation 
unlike any that I have seen in agriculture 
in the last generation in which 
clearly the price in the market went 
way above the target price and remains 
there. If a farmer were to go into the 
futures market this morning and he 
was bold enough to know exactly what 
his crop was going to be for this year, 
the planting of 1996 or 1997, a farmer 
could sell both crops for prices higher 
than the target price for corn, for example. 
I addressed this issue, as I mentioned 
to the Chair a moment ago, in 
Iowa in the last few days, with farmers 
saying, ‘‘What should we do? How much 
fertilizer should we buy, or other inputs, 
for our crop?’’ 

My advice has been to take a look at 
the markets, take a look at the futures 
prices. Note that we are going to have 
strong demand for corn, for wheat, for 
soybeans, and at least it would appear 
for cotton for some time to come. Freedom 
to farm means that, that you 
plant for the market. I would advise 
farmers to do that. 

Farmers, being prudent people, say, 
‘‘That is clearly the decision we are 
going to make anyway, but at the same 
time, we want to know what you legislators 
are going to do sort of postmortem, 
after those decisions. If you 
come back then and say, ‘We really 
didn’t mean freedom to farm. As a matter 
of fact, we wanted the same old status 
quo legislation with all of the controls, 
the set-asides, the planting decisions 
made in Washington,’ if, in fact, 
that is what happens weeks, months, 
years down the trail after gridlock finally 
is gone and polarization is less 
intense, what would be the penalties 
for us if, in fact, we made sound decisions 
for our farms and for our country, 
for the general export thrust of a country 
that exports a great deal more in 
agriculture than it imports and with a 
balance of payments that grows stronger 
every year?’’ 

That is the fundamental question. It 
is not that farmers need market signals. 
They are there and abundantly 
clear what we ought to be doing. They 
are worried about being undercut by 
legislators who are not farmers, who 
really do not understand what is going 
on out there but purport to do so in behalf 
of farmers, and by a President who 
has apparently, through the Secretary 
of Agriculture, threatened to veto almost 
all legislation that bears some 
idea of freedom to farm. 

So this is why we are having this debate 
today to bring some certainty to 
the field. We are having it in the context, 
as the Chair knows, as the distinguished 
Senator from Mississippi has 
already announced, that we are going 
to have a cloture vote at 1:30 p.m. Why 
would we already understand we are 
going to have a cloture vote? It is because 
the distinguished Democratic 
leader, in conversations with Senators, 
has indicated that there is strong opposition 
on his side of many Senators to 
this legislation, such strong opposition 
that it might lead to extended debate, 

and, therefore, the cloture vote at 1:30 
is very important. 

If cloture is established, we are going 
to have farm legislation, probably 
today, but whenever the cloture procedure 
runs out. If we are not successful, 
as the Chair knows, another cloture 
vote will be held on freedom to farm, 
plus additional amendments that have 
been offered by the distinguished ranking 
member of the Agriculture Committee, 
Senator LEAHY. And, hopefully, 
we will bring debate to a conclusion in 
some orderly way on that proposition, 
in the event my legislation that I have 
introduced and am debating this morning 
should not pass. 

In any event, this is a very important 
day for agriculture and for America. It 
is a privilege to lay before the Senate, 
I believe, remarkable legislation that I 
hope will find favor with the Senate 
today. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor to the 
Senator from Mississippi, such a valued 
and important member of our committee 
and, in his own right, chairman 
of the Agriculture Subcommittee on 
Appropriations. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair advises the Senator he has 3 minutes, 
30 seconds remaining. 

Mr. LUGAR. I yield the remaining 
time to my distinguished colleague. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Mississippi. 

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I 
thank my distinguished friend, the 
chairman of the Agriculture Committee, 
for yielding to me. I urge the 
Senate to approve this Agricultural 
Market Transition Act. We are confronted 
with an emergency. It is essential 
that farmers know immediately 
what the farm programs for this crop 
year will be. Farmers are unable to 
make the decisions that must be made 
about what to plant or how much to 
plant, with the current uncertainty of 
this year’s farm law. 

If we fail to pass a new farm bill, 
wheat and feed grain farmers will be 
operating under the provisions of the 
1938 and 1949 agricultural acts. There 
will be no rice program. This forces the 
Secretary of Agriculture to announce a 
new rice program under the authority 
he has under the 1948 Commodity Credit 
Corporation. And while cotton, peanut, 
and sugar titles of the previous 
farm bill would continue for the 1996 
crop-year, a great deal of confusion and 
possible economic hardship for many of 
our Nation’s farmers could result. 

The Department of Agriculture has 
even suggested that this chaos could 
add $10 to $12 billion to the cost of farm 
programs this year. This is just not acceptable 
for either farmers or the taxpayers. 


So I urge the Senate to act favorably 
on this cloture vote so we can have a 
vote on the bill, S. 1541, to continue the 
commitment to protecting public and 
private investments in production agriculture 
and in rural America. 

I am pleased that the bill includes, 
with the support of the chairman, the 

Marketing Loan Program that has 
proved so workable and helpful in the 
rice and cotton areas. There are also 
other provisions that have been tried 
and tested and proven to be helpful to 
your effort to compete effectively in 
the international marketplace with our 
strong agriculture sector. 

Our farmers are ready to go to work, 
but they need to know what the programs 
are going to be so they can 
make rational and thoughtful decisions. 
The Government’s role in providing 
stability and an orderly transition 
to a market economy in agriculture 
is very important and will be 
carried forward and implemented in 
this bill. It does it fairly and with a 
clear-cut commitment to curb spending. 


I urge my colleagues to vote for cloture 
so we can get a vote on this bill. 

Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
INHOFE). The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I understand 
we are technically out of time on 
the farm bill, but I see no other Senators 
seeking the floor. 

I ask unanimous consent that I be allotted 
the remaining time before the 
recess in order to make remarks about 

S. 1541, the farm legislation. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I believe S. 
1541, the underlying legislation, which 
is the subject of discussion in the cloture 
motions today, presents a very 
important opportunity for the Senate 
to move forward in a bipartisan way to 
shape policy in behalf of our Nation’s 
farmers and consumers. This modified 
freedom-to-farm legislation offers reform, 
opportunity, flexibility and predictability 
in a fiscally responsible way 
and with the growing support of Members 
on both sides of the aisle and, I 
would say most important, growing 
support from the people in America 
who are looking to the Congress to tell 
them what the Federal farm policy will 
be. 

All of us, as Senators, should understand 
that farmers need to know what 
the Federal policy will be. For better 
or worse, the Federal Government has 
been a very large part of decisions 
made by farmers in deciding what to 
plant, where to plant, and how to 
plant. We know that a new, long-term 
plan is far better than an extension of 
the current law. We know that if we do 
not move this legislation, the alternative 
is delay, confusion, frustration, 
continuation of current law, or perhaps 
even the reinstitution of long-outdated 
policies still on the books. 

We also should know, based on the 
discussions that have gone on here, 
that there is only one vehicle that has 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S675 

been under the light, has been scrutinized, 
has met the test, and can bring 
a legislative bipartisan consensus. 
Simply put, I find no constituency for 
continuing the status quo. We cannot 
leave the Federal farm programs in the 
quandary in which they now find themselves. 
Farmers do not want it. Fiscal 
conservatives do not want it. Reformers 
do not want it. Urban Members who 
have been critical of the current farm 
programs, certainly they should not 
want it. 

This process is terribly difficult 
under normal circumstances, but it is 
especially difficult when working 
under balanced budget constraints. It 
is even more difficult when the comprehensive 
proposal which has survived 
this legislative marathon represents 
significant change because change produces 
political anxiety. There is no 
question that this will be a very difficult 
measure, but it has been through 
the process and it has reached a consensus 
that I believe is absolutely essential. 


I offer my thanks and congratulations, 
on behalf of farmers in my State 
and all those of us who want to put this 
country on a path towards a balanced 
budget, to the distinguished majority 
leader, Senator DOLE, to Chairman 
LUGAR, to Senator GRASSLEY, particularly 
to Senator LEAHY, the ranking 
member on the agriculture authorizing 
committee, and the others who have 
worked under difficult circumstances 
to find a bipartisan consensus for 
which the Senate now has an opportunity 
to move, to a post-cloture scenario 
that can get a bill to the President’s 
desk. 

I know the majority leader and 
Chairman LUGAR and their staffs have 
labored tirelessly to find a bipartisan 
solution and I applaud them for taking 
decisive action to answer the pressing 
need to produce a farm bill for the future. 


I regret that some remain opposed to 
this legislation. I believe that the stage 
was set during consideration of the 
budget resolution when Congress voted 
cuts—not disproportionate cuts—but 
real cuts nonetheless. At that time, I 
think some on the other side decided 
that the cuts were too great and that 
any program that carried these cuts 
would be opposed. 

I want to warn anyone listening, if 
you find yourself confused, there may 
be ample reason. You may hear from 
some that this legislation cuts farming 
too much and that it simultaneously 
pays farmers too much under the fixed 
market transition payments. We may 
also hear from some who have historically 
opposed existing law that this reform 
legislation should be defeated to 
preserve existing law. 

Mr. President, I am hearing from my 
farmers that they want modified freedom 
to farm, and they do not want an 
extension of current law. Let me address 
this notion that we are cutting 
agriculture too much and paying farmers 
too much. In my State, farm prices 

may be better than they were last 
year, but to them, there is no way 
these prices are high. These prices are 
the same as they were 13 years ago 
while the cost of a pickup truck has 
doubled over that same period. ‘‘High 
prices’’ is a relative term. If you ask a 
rancher feeding steers corn—corn is 
high. If you ask a corn farmer, prices 
are not high—hardly enough to cover 
the costs of production. I read a wire 
story where Secretary Glickman observed 
from China that he was concerned 
that farmers will get a tremendous 
windfall. 

I know the Secretary is doing marvelous 
work promoting trade and he 
should be applauded for that, but he 
would not want to sit down with farmers 
in my State and explain to them 
how this slimmed down program, combined 
with moderate prices is going to 
give them a windfall. 

Additionally, prices may be higher 
than they were several years ago, but 
after this past year’s flood, drought, 
and frost, many farmers had nothing or 
significantly less to sell. The existing 
program does not address that problem 
and this is a critically important point. 
You cannot tell my farmers who have 
little to sell while facing a refund of 
their advanced deficiency payments 
that the current program is a safety 
net and the modified freedom to farm 
is not. 

I might also suggest to Members who 
are worried that farmers might get a 
payment when prices are higher than 
normal that farmers can allocate the 
money to prepare for the bad years— 
they do not need the Government to do 
it for them. I believe farmers can manage 
a predictable 7-year income stream 
to mitigate economic risk just as well 
or better than Washington can do it on 
their behalf. They can sock it away for 
the bad year, they can buy down their 
debt, they might buy a new used 15-
year-old tractor to improve their efficiency. 


Mr. President, I urge Members to 
take a look at this bill and recognize 
that it is an exciting new approach to 
the challenge of maintaining a healthy 
food-producing sector, promoting important 
environment practices, and 
doing so within the budget constraints 
that we are imposing on ourselves on 
behalf of future farmers who want our 
Nation to afford farm programs. 

The first feature of this package is 
that it is responsible. As the other side 
has testified again and again, farmers 
were not exempt from the difficult 
choices necessary to balance a budget. 
Farmers have always been supportive 
of a balanced Federal budget and have 
proven their willingness to share in the 
sacrifice necessary to get there. Farmers 
are highly sensitive to the cost of 
capital and, according to FAPRI at the 
University of Missouri, stand to save 
over $15 billion over the next 7 years if 
we achieve a balanced budget. 

This package provides predictability. 
Farmers, bankers, and the taxpayers 
know how much this program will cost 

over the next 7 years. It locks in spending 
to protect agriculture from the 
next round of budget cuts while simultaneously 
preventing the fluctuations 
that have shocked budgets in the past. 

This package dramatically reduces 
burdensome paperwork and the perverse 
antimarket incentives that frustrate 
farmers who are aggressively 
competing for and securing growing 
international markets. Farmers would 
rather compete to feed Asia than protect 
their crop base necessary to maximize 
deficiency payments. 

Simplicity, flexibility, predictability, 
and budgetary soundness are features— 
any one of which is a step forward in 
this debate—but together, they mark 
an historic effort to make the transition 
to the future. 

Mr. President, I do not blame Members 
for being hesitant to embrace 
changes to a program that has lasted 
my lifetime. It was only after multiple 
meetings with farmers in my State 
that I was prepared to make this 
change. In this town, if one is in doubt, 
she or he is expected to stick with the 
status quo. But there are two things 
that have changed. 

There is a recognition that the deficit 
must be addressed and farmers are 
ready to free themselves from the regulations 
of the current program. 

There is one other observation I wish 
to share from my experience traveling 
in Missouri. As Senators know, the 
number of farmers is decreasing and 
the age of the average farmer is increasing. 
Most talented young rural 
people are moving to town. Of the 
young people who are endeavoring to 
be our next generation of farmers, 
there is a great optimism despite the 
difficulties in agriculture. These young 
farmers will tell you they want to farm 
for the market. They think the current 
system is old, outdated, complicated, 
frustrating, inflexible, bureaucratic, 
and costly. Our next generation of 
farmers tell me they want to turn the 
corner as we move into the next century 
and I think we owe these young 
farmers that opportunity. 

Mr. President, this legislation has 
been out there since last summer and 
it was included in the Balanced Budget 
Act passed by Congress in November 
and vetoed by the President on December 
6, 1996. It was carefully crafted 
after months of negotiations between 
House and Senate conferees. As all 
Members know, this was a difficult 
process and many delicate regional 
issues were addressed. 

Since the veto, I know there have 
been bipartisan negotiations led by the 
distinguished majority leader, Chairman 
LUGAR, and Members on the other 
side. I must tell Senators, until the 
most recent bipartisan negotiations 
with Senator LEAHY, one of the more 
difficult press inquiries I have fielded 
is, ‘‘Who are the Republicans negotiating 
with?’’ I know that the distinguished 
minority leader introduced a 
bill on marketing loans and the House 
has a blue dog plan. The administration 
once hinted at 21 percent unpaid 


S676 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

flex but I see in a report off the wire 
that they now support a 2-year freedom 
to farm experiment and, here is the 
kicker, with dramatically reduced 
transition payments. I raise this point 
because there is simply no consensus 
alternative. There is, however, consensus 
in the agricultural community 
on this legislation and I believe it is 
time for us to join together to reflect 
that consensus. 

Mr. President, we all share the goal 
of continuing to provide the safest, 
most abundant, and the most affordable 
supply of food and fiber in the 
world. I know there are some who may 
call this welfare. As farm State Senators 
know, we have argued until we 
are blue in the face that the current 
system is not welfare but people are 
not listening. 

Farmers know it is not welfare and 
most Senators do not consider the existing 
program welfare, but try to pass 
that off on an editorial board or local 
chamber of commerce. You cannot 
argue that the reform program will be 
accused of welfare when the existing 
system is accused of welfare. 

In my State, farmers are supportive. 
Over time, more and more of the commodity 
groups representing farmers 
have weighed in. Missouri’s 
corngrowers were in this week to request 
that freedom to farm be adopted 
and a continuation of current law be 
rejected. Farm Bureau is asking us to 
move this legislation. The underlying 
bill represents serious reform, it moves 
us in the right direction and is fiscally 
responsible. This is why it has been endorsed 
by: the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; 
Citizens Against Government 
Waste; representatives of the Heritage 
Foundation; Citizens for a Sound Economy; 
National Taxpayers Union, Americans 
for Tax Reform, Consumer Alert; 
the Cato Institute; and the Competitive 
Enterprise Institute. 

I understand that change is not easy 
and I congratulate again the efforts of 
the majority leader, Chairman LUGAR, 
and the bipartisan negotiators who 
have been searching for a way to move 
this legislation forward and get farmers 
a program that moves them into 
the next century. I think the President 
will see that farmers and citizens will 
be best served if he adopts this legislation 
and I am hopeful that Congress 
can continue to work on sensible regulatory 
reform, capital gains and estate 
tax relief and other measures that will 
help our farmers compete in the next 
century. I urge adoption of the bipartisan 
compromise. 

I urge my colleagues to invoke cloture. 
The farmers of America deserve 
better than to be filibustered into uncertainty 
for the rest of the spring. We 
need to move forward on this bill. 

JOINT MEETING OF THE TWO 
HOUSES—ADDRESS BY THE 
PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC 


RECESS 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will now 
stand in recess and proceed to the 
House of Representatives for a joint 
meeting. 

Thereupon, the Senate, at 11:27 a.m., 
recessed until 12:45 p.m., and the Senate, 
preceded by the Secretary of the 
Senate, Kelly D. Johnston; the Deputy 
Sergeant at Arms, Joyce McCluney; 
the Vice President of the United 
States; and the President pro tempore 
of the Senate, Mr. STROM THURMOND, 
proceeded to the Hall of the House of 
Representatives to hear the address by 
His Excellency Jacques Chirac, President 
of the French Republic. 

(The address delivered by the President 
of the French Republic to the 
joint meeting of the two Houses of Congress 
is printed in the Proceedings of 
the House of Representatives in today’s 
RECORD.) 

Thereupon, at 12:45 p.m., the Senate 
reassembled and was called to order by 
the Presiding Officer (Mr. COATS). 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Presiding 
Officer, in his capacity as a Senator 
from Indiana, suggests the absence 
of a quorum. The clerk will call 
the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BROWN). Is there objection? Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

AGRICULTURAL MARKET 
TRANSITION ACT OF 1996 

The Senate continued with the consideration 
of the bill. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, how 
many minutes are left on our side of 
the aisle on debate of the farm bill at 
this time? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
are 18 minutes 45 seconds remaining on 
the Republican side. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I yield myself 10 
minutes. Before speaking, I ask unanimous 
consent that George Stickels, a 
fellow in my office, have access to the 
floor during the debate on the farm 
bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the 
issue before us is one of the utmost importance, 
the farm bill. We have to debate 
this now because, as everybody 
knows, the commodity provisions of 
the new farm bill were part of the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1995. That Budget 
Act was vetoed by the President. The 
farm bill provisions went down with 
that. We did not have the votes to 
overturn the President’s veto on the 
Balanced Budget Act. 

Consequently, the farmers of America 
do not know for the first time in 5 
years, since we passed the 1990 farm 
bill, what the Government policy is toward 
agriculture. This is necessary information 
that must be factored in to a 
lot of business decisions that are made 
by farmers. 

The legislation that is before us will 
guarantee an investment of $6 billion 
in rural America this crop year, an investment 
in rural America at a time 
when there is a tremendous transition 
from the agriculture of the last half of 
the 20th century to the more free market, 
international-trade-oriented agriculture 
of the 21st century. When this 
transition is going on, this is when we 
need to bring some certainty to the 
business decisions of agriculture as 
best we can. 

There has been some fault found, particularly 
on the other side of the aisle, 
with the fact that we might be spending 
$6 billion in rural America as an investment 
when grain prices are high, 
even though there is not a profit in 
cattle, there is not a profit in livestock 
generally, particularly cattle and pigs, 
but right now there is some profit in 
grain. 

Some people have said on the floor of 
this body that we are giving welfare to 
farmers at a time when there are high 
prices. The inclination is to say that 
there is too much money in this farm 
bill for agriculture. I have heard some 
of those same Members say that they 
could not vote for farm bills in the past 
because they did not do enough for agriculture. 
How ironic that we have the 
same people today suggesting that we 
might be passing a farm bill that is too 
good for agriculture. It just does not 
add up. 

Not only does it guarantee an investment 
in agriculture of about $43.5 billion 
over the next 7 years in this transition 
from a Government-controlled 
agriculture to a free market agriculture, 
but it goes from an agriculture 
system inclined toward domestic production 
for domestic consumption to a 
farm program for production to meet 
the competition and the demand of 
international trade. There is no more 
important time to do that. 

Also, this legislation locks in the agricultural 
baseline and guarantees an 
investment in rural America of this $43 
billion. It is important to have that 
baseline out there because this legislation, 
like most legislation, does not 
provide for a farm program beyond the 
sunset year of 2002. 

There will be plenty of time for Congress 
to enact legislation beyond that 
period of time. But if we are not careful, 
what we do today will preclude agriculture 
having a baseline, and then 
when we come up with a farm program 
beyond the year 2002, it may be impossible 
to raise the money for that baseline. 


This bill before us locks in that baseline, 
guarantees payments to farmers 
and for other programs such as conservation 
programs and export programs. 
It provides a real safety net by 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S677 

making sure that there are payments 
even when we have low yields that 
push prices higher. 

Again, we have an ironic situation 
here where some people on the other 
side of the aisle are suggesting that because 
grain prices are high, there 
should not be any Government program. 
Do not forget about those farmers 
in west central Illinois, the northern 
third of Missouri, the southern 
third of Iowa, plus a lot of other 
places—I only mention those because 
they are close to the Midwest where I 
am from—who do have high prices but 
because of the wet spring and the flooding 
conditions could not plant their 
grains last year. They do not have 
grain to sell at a high price. 

This program will help those people 
as well. 

So it guarantees a 7-year payment. It 
will help a farmer in his cash flow situation 
have a steady, predictable cash-
flow. At least a portion of that would 
come in Government payments that 
will allow the farmers and their bankers 
to make long-term business decisions 
that are so important to the success 
of agriculture. 

This legislation also maximizes farmers’ 
profit potential. The Food and Agriculture 
Policy Research Institute— 
this is a combination research institute 
of the University of Missouri and 
Iowa State University—estimates that 
even though payments from the Treasury 
will decline 21 percent under this 
bill from the previous 5 years, gross 
farm income will increase by 13 percent 
and net farm income by 27 percent over 
the next 10 years. 

We eliminate this process by which 
people in the urban areas can say farmers 
are getting paid for not tilling the 
soil. This eliminates the set-aside authority 
so that farmers can send a 
clear signal to our international competition 
that we are going to produce 
on every productive acre what we can 
to meet international trade demands, 
to meet the humanitarian demands of a 
growing population throughout the 
world that otherwise, without the productivity 
of the American farmer, 
could have more instances of famine. 

We give increased flexibility to the 
farmers to make planting decisions. We 
take that decisionmaking out of the 
hands of Washington bureaucrats and 
public servants. 

It will be in the mind and office of 
every farmer to decide how many acres 
of corn or how many acres of soybeans 
to plant. Presently, those decisions are 
made, to the greatest extent, by people 
in Washington, far removed from the 
reality of farming, ignoring the marketplace 
and trying to insert their 
judgment upon the people on the spot. 
Full flexibility means plant what you 
want to plant, not what some Washington 
bureaucrat says. 

This legislation significantly reduces 
Government regulation and bureaucratic 
redtape, thus enabling our farmers 
to compete in the world marketplace. 
It increases flexibility, or the in


creased flexibility allows farmers to 
plant specifically beyond what they 
would normally plant, moving to other 
crops, particularly the emphasis in 
American agriculture today to have 
value-added products instead of simply 
the traditional commodities. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator’s 10 minutes have expired. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 

seeks recognition? 

Mr. PRYOR addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from Arkansas. 

Mr. PRYOR. I thank the Chair for 
yielding to me. I ask if the Chair will 
remind me when I reach the 4-minute 
mark. At that point, I will yield the 
floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 4 
minutes remaining on your time or 4 
minutes—— 

Mr. PRYOR. No, I want to speak only 
4 minutes, Mr. President, and then I 
will yield to the distinguished minority 
leader. 

Mr. President, I was standing here 
listening a moment ago to my good 
friend from Iowa, Senator GRASSLEY. 
He talked about regulations and bureaucrats 
and freedom to farm and all 
of those things that we talk about generally 
when we have an agriculture bill 
on the floor. For us to have an agriculture 
bill on the floor for a 1996 program, 
I might say, is somewhat unique, 
because the normal process for the first 
time in 60 years did not work. 

We did not draft this legislation in 
the Agriculture Committee. This legislation, 
basically, was born and drafted, 
passed from the Budget Committees of 
the House and the Senate. But when we 
talk about regulations and bureaucrats 
and freedom to farm and all of the constraints 
placed on farmers today in our 
country, let us also remember something 
else: That we today are the envy 
of the world with the production of 
food and fiber in our country for the 
rest of the world. We have the opportunity 
to feed the rest of the world. In 
many instances, had it not been for the 
American farmer and the American 
farm system, which we are about to annihilate, 
we would see that many areas 
of the world would have gone hungry. 

I say this in all respect to those advocates 
for the freedom to farm legislation. 
If we pass this legislation, we will 
be going on a cheap drunk. We will be 
sorry, and we will rue the day that we 
totally dismantled the farm programs 
that have served this country and 
served this world so well. 

The two people and the two groups of 
persons and the two entities, I think, 
who should be supporting the freedom 
to farm bill are those competitors of 
ours in the international market. They 
should be supporting the freedom to 
farm bill, because it is going to be a 
total disruption of farm ownership ultimately 
in our country. We are going to 
see the small fail and the large and the 
powerful prevail. 

Second, the big landowners should 
love the freedom-to-farm bill. They 

should love the freedom to farm bill because 
their farms are going to get bigger, 
their farms are going to become 
richer, their farms are going to produce 
more and more, and the small family 
farmers are going to be there with less 
and less. 

The other aspect of this legislation— 
and I hope my friend from Iowa will address 
this, or some other proponent of 
freedom to farm—does anyone in this 
Chamber feel that we can in this calendar 
year implement, have the regulations 
and administer a totally new 
farm program for all of America’s 
farmers? This is not a 7-year farm bill. 
This is a bill that is going to last until 
the first show on ‘‘60 Minutes’’ embarrasses 
us, embarrasses farmers by 
showing that the farmer no longer has 
to produce in order to get a big paycheck 
from the Federal Government. It 
is a 7-year welfare program. 

It is wrong, Mr. President, and we 
should be no part of it. We should defeat 
the motion for cloture. We should 
enact a farm bill only after we, in this 
Senate, and in the Senate Agriculture 
Committee, perhaps the House committee, 
have the opportunity to shape 
a farm bill that will look beyond 7 
years and then to the next seven generations. 


Mr. President, today we are considering 
what will prove to be one of the 
most important and most disastrous 
pieces of legislation affecting the State 
of Arkansas and family farms across 
this Nation. Agriculture has been and 
continues to be an integral part of the 
fabric that makes up rural America 
and is responsible, directly or indirectly, 
for about 1 out of every 5 jobs 
throughout America. 

In Arkansas, from Texarkana to 
Blytheville, from Gentry to Eudora, 
families all across our State make 
enormous contributions to the world’s 
food and fiber supply. In 1994 alone, Arkansas 
farmers harvested over 8 million 
acres of agricultural products: 
rice: 1.42 million acres produced over 
175 million bushels of rice; cotton: 
970,000 acres produced over 1.7 million 
bales of cotton; soybeans: 3.4 million 
acres produced 115.6 million bushels of 
soybeans; wheat: 880,000 acres produced 

40.5 million bushels of wheat; and corn: 
90,000 acres produced 10.8 million bushels 
of corn. 
With crops, poultry, and livestock 
combined, Arkansas’ farmers and 
ranchers were responsible for over $5 
billion in economic activity for our 
State. So why am I concerned? Because, 
the legislation under consideration 
before the U.S. Senate is the beginning 
of the end for farm programs 
and the safety net function they perform. 
We can argue over whether it 
will happen in 2 years or in 7, but the 
undisputable fact is that the safety net 
will disappear. 

Perhaps some of my colleagues favor 
this approach. Perhaps some Senators 
feel that farm programs are not a good 
deal. I would simply point out that for 
roughly one-half cent out of every Federal 
dollar, our farm programs provide 


S678 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the safest, most affordable, and abundant 
supply of food and fiber in the 
world. Americans spend about 10 percent 
of their disposable income on 
food—compared to the French who 
spend 16 percent, the Japanese who 
spend 18 percent, Chinese who spend 48 
percent, and Indians who spend 53 percent—
it is hard to imagine a better 
deal. 

My good friends may be wondering— 
how did this come to be, how could we 
pay so little and get so much? The answer, 
in large part, is due to just how 
productive our farmers and ranchers 
have become. The U.S. agriculture represents 
some 3 percent of the world’s 
agriculture labor force, yet it produces 
about 40 percent of the world’s corn, 
about 15 percent of the world’s cotton, 
about 50 percent of the world’s soybeans, 
about 10 percent of the world’s 
wheat, about 25 percent of the world’s 
beef, and about 11 percent of the 
world’s pork. 

Now, I can hear someone suggesting 
that if agriculture is so productive and 
costs so little, why do they need any 
support at all? Why should we help agriculture 
over other industries? Mr. 
President, agriculture is unique. It is 
like no other industry in our economy. 
Farmers are almost entirely at the 
mercy of Mother Nature, as well as the 
actions of foreign governments, both of 
which are entirely out of their control. 
But even worse, unlike most businesses, 
farmers and ranchers have no 
control over the prices they receive. 
They are price takers, not price setters. 
The weather and policy in China 
could, and usually does, have more control 
over how well an Arkansas cotton 
farmer does from one year to the next 
than anything the farmer could do. 

Perhaps, there are other colleagues 
who are under illusions that agriculture 
spending has been like most 
other Federal programs that have 
grown ever larger. Perhaps they believe 
agriculture must be one of those programs 
where we debate what is a true 
cut or what is just a cut in the rate of 
increase. 

Among many other points, a bipartisan 
group of Senators pointed out to 
the Budget Committee that agriculture 
spending has come down by about 60 
percent in the last decade, from $26 billion 
in fiscal year 1986 to less than $11 
billion fiscal year 1994. 

Mr. President, I wanted to point out 
all of this information for one simple 
reason. It makes absolutely no sense to 
abandon these successes—and successes 
they are—for a policy that is irresponsible, 
irrational and, most importantly, 
indefensible. 

The freedom-to-farm bill under consideration 
would pay farmers whether 
the market warranted it or not—despite 
the other side calling this a market-
oriented bill. Under freedom to 
farm, it makes absolutely no difference 
what the market conditions are. The 
farmer gets his or her payment regardless. 
According to economists, prices 
are supposed to be good for the next 

couple of years, but as we all know, few 
years of high prices are most commonly 
followed by a few years of low 
prices as farmers around the world create 
an oversupply of a commodity 
chasing that higher price. The tragedy, 
in this scenario, is as follows: Suppose 
in 2 years farmers receive payments despite 
high market prices. The media 
and the public become outraged by the 
waste and the 105th Congress responds 
to the outcry by removing the remaining 
payments from the farmer. This 
could happen because the so-called contract 
doesn’t bind a future Congress. 
The next time commodity prices plummet 
and farmers need a safety net, it 
will be gone. 

Some proponents have called this a 
contract modeled after the popular 
CRP contract which paid farmers to remove 
land from production. They point 
out that over the 10-year life of these 
contracts, Congress always honored 
them. The difference, Mr. President, is 
that in return for funding a CRP contract 
the taxpayers receive a specific 
public benefit such as conservation, 
wildlife habitat, or water quality. The 
freedom-to-farm contract has nothing 
in it for the public or taxpayer. The 
taxpayer simply transfers money to 
the farmer for no other reason than 
that the farmer was in some sort of agriculture 
program in at least 1 out of 
the last 5 years. 

The bill we are considering is a perfect 
script for a ‘‘60 Minutes’’ or a 
‘‘Prime Time Live’’ show called the 
‘‘Fleecing of America,’’ when it’s discovered 
that under this bill a farmer 
can receive the freedom-to-farm payment 
and not do anything at all. That’s 
right, Mr. President, under this legislation, 
a farmer can receive thousands 
upon thousands of tax dollars and 
spend the entire growing season in the 
Caribbean or Bahamas. In fact, the 
only restriction is that if they grow 
something it can’t be fruits or vegetables. 
Other than that, sand and sun 
would be the only worries on the minds 
of farmers as the taxpayer would foot 
the bill. 

But, a word of warning. For all those 
that would take this approach, may I 
suggest they invest your payments 
wisely. Find a good money manager or 
investment banker because they’re 
going to need them. If what many predict 
will happen when word gets out 
about this program, you will have to 
make a couple of years worth of promised 
payments last a very long time. 

Mr. President, supporters of this bill 
tout endorsements by agribusiness 
companies and big processors. This 
should not come as a surprise to my 
colleagues. It is very simple; this free-
dom-to-farm bill will ultimately drive 
the price of commodities down. Whether 
a big company is purchasing feed for 
livestock or grain to process and mill, 
they want to pay the family farmer as 
little as possible. They want to buy low 
and sell high like Wall Street speculators, 
with no concern for the future 
of farming. 

The freedom-to-farm bill gets worse. 
By capping the programs based on economic 
projections and theoretically 
locking those in, we give no room for 
error. I would defy anyone to find an 
economist anywhere in the world who 
has accurately predicted the price of a 
commodity with any accuracy for a 
full 7-year stretch. It simply cannot be 
done. Yet, that is the logic embodied in 
this bill. We are entrusting the future 
of the farmers of this country with 
some guess by economists down at the 
Congressional Budget Office [CBO]. 
And, if they guess wrong about, for instance, 
the price of rice in the year 
2001, the farmers in my State will be 
left with little recourse and less help. 

The proponents of this legislation 
have said that it is important because 
of the baseline problem. Baselines in 
agriculture only matter in two circumstances: 
First, if you require ag to 
come up with unfair and unreasonable 
cuts, as the Republicans have; or second, 
if you cap the programs so the 
baseline can never adjust upward, 
which the Republicans also have done. 
So, there is a budget baseline problem, 
but only if you buy into the rest of the 
flawed Republican policy. 

Although the Republicans did indeed 
manage to capture the baseline, I am 
at a loss to understand why they would 
want to capture it after a decade of reduction—
over 60 percent. Conversely, 
why not wait until this bill forces a decline 
in market prices that will automatically 
raise the baseline again before 
we try to capture anything. 

We will rue the day we pass a free-
dom-to-farm bill. What we must all realize 
is this ends farm programs. It unilaterally 
disarms our farmers against 
the rest of the world. In fact, the only 
farmers this bill is good for are those 
in France, Thailand, Argentina, and 
any other foreign country. 

In the first years, this bill will prove 
to be a taxpayer ripoff. In the later 
years, it will prove to be false hope and 
empty promises as the safety net for 
American agriculture is destroyed. Let 
us at least change the name to reflect 
accuracy. Maybe we should call it the 
bait and switch act of 1995, or as others 
have suggested, the freedom-from-
farming bill or the farmers death assistance 
act. 

For all the reasons I have mentioned 
today and many more I have not had 
the opportunity to make, I cannot and 
will not be associated with ending the 
necessary safety net our farmers and 
our consumers depend on. Therefore, I 
will vote against the freedom-to-farm 
bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that a letter sent 
to Senator DOMENICI be printed in the 
RECORD. 

There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S679 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, February 6, 1995. 

Hon. PETE DOMENICI, 

Chairman, Senate Budget Committee, U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: As the Senate Budget 
Committee begins consideration of the FY 
1996 budget resolution, we understand it has 
under review a number of options, including 
possible reductions in agriculture-related 
spending. Difficult challenges are facing 
your committee as well as Congress as a 
whole. However, we believe it is important 
for a number of reasons that agriculture not 
be unfairly singled out to bear a disproportionate 
share of any required spending reduction 
as part of any budget proposal. 

First, agriculture spending has already 
been reduced substantially in recent years as 
a result of the 1990 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
Act and subsequent legislation 
which reduced income and price supports; 
limited eligibility and participation; imposed 
new or higher fees and other assessments 
related to certain programs; and reduced 
the availability of funds for certain 
export and market promotion programs. As a 
result, Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) 
outlays for farm commodity programs have 
declined from a high of $26 billion in FY 1986 
to less than $11 billion in FY 1994, a reduction 
of almost 60 percent. Outlays are projected 
to remain below this level for FY 1995– 
2000. By contrast, total federal spending during 
this same period increased by approximately 
50 percent, and entitlement programs 
nearly doubled. Such spending is projected to 
continue to increase significantly in the future. 


Second, as a result of legislation relating 
to USDA reorganization, future agriculture 
outlays are further expected to decline by as 
much as $3.6 billion through FY 1999 with the 
closing of over 1,200 field offices, eliminating 
approximately 11,000 employees, and consolidating 
43 separate agencies into 29. No other 
Department or federal agency has undergone 
such an extensive reorganization. 

Third, while there may be opportunities 
for additional savings, it is important before 
any further reductions are required to ensure 
that such action does not jeopardize the continued 
ability of U.S. agriculture to meet the 
food and fiber needs of consumers at home 
and abroad. U.S. farmers are the most efficient 
and competitive in the world, and our 
government policies and programs should 
help maintain the technological advantages 
that will enable them to stay that way. 

Under the recent Uruguay Round GATT 
agreement, the U.S. along with other countries, 
is required to reduce its support for domestic 
farm programs by 20 percent by the 
year 2000 from the 1986–88 base period. However, 
the U.S. has already more than 
achieved such reductions. To make further 
reductions in such programs without requiring 
similar corresponding reductions by the 
European Union and other foreign competitors 
would be unfair to U.S. farmers. 

History has shown that our foreign competitors 
will utilize every possible resource 
to maintain and expand their share of the 
world market. The European Union (EU), for 
example, continues to significantly outspend 
the U.S. in terms of its support for agriculture 
and in competing for foreign markets. 
In 1994, outlays for domestic farm programs 
by the EU amounted to more than $30 
billion, nearly three times the U.S. level of 
outlays. 

In terms of export subsidies, the EU has 
outspent the U.S. 6 to 1 over the past 5 years. 
Although the GATT agreement will require a 
reduction in the use of such subsidies, the 
EU will be able to more than maintain its 
substantial advantage. Further, as export 
subsidies are reduced, the EU can be ex


pected to redirect much of those resources 
into other GATT-allowable programs to 
maintain and strengthen the competitiveness 
of its agricultural sector. 

Without asssistance from our government, 

U.S. agriculture will be at a competitive disadvantage. 
Not only would this adversely affect 
America’s ability to capitalize on potential 
market opportunities as a result of 
GATT, but our ability to remain competitive 
in existing markets, both domestic and foreign, 
could be affected as well. 
This could have significant consequences 
for both the economy and the budget. Nearly 
one million Americans have jobs which are 
dependent on agricultural exports alone. Exports 
now account for more than a third of 
total U.S. crop production and total over $43 
billion. This results in a positive trade balance 
of nearly $18 billion. Such exports also 
account for approximately $100 billion in 
economic activity and, in turn, helps generate 
as much as $8 billion in related Federal 
tax revenues. 

Overall, our agriculture and food industries 
account for nearly 16 percent of GDP 
and nearly 1 out of every 6 American jobs. 
Other sectors of the economy, including 
input manufacturing, handling, processing, 
marketing and transportation, are heavily 
dependent on a healthy agricultural economy. 
Any significant reduction in agriculture’s 
balance sheet will have a corresponding 
effect on commercial banks and 
other lending institutions, including the 
farm credit system. 

Finally, it is important to recognize why 
we have farm programs. Every nation has a 
responsibility to ensure that its citizens 
have access to a dependable supply of food. 
This is one of the basic purposes of U.S. farm 
programs. To meet this objective, farmers 
must receive a fair return on their productivity 
and investment in an industry characterized 
by continued subsidized foreign competition 
and subject to wide swings in production 
and prices due to weather and other 
related factors. 

By any measure, U.S. farm programs have 
been successful and cost-effective. Currently, 
such programs represent less than one percent 
of the entire federal budget. And, for 
that, we have an agricultural system that is 
the envy of the world. It has provided our 
citizens with a dependable source of reasonably 
priced food and fiber. U.S. consumers, 
for example, spend the lowest percent of disposable 
personal income on food—approximately 
11 percent—of any country in the 
world. 

If other federal programs had been reduced 
by the same percentage as agriculture commodity 
programs, we would have a budget 
surplus. 

As your Committee examines the options 
in the budget process, we hope you will consider 
the interests of U.S. agriculture. 

Sincerely, 

Thad Cochran, John Warner, Robert 

Kerrey, David Pryor, Howell Heflin, 

Jesse Helms, Tom Harkin, Dale Bump


ers, Max Baucus, Trent Lott. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The distinguished 
Democratic leader is recognized. 


Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, let me 
begin by commending the distinguished 
Senator from Arkansas for his strong 
statement just now. I wish to associate 
myself completely with his remarks. I 
think it is fair to say that we all agree 
we are in a mess, we are in a big mess, 
and there are a lot of reasons why we 
find ourselves in the situation we are 
in this afternoon. 

The last time we failed to produce a 
farm bill was the year I was born, 1947. 

Coincidentally, it was the last time Republicans 
controlled the Congress. We 
should have passed this legislation, as 
the distinguished Senator from Arkansas 
said, last year, but the bill did not 
even come to the floor. The bill was 
not even allowed up for debate. It was 
the first time in memory, and may be 
the first time ever—we are checking it 
now—that legislation this important 
passed out of the Senate Agriculture 
Committee on a strict party-line vote. 

It was then, as everyone recalls, buried 
in the budget agreement, and it 
went absolutely nowhere. And now 
here we are in February of 1996 considering 
a farm bill for 1995. Even if we 
passed a piece of legislation as radical 
as this is, let there be no mistake, it 
will take months and months and 
months for the Department of Agriculture 
to get set up to administer it. 

So the situation is very unfortunate. 
Farmers are out there clamoring, as 
the distinguished Senator from Iowa 
said, for some answers. They need to 
know the 1996 winter wheat crop has 
been planted, southern crops are going 
to be planted this month, and farmers 
should not be put in the untenable position 
of making huge investments in 
their agricultural operations without 
knowing anything about what farm 
policy will be this year or the next. 

Last year, farmers were prevented 
from planting due to excessive rain. 
This year, they will be prevented from 
planting due to excessive politics. 

There is only one option for 1996— 
only one. I do not like it. Not many 
people here would consider it their first 
option. It certainly is not mine. But 
there is no other alternative right now 
but to extend for 1 year at least current 
legislation. We need to extend current 
law only because we have to provide 
farmers with that certainty. 

It is no secret that we have put a tremendous 
amount of effort and time 
into finding an alternative that we feel 
very excited about. It is no secret that 
there may not be a resolution between 
the Farm Security Act and the so-
called freedom-to-farm bill. But there 
is a realization that we have to do 
something, and there is no possibility 
of doing anything with the mess we are 
in right now. 

We have to do what the Senator from 
Iowa has suggested, and that is give 
farmers the maximum degree of flexibility. 
We need to extend current law 
but ensure that those farmers who 
have to have additional flexibility are 
given every opportunity to do so. Plant 
whatever their management dictates, 
whatever their desires may be given 
current marketing conditions. 

There ought to be no constraints at 
all on their ability to make decisions 
for themselves. Farmers are familiar 
with the current legislation. Prices are 
relatively high. The administration infrastructure 
for the current farm bill is 
in place. 

Most importantly, Mr. President, we 
can do it today. What some of my Republican 
colleagues want to do at this 


S680 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

late date is to pass the most radical 
farm bill in 60 years. They eliminate 
permanent law; they slash the conservation 
reserve, one of the most successful 
programs for conservation on 
the books this time or any time; they 
cut exports just when we need to expand 
the export markets abroad; we 
eliminate the farmer-owned reserve; we 
ignore completely the need for rural 
development, and we destroy research. 
And at the same time we do all of that, 
there are those on the other side who 
argue that we ought to be giving huge 
payments to farmers, whether or not 
they plant, regardless of whether they 
have good prices or not. 

I would like my Republican colleagues 
to explain to a small businessman 
or a working family why a farmer 
is entitled to a quarter of a million dollar 
payment while they idle their land 
and spend a year in Hawaii. If a farmer 
could idle his land, not do a thing on it 
for an entire year, go to Hawaii and 
spend that quarter of a million dollars, 
why cannot a small businessman or a 
working family or anybody else do 
that? 

How ironic that at this very time 
when we are trying to cut back and reduce 
the tremendous budgetary exposure 
we have in so many ways, we can 
find ways with which to give farmers 
huge payments whether they do anything 
to farm or not. 

Mr. President, the closer you look, 
the worse this gets. Even with the 
laudable improvements Senator LEAHY 
has suggested that we make to the 
freedom to farm, this bill is a disaster. 

I was very pleased for the letter we 
received just this morning from a large 
number of very reputable organizations—
including the National Audubon 
Society; Environmental Working 
Group; Henry A. Wallace Institute for 
Alternative Agriculture; Sustainable 
Agriculture Coalition; Natural Resources 
Defense Council; National 
Rural Housing Coalition; National 
Family Farm Coalition—who are saying 
that even with the Leahy improvements, 
they are very strongly in opposition 
to passing this so-called freedom 
to farm. 

Most important, Mr. President, the 
President has indicated that he will 
veto this legislation if we were to see it 
pass and sent to him for signature. He 
is making the right decision. 

I ask unanimous consent that a letter 
from the Secretary of Agriculture, 
Secretary Glickman, laying out the 
President’s grave concerns about this 
bill, be printed in the RECORD at this 
time. 

There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, 
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, 

Washington, DC, February 1, 1996. 

Hon. THOMAS A. DASCHLE, 

Democratic Leader, U.S. Senate, Washington, 
DC. 

DEAR TOM: S. 1541, the Agricultural Market 
Transition Act of 1996, as well as several 
amendments to it, may be considered in the 

Senate today, and I want to take this opportunity 
to reiterate the Administration’s position 
on a farm bill. 

As discussed in the Statement of Administration 
Policy issued yesterday, I would recommend 
that the President veto S. 1541 if it 
were presented to the President in its current 
form. In my view, the bill fails to adequately 
address a number of basic requirements 
I believe should be included in the 
farm bill. These requirements include the 
preservation of the farm program ‘‘safety 
net,’’ continuation and enhancement of conservation 
programs and environmental protection, 
and enhancement of economic opportunities 
for rural America and production 
agriculture. 

I understand that Senator Leahy may offer 
one of the amendments to S. 1541. This 
amendment appears to be a positive step in 
the direction of a farm bill that meets the 
Administration’s priorities. For example, it 
contains authority to sign up new acres in 
the Conservation Reserve program, continues 
the option of offering permanent easements 
through the Wetlands Reserve Program, 
and reauthorizes food and nutrition 
programs. However, the amendment fails to 
address other needed improvements in S. 
1541, such as changes to strengthen the safety 
net for farmers and increase support for 
rural development. Therefore, I would recommend 
that S. 1541, as amended by Senator 
Leahy, be vetoed by the President. 

I want to reiterate my willingness to work 
with the Congress to enact a comprehensive 
farm bill as soon as possible that best serves 
American agriculture and the American people. 


Sincerely, 

DAN GLICKMAN, 

Secretary. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, let us 
be clear. Win or lose on these cloture 
votes, we are no closer to an agreement 
if that is what happens today. Sooner 
or later, we are going to have to compromise. 
The House Republicans just 
do not seem to get it. So far, the 104th 
Congress could be summed up simply in 
two words: lost opportunity. On welfare, 
on reg reform, on the budget, and 
on appropriations, many in the House 
seem to think compromise is a four-
letter word. 

Let us not allow the farms to fall victim 
to this, too. We can work this out. 
We can find compromise. We can find a 
way to ensure that farmers are going 
to have the certainty that they are 
asking for this afternoon, and we can 
begin all of that by defeating both cloture 
motions in the next hour. 

I yield the floor. 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I rise 
today in opposition to the Lugar-Dole 
Agricultural Market Transition Act. 
This bill is not good for my State of 
California because it cuts and caps export 
promotion programs; excludes 
critically important agricultural research 
and nutrition programs, and 
phases out farmland conservation programs. 
The Lugar-Dole bill contains essentially 
the same provisions, with 
some changes, as the Agricultural Reconciliation 
Act of 1995 which was vetoed 
by President Clinton. 

The most important positive aspect 
of this bill is that it preserves a provision 
in current law that is of enormous 
importance to fruit and vegetable 

growers in my State of California and 
across the Nation. Previous versions of 
this legislation included so-called ‘‘flex 
acre’’ provisions, which would have 
permitted the production of fruits and 
vegetables on up to 15 percent of a program 
crop farmer’s former base acres. 

Nationwide, there are approximately 
11 million acres planted with fruits and 
vegetables. This acreage supplies U.S. 
and foreign consumers with a ready 
supply of high quality and affordable 
produce, while allowing fruit and vegetable 
producers to go about their business 
free of Government involvement 
or Federal subsidies. 

The ‘‘flex acres’’ language would 
have resulted in nearly 32 million acres 
becoming eligible for fruit and vegetable 
production on subsidized farms 
that traditionally have been planted to 
program crops. If even a small number 
of those acres were to shift into fruits 
and vegetables, farm prices for many 
fruit and vegetable commodities were 
expected to drop abruptly and dramatically. 


Republican budget negotiators originally 
argued that the ‘‘flex acres’’ provision 
would help balance the budget. 
However, they now concede that the 
provisions would have no impact on the 
deficit. They would, however, help subsidized 
commodity crop growers at the 
expense of nonsubsidized fruit and vegetable 
growers. 

The California produce industry recognizes 
that should a 7-year phaseout 
of subsidies be enacted, growers will 
eventually have to compete in the marketplace 
with one and all. But in the 
interim, it would be grossly unfair to 
require unsupported fruit and vegetable 
growers to compete with their 
subsidized brethren. 

I am pleased that we have won the 
flex-acre battle by fighting hard to 
keep current law on the books. Current 
law has now been reinstated in both 
the House bill and this Senate bill. 
However, I remain very concerned 
about the impact of flexible planting 
on California farmers in the long run— 
7 years from now. 

Mr. President, we are in unprecedented 
times. The 1990 Farm Act expired 
in December, leaving only the 
permanent 1949 law in place. So clearly, 
the Congress needs to enact a farm 
bill. 

But the Lugar-Dole bill is a radical 
departure from an American farm policy 
which for almost 5 decades has supported 
the world’s most successful agricultural 
system—one that has resulted 
in consistently high quality 
produce and low consumer food prices. 

Some changes are necessary in these 
tight budget times, to ensure that we 
are getting the most for every taxpayer 
dollar spent. But changes in a system 
that has been so enormously successful 
must be done carefully, thoughtfully, 
slowly, and responsibly. They must 
make the system better. We must not 
take chances that might result in 
weakening a terrifically successful system. 



February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S681 

Farm policy is not just about supporting 
the growing of our crops. It is 
also about promoting exports of American 
farm products; promoting environmentally 
sound uses of farmlands; 
emergency food assistance programs; 
the distribution of surplus farm 
produce to soup kitchens and food 
banks; and critically important agricultural 
research programs such as research 
on the California Medfly and research 
on alternatives to methyl bromide. 


The Lugar-Dole bill does not achieve 
these objectives. In fact it excludes 
most of them. It does not reauthorize 
nutrition and agricultural research 
programs; it phases out conservation 
programs; it cuts and caps export promotion 
programs. 

If nutrition programs are not reauthorized, 
they will be in jeopardy during 
the appropriations process. Federal 
funding for domestic food assistance 
represents over 60 percent of the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture’s budget 
and includes the food stamp program, 
child and elderly nutrition programs, 
the special and commodity supplemental 
food programs for women, infants 
and children [WIC and CSFP], 
commodities for soup kitchens and 
food banks, and the Temporary Emergency 
Food Assistance Program 
[TEFAP]. 

I oppose the provisions in the bill 
that cap the Market Promotion Program 
at $100 million per year and the 
Export Enhancement Program at levels 
far below the Congressional Budget Office 
baseline and the Uruguay round 
permitted levels for fiscal year 1996 
through 1999. The Market Promotion 
Program is an important tool in expanding 
markets for our agricultural 
products. The Export Enhancement 
Program is used to subsidize export 
sales to more than 80 foreign countries. 
It is the primary means by which the 
United States has attempted to meet 
price competition in world markets 
when domestic policies supported 
prices above the world market or to 
counter subsidies used by foreign competitors. 


The Conservation Reserve Program 
[CRP] is a voluntary program that enables 
producers to bid to retire highly 
erodible or environmentally sensitive 
land for 10 years. It is one of the most 
important conservation programs in 
the Nation. To date, about 36.5 million 
acres have been enrolled in 375,000 contracts. 
CRP saves soil, enhances wetlands, 
improves soil and water quality, 
expands wildlife habitat and populations, 
encourages tree planting, and 
helps balance commodity supply and 
demand. 

The Lugar-Dole bill in effect phases 
out CPR by capping enrollment at the 
current 36.4 million acres and providing 
no new enrollment authority. Contracts 
on 24 million acres expire in 1996 
and 1997. If they are not renewed, CRP 
would be reduced by 56 percent by 1997. 

This bill also guts current law which 
allows acres to be enrolled perma


nently in the Wetlands Reserve Program. 
About 335,000 acres are currently 
enrolled permanently. The bill only allows 
15 year easements and places a 
cap on enrollment. The 7-year savings 
of $387 million are false economy. 
Short term contracts may reduce outlays 
over next 7 years, but outlays 
would increase in subsequent years and 
no protections remain in place after 
contracts expire. Over half a million 
acres are bid into the Wetlands Reserve 
Program each year by farmers who 
want permanent easements. Congress 
should not take away this option for 
farmers. 

Finally, I believe that the principal 
intention of the Lugar-Dole bill—to 
phase out Federal support for the ‘‘program 
crops’’, for example, rice, cotton, 
wheat, and feed grains—is bad policy 
for family farmers. Under current law, 
program crop farmers get ‘‘safety net’’ 
payments when market prices fall 
below a certain threshold. Under the 
Lugar-Dole bill, farmers will receive 
subsidy payments—decreasing over 7 
years—based only on the production 
history of a farmer—with no relation 
to market prices or actual output. In 
other words, the nature of farm payments 
changes from being a ‘‘safety 
net’’ received only when prices are low, 
to a form of direct ‘‘welfare payment’’ 
received no matter what the market 
conditions and regardless of how profitable 
the farming operation. Although 
‘‘Freedom to Farm’’ lowers the payment 
limitation from $50,000 to $40,000, 
it retains the ‘‘three entity rule’’. So, 
one farmer could theoretically earn 
$120,000 from the Federal Government 
in 1996 while on a year-long sabbatical. 

Farmers need predictability in order 
to make planting decisions and secure 
financing from lending institutions. 
This bill is being sold to the agriculture 
community as the best vehicle 
to guarantee an income safety net to 
farmers through direct payments for 7 
years. Many farmers believe that given 
the Federal deficit and efforts to balance 
the budget, this bill is the best 
way to look in Federal support payments. 
But decoupling makes no sense. 
Under this bill, one farmer could be receiving 
windfall gains while another 
hard-working farmer could go bankrupt 
in a bad year because of lack of 
assistance. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose the 
Lugar-Dole bill. 

Mr. CONRAD addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota [Mr. CONRAD] 
is recognized. 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I rise to 
urge my colleagues to defeat cloture so 
that we can come together in a bipartisan 
way to write a farm program that 
makes sense for the future. Mr. President, 
this could be a very dark day for 
farmers, for their families, and the future 
of American agriculture, because—
make no mistake—if the so-
called freedom-to-farm legislation is 
passed, it will be the death knell for 
farm programs in this country. 

I have just come from my office and 
talked to a farmer who was urging me 
to vote for freedom to farm. He told 
me, ‘‘Senator, we need the money and 
we know that the design of this program 
is to phase out farm program 
payments and kill the underlying law 
that allows us to have a farm program 
for the future.’’ He said, ‘‘Senator, we 
know you will not let us down in the 
future.’’ 

Mr. President, I am just saying to 
that farmer that that is not what this 
plan is all about. They are making 
transition payments. You are getting 
that money for a reason. The reason is 
that they then ratchet them down and 
eliminate them and kill the permanent 
authority to have a farm program. I 
am saying to them, despite the best efforts 
we might make in the future, this 
will be the end, make no mistake about 
it. This will be the end. I told him that 
it is a little like the Rev. Jim Jones, 
who had all of his followers drink the 
Kool-Aid that was laced with poison, 
and then they died. I said it is a little 
like Reverend Jones and that Kool-Aid. 
It tastes good going down—just like 
those couple of years of initial payments 
look good—but it will kill you. 

There is not a farmer I know that 
does not realize that sometimes prices 
are high and sometimes they are low. 
The purpose of a farm program is to be 
there as a safety net when prices are 
low. This program provides a payment, 
regardless of what the price is. 

Mr. President, it is a scandal waiting 
to happen. Wait until ‘‘60 Minutes’’ 
gets a hold of this one. In the high-
priced years, farmers are making good 
money, and, in addition, they get a 
payment from the Government. I do 
not think so, Mr. President. I think it 
would be a profound mistake, and it 
would kill farm programs and reduce, 
according to the State university in 
North Dakota, farm income by 30 percent. 


Mr. President, I yield the floor so 
that my colleague might have a chance 
to speak as well. 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, it is my 
understanding that there are about 4 
minutes remaining. At that point, the 
majority leader intends to use the remaining 
time on the Republican side. 

This vote is going to be a cloture 
vote on a farm proposal. We did not 
have a debate on the floor of the Senate 
on a farm proposal last year. Last 
year was the time when we were supposed 
to have had a 5-year farm plan 
debated. We did not have a farm bill 
debated at all on the Senate floor. A 
farm bill was put in the reconciliation 
bill. Right now is the first time we 
have had a farm bill debated on the 
floor, and we started about an hour or 
two ago. We had an hour or two of debate 
and now there is a cloture vote at 
1:30. 

The issue is something called the 
freedom to farm, which is an attractive 
name. This plan is to disconnect farm 
program payments from production or 
prices. The interesting thing about the 


S682 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

freedom-to-farm proposal is you do not 
have to farm in order to receive payments. 


All you have to have is land with a 
base, but you do not need a tractor. All 
you need is a bank account and some 
land, and you can get a payment. It is 
decoupling the support price from 
whether or not you produce, decoupling 
the support price from whether or not 
market prices are high. 

You could have a bumper crop with 
very high market prices, and you still 
get a payment under this plan. Or you 
can have a circumstance where you 
have no crop because you just went off 
to Puerto Rico and had a vacation and 
did not plant a thing, and you can still 
get a big payment under freedom to 
farm. It defies logic to me to understand 
why you want to move in this direction. 


For those who want to give a big payment 
to farmers, I say, fine, sign me 
up, let us try to recapitalize family 
farms. But if you want to do that, I disagree 
with coupling it with the notion 
that we must then repeal permanent 
farm law. That is the understanding— 
as Congressman ROBERTS said last 
evening on a program I was on—that 
we are going to transition you out of a 
farm program, make some payments up 
front, and there will be no farm program 
later. I am not willing to agree 
that there ought not be permanent 
farm law. 

FAPRI says wheat prices go to $3.22 
next year. USDA says grain prices are 
going down in 1998. What happens when 
grain prices are $3 a bushel for wheat 
and there is no support price at all, 
none at all? What happens to a family 
farmer? They are going to be washed 
away, and all of us know it. 

Who will farm then? The big 
agrifactories will farm from California 
to Maine. This is great for a corporate 
farm bill. If you like corporate farms, 
and you want agrifactories to farm 
America, this is a great and quick way 
to get rid of family farmers. 

They will get dollars maybe next 
year, maybe the year after, and every 
single year after that they will be 
worse off, and at the end of it they will 
have no support at all against the risk 
of low prices. Zero. No safety net at all. 
This takes a safety net we have had for 
50 years and yanks it right out from 
under family farmers. If you like that, 
vote for this. 

If all of you who want to add some 
extra money to farmers’ pocketbooks, 
you want to do that now, I will support 
you in doing that now. However, I want 
you to join me in retaining some permanent 
law that provides some safety 
net for the risks that family farmers 
will inherit when prices become very 
low. Why would you want to pull out 
that rug and say, ‘‘Well, the risk is 
your own; we do not care whether you 
succeed or fail’’? 

I had a farmer call me yesterday who 
said, ‘‘I want the Freedom-To-Farm 
Act but I want you to make sure, that, 
if prices are low, you give me a farm 

program.’’ I had a farm commodity 
group come in to see me that has endorsed 
the Freedom-To-Farm Act, and 
they said, ‘‘We endorsed it with one 
condition: We have a farm program.’’ I 
said, ‘‘You do not understand; when 
Congressman ROBERTS talks about 
transitioning, when someone with a 
white shirt from Washington says we 
will transition you, you had better get 
your seat belt on the tractor seat and 
buckle up. Transitioning means you 
will get a payment up front in exchange 
for which they will abolish the 
farm program down the road.’’ 

No debate about that. That is exactly 
what will happen. That is why many of 
us cannot support this. No one wants 
to be more generous than I to family-
sized farms. I believe in the future of 
this country there ought to be a network 
of family sized farms. I also believe 
that we will not see a network of 
family sized farms in America if we decide 
that when market prices collapse 
to $2.50 a bushel there should be no program 
for a safety net to continue family 
farming. We will have corporate 
farming from California to Maine 
under this proposal. 

I hope we will reach a compromise 
that is much better for the future of 
family farmers sometime this afternoon. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
COATS). The time on the Democratic 
side is expired. There are 8 minutes and 
45 seconds remaining on the Republican 
side. 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, here we go 
again, another farm debate. Winter 
wheat farmers have already planted. 
They could not wait any longer for 
Congress to act. It happens about the 
end of every 5-year farm program. 
There is always a little gap, and particularly 
winter wheat producers do 
not have much choice but to plant 
fence to fence and hope we will pass the 
farm bill, and then they can comply 
with the law at that time. 

President Eisenhower was born in 
Kansas and raised in rural America. He 
hit the nail on head when he said, 
‘‘Farming looks mighty easy when 
your plow is a pencil, and you’re 1,000 
miles from a corn field.’’ That statement 
was made a long time ago, but it 
has not changed over the years. 

What I see happening here is we 
thought we had a pretty good compromise 
worked out, but now I understand 
the other side of the aisle, for the 
most part, has said, ‘‘No, we are not 
going to let it happen. We do not believe 
in the freedom to farm. We do not 
believe in transition payments. We do 
not believe you ought to take a look at 
many farmers and say, OK, have this 7-
year period also be a transition and 
during that period they will determine 
whether or not we ought to continue 
farm programs or whether we ought to 
bring them to an end.’’ 

I must say, as I sat in a meeting here 
a while back with Secretary Glickman—
a good friend of mine who is 
doing a good job as Secretary—one 

thing he said bothered me: ‘‘Farm 
prices are so high in the market, people 
may not sign up for the program.’’ I 
thought that was the goal—go back 
into the marketplace with high prices 
so farmers could rely on the market 
rather than the Government. Produce 
for the market. That is what the freedom 
to farm act is all about. 

I do not know where we go from here 
if we do not get cloture on the so-called 
compromise. I want to congratulate 
the distinguished chairman of our committee, 
Senator LUGAR, and Senator 
LEAHY, the ranking Democrat on the 
committee, and others, Senator CRAIG 
from Idaho and Senator GRASSLEY from 
Iowa, my own staff and others who 
have been working, we thought, in sort 
of a bipartisan way so we can get to 
conference. If we do not go to conference, 
we will not have anything. 

I know farm bills are difficult. We 
have had farm bill debates on this floor 
before and they are even more difficult 
on the House side. Normally you can 
pass a farm bill in the Senate. It is a 
little easier because most of us represent 
some farmers. Some may not 
fully realize it, but there are always a 
few farmers in every State. I know in 
my State we have a saying, ‘‘if you do 
not eat, don’t worry about the farm.’’ 
A lot of people do eat, but not many 
worry about the farm. 

We have the best food bargain in the 
world. We spend less of our disposable 
income on food in America than any 
other industrialized nation because of 
our farmers and ranchers in America, 
and now we are trying to have a little 
safety net here, a little farm bill, to 
make certain that certain things happen 
and there will be some protection 
there. 

Farming looks pretty easy to some. 
But we know the tremendous amount 
of work required by not only farmers 
but their families. We know there is 
overregulation, overtaxation, and I 
have had farmers tell me if we get rid 
of some of the regulations and other 
things we could keep the subsidies. We 
would probably be better off. Farmers 
make a lot of sacrifices. They have 
hailstorms, winter kill, a lot of other 
things to contend with, sometimes 
they do not have any crop at all, sometimes 
they live from crop to crop, and 
sometimes they borrow money every 
year and every year and every year. 

It is pretty important that we move 
ahead in this Chamber. They have 
enough uncertainties out there without 
the uncertainty of whether or not we 
will act. I believe on this side of the 
aisle we are prepared almost unanimously 
to act. It does not mean we 
think it is perfect. It does not mean we 
cannot address some of the concerns 
expressed by my distinguished colleagues 
on the other side, including the 
Democratic leader, who also understands 
agriculture, coming from South 
Dakota, and hopefully we will be able 
to work together on this. 

While negotiations continue, as I 
said, Kansas farmers have planted their 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S683 

crop without knowing any program details, 
and farmers of other crops will be 
in the same position unless we take action. 
We did take action last year, and 
we attached the legislation to our historic 
Balanced Budget Act. The legislation 
would have provided farmers with 
certainty, simplicity, and flexibility— 
three key words when you are on the 
farm. It would have allowed them to 
plant for the market and not for the 
Government. It would have set a policy 
that transitions our farmers into the 
next century, without disrupting the 
farm economy or land values. That act 
was vetoed by the President of the 
United States. I do not think the 
American farmer should forget that— 
or the farm families. That act was vetoed 
by President Clinton. That is why 
we are here today. That is why we are 
late. That is why we do not have our 
work done. 

It seems to me that we ought to get 
together here, pass the legislation contained—
the language we passed last 
year. That will be the first vote on cloture. 
I urge my colleagues to support 
that. I believe the plan is good for 
farmers and good for taxpayers and 
good for America. I have some reservations 
just as some of the others have 
reservations, that we could address in 
conference. I probably would be a conferee. 


After that vote, we will also have a 
cloture vote on a bipartisan package, 
and I congratulate those who put that 
together. I think it does respond to the 
crisis. I thought we would have a third 
cloture vote but the Senator from 
North Dakota, Senator DORGAN, vitiated 
cloture, which really started all 
this—I do not quite understand that— 
on a 1-year extension. My view is we 
have two votes, we have two opportunities 
to move ahead for American agriculture. 
Stop the uncertainty right 
now. 

I guess the good news for America’s 
farmers is that this bipartisan agreement 
keeps intact the provisions farmers 
have overwhelmingly endorsed: 
Certainty, simplicity, and flexibility. 
We also have dairy provisions, nutrition, 
and conservation. I believe the 
Senate must provide leadership and 
keep faith with our commitment to 
rural America and move this farm bill 
forward. I believe it is good for farmers, 
it is good for America. 

I finally say, if I can take a minute 
or two of leader’s time, over 200 years 
ago, George Washington wrote: ‘‘I 
know of no pursuit in which more real 
and important services can be rendered 
to any country than by improving its 
agriculture.’’ 

I think those words were probably 
pretty good a couple hundred years ago 
and I think they are just as true today. 

Now, I certainly hope that we could 
obtain cloture on both bills, if not on 
the bipartisan efforts put together by 
Democrats and Republicans—by Democrats 
and Republicans. Then let us go 
to conference, let us work together in a 
bipartisan way in the conference, come 

up with a package that the American 
farmer can live with, the American 
consumers will benefit from, and that 
the American taxpayers will also support. 


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, will the 
majority leader allow me to respond to 
the point he made about vitiating? 

Mr. DOLE. I thought we had an 
agreement about voting on yours first, 
then you vitiated the yeas and nays, 
and so there is nothing there. 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, if I 
might just mention to the majority 
leader, the Senate will now have two 
cloture votes. If cloture is invoked, of 
course, the issue of extending the current 
farm program will probably be 
moot. But if cloture is not invoked, 
then it would be my desire to offer the 
Senate an opportunity to vote on the 
question of whether we extend the current 
farm program or whether we provide 
for some Farm Security Act approach. 
But the only way we will get to 
that point is if we get past these two 
cloture votes. So we would still have 
an opportunity to vote on an extension 
of the farm program if there is not cloture 
invoked. 

Mr. DOLE. Not today. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Rhode Island. 

Mr. CHAFEE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent I might be added as 
a cosponsor of both measures, S. 1541 
and the Lugar-Leahy bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

CLOTURE MOTION 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
has expired. Pursuant to rule XXII, the 
Chair lays before the Senate the pending 
cloture motion, which the clerk 
will state. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 
CLOTURE MOTION 
We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance 
with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby 
move to bring to a close debate on S. 1541, 
the farm bill: 
Bob Dole, Strom Thurmond, Dirk Kempthorne, 
James M. Jeffords, John H. 
Chafee, Thad Cochran, Ted Stevens, 
Trent Lott, Richard G. Lugar, Craig 
Thomas, Don Nickles, Bob Bennett, 
Alan K. Simpson, John Warner, Larry 
Pressler, Dan Coats, Larry E. Craig. 

VOTE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is, Is it the sense of the Senate 
that debate on S. 1541, the farm 
bill, shall be brought to a close? 

The yeas and nays are required under 
the rule. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 
the roll. 

Mr. FORD. I announce that the Senator 
from West Virginia [Mr. ROCKEFELLER] 
is necessarily absent. 

I further announce that, if present 
and voting, the Senator from West Virginia 
[Mr. ROCKEFELLER] would vote 
‘‘nay.’’ 

The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53, 
nays 45, as follows: 

[Rollcall Vote No. 7 Leg.] 
YEAS—53 

Abraham Frist McCain 
Ashcroft Gorton McConnell 
Bennett Gramm Murkowski 
Bond Grams Nickles 
Brown Grassley Pell 
Burns Hatch Pressler 
Campbell 
Chafee 
Coats 
Cochran 
Cohen 
Coverdell 
Craig 
D’Amato 
DeWine 
Dole 
Hatfield 
Helms 
Hutchison 
Inhofe 
Jeffords 
Johnston 
Kassebaum 
Kempthorne 
Kyl 
Lott 
Roth 
Shelby 
Simpson 
Snowe 
Specter 
Stevens 
Thomas 
Thompson 
Thurmond 
Domenici Lugar Warner 
Faircloth Mack Wellstone 
NAYS—45 
Akaka Feingold Leahy 
Baucus Feinstein Levin 
Biden Ford Lieberman 
Bingaman Glenn Mikulski 
Boxer Graham Moseley-Braun 
Bradley Gregg Moynihan 
Breaux Harkin Murray 
Bryan Heflin Nunn 
Bumpers Hollings Pryor 
Byrd Inouye Reid 
Conrad Kennedy Robb 
Daschle Kerrey Santorum 
Dodd Kerry Sarbanes 
Dorgan Kohl Simon 
Exon Lautenberg Smith 

NOT VOTING—1 

Rockefeller 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 45. 
Three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen 
and sworn not having voted in the 
affirmative, the cloture motion is not 
agreed to. 

Under the previous order, the clerk 
will report the motion to invoke cloture. 


Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
SMITH). The absence of a quorum is 
suggested. The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

By unanimous consent the Senator 
may proceed. 

Mr. PRESSLER. The farm bill is the 
most important legislation we have before 
us insofar as my State of South 
Dakota and insofar as our Nation is 
concerned. We forget that we are an agricultural 
Nation. Most of our exports 
in our Nation are agriculture. In fact, 
we pay our trade bills through agricultural 
exports. 

Many economists have predicted that 
in the next few years commodity prices 
will be at an all-time high because of 
the demand in Asia and elsewhere for 
our farm products. Therefore, I hope 
this farm bill will take into account 
the key role that agriculture plays. 

Mr. President, we seem to be split between 
two approaches here, temporarily: 
The freedom-to-farm approach 
and the traditional Department of Agriculture 
subsidy approach. It appears 
to me we will have to find a compromise 
between the two. In the long 


S684 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

run, this Senator likes the concept of 
freedom to farm, possibly with a cap, 
because it may be that new crops will 
be developed. A farmer might well experiment 
with a totally new crop. 
Right now with our bureaucratic approach, 
the Department of Agriculture 
basically defines what crops are appropriate. 


However, I realize legislation is the 
art of the possible. It appears we will 
have to reach a compromise. I am very 
much anxious to be part of that compromise. 
I look forward to discussing 
this with my colleagues. 

Mr. FORD. I suggest the absence of a 
quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

AUCTIONING THE 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECTRUM 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am informed 
that there is going to be, shortly, 
a unanimous-consent request to 
take up the telecommunications bill. I 
will not object to the unanimous-consent 
request, nor aspects of it. 

I would like to point out that there 
have been letters exchanged between 
the members of the Federal Communications 
Commission and Chairman 
PRESSLER, chairman of the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 
and also between Republican 
Members of the other body as well as 
the majority whip, to Senator DOLE, 
concerning the issue of spectrum auction, 
and a letter from Congressmen 
BLILEY and GINGRICH, Senator PRESSLER 
and Senator LOTT, to the Honorable 
Reed Hundt, Chairman of the Federal 
Communications Commission. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
these letters be printed in the 
RECORD. 

There being no objection, the letters 
were ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION, 

Washington, DC, February 1, 1996. 

Hon. LARRY PRESSLER, 

Chairman, Committee on Commerce, Science and 

Transportation, U.S. Senate, Washington, 

DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN PRESSLER: Thank you very 
much for your letter this morning about the 
concerns expressed by Senate Majority Leader 
Dole and others regarding the distribution 
of additional spectrum to television broadcasters. 
We share the determination of you, 
Senator Dole and others to protect American 
taxpayers. As you know, under current law 
and pursuant to the language of the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 (should it become 
law), the Commission lacks authority 
to auction, or charge broadcasters for the 
use of, the spectrum that has been identified 
for the provision of these broadcast services. 
In addition, given the many administrative 
steps necessary to implement any assignment 
of digital broadcast licenses, we would 

not be in a position to issue those licenses 
any earlier than 1997. 

We recognize the serious policy questions 
involved, and that you intend to hold hearings 
and enact legislation dealing with this 
issue as part of an overhaul of policies governing 
the electromagnetic spectrum. Any 
award of initial licenses or construction permits 
for Advanced Television Services will 
only be made in compliance with the express 
intent of Congress and only pursuant to additional 
legislation it may adopt resolving 
this issue. 

Very truly yours, 

REED E. HUNDT, Chairman, 

JAMES H. QUELLO, 

Commissioner, 

ANDREW C. BARRETT, 

Commissioner, 

SUSAN NESS, Commissioner, 

RACHELLE B. CHONG, 

Commissioner. 

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES, 

Washington, DC, January 31, 1996. 

Hon. ROBERT J. DOLE, 

Majority Leader, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. LEADER: We appreciate your 
leadership on telecommunications reform. 
Clearly the next step in bolstering America’s 
edge as we enter the Information Age will be 
to overhaul outdated policies governing the 
electromagnetic spectrum or airwaves. 

We agree that you have raised legitimate 
concerns that must be addressed, and we 
share your determination to protect America’s 
taxpayers. To this end we are committed 
to moving comprehensive legislation 
this year and plan to be ready for floor action 
this summer. As part of this reform, we 
believe it is of the utmost importance to 
closely examine and question the Federal 
Communications Commission’s proposals to 
give additional spectrum to television broadcasters. 
Until action is completed on this 
legislation, we agree that the FCC should 
not issue any initial licenses or construction 
permits for Advance Television Services 
until Congress sets policy in this area. 

The Commission is a creature of Congress 
and our committees have oversight over its 
operations. In the attached letter, we inform 
the Commission of our concerns and have requested 
that the Commission take no further 
action until instructed otherwise. 

We agree this issue should be subject to 
full, public scrutiny, and we look forward to 
working with you to ensure that America’s 
taxpayers are fairly compensated for this 
precious national resource. 

Sincerely, 

TOM BLILEY, 

LARRY PRESSLER, 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

TRENT LOTT. 

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES, 

Washington, DC, January 31, 1996. 

Hon. REED E. HUNDT, 

Chairman, Federal Communications Commission, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: As you are aware, 
Senate Majority Leader Dole and others 
have raised legitimate concerns about giving 
additional spectrum to television broadcasters. 
As you are aware, these concerns 
raise serious policy questions which include 
providing taxpayers fair compensation for 
the use of a national resource to the policy 
implications of giving preference to the 
broadcasters over all other potential competitors. 


We share Senator Dole’s determination to 
protect America’s taxpayers, and to satisfactorily 
resolve this issue. We wish to inform 
the Commission that it is our intention to 
conduct open hearings and move legislation 
to overhaul our nation’s policies governing 

the electromagnetic spectrum. We request 
that the Commission not issue any initial licenses 
or construction permits for Advance 
Television Services until legislation is completed. 
Furthermore, your input would be 
greatly appreciated as we work to solve this 
complicated issue. 

We appreciate your cooperation in advance 
on this issue of the utmost importance. 

Sincerely, 

TOM BLILEY, 

LARRY PRESSLER, 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

TRENT LOTT. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the interesting 
thing about this is we are 
about to see what should have been 
done, not done, and what may happen 
is a loss to the taxpayers of, conservatively, 
about $30 billion in spectrum 
that would be auctioned off. 

In the language of the bill that we 
will be considering, there is no authority 
for the Commission to auction or 
charge broadcasters for the use of the 
spectrum that has been identified for 
the provision of broadcast services. 

I want to repeat. In the present bill 
we are about to consider, there is no 
provision for spectrum auction. The 
fair and decent thing to do for the 
American taxpayer was to strip that 
language out of the bill, thereby leaving 
it neutral, and saying that this 
issue will be taken up and the issue of 
spectrum auction will be decided 
through hearings and freestanding legislation. 


I have been around here long enough 
to know what is going on here. What is 
going to probably happen is that we 
will not act on this issue this year; 
that sometime in 1997 the broadcasters 
will begin to sue for the provision of 
their spectrum, and in court will probably 
have standing because of this bill 
we are about to pass. I am not sure how 
any court could refuse when in the legislation 
it does not provide the Commission 
authority to auction off the 
spectrum. 

I want to tell you what should have 
been done here. What should have been 
done is the language stripped out of the 
bill that does not give them authority 
and does allow them to give spectrum 
to the broadcasters. 

About a month ago we had a vote 
around here on some spectrum that 
was about to be given away to a company. 
We had a vote here. It ended up, 
thanks to my colleague from Colorado 
and his cooperation and assistance, 
with a vote of 98 to 0 that mandated 
that this spectrum, which was about to 
be given away, be auctioned off. The estimates 
of the value of that spectrum 
at that time ranged between $150 to 
$170 million. The auction took place a 
little over 2 weeks ago, and the spectrum 
was auctioned off for $682 million. 

Now, what we are about to do here is 
allow, over time, this spectrum to be 
given away to the broadcasters. I congratulate 
the broadcasters and their 
surrogates here in the Senate and the 
Congress. I congratulate them on prevailing. 
I congratulate them for their 
incredible influence that has prevented 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S685 

us from mandating an auction of the 
spectrum which belongs to the taxpayers. 


The estimates are that this spectrum 
is worth somewhere around $30 billion—‘‘
b,’’ billion dollars. Now we are 
going to accept language which is exactly 
what the broadcasters wanted. 

In exchange for it, we get letters. We 
get letters which have no standing in 
law, which have no standing anywhere. 
I have grown a bit cynical in the years 
that I have spent here in Congress, not 
to recognize what is happening. 

I can only speak for people on this 
side of the aisle about our philosophy 
of the role of Government. When something 
is owned by the taxpayer and is 
of great value and we are facing debts 
of incredible proportions, $4, $5 trillion, 
annual deficits of $150 billion, and we 
have a way of taking that very valuable 
commodity that is owned by the 
taxpayers and auctioning it off, and 
now we are being prevented basically 
from doing so—despite the fig leaf of 
these letters—I think it is a very sad 
day. Because in this legislation the 
broadcasters are well represented. The 
taxpayers of America are not represented 
at all. 

So, as we adopt this legislation, and 
these letters, which I could describe in 
somewhat graphic terms but will not— 
they are entered into the RECORD—let 
us have no illusions about what is happening 
here. What is happening here is 
the odds are the taxpayers of America 
will never receive that $30 billion in return 
for the auctioning off of a commodity 
which they own. 

Mr. President, I had a lot of problems 
with the telecommunications bill, as is 
well known here. I proposed numerous 
amendments which were defeated. But 
all of them pale in comparison to what 
we are talking about here, especially 
since we already have proof, with a $682 
million auction of a small amount of 
spectrum that took place a couple of 
weeks ago, of the value which we are 
not addressing in this legislation 
today. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

Mr. DOLE addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader is recognized. 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I first want 
to thank the Senator from Arizona for 
his statement. I can assure him that if 
the FCC means what they say in the 
letter, ‘‘only pursuant to additional 
legislation it may adopt resolving this 
issue’’—I think both the Senator from 
Arizona and the Senator from Kansas 
are going to be around. And there will 
not be any legislation unless it resolves 
the issue fairly for the American taxpayer. 


I think this is very important. I 
know there are Members on each side 
of the aisle who are concerned about it. 
It is not a partisan issue. Here we are, 
trying to balance the budget, cutting 
welfare, cutting other programs, and 
about to give a big handout here to the 
rich, the powerful. 

We have not seen a single story on 
any of the networks about this issue. 

We see a lot of stories on the networks 
about some Member of Congress going 
somewhere on a ‘‘junket,’’ they always 
like to say on the networks. But I have 
not seen anybody, except for CNN, not 
a single story on what could be the biggest 
giveaway of the century—not one. 

I think we could have done better in 
the discussions, myself, yesterday. 

I talked to the Speaker, and the 
Speaker said, ‘‘You got rolled.’’ Everybody 
got rolled. But that is history. It 
will not happen again. I think this is a 
very important issue. You will not see 
it on television. You will not see it on 
the networks. You probably will not 
see it in any newspaper that owns television 
because this affects them. We 
should not raise things, in effect, for 
the rich and the powerful. 

So I appreciate the concerns expressed, 
and we will continue to pursue 
this matter. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, will the 

majority leader yield for a comment? 

Mr. DOLE. I am happy to yield. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I want to thank the 
majority leader for his efforts on the 
spectrum auction. It would have sailed 
right through, because the fix was in. 
Had it not been for his efforts—I am 
sorry that he was out of town yesterday. 
I am sorry that we did not get, as 
the leader said, a better deal. 

The thing I worry about, of course, is 
that with the present language in the 
bill, which should have been stripped 
out, next year sometime someone will 
sue and go to court with the FCC and 
force the FCC to be in compliance with 
the law that we are about to pass 
today. That is what I worry about. 

But I do want to thank the majority 
leader sincerely for his efforts for 
bringing this issue to the attention at 
least to the print media. As the majority 
leader mentioned, we will not see 
this story on any television or hear it 
on any radio broadcast because it directly 
affects them. 

But I want to thank the majority 
leader for his efforts. I take in good 
faith his commitment for us to try to 
get it up. I just know that the forces 
that are represented—the special interests 
here in Washington—have won. I 
regret it because it is the American 
taxpayer who now may be losing $30 
billion. If we had done the right thing 
and stripped that language out of the 
bill, there was no chance that anything 
else would have happened. 

I thank the majority leader for his 
efforts. 

f 

AGRICULTURAL MARKET 
TRANSITION ACT OF 1996 
The Senate continued with the consideration 
of the bill. 
Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, what is the 
pending business? 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture 
motion. 

Mr. DOLE. I ask unanimous consent 
that the pending cloture vote be temporarily 
laid aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS BILL 
Mr. DOLE. I think the managers on 
each side of the aisle are here. We do 
not want to take a lot of time. We are 
trying to work out something on the 
agriculture bill, a bipartisan solution, 
if you please. Senator LUGAR, Senator 
LEAHY, and others on both sides have 
been active. We had a meeting in Senator 
DASCHLE’s office, including myself, 
Senator DASCHLE, Senator LEAHY, 
and Senator LUGAR. We believe there 
can be a resolution. But rather than 
keep people here late, late tonight, we 
would like to move ahead and have the 
debate on the telecommunications conference 
report. 
I understand that is agreeable to the 
Senators from South Dakota and 
South Carolina. I think there is a need 
to get consent on the other side of the 
aisle before we can proceed. There is no 
time limit. We hope to get an hour or 
two for a time limit. We said we cannot 
get that at the present time. But we 
would like to ask consent—I will not 
make the request now, but if we can 
get it cleared, I would simply ask consent 
that, notwithstanding the absence 
of official papers, the Senate now turn 
to the consideration of the conference 
report to accompany S. 652, the telecommunications 
bill, and the conference 
report be considered read. 
That would just permit us to go 
ahead and have the debate. 
I ask unanimous consent, notwithstanding 
the absence of official papers—— 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 
Mr. HARKIN addressed the Chair. 
Mr. DOLE. I have not made the request 
yet. I will repeat what I said and 
make the request. 
Mr. HARKIN. I understand that there 
is a consent request to move right now 
to the conference report on the telecommunications 
bill. Mr. President, I 
ask that the bill be read. 
Several Senators addressed the 
Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader has not yet finished the 
request. 
Mr. DOLE. Let me repeat the request. 
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, will the 
distinguished majority leader yield for 
a moment? 
Mr. DOLE. Yes. 

f 

THE FARM BILL 
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, without 
going into the issue of the telecommunications 
bill—which I will 
not—I just want to emphasize what the 
distinguished majority leader said. As 
my colleagues know, he, I, and some 
others had an amendment at the desk. 
We would have voted cloture under 
normal circumstances. Following the 
first cloture vote today, the distinguished 
majority leader, the distinguished 
Democratic leader, Senator 
LUGAR, and I have met. I want to emphasize 
one thing. 


S686 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

In the 21 years that I have been here, 
the most successful farm legislation 
has been bipartisan farm legislation. 
The most successful farm legislation 
has been that where we have worked 
together. There are a lot of issues in 
this, from the normal crops to issues of 
nutrition, conservation, reserve areas, 
which are very important to me. I 
know that the only kind of legislation 
we are ever actually going to see go 
into law is something we all work together 
on. 

I commend Senator DOLE and Senator 
DASCHLE and Senator LUGAR and 
others for working so hard to bring us 
together. I think we will shortly be in 
a position to put before the body a 
piece of legislation that we can at least 
all vote cloture on and then go on in 
the normal course of things on the 
farm bill. 

But I commend those Senators again 
on both sides of the aisle who have 
been willing to work together on legislation 
to protect the farmers of our 
country, to require the production of 
food and fiber and allow family farms 
to continue, but also to protect the environment 
of this country and to feed 
the people of this country through the 
nutrition programs. Those programs 
work best when we come together to 
pass it. I think we are coming very 
close to that. 

I thank the distinguished majority 
leader for yielding to me. 

f 

THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS BILL 
Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I think the 
Senator from Iowa has a legitimate request 
here. We are trying to clarify 
that now with the Senator from South 
Dakota. If we can do that, then we will 
start the debate on the telecommunications 
bill. I have read the colloquy. I 
do not see any problem with it. But I 
am not on the committee. I am not the 
committee chairman. So I hope we can 
work that out. 

f 

THE FARM BILL 
Mr. BUMPERS. Mr. President, will 
the majority leader yield for a question? 
The majority leader may have already 
covered this. I am concerned 
about this. I am vitally interested in 
the farm bill. I have no objection whatever 
going to the telecommunications 
bill. But if at some point this afternoon 
some sort of a compromise is reached, 
I hope that we will not have any difficulty 
setting the telecommunications 
bill aside and then get back to the farm 
bill and, hopefully, dispose of it this 
evening. 
Mr. DOLE. We would like to dispose 
of it this evening. We are hoping there 
can be an agreement and that we have 
80 votes on cloture—not 61 or 59, or 
whatever. I know some Members have 
to depart fairly soon. We are trying to 
accommodate everyone. It is difficult 
to do. But I think they are meeting as 
we speak in a bipartisan group. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, if the 
leader will yield, his staff, mine, Senator 
LUGAR’s, and Senator DASCHLE’s 
are meeting. I think we are going to 
have very soon a package on the farm 
bill before us, at least the original 
package most of us can vote for and, 
obviously, subject to amendment after 
that. But the desire, I think, of the 
principals—those of us on both sides of 
the aisle who are handling this—is to 
get something that we can compress in 
time, if at all possible, and protect the 
legitimate interests reflected not only 
geographically but politically. 

Mr. BUMPERS. My concern, Mr. 
President, to the majority leader was, I 
wish we could incorporate into the 
unanimous-consent request that the 
majority leader will have a right to 
automatically set the telecommunications 
bill aside. I do not want somebody 
to object to that and get us 
bogged down here so that we cannot 
get back to the farm bill. 

Mr. DOLE. I will assure the Senator 
I am interested, too, just as the Senator 
from Arkansas is. If we get bogged 
down on this, we could set it aside. We 
have regular order to bring it back. 

f 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 
1996—CONFERENCE REPORT 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I now ask 
unanimous consent that notwithstanding 
the absence of the official pa-
pers—they are somewhere else—the 
Senate now turn to the consideration 
of the conference report to accompany 

S. 652, the telecommunications bill, 
and the conference report be considered 
read. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? The Chair hears none, and it 
is so ordered. 

The report will be stated. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The committee of conference on the disagreeing 
votes of the two Houses on the 
amendments of the House to the bill S. 652, 
to provide for a procompetitive, deregulatory 
national policy framework designed to 
accelerate rapid private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications and information 
technologies and services to all 
Americans by opening all telecommunications 
markets to competition, and for 
other purposes, having met, after full and 
free conference, have agreed to recommend 
and do recommend to their respective Houses 
this report, signed by a majority of the conferees. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senate 
will proceed to the consideration of 
the conference report. 

(The conference report is printed in 
the House proceedings of the RECORD of 
January 31, 1996.) 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
THOMPSON). Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, it is 
with a sense of relief and pride that we 
bring to the Senate floor the conference 
report on the telecommunications 
bill. I wish to commend my colleague, 
Senator HOLLINGS, for his outstanding 
leadership and bipartisan 
spirit throughout this debate. This 
long debate has brought us to the point 
today where we have a conference report 
that is very positive. It is procompetitive 
and deregulatory. The Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 will get everybody 
into everybody else’s business. 

The purpose of this bill is to update 
the 1934 Communications Act. This is 
the first complete rewrite of the telecommunications 
law in our country. It 
is very much needed. 

I predict that this will be succeeded 
someday as we get into the wireless 
age by another act, maybe in 10 or 15 
years. But this Telecommunications 
Act will provide us with a road map 
into the wireless age and into the next 
century. 

Mr. President, what has occurred in 
our country is that through court decisions 
and through the 1934 act we have 
developed an economic apartheid regarding 
telecommunications, that is, 
the regional Bell companies have the 
local telephone service, the long-distance 
companies have the long-distance 
service, the cable companies 
have their section, the broadcast companies 
have their section. 

This bill attempts to get everybody 
into everybody else’s business and let 
in new entrants. For example, at President 
Clinton’s recent White House conference 
on small business many small 
business people wrote and said, we 
want the Telecommunications Act of 
1996 to pass because it will allow small 
business people to get into local telephone 
service, it will allow small business 
people to get into different segments 
of telecommunications. 

Mr. President, this conference report 
we bring here today is a vast bill. It 
covers everything from the rules of 
entry into local telephone service by 
other competitors—it deals with long 
distance, it deals with cable, it deals 
with broadcast, it deals with the public 
utilities getting into telecommunications, 
it deals with burglar alarm 
issues, it deals with the authority of 
State and local governments over their 
rights of way, and it deals with the 
rules of satellite communication. 

It will result in many things for consumers. 
For example, I believe it will 
accelerate an explosion of new devices, 
an explosion of new investment. What 
has happened in our country is that we 
have forced our regional Bell companies 
to invest overseas because we 
limit what they can manufacture. We 
have limited many of our companies in 
what they can do in our country. This 
legislation unleashes them, makes 
them competitive and is deregulatory 
in nature. 

It will do a great deal for consumers. 
For example, and specifically, it will 
lower prices on local telephone calls 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S687 

through competition. It will lower 
prices on long-distance calls through 
competition. It will lower cable TV 
rates through competition. It will provide 
an explosion of new devices, services 
and inventions. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, will the 
distinguished Senator from South Dakota 
yield? I hate to interrupt. 

Mr. PRESSLER. I do yield. 

f 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, we have a 
unanimous-consent agreement I believe 
we are ready to enter. It is a very 
important effort to complete this legislation. 
After consultation with the Democratic 
leadership, Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that there now be 
90 minutes on the conference report to 
be equally divided in the usual form, 
and following the conclusion or yielding 
back of the time, the Senate proceed 
to the adoption of the conference 
report without any intervening action 
or debate. 
Mr. FORD. Reserving the right to object, 
Mr. President, I ask that my 
friend allow the ranking Member to 
have equal time for what the chairman 
has had, say 5 minutes, and add that to 
that. 
Mr. LOTT. I amend my unanimous-
consent request to that effect. 
Mr. FORD. I thank my friend. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 
Mr. LOTT. I thank the Senator for 
yielding. 
Mr. PRESSLER. I thank my colleagues 
and my colleague from Kentucky. 
So, Mr. President, this bill is an industrial 
restructuring. It will be like 
the Oklahoma land rush because many 
investors have not had a road map as 
to what to do. It will mean we will be 
more competitive internationally, and 
it will mean many of our companies 
can form alliances internationally. 
Some have said, well, will this just 
allow one or two companies to take everything 
over? No, it will not. I think 
it will prove to be the age of the small, 
nimble business. I believe that we will 
see small businesses emerging. We have 
seen AT&T break up into three companies. 
I think that is going to happen 
more and more. 
This bill does not affect our antitrust 
laws. The antitrust laws stay in place. 
But this bill will encourage small, nimble 
companies and entrepreneurs to 
enter the telecommunications area. 
It will also bring us to a point where 
many of our companies that have not 
been able to get into other areas can do 
so. For example, the public utilities 
will be able to get into telecommunications. 
What does this mean to the average 
consumer? I have already mentioned I 
think it will mean lower prices through 
competition. It also will mean many 
new devices for senior citizens who 

might be living alone and want to summon 
emergency help with some of the 
wireless technologies that will be 
available. They can stay in their own 
homes longer with the security of mind 
of being able to call for help by pushing 
a button. 

For the home, I believe we will see 
the computer and TV and telephone 
blended into one source of education, 
news, and entertainment. For the 
small town hospital, it will mean telemedicine, 
new devices and investment, 
where a large hospital can partner with 
a small hospital in research. 

For the small business located in a 
smaller town, it will mean that a small 
businessman there will be on an equal 
footing with a bigger businessman in 
an urban center in terms of access to 
research and the ability to partner. 

As a member of the Finance Committee, 
I have asked my staff to help 
find ways that when big universities 
get a research grant for cancer research, 
for example, that they use telecommunications 
to partner with a 
small university. That will make the 
research more accurate at lower cost. 

So there are a number of benefits to 
consumers, farmers, small business 
people, and universities. There are 
many new devices that will come on-
line that we have not even heard of 
yet. This bill will be like the Oklahoma 
land rush in terms of investment, inventions 
and development. We have 
just begun imagining what the telecommunications 
revolution will be 
like. 

This will be the starting gun. We 
have kept our companies in bondage. 
Those companies will break free and 
there will be a whole group of new 
small entrepreneurs coming forth to 
participate in the telecommunications 
revolution. 

Another area that it will help our 
country is jobs. This is the biggest jobs 
bill ever to pass this Congress. It will 
result in a creation of thousands of 
jobs, good jobs, good-paying jobs across 
our country. 

We read about layoffs every day, but 
they are frequently in industries that 
have grown obsolete. This bill will 
allow an unleashing of new high-technology 
jobs in the information age. 
And it is very important. 

This bill is a jobs bill without spending 
any Federal money. It will go down 
in history as the largest jobs bill in 
American history. 

So, Mr. President, I shall, to save 
time, because I know some of my colleagues 
wish to speak—I want to pay 
tribute to both the Republicans and 
Democrats who have worked on this bipartisan 
bill, to my colleague, Senator 
HOLLINGS, to my colleague, Senator 
DASCHLE, who is on the floor, and many 
others on both sides of the aisle, Republicans 
and Democrats. 

This is a bipartisan bill. It has been 
all the way through the Senate. First 
of all, this bill has been simmering for 
many years. We have worked on it first 
in the Senate and then in the House. 
There were bipartisan staff meetings. 

We have brought the White House 
into the conference discussions. I spoke 
with President Clinton and Vice President 
GORE on a number of occasions 
throughout this process. I thank them 
for their participation. Mr. Simon of 
Vice President GORE’s staff was a guest 
speaker at the conference staff’s first 
meeting. We invited him so we could 
bring this together on a bipartisan 
basis. 

This bill is not one that could be partisan. 
I think it is one of the most bipartisan 
pieces of legislation in the 
Congress. Mr. President, I shall have 
additional remarks as time goes on. I 
yield the floor. 

Mr. HOLLINGS addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Carolina. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, today 
the Senate considers the conference 
agreement to S. 652, the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996. This bill is intended 
to promote competition in 
every sector of the communications industry, 
including the broadcast, cable, 
wireless, long distance, local telephone, 
manufacturing, pay telephone, 
electronic publishing, cable equipment, 
and direct broadcast satellite industries. 
This legislation has the support 
of the Clinton administration and almost 
every sector of the communications 
industry. I urge my colleagues to 
pass this comprehensive legislation. 

Mr. President, this conference agreement 
comes before the Senate for final 
passage after years of debate. In 1991, I 
authored legislation to allow the Regional 
Bell Operating Companies 
[RBOC’s] into manufacturing. That bill 
passed the Senate by almost 3/4 of the 
Senate, but the House could not pass 
it. Several other bills were offered, but 
at each stage, one industry blocked the 
other. As a result, communications 
policy has been set by the courts, not 
by Congress and not by the Federal 
Communications Commission [FCC], 
the expert agency. 

In 1994, I introduced S. 1822, the Communications 
Act of 1994, which contained 
the most comprehensive revision 
of the communications law since 
1934. In that year, the committee held 
31 hours of testimony in 11 days of 
hearings from 86 witnesses. Though 
that bill was reported by the Commerce 
Committee by a vote of 18 to 2, 
there was not enough time in the 103d 
Congress to complete our work. 

Senator PRESSLER and I decided earlier 
this year to pick up where we left 
off in the last Congress. We jointly introduced 
S. 652 early in 1995 and succeeded 
in passing the bill out of the 
Commerce Committee by a vote of 17– 
2 on March 23 of last year. The bill 
passed the Senate in June by an overwhelming 
vote of 81–18. After the House 
passed its version of the legislation in 
August, the two Houses entered into 
the difficult task of reconciling the 
two bills over several months through 
the fall and winter. 

I am pleased that the conferees have 
succeeded in reconciling these bills. I 


S688 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

believe that the conference report that 
is brought before the Senate today is a 
fair and balanced compromise between 
the bills passed by the two Houses. It 
retains many of the concepts contained 
in my legislation from the 103d Congress. 
For instance, it promotes competition, 
it retains strong protections 
for universal service and rural telephone 
companies, it promotes consumer 
privacy, and it allows the 
RBOC’s into long distance and manufacturing 
under certain safeguards. 

At the same time, this legislation 
contains many more deregulatory provisions 
than were contained in my legislation 
from last year. It allows greater 
media concentration than I would 
have preferred. It deregulates cable on 
a date certain, rather than upon a determination 
that there is actual competition. 
Nevertheless, I believe that 
this legislation on the whole presents a 
balanced package that deserves the 
support of every Member of this body. 

The basic thrust of the bill is clear: 
competition is the best regulator of the 
marketplace. Until that competition 
exists, monopoly providers of services 
must not be able to exploit their monopoly 
power to the consumer’s disadvantage. 
Timing is everything. Telecommunications 
services should be deregulated 
after, not before, markets become 
competitive. 

Competition is spurred by the bill’s 
provisions specifying the criteria for 
entry into various markets. For example, 
on a broad scale, cable companies 
soon will provide telephone service, 
and telephone companies will offer 
video services. Consumers will soon be 
able to purchase local telephone service 
from several competitors, and vice 
versa. Electric utility companies will 
offer telecommunications services. The 
RBOC’s will engage in manufacturing 
activities. All these participants will 
foster competition to each other and 
create jobs along the way. 

We should not attempt to micromanage 
the marketplace; rather, we 
must set the rules in a way that neutralizes 
any party’s inherent market 
power, so that robust and fair competition 
can ensue. This is Congress’ responsibility, 
and so the bill transfers 
jurisdiction over the modification of 
final judgment [MFJ] from the courts 
to the FCC. Judge Greene, who has 
been overseeing the MFJ, has been 
doing yeoman’s work in attempting to 
ensure that monopolies do not abuse 
their market power. But it is time for 
Congress to reassert its responsibilities 
in this area, and this conference agreement 
does just that. 

Mr. President, let me address some of 
the specific areas of important in the 
bill. 

UNIVERSAL SERVICE 

The need to protect and advance universal 
service is one of the fundamental 
concerns of the conferees in 
drafting this conference agreement. 
Universal service must be guaranteed; 
the world’s best telephone system must 
continue to grow and develop, and we 

must attempt to ensure the widest 
availability of telephone service. 

The conference agreement retains 
the provision in the Senate bill that requires 
all telecommunications carriers 
to contribute to universal service. A 
Federal-State joint board will define 
universal service, and this definition 
will evolve over time as technologies 
change so that consumers have access 
to the best possible services. Special 
provisions in the legislation address 
universal service in rural areas to 
guarantee that harm to universal service 
is avoided there. 

RBOC ENTRY INTO LONG DISTANCE 

One of the most contentious issues in 
this whole discussion has been when, or 
if, the RBOC’s should be allowed to 
enter the long-distance market. I share 
the concern of many consumers that 
the RBOC’s should not be permitted to 
enter the long-distance market while 
they retain a monopoly over local telephone 
service. For this reason, I 
strongly opposed the idea that the 
RBOC’s should be permitted to enter 
the long-distance market on a date certain, 
whether they face competition or 
not. I am pleased that the conference 
agreement recognizes that the RBOC’s 
must open their networks to competition 
prior to their entry into long distance. 


CABLE RATE DEREGULATION 

The 1992 Cable Act was a great success. 
The rate regulation provisions of 
that legislation have saved consumers 
about $3 billion a year. The 1992 law 
also stimulated competition for cable 
service by wireless cable providers and 
direct broadcast satellite [DBS]. For 
these reason, I have agreed to go along 
with the provisions in the final conference 
agreement what would deregulate 
the upper tiers of cable service on 
March 31, 1999. By that time, we expect 
that competition from DBS and wireless 
cable, and perhaps from the telephone 
companies, will provide enough 
restraint on further cable rate increases. 
I believe that this is a fair 
compromise that serves the interests of 
consumers and the cable industry. 

BROADCAST ISSUES 

The conference agreement changes 
some of the current rules and statutory 
provisions concerning media concentration. 
I share the concerns of the 
Clinton administration and others that 
excessive media concentration could 
harm the diversity of voices in the 
communications marketplace. At the 
same time, that marketplace has undergone 
several changes since many of 
these rules were first adopted in the 
1970’s. As a result, I have agreed to 
some changes in the ownership rules to 
allow the broadcast and cable industries 
to compete on more equal footing. 

IMPORTANCE OF MUST-CARRY 

I would like to add one more point 
concerning the importance of must-
carry. Broadcast stations are important 
sources of local news, public affairs 
programming and other local 
broadcast services. This category of 

service will be an important part of the 
public interest determination to be 
made by the Commission when deciding 
whether a broadcast renewal application 
shall be granted by the Commission. 
To prevent local television broadcast 
signals from being subject to non-
carriage or repositioning by cable television 
systems and those providing 
cable services, we must recognize and 
reaffirm the importance of mandatory 
carriage of local commercial television 
stations, as implemented by Commission 
rules and regulations. 

CONCLUSION 

This comprehensive bill strikes a balance 
between competition and regulation. 
New markets will be opened, competitors 
will begin to offer services, 
and consumers will be better served by 
having choices among providers of 
services. I urge my colleagues to adopt 
this bill. I myself would go further in 
several areas covered by the legislation, 
and not as far in other areas. But 
I have seen that, unless we adopt a 
comprehensive approach to legislation, 
any one sector of the telecommunications 
industry can stop this bill and 
checkmate the others. Telecommunications 
reform is too important to let 
this opportunity go by. This conference 
agreement is an equitable approach to 
most of the areas covered by the bill, 
and I urge my colleagues to support it. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that a ‘‘Resolved Issues’’ table be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS BILL RESOLVED ISSUES 

1. Long Distance. 
a. FCC decides whether to allow a Regional 
Bell Operating Company to provide long distance 
under the following conditions: 
i. FCC gives substantial weight to the DOJ; 
ii. RBOC application must be in the public 
interest; 
iii. RBOC must face a facilities-based competitor 
or must have received approval from 
the State that it has met the unbundling requirements; 
iv. RBOC must have opened and unbundled 
its network using a specific checklist; 
v. RBOC must apply on a state-by-state 
basis; 
vi. RBOC must use a separate subsidiary 
for long distance; 
b. RBOCs can provide long distance outside 
their region immediately upon enactment; 
c. RBOCs can provide incidental long distance 
(i.e. long distance related to cellular, 
information services cable services, cable 
services) immediately after enactment; 
d. the RBOC can jointly market local and 
long distance service immediately after enactment; 
2. Media Ownership: 
a. nationwide reach raised from 25% to 
35%—no waivers 
b. duopoly rule—FCC will study whether to 
change duopoly rule. Current rule prohibits 
ownership of two TV stations in the same 
market. If it changes the rule, there should 
be a higher standard on V–V combinations 
than U–U or U–V combinations 
c. Local Radio—raise the limits on the 
number of stations one person can own as 
follows: 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S689 

NUMBER OF STATIONS IN A MARKET 

Current limit New limit 

1–14 .............................................. 3 5 
15–29 ............................................ 4 6 
30–44 ............................................ 4 7 
45 or more .................................... 4 8 

This also includes raising the current 49% 
limit on small markets (1–14 stations) to 
50%. 

d. Cable-Broadcast: remove statutory ban, 
direct the FCC to review its rule that has the 
same effect without prejudice. 
e. Dual Network: allow someone to own a 
second network if it is starting a new network 
f. One-to-a-market: allow someone to own 
one TV, one AM radio, and one FM radio in 
the top 50 markets (current rule allows common 
ownership in top 25 markets). Allow existing 
waiver process to continue. 
g. Network-cable: allow networks to buy 
cable systems subject to FCC safeguards. 
h. Cable-MMDS: allow cable operator that 
face effective competition to buy an MMDS 
system in the same market; but a cable system 
that retains its monopoly cannot buy an 
MMDS system in the same market. 
3. Cable-telephone: allow telephone companies 
to provide cable service in their regions. 
4. Cable-telephone buyouts: allow a telephone 
company and cable company to buy 
each other in markets below 50,000 and outside 
an urbanized area. 
5. Cable rates: deregulate small cable companies 
of fifty thousand or less immediately; 
deregulate upper tier rates as of March 31, 
1999; no change to the regulation of the basic 
tier. 
6. Universal Service: universal telephone 
service shall evolve over time, and the rates 
should be affordable. An FCC-State Joint 
Board will recommend changes to the current 
system to insure that all providers contribute. 
7. Rural Telephone Company Protections: 
States may protect rural telephone companies 
from competition; only essential carriers 
will be eligible to receive universal 
service support. 
8. Snowe-Rockefeller: give schools and hospitals 
discounted rates for telephone services. 
9. V-chip: require TV sets to include a chip 
to screen out programs; encourage broadcasters 
to develop rating codes for violent 
programs. 
10. Foreign Ownership: provisions taken 
out. No agreement was reached on how to enforce 
the reciprocity approach. 
11. Cyberporn: require operators of computer 
networks to screen out indecent material 
for children; carriers of indecent information 
will not be liable for the content of 
information generated by others; expedited 
judicial review. 
12. Set-top Box: allows consumers to purchase 
the cable set-top box on a retail basis 
from stores; cable companies will no longer 
have a monopoly over set-top boxes. 
13. DBS Taxation: Cities are preempted 
from taxing the services provided by Direct 
Broadcast Satellite. 
14. Pole Attachments: Cable companies 
may continue to pay the same rate as long 
as they provide only cable service; once 
cable companies start to provide telephone 
service, a higher rate will phase in over 10 
years. 
15. Electronic Publishing: The RBOCs must 
use a separate subsidiary when they provide 
electronic publishing in their regions. Electronic 
publishing includes generating stock 
information, sports scores, newspaper stories, 
and other databases of information. 
16. Manufacturing: The RBOCs are allowed 
into manufacturing after they are permitted 
into long distance in any one State in their 
region. The RBOC must use a separate affiliate. 


17. Privacy Information: All telecommunications 
companies must protest the privacy 
of customer information. 
18. Anti-redlining: amends Section 1 of the 
Communications Act to prohibit discrimination 
based upon race, national origin, religion, 
sex; applies to broadcasters, common 
carriers and cable. 
19. Disabilities: ensures access by disabled 
persons to telecommunications equipment 
and services, if readily achievable. 
20. Pricing Flexibility: provisions taken 
out. The provisions in both bills would have 
told the States to adopt price cap regulation 
with consumer safeguards. Companies and 
consumers are better off leaving these issues 
to the States. 
Specturm Flexibility: allows broadcasters 
to provide ancillary and supplementary services 
once they deploy HDTV. 

22. Preemption of state and local entry 
barriers: allows competition for local telephone 
service. 
23. Infrastructure Sharing: allows small 
telephone companies to share the infrastructure 
provided by the RBOCS; parties may negotiate 
the rates for such sharing. 
24. Payphones: prohibit the RBOCs from 
cross-subsidizing their payphone business. 
25. Broadcast License Renewal: extends 
radio license terms from 7 years to 8 years; 
extends television license terms from 5 years 
to 8 years. 
26. Anti-slamming: requires long distance 
companies to be liable for charges if they 
switch a customer to its long distance service 
unlawfully. 
27. Regulatory Forbearance: allows the 
FCC to forbear from applying any provision 
of the Act in the public interest. 
28. Educational Technology Corporation: 
Sen. Moseley-Braun sponsored this provision 
to allow this corporation to receive federal 
funds to provide technologies to schools. 
29. Telecommunications Development 
Fund: makes funds available for small telecommunications 
businesses; sponsored by 
Rep. Towns. 
ALARM MONITORING INDUSTRY 

Mr. HARKINS. Mr. President, I want 
to begin by making a comment to the 
Senator from South Dakota, the distinguished 
chairman of the Commerce 
Committee, and chairman of the Sen-
ate-House conference which labored 
long and hard to produce this bill. I 
want to thank the Senator for the attention 
he has personally given to the 
small business alarm industry. I know 
that on several occasions we have 
talked about the impact of this bill on 
the alarm industry, and when the bill 
was on the Senate floor last year we 
worked out an agreement on the waiting 
period prior to Bell entry into 
alarm monitoring. 

I also want to express my gratitude 
to the distinguished ranking member, 
the Senator from South Carolina, who 
has taken a special interest in the economic 
vitality of small businesses that 
comprise the alarm industry. 

There is one issue that deserves some 
additional clarification. The bill and 
the report language clearly prohibit 
any Bell company already in the industry 
from purchasing another alarm 
company for 5 years from date of enactment. 
However, it is not entirely 
clear whether such a Bell could cir


cumvent the prohibition by purchasing 
the underlying customer accounts and 
assets of an alarm company, but not 
the company itself. It was my understanding 
that the conferees intended to 
prohibit for 5 years the acquisition of 
other alarm companies in any form, including 
the purchases of customer accounts 
and assets. I would ask both the 
chairman and ranking member whether 
my understanding is correct? 

Mr. PRESSLER. Yes; the understanding 
of the Senator is correct. The 
language in the bill designed to prevent 
further acquisitions by a Bell engaged 
in alarm monitoring services as of November 
30, 1995, is intended to include a 
prohibition on the acquisition of the 
underlying customer accounts and assets 
by a Bell during the 5-year waiting 
period. 

This would not prohibit, as is stated 
in the bill, the so-called swap of accounts 
on a comparable basis, whereby 
a Bell which was engaged in alarm 
monitoring as of November 30, 1995, 
would be allowed to swap, or exchange, 
existing customer accounts for a similar 
number and value of customer accounts 
with a non-Bell alarm company. 

I thank the Senator for helping the 
committee to further clarify the meaning 
of the legislation in the area of 
alarm monitoring services. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I would agree with 
the explanation given by the chairman 
and am pleased to have this opportunity 
to further clarify our intent in 
the alarm industry provisions. 

Mr. President, I am trying to save 
time and yield to our distinguished colleague 
from North Dakota. While he is 
coming to the floor, let me first acknowledge 
the leadership and the understanding 
and, more than anything 
else, the persistence of our distinguished 
chairman. 

Senator PRESSLER has been a dogged 
fighter all last year. He set history, 
there is no question in my mind, in 
this particular measure. I have been 
here 28 years, now in my 29th year. I 
have been chairman of the Budget 
Committee, and on the Budget Committee 
for over 20 years, and this measure 
is far more complex than any annual 
budget or any nonsensical 7-year 
budget plan. It is totally ludicrous to 
think that we could bind Congresses 
into the next century. That is gamesmanship 
that has been going on. 

On the contrary, here is a bipartisan 
measure that was reported out overwhelmingly 
from our Commerce Committee, 
not only 2 years ago under S. 
1822, but again this year under S. 652. I 
will acknowledge and then get back to 
two leaders in this particular cause, in 
addition to our distinguished chair. 

The former chairman of our Communications 
Subcommittee and now ranking 
member, Senator DANIEL INOUYE of 
Hawaii, has been in the trenches all the 
time giving his leadership, and also 
most particularly to Judge Harold 
Greene. I do not see how, having 
worked intimately on this particular 
measure, one Federal judge could do 


S690 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the remarkable job that has been done 
by Judge Greene. 

Now we move from the judiciary 
back over to the jurisdiction of the 
Federal Communications Commission, 
let it be noted, not on account of any 
inadequacy of the court in the person 
of Judge Harold Greene, but rather because 
no single entity could possibly 
enunciate and pursue the policy of 
communications of the national Congress. 


Mr. President, I reserve the remainder 
of my time and yield 10 minutes, 
under our agreement, to the distinguished 
Senator from North Dakota. 

Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota. 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, the conference 
report on the telecommunications 
reform legislation embodies a 
unique characterization. While this report 
is, in many respects, a substantial 
improvement from either the Senate or 
House versions, it also invites one of 
the most serious policy errors of this 
Congress. 

This dramatic overhaul of our Nation’s 
communications laws will, in my 
judgement, lead to many significant 
advancements for American consumers 
and help spur an already explosive industry. 
Indeed, consumers will, in 
many areas, have more choices and 
lower prices. Also, there will, without a 
doubt, be thousands of new jobs created 
by the accelerated expansion of the 
telecommunications industry. 

The legislation that came out of the 
conference report is better than the 
bill that left the Senate and better 
than the bill that left the House. That 
is pretty unusual. We seldom ever see 
that in the Congress, but this is better. 

Last June, I voted against the telecommunications 
bill when it left the 
Senate for a number of reasons. One 
reason being the lack of the role of the 
Justice Department in determining 
when there is competition in the local 
exchange before the baby Bells will be 
allowed to go out and compete in the 
long distance service areas. 

As some may recall, a couple of us 
stood on the Senate floor and led the 
fight for a role of the Justice Department. 
We lost that vote, and I made 
the case then that this bill is supposed 
to be a bill about competition, a bill to 
promote, expand and foster competition 
when, in fact, if we do not have a 
Justice Department role, it is and can 
be increasingly a bill about monopolies 
and concentration. 

In the conference, they did address a 
Justice Department role. There will 
now be a strong role for the Justice Department 
in evaluating competition in 
local exchanges before allowing the 
Bell Companies to go out and compete 
in long distance service. The role provided 
for the Department of Justice 
will ensure that competition and anti-
trust issues will be reviewed adequately. 
This is an important guarantee 
that competition, and the innovation 
that results from healthy mar


ket forces, will be the centerpiece of 
our telecommunications policy. 

The conference report contains a 
bulk of the key rural provisions that 
are designed to protect rural areas. One 
provision will maintain the universal 
service system which ensures that 
rural and high cost areas will continue 
to receive affordable phone services. 
This issue is of enormous importance 
to those of us from small States. 

We have always felt that way about 
telephone service. A telephone in the 
smallest city in North Dakota or the 
smallest town in North Dakota is as 
important as a telephone in lower Manhattan 
in New York because one makes 
the other more valuable. The lack of 
universal opportunity and universal 
communications services is very troublesome. 
That is why we have a universal 
service fund. This conference report 
protects that and does so in a 
meaningful way. 

The conference report contains important 
provisions that will help link 
our schools, libraries, and rural hospitals 
with advanced telecommunications 
services. 

I do not want to oversell this piece of 
legislation either. There are deficiencies 
in it. There is one which gives 
me enormous pause and almost persuaded 
me to continue voting against 
it. This report makes some serious 
steps toward concentration in broadcasting 
by eliminating the television 
ownership cap. 

We now say you can own no more 
than 12 television stations covering no 
more than 25 percent of the population 
of the country. This report says, ‘‘By 
the way, we’ve changed that; you can 
own as many television stations as you 
want covering up to 35 percent of the 
population of this country.’’ I guarantee 
you, if that stands, a dozen years 
from now we will have six, maybe eight 
major companies owning most of the 
television stations in America. That is 
not a march toward competition; that 
is a march backwards towards concentration. 
It makes no sense. I almost 
voted against this bill because of that 
defect. 

Today, Senators HOLLINGS, DASCHLE, 
KERREY, and I are introducing a piece 
of legislation that will call for the restoration 
of those ownership limits. I 
believe very strongly that we ought 
not remove the ownership caps. 

Upon enactment of the conference report 
cable rates for 20 percent of Americans 
will go up. While the bill maintains 
controls on cable rates for the 
next 3 years, the fine print immediately 
lifts all controls for so-called 
small systems. Under this definition, 
over 60 percent of all North Dakota 
cable subscribers will likely see their 
rates increased. 

Again, I want to say we have seen a 
virtual explosion in the telecommunications 
area of this country. It has 
changed everything. I grew up in a 
town of 300 people. Every day that I 
went to school I understood, and everybody 
in our town understood, our 

major disadvantage was that we lived 
too far from everybody. We could not 
have a manufacturing plant because we 
were too remote, we were too far. 

Mr. President, do you know what 
telecommunications has done? Telecommunications 
makes Regent, ND, as 
close to Manhattan as is the Hudson 
River. The telecommunications revolution 
has eliminated a whole range of 
products and services, and the disadvantage 
of geography. 

We see telecommunications firms 
springing up all over the country in 
rural areas. Why? Because geography is 
no longer a disadvantage. We see 
breathtaking changes occurring all 
over this country with firms that have 
innovative approaches to transmitting 
information, to new telephone services. 

We are going to see cable companies 
compete with new telephone services 
and new transmission of data. We are 
going to see broadcast signals change 
dramatically to be able to transmit information 
services. Everything is 
changing. There will be circumstances 
in our future in which you will have access 
to every corner of this country 
and probably every corner of the globe 
with the latest information and with 
the most breathtaking technology that 
any of us can imagine. All of this is occurring 
despite the fact that our communications 
laws are 61 years old and 
in desperate need of revision. 

Again, let me say that it is unusual 
to come to the floor and say this is a 
better bill than the bill that left the 
Senate, or the House last year, and this 
advances the interests of telecommunications 
in this country. The people who 
worked on this bill did awfully good 
work, and I commend them. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, I 
thank the distinguished Senator from 
North Dakota for his leadership and 
participation within the committee. 
Throughout the entire debate, it was 
his influence, and he almost won a vote 
on the floor. At one time, it seemed 
down in the well here he had prevailed. 
That kind of pressure I welcome, because 
I happen to have agreed with 
him. But you have to get together in a 
bipartisan fashion in order to get 
things done. I emphasize that. I will 
also join as a cosponsor on the bill of 
the distinguished Senator. I think the 
Senator from Vermont momentarily is 
proceeding to the floor. 

Mr. DORGAN. If I might ask a question, 
Mr. President, the Senator is correct. 
I did prevail on a vote on the Senate 
floor, and dinner intervened, and 
about eight people came back with 
arms in slings and we had another vote 
and it turns out that some people 
changed their minds over dinner, and I 
lost. Some of that was remedied later. 

One additional comment. The reason 
competition is so important—and the 
Senator has talked about it—is that we 
have seen the result in long distance. 
We have 500 companies in long distance 
competing aggressively in this country, 
and prices have dropped 60 percent. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S691 

That is good for this country. We want 
to make sure the companies competing 
in those circumstances do not face unfair 
competition. That is why we were 
so concerned about the Justice role. I 
appreciate the work the Senator did to 
restore the role of the Justice Department 
in conference. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
that the chairman yield me 10 minutes. 

Mr. PRESSLER. I yield the Senator 
10 minutes. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I think 
this is among one of the most significant 
days I have been here on the floor 
of the Senate. The 1934 Communications 
Act has served this Nation well. 
It brought us from a country with a 
fledgling communications system to 
the age of telecommunications. And 
now with the advent of digital communications 
becoming universal, this bill 
is absolutely necessary to assure the 
expansion of these industries that depend 
upon telecommunications. 

This is not a total deregulation bill. 
It is not time yet for a total deregulation 
bill. We are dealing with a bill 
that lessens regulation. But it is not a 
re-regulation bill. It begins to bring 
into our present system the total 
power of competition, with the approval 
of the National Government. 

I think one needs only to look at the 
definitions to see the scope of this bill 
as compared to the 1934 act. Look at it: 
Dialing parity, exchange access, information 
service, interLATA services, 
local exchange carriers, network elements, 
number portability, rural telephone 
companies, telecommunications, 
telecommunications carrier. If you 
look at the scope of the definitions 
alone, it signifies the changes in our 
system that are driven by telecommunications. 


I am particularly pleased to be here 
with the two leaders of our committee, 
who have worked so hard—Senator 
PRESSLER, as chairman and Senator 
HOLLINGS, the ranking member and 
former chairman. We have worked 
many years now to bring us to this 
day, where we could literally say that 
we are ready now to take the telecommunications 
industry of the United 
States into the 21st century. 

In doing so, we have been careful to 
recognize that there are places in the 
country that have not been totally 
served by the existing telephone and 
information communications system. 
This bill has extensive universal service 
concepts. It has specific provisions 
regarding telecommunications services 
for health care providers, education 
providers, education and secondary 
schools. It is a bill, the scope of which 
I think every American is going to 
have, at some time, reason to understand. 


I am going to present here, soon, a 
unanimous-consent request to assure 
that there will be sufficient copies 
printed so that we can immediately 
send a copy of this conference report to 
those people in our individual States 
that must have this law available as 
soon as it is signed. 

I believe you could literally say, 
without being thought of as improper 
at all, that this is going to be the telecommunications 
‘‘bible.’’ This is a bill 
that sets new parameters. It sets new 
requirements. It changes the authority 
of the Federal Communications Commission. 
It deals with the scope of the 
authority of the State commissioners, 
as well as with the regulation of utilities. 
In some places, it preempts State 
and local authorities, which is something 
I am very, very slow to do, but in 
this instance, I agree that it is necessary. 


The real reason, I think, for the application 
of this now relates back to 
the suggestion I made to the Congress 
many years ago that we ought to stop 
having lotteries for the excess capacity 
on the broadcast spectrum. In days 
gone by, Mr. President, for $20, you 
would file an application without having 
any interest at all in the broadcast 
system or the telecommunications system, 
and if there was a spectrum available, 
there would be a lottery. If you 
were lucky, you then got the spectrum 
license, and immediately the world 
beat a path to your door to get the certificate 
that you had just won in a lottery. 


We thought, and I thought, that we 
ought to auction that available spectrum, 
which is, after all, something 
that belongs to the public. I felt it had 
a substantial chance to bring in revenue. 
Mr. President, the first estimate 
we got from the Congressional Budget 
Office, if memory serves me, was that 
it would bring in about $250 million if 
we auctioned these licenses rather than 
having lotteries. I remember a conversation 
very well with the Chairman 
of the FCC, Reed Hunt, where he told 
me they had taken in $12 billion last 
year from the auction of spectrum licenses. 


We now are in the budget process of 
planning additional amounts to come 
in from spectrum. As we do so—and 
there has been discussions here on the 
floor—we have to keep in mind the equities 
of the situation and the fact that 
the telecommunications system is not 
all going to transition to digital concepts 
immediately. It is going to take 
time, and it is going to take the formation 
of a substantial amount of capital 
to be able to utilize the powers and 
privileges that are available to the 
American business and American public 
under this bill. 

I hope everyone realizes it is not 
going to happen overnight. There may 
be some substantial challenges in court 
to some of these provisions. We are not 
unanimous here, and certainly the industry 
is not unanimous in terms of 
every provision in the bill. But I view 
this bill as an interim measure, Mr. 
President. I hope that our successors in 
the Senate, within 10 or 15 years, will 
move forward and take us into an era 
where there is even greater impact of 
competition and of the marketplace, 
and a reduced need for any Government 
involvement in this system. I described 

once to a friend of mine that I believe 
the current system is a series of playing 
fields, but they are on different levels. 
It is like they are on different levels 
of a very tall building. We have 
been talking, in the past, about trying 
to level the playing field. But you 
could not do it because some were on 
one floor and some on another, and 
now we have tried to find a way to literally 
level the playing field and set 
down the rules for competition. I do believe 
that we have succeeded. Even 
though I still have some reservation as 
to portions of this bill, as I know others 
do. We have succeeded. 

There was a reluctance on the part of 
many people to present this bill to the 
Congress. I am glad it has come because 
I think its time has come. We 
have spent, those of us on the Commerce 
Committee now, I think, the last 
4 years working on a version of this 
bill. This means, now, that we have the 
chance to send to the President an advanced 
telecommunications and information 
bill that is generally accepted. 
There is a general consensus that this 
is timely and that the provisions are 
right. Those who have reservations, I 
hope they will be careful, because I 
think to force this country back to relying 
once again on the 1934 Act would 
be wrong. 

The Members of the House who 
worked on this bill, particularly Chairman 
BLILEY, I think deserve substantial 
credit. And we ought to have credit 
here for the staff. I hope my staff assistant 
joins me soon, but Earl Com-
stock, who has worked with the Commerce 
Committee as one of the 
draftsmen on this bill, joins the ranks 
of a few members of the staff who literally 
deserve credit for what they 
have done to bring us together by getting 
the language that meets our needs 
and eliminates the controversy among 
us over particular provisions. 

I am very pleased to be able to 
present this bill and be part of the 
group that presents this bill to the 
Senate. I have signed the conference 
report. Not all of us did. I do think it 
is imperative we act, and I congratulate 
the leader for being willing to 
bring this bill forward under these circumstances 
today. 

Let me once again thank Senator 
PRESSLER for his leadership on our 
side, for the hard work that he has 
done. As he pointed out to others, he 
has been on call and so have the rest of 
us, literally daily and through the 
weekends and on holidays as our staff 
people labor to carry out the instructions 
that we had given them and to reflect 
the decisions we made accurately 
in the text of this bill. 

I have followed drafting of legislative 
bills now for a substantial portion of 
my life, Mr. President. I think this is 
the finest drafted bill I have been able 
to participate in. I congratulate the 
staff members who worked so hard and 
so long. 

Let me say to my good friend, the 
former chairman of the committee, 


S692 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Senator HOLLINGS, I know how hard he 
worked in the last session, and Senator 
PRESSLER and I joined and worked hard 
with him, trying to get the bill during 
the period that he was chairman. This 
is a bipartisan bill. I think, by passing 
this bill, we may send a signal to the 
Congress. It is time we stop the fighting 
among us and start getting down to 
passing the laws that the Nation needs 
to provide the new job opportunities 
for the next century. 

As Chairman PRESSLER has said, this 
is the largest jobs bill that has ever 
been before the Senate. This has more 
to do with developing new technologies, 
implementing new technologies, 
and stimulating the growth of 
new business than any bill I have ever 
been involved with. 

I am delighted to be able to be here. 
As a matter of fact—again, I will yield 
in a moment, but I want to reserve a 
portion of the time to be able to ask 
later for agreement to the unanimous 
consent agreements being framed that 
will make available immediately an 
additional 5,000 copies of this as a Senate 
document so we can distribute this 
as soon as it is available. 

I come from a State, Mr. President, 
one-fifth the size of the United States. 
It is rural in nature. We have a small 
population. We have people in our 
State who are just now getting telephone 
service as known to the rest of 
the country for the whole century, almost. 
Now, what we have assured here, 
as this program goes forward, is that 
universal service will be available to 
rural areas. It will be the state-of-the-
art telecommunications system. It will 
mean that the small schools in rural 
America will have access to modern 
technology, and can participate 
through telecommunications. It means 
that telemedicine will now come to my 
State. 

My State, when I first came here, had 
no assistance whatever for people in 
small villages. They had to find their 
way to Indian hospitals in regional 
areas. We created a system of clinics. 
Those clinics are, by and large, operated 
by young women from the villages 
who have a high school education and 
some technical training now. This bill 
means telecommunications will bring 
telemedicine in. They will be able to 
have a direct exposure of patients to 
doctors miles and miles away. They 
will be able to get assistance in dealing 
with mothers who have complications 
in pregnancies. 

This bill, above all the things I have 
dealt with—in particular universal 
service, eligible telecommunications 
carriers, and rate integration, opens 
the whole horizon of telecommunications 
to the people of this country, 
and it does so on a fair basis. It has 
been criticized by some, but the universal 
service provisions that I mentioned 
when I first started my comments 
here, I think are the most important 
to me. They mean that rural 
America will come into the 21st century 
with everyone else as far as tele


communications is concerned. I could 
not be more happy that the bill is here. 
I could not be more proud of those who 
have worked on it and to be able to be 
part of the group that presents it to 
the Senate. I urge its early approval. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
of the Senator has expired. 

Mr. PRESSLER. I pay tribute to Senator 
STEVENS of Alaska. He is the father 
of spectrum auctions. In my opinion, 
he is a real U.S. Senator. Everybody 
seems to be leaving the Senate, 
and they get a 21-gun salute when they 
leave. Some stay and do the hard work 
on difficult bills. TED STEVENS is such 
a man. He and Senator HOLLINGS are 
examples of people who stay and do 
public service—honest, hard-working 
experts on this technical legislation. 

Some day I will be a professor in a 
university, I hope, out in western 
South Dakota. One of my lectures will 
be on real U.S. Senators—those who 
are not necessarily media stars, but 
who do the hard, honest work on the 
technical things, the real U.S. Senators. 
Certainly TED STEVENS is one of 
those, along with Senator HOLLINGS. I 
believe both are in about their fifth 
term, and if they announced they were 
retiring, they would get a 21-gun salute. 


I thank TED STEVENS, the father of 
spectrum auctions and one of the originators 
of this legislation. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, let 
me join in the comments of my chairman. 
There is not any question that we 
would not have this bill if we did not 
have TED STEVENS and his wonderful 
leadership and work. He took over the 
so-called farm team. 

We have been working for 4 years, as 
the Senator from South Dakota knows. 
The farm team, the rural areas—we 
wanted to protect those. We learned in 
airline deregulation that we did not 
protect the rural areas, sparsely settled 
areas. So we made, under the leadership 
of Senator STEVENS, requirements 
that any competition, any competitor 
coming in must serve the entire 
area, and the States had the authority 
to say how that competition would develop 
in the rural areas. 

We provided infrastructure sharing 
with the RBOC’s, and on down the list. 
That is all attributed to the wisdom of 
our distinguished Senator and colleague 
from Alaska. I join in the complimentary 
remarks made by my distinguished 
chairman. 

The Senator from Vermont has given 
leadership to this from the very beginning 
and has had various provisions in 
the bill while we debated it on the 
floor, and I want to thank him publicly 
for his leadership. I yield now 10 minutes 
under our time agreement. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I thank 
my good friend from South Carolina, a 
man whom I have been privileged to 
serve with in my whole Senate career. 
He was already a senior Member of the 
Senate when I came here. I appreciate 
all the help he has given me. I appreciate 
the fact that he and the chairman 

were able to protect the Breaux-Leahy 
amendment on 1-plus dialing parity as 
part of the conference report to permit 
intraLATA toll dialing parity requirements 
to stand in States that already 
ordered it by December 19, 1995, and in 
single-LATA States like Vermont. Preserving 
this amendment, which Senator 
BREAUX and I worked out on this 
floor, has helped my State. 

There are so many things I like 
about this bill. For example, the conference 
agreement places restrictions 
on buyouts between phone companies 
and cable. The conference agreement 
also includes a very strong savings 
clause to make clear that mergers between 
companies in the media and 
communications markets are subject 
to a thorough antitrust review. 

Competition, not concentration, is 
the surest way to assure lower prices 
and greater choices for consumers. So, 
while there are some improvements in 
this legislation that I support, I will 
not be voting in favor. 

I have expressed my concern on the 
lack of a stronger Department of Justice 
role in evaluating the anticompetitive 
effect of a Bell operating 
company’s entry into the long-distance 
market, as well as my concern that 
this legislation is placing censorship 
restrictions on the Internet. As a user 
of the Internet and as one who communicates 
electronically with constituents 
and others around the country, I 
am concerned this legislation places 
restrictions on the Internet that will 
come back to haunt us. 

I know these provisions were done 
with the best of intentions. All of us, 
100 Members of the U.S. Senate, oppose 
the idea of child pornography. All of us 
abhor child pornographers and child 
abusers. I am one person who has prosecuted, 
convicted, and sent to prison 
child abusers. We do not have to demonstrate 
our adherence to that principle. 
But I am concerned we have not 
upheld our adherence to the first 
amendment with the proposed restrictions 
on the Internet. That creates an 
overwhelming barrier for me. 

I am also concerned that after passing 
the 1992 Cable Act over a Presidential 
veto, that we are now taking 
the lid off all cable rates in 3 years, 
whether or not there is competition in 
cable service. Before the 1992 Cable Act 
was passed, cable rates were rising 
three times faster than inflation rates. 
I do not think you can name a consumer 
in this country who did not feel 
that he or she was being gouged. 

But the law worked. Since passage of 
the law, consumers have saved an estimated 
$3.5 billion in their monthly 
bills. And, as the rates have gone down, 
more people have signed up. In 1994 
alone, nearly 2.5 million new customers 
have signed up for cable service. 

I do not want to see a repeat of the 
skyrocketing cable rates that prompted 
passage of that law. It is too easy to 
see what might happen if the cable 
companies are not restrained, either by 
competition or by laws. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S693 

I do not have cable in my home in 
Vermont. I live out in the country 
where we get 11/2 channels. I think 
sometimes I am blessed by that because 
I actually get to read, which is a 
good way of obtaining the news. You 
can make up your own mind. You can 
read in detail or not, and not be limited 
by the photographs selected by 
multimillion-dollar news media. 

But I digress. 

With the cable company I subscribe 
to here, you get these $2 remote controls 
but they charge you $3 a month, 
or something like that. They can give 
you antiquated equipment and charge 
as though you were getting good equipment 
and even make it impossible to 
watch one show and tape another one. 
All the things that sound great are not 
available because there is no competition. 
We are about to make that even 
worse. We had some restrictions in the 
cable bill, but I am afraid we are going 
to let them go before we have the protections 
provided by effective competition. 


I must admit, having said all that, I 
do not envy the managers of this bill. 
This is probably the most complex 
piece of legislation I think I have seen 
in 21 years. It has probably had more 
conflicting interests that had to be reconciled 
than I have seen in 21 years. 

I commend the Senators who had the 
ability to stick it out and bring it this 
far. Senators still have to determine 
whether they will vote for it or not, 
but whether you like or dislike different 
parts, we can all appreciate the 
hard work and long hours it took. 

The telecommunications legislation 
that has emerged from the conference 
will have an enormous impact on 
multibillion dollar cable, phone and 
broadcast industries and, most importantly, 
on the American consumer. 
This legislation will affect how much 
we pay and from whom we can obtain 
cable, TV, phone, fax, and information 
services. It will also, unfortunately, affect 
what we can say online. 

We have heard a lot about the support 
for this legislation by the Bell 
phone companies, AT&T and other 
long-distance phone companies, the 
giant cable companies and other media 
interests. But while they have been arguing 
over business advantages, who 
have been advocates for American consumers 
and fundamental American values, 
like first amendment free speech 
rights? 

Most of us have no choice who gives 
us cable TV service or our local phone 
service. Whether or not the service is 
good, we are stuck with our local 
phone or cable company. And, if the 
price is too high, our only choice is to 
drop the service altogether. The goal of 
this telecommunications legislation 
must be to foster competition, not just 
for the short term, but over the long 
haul. Competition will give consumers 
lower prices and more choices than 
simply dropping a service. 

I raised a number of questions about 
the Senate-passed bill, and fought for 

several amendments that in my view 
would have made the bill more consumer-
friendly, pro-competitive and 
constitutional. I commend the conferees 
for the progress they made in 
several of these areas, which I detail 
below. 

First, the bill proposed by the Commerce 
Committee would have permitted 
our local phone monopoly to 
buy out our local cable monopoly so 
that consumers have even less choice 
rather than more. Senator THURMOND, 
the distinguished chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee’s Antitrust Subcommittee, 
and I raised concerns that 
allowing such unlimited buyouts between 
monopoly phone companies and 
cable companies could result in giant 
monopolies providing both phone and 
video programming services. 

The conference agreement makes a 
significant improvement in these provisions 
by limiting buy-outs between 
cable and phone companies to rural 
areas where fewer than 35,000 people 
live. The conference agreement also 
limits a phone company’s purchase of 
cable systems to less than 10 percent of 
the households in its service area. This 
will insure that a single large phone 
company cannot simply buy up all the 
small cable systems serving the small 
towns in its service area. This part of 
the conference agreement helps fulfill 
the promise of the bill to maximize 
competition between local phone companies 
and cable companies. 

The conference agreement also contains 
a very strong ‘‘savings clause’’ to 
make clear that mergers between cable 
and telephone companies, or between 
independent telephone companies or 
between any companies in the media 
and communications markets are subject 
to a thorough antitrust review 
under the normal Hart-Scott-Rodino 
process. Nothing in this conference 
agreement even impliedly preempts 
our Federal antitrust laws. Mega-mergers 
between telecommunications giants, 
such as the rumored merger between 
NYNEX and Bell Atlantic, or the 
gigantic network mergers now underway, 
raise obvious concerns about concentrating 
control in a few gigantic 
companies of both the content and 
means of distributing the information 
and entertainment American consumers 
receive. Competition, not concentration, 
is the surest way to assure 
lower prices and greater choices for 
consumers. Rigorous oversight and enforcement 
by our antitrust agencies is 
more important than ever to insure 
that such megamergers do not harm 
consumers. 

I have been particularly concerned 
about how well the telecommunications 
legislation protects universal 
service. Vermont is among the most 
rural States in the country, but those 
of us who live there do not want to be 
denied access to the advanced telecommunications 
services our urban 
neighbors enjoy. I, therefore, commend 
the conference report for including the 
Snowe-Rockefeller-Exon-Kerry provi


sion requiring preferential rates for 
telecommunications services provided 
to schools, libraries, and hospitals in 
rural areas, which I supported. This requirement 
provides an important building 
block to ensure universal access to 
advanced telecommunications services. 
Students whose families cannot afford 
sophisticated hi-technology services at 
home will be able to use those services 
at school or at their neighborhood public 
library. Rural hospitals will be able 
to use advanced technology to provide 
better treatment at lower costs to 
their patients. This provision assures 
the broadest possible access to advanced 
telecommunications services. 

I am also pleased to see that the conference 
report includes the addition of 
a State-appointed consumer advocate 
to the newly created Federal-State 
joint board. This board will have the 
critical task of preserving and expanding 
universal service, and I agree with 
the conference that a consumer advocate 
will bring a necessary and important 
perspective to that task. 

The conference agreement also 
adopts a provision designed to make 
cable equipment cheaper and easier to 
use for all consumers, who are tired of 
paying rent for cable converter boxes 
and struggling with multiple clickers 
for the TV set-top box and their video 
machines. This provision is one that 
Senator THURMOND and I urged to be 
included as part of the telecommunications 
legislation in the last Congress. 
Under the conference agreement, the 
FCC is directed to assure the competitive 
availability to consumers of converter 
boxes and other electronic 
equipment used to access cable video 
programming services. 

As a member of the Judiciary Committee, 
I remain ready to address the 
copyright issues that will arise as a result 
of this legislation. There was no 
consideration of copyright matters 
during the debate over this legislation 
and I commend the conferees for not 
prejudging these matters. 

The bill proposed by the Commerce 
Committee would have unnecessarily 
preempted State efforts to promote the 
development of competition in local 
phone service. Richard Cowart, the 
chairman of the Vermont Public Service 
Board, provided invaluable testimony 
to the Antitrust Subcommittee 
last year about the detrimental preemption 
provisions in the bill. 

For example, this bill rolled-back 
State requirements to implement ‘‘1+’’ 
dialing parity for short-haul toll calls. 
A number of States already require dialing 
parity. Without ‘‘1+’’ dialing parity, 
consumers must dial lengthy access 
codes to use carriers other than 
the local phone company for in-State 
toll calls. IntraLATA ‘‘1+’’ dialing parity 
encourages competition in the in-
State toll market and helps consumers. 

As I noted before, I am pleased that 
the Breaux-Leahy amendment on ‘‘1+’’ 
dialing parity is part of the conference 
report. The report permits dialing parity 
requirements to stand in the States 


S694 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

that already ordered it by December 19, 
1995, and in single-LATA States, including 
Vermont. The prohibition 
against ‘‘1+’’ dialing parity for 
intraLATA calls in nongrandfathered 
States expires at a date certain 3 years 
after enactment. 

In addition, the Commerce Committee 
bill would have prohibited State 
regulators from using rate-of-return 
regulation for large phone companies. 
As Chairman Cowart of the Vermont 
Public Service Board made clear when 
he testified, this prohibition would 
have tied the hands of State regulators 
trying to adopt different forms of pricing 
regulation to stimulate local phone 
service competition. The conference 
agreement took a constructive step by 
dropping the prohibition on rate-of-return 
regulation. 

Despite this significant progress, the 
conference agreement still suffers from 
such serious flaws that I cannot support 
it. 

First, and foremost, the conference 
agreement contains unconstitutional 
provisions that would impose far-
reaching new Federal crimes for so-
called indecent speech. I do not often 
agree with Speaker GINGRICH, but I 
share his view that this legislation violates 
free speech rights. 

Apparently, the conferees also have 
serious doubts about its constitutionality. 
They added a section to 
speed up judicial review to see if the 
legislation passes constitutional muster. 
In my view, this legislation will 
not pass that test. 

You would think the telecommunications 
conference would have their 
hands full with just the task of changing 
our communications laws to allow 
new competition among phone companies, 
broadcasters, cable operators, and 
wireless systems while also protecting 
universal service and other appropriate 
consumer protections. Yet, they also 
decided to add new Federal crimes, despite 
the absence of any hearings on 
these provisions, or any Senate Judiciary 
Committee members on the conference. 
I called for an in-depth, fast-
track study of these issues before we 
took precipitous action in legislation. 
That study was included in the House-
passed bill but dropped by the conference, 
in favor of provisions that will 
ban constitutionally protected speech 
on the Internet. 

I note that the explanatory statement 
accompanying the conference report 
refers to a July 24, 1995 hearing, at 
which I participated, before the Senate 
Judiciary Committee on ‘‘online indecency, 
obscenity, and child endangerment.’’ 
This hearing did not address 
the constitutionality of the indecency 
standard adopted by the conference report, 
nor the least restrictive means by 
which to implement such a standard, 
particularly in an electronic environment 
like the Internet. The hearing referred 
to in the statement of the conference 
committee dealt with stalking, 
obscenity and indecency with regard to 
an entirely different bill, S. 892. No wit


nesses at the hearing defended the constitutionality 
of the indecency standard 
in the telecommunications bill. 
Nor did any witness testifying in support 
of S. 892 examine in detail whether 
the indecency standard as applied to 
online communications complies with 
the least restrictive means test. On the 
contrary, several witnesses questioned 
whether any indecency standard could 
be constitutional as applied to online 
communications. Thus, Congress has 
opted to appear tough on pornography 
without examining the constitutional 
implications of this unprecedented restriction 
on freedom of expression. 

Let us make no mistake about what 
these provisions in the conference 
agreement will do and how it could affect 
you. 

The bill will make it a felony crime 
to send a private e-mail message with 
an indecent or filthy word that you 
hope will annoy another person, even if 
you were responding in kind to an e-
mail message you received. Who knows 
when you might annoy another person 
with your e-mail message? To avoid liability 
under this legislation, users of 
e-mail will have to ban curse words and 
other expressions that might be characterized 
as offensive from their online 
vocabulary. 

The bill will punish with 2-year jail 
terms any Internet user who uses one 
of the seven dirty words in a message 
to a minor. You will risk criminal liability 
by using a computer to share 
with a child any material containing 
indecent passages. In some areas of the 
country, a copy of Seventeen magazine, 
could be viewed as indecent because it 
contains information on sex and sexuality. 
Indeed, this magazine is among 
the 10 most frequently challenged 
school library materials in the country. 


This legislation sweeps more broadly 
than just regulating e-mail messages 
sent to children. It will impose felony 
penalties for using an indecent four-
letter word, or discussing material 
deemed to be indecent, on electronic 
bulletin boards or Internet chat areas 
accessible to children. 

Once this bill becomes law, no longer 
will Internet users be able to engage in 
free-wheeling discussions in news 
groups and other areas on the Internet 
accessible to minors. They will have to 
limit all language used and topics discussed 
to that appropriate for kindergartners, 
just in case a minor clicks 
onto the discussion. No literary quotes 
from racy parts of Catcher in the Rye 
or Ulysses will be allowed. Certainly 
online discussions of safe sex practices, 
of birth control methods, and of AIDS 
prevention methods will be suspect. 
Any user who crosses the vague and undefined 
line of indecency will be subject 
to two years in jail and fines. 

Imagine if the Whitney Museum, 
which currently operates a Web page, 
were dragged into court for permitting 
representations of Michelangelo’s 
David to be looked at by kids. 

The conferees call this a display prohibition 
and explain that it ‘‘applies to 

content providers who post indecent 
material for online display without 
taking precautions that shield that 
material from minors.’’ 

What precautions are the conferees 
talking about? What precautions will 
Internet users have to take to avoid 
criminal liability? These users, after 
all, are the ones who provide the content 
read in news groups and on electronic 
bulletin boards. The legislation 
gives the FCC authority to describe the 
precautions that can be taken to avoid 
criminal liability. All Internet users 
will have to wait and look to the FCC 
for what they must do to protect themselves 
from criminal liability. 

We have already seen the chilling effect 
that even the prospect of this legislation 
has had on online service providers. 
A few weeks ago, America Online 
deleted the profile of a Vermonter 
who communicated with fellow breast 
cancer survivors online. Why? Because, 
according to AOL, she used the vulgar 
word ‘‘breast’’. AOL later apologized 
and indicated it would permit the use 
of that word where appropriate. 

Complaints by German prosecutors 
prompted another online service provider 
to cut off subscriber access to 
over 200 Internet news groups with the 
words ‘‘sex’’, ‘‘gay’’ or ‘‘erotica’’ in the 
name. They censored such groups as 
‘‘clarinet.news.gays,’’ which is an on-
line newspaper focused on gay issues, 
and ‘‘gay-net.coming-out’’, which is a 
support group for gay men and women 
dealing with going public with their 
sexual orientation. 

What is next? The Washington Post 
reports today that one software program 
used to protect children from offensive 
material blocked the White 
House home page because it showed 
pictures of two couples together. Those 
two couples happened to be the President 
and Mrs. Clinton and the Vice-
President and Mrs. Gore. Will Federal 

Government censors do any better 
when they dictate blocking technologies? 


The Communications Decency Act is 
the U.S. Government’s answer to the 
problem that China is dealing with by 
creating an intranet. According to 
news reports, this censored version of 
the Internet allows Chinese users on-
line access to each other, but an official 
censor controls all outside access 
to the world-wide Internet. 

We already have crimes on the books 
that apply to the Internet, by banning 
obscenity, child pornography, and 
threats from being distributed over 
computers. In fact, just before Christmas, 
the President signed a new law we 
passed last year sharply increasing 
penalties for child pornography and 
sexual exploitation crimes. 

Unlike these current laws, which do 
not regulate constitutionally protected 
speech, this legislation would censor 
indecent speech. While the proponents 
of the proposals claim that they do not 
ban indecency—only prohibit making 
it available to minors—the practical 
result of such a restriction on the 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S695 

Internet is the criminalization of all 
indecent speech. 

Because indecency means very different 
things to different people, an unimaginable 
amount of valuable political, 
artistic, scientific and other 
speech will disappear in this new medium. 
What about, for example, the 
university health service that posts information 
online about birth control 
and protections against the spread of 
AIDS? With many students in college 
under 18, this information would likely 
disappear under threat of prosecution. 
In bookstores and on library shelves 
the protection of indecent speech is 
clear, and the courts are unwavering. 
Altering the protections of the first 
amendment for online communications 
could cripple this new mode of communication. 


The Internet is a great new communications 
medium. We should not underestimate 
the effect that the heavy-
hand of Government regulation will 
have on its future growth both here 
and abroad. With the passage of this 
bill the U.S. Government is paving the 
way for the censorship of Internet 
speech. Apparently, China already censors 
weather predictions from foreigners. 
What do we think the Iranian 
Government will make illegal? What 
could Libya ban and criminalize? 

Also, as I alluded earlier, I continue 
to have grave concerns about letting 
the Bell operating companies, with 
their monopoly control over the phone 
wires going into our homes, enter the 
long-distance market even when the 
Department of Justice finds an anticompetitive 
impact. I supported efforts 
to amend the bill and give the Justice 
Department the authority to review 
the Bell companies’ long-distance 
entry in advance. These efforts were 
unsuccessful. 

The conference report requires the 
FCC to consult with the Justice Department 
and give substantial weight 
to the Justice Department’s opinion, in 
determining whether to permit entry 
of a Bell company into long-distance 
service. Although this provision 
strengthens the Senate-passed bill, it 
does not go far enough. It fails to 
achieve the balance proposed by the 
Commerce Committee in 1994. In the 
end, the FCC is the final decision 
maker and can decide to disregard the 
Justice Department’s evaluation of the 
anticompetitive effect of letting the 
Bell companies offer long-distance 
service. 

The conference agreement would permit 
a Bell company to offer long distance 
service in its own region, upon 
approval by the FCC and after satisfying 
an in-region checklist. This 
checklist could be satisfied by the presence 
of a competitor with its own networking 
facilities. Despite recognition 
by the conferees that building local 
telephone network facilities will require 
a significant investment in time 
and money, the bill allows only 10 
months after enactment for facilities-
based competitors to get established 
and apply for interconnection and access 
to the Bell company’s network. 

Absent a facilities-based competitor in 
those 10 months, I fear that the language 
of this bill could be interpreted 
broadly to allow the Bell operating 
company to seek approval to enter 
long-distance service, and authorize 
the FCC to grant that approval, even 
without any actual competition in 
local phone service. The short time-
frame provided in the bill to establish 
a facilities-based competitor, compounded 
by the lack of a dispositive 
Justice Department role in the approval 
process, could provide the incumbent 
Bell company with the ability 
to use its stranglehold monopoly on 
local service to leverage its new long-
distance service, to the detriment of 
consumers. Regulators will have to be 
vigilant to this potential consequence. 

As I noted, the conference agreement 
takes the lid off all cable rates in 3 
years, whether or not there is any competition 
in cable service. 

We passed the 1992 Cable Act over a 
Presidential veto because consumers 
were being gouged by cable company 
monopolists. Cable rates were rising 
three times faster than the inflation 
rate. Consumers demanded action to 
stop the rising cable rates. This law 
worked. Since passage of that law, consumers 
have saved an estimated $3.5 
billion in their monthly rates. As rates 
have gone down, more people have 
signed up. 

Congress has already responded once 
to complaints of cable subscribers in 
the 1992 Cable Act. I, for one, do not 
want to see a repeat of the sky-rocketing 
cable rates that prompted passage 
of that law. The conferees must be 
predicting that, in 3 years, cable companies 
will face plenty of competition 
from satellite systems and phone companies 
offering video services. But if 
their prediction is accurate, and the 
cable companies faced effective competition, 
they would be deregulated 
under the 1992 Cable Act anyway. This 
is a precipitous action to sunset a law 
that worked to reduce cable rates on 
the hope that effective competition 
will grow over the next 3 years. 

Finally, the conference report requires 
the FCC to preempt State or 
local rules that may have the effect of 
barring any entity from providing telecommunications 
services. Although the 
report says this is not supposed to affect 
local management of public rights-
of-way or local safeguards for the 
rights of consumers, in Vermont, citizens 
are rightly concerned that rules 
designed to protect our environment 
and health may be preempted by bureaucrats 
at the FCC who are focused 
on helping entrants in the telecommunications 
business. 

I recognize the need for an over-haul 
of our communications laws. We have 
not kept up with the dramatic technological 
changes that are fueling the Information 
Age. But I cannot support 
this bill, which threatens fundamental 
constitutional rights of free speech 
over the Internet and provides insufficient 
consumer protection from monopolistic 
pricing for cable and telephone 
service. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Dakota. 

COMMENDING STAFF 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, 
should pay tribute to the staff on both 
sides who have worked so hard on this. 

On our side of the aisle there has 
been Paddy Link, Katie King, Donald 
McClellan and Earl Comstock. On the 
Democratic side, Kevin Curtin, John 
Windhausen, Kevin Joseph and Chris 
McClean. The committee’s legislative 
counsel, Lloyd Ator. All this staff has 
done a magnificent job. 

Let me also mention the dilligent efforts 
of David Wilson, Mark Buse, 
Brett Scott, Jeanne Bumpus, Dave 
Hoppe, Kevin Pritchett, Margaret 
Cummisky, Tom Zoeller and Cheryl 
Bruner. 

I do not know if people know it, but 
the only days the staff got off were 
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and 
barely Christmas Eve, in drafting this 
technical legislation and in all the negotiations. 
This piece of legislation 
was drafted entirely by Senators and 
staff. Many times there have been accusations 
that legislation was drafted 
by outsiders, but this technical piece of 
legislation was drafted line by line by 
Senators and staff. Many times we 
would have to call a Senator on the 
weekends and ask about a line or word 
change. 

I do not know if people realize how 
hard these staff people work. I just 
wanted to pay tribute to them because, 
to me this technical document is a remarkable 
achievement. They did it as 
public servants. 

One day I went in on a Sunday and 
bought them some pizza. I said, ‘‘Someday 
a judge may look down upon you 
from his bench and say, ‘Obviously, 
counsel does not know what he or she 
is talking about.’ And you can look up 
at the judge and say, ‘Oh, yes, I do. I 
wrote that.’’’ 

That is not their motive. But these 
young people should be heralded. 
Again, I pay tribute to the staff on 
both sides of the aisle. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Carolina. 

COMMENDING STAFF 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, 
awaiting the attendance here, to deliver 
his comments, of the distinguished 
Senator from Nebraska, Senator 
KERREY, let me join with my distinguished 
chairman in thanking the 
hardest-working staff I have ever been 
associated with during my years. 

The truth is, as the Senator from 
South Dakota has said, they only had 
that 1 day off at Thanksgiving. We 
worked all weekends and everything 
else. But this started, really, in October 
1993. We had worked very hard, gotten 
a three-fourths vote of the U.S. 
Senate on a manufacturing bill. We 
learned the hard way that these entities, 
the various disciplines in telecommunications, 
had the power to obviate 
or cancel out the enactment or 


S696 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

passage of any measure, once they got 
determined to do so. With a three-
fourths vote, we still could not pass the 
simple manufacturing bill, the text of 
which is already in this measure here 
as a minor item compared to being a 
single bill. 

So we agreed to work in a bipartisan 
fashion and bring in every week the 
various interests involved—every Friday 
the regional Bell companies, the 
principals involved, and thereupon on 
every Monday, the various long distance 
carriers. They have been doing 
this now for the past almost 3 years. 

So, I thank, as I pointed out, Paddy 
Link, Don McClellan over on the minority 
side—as well as Katie King and 
Earl Comstock. I particularly want to 
thank for their guidance and counseling 
Kevin Curtin, John Windhausen, 
and Kevin Joseph on our Commerce 
Committee Democratic side—because I 
never really would be able to imbibe 
this entire measure without their help. 
They have really been in the trenches 
over the many years. They have given 
expert advice. They have listened to all 
the parties. They know all the lawyers. 

This town has 60,000 lawyers registered 
to practice before the District 
of Columbia bar. I think 59,000 of them 
are in the communications discipline. 
And I think we met all 59,000, I am convinced, 
in the last 3 years. 

I also want to thank Jim Drewry, 
Yvonne Portee, Sylvia Cikins, Pierre 
Golpira, Lloyd Ator, and Joyce Kennedy 
of our Commerce Committee 
staff; Jim Weber of Senator DASCHLE’s 
leadership staff; Greg Simon for Vice 
President GORE; Steve Richetti for the 
White House; Carol Ann Bischoff for 
Senator KERREY; and the staff members 
of our Commerce Committee 
members. These include Margaret 
Cummisky for Senator INOUYE, Tom 
Zoeller and the late Martha Moloney 
for Senator FORD, Chris McLean for 
Senator EXON, Cheryl Bruner for Senator 
ROCKEFELLER, Scott Bunton and 
Carole Grunberg for Senator KERRY, 
Mark Ashby and Thomas Moore for 
Senator BREAUX, Andy Vermilye for 
Senator BRYAN, and Greg Rohde for 
Senator DORGAN. 

Let me also thank, Mr. President, 
talking about the bipartisan nature, 
the leadership over on the House side 
that we have the privilege to work 
with. Because Chairman DREIER on the 
House side was a tiger on this measure. 
He was determined that we get this bill 
passed. In fact, we were ready really 
before Christmas. And working with 
him, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. DINGELL, Mr. 
FIELDS—all on that Communications 
Committee, a major committee over on 
the Judiciary Committee—Mr. HYDE, 
and Mr. CONYERS, they all worked hand 
in glove to make sure that the public 
interest was protected. 

Particularly, since I mentioned the 
Judiciary Committee feature of this 
measure, the Department of Justice 
was protected in the sense that what 
we did was have the savings clause for 
all antitrust laws included, positive 

language, and the substantial weight of 
the Department of Justice be given by 
the Federal Communications Commission 
in their decision. 

I yield now to our distinguished colleague 
from Nebraska, Senator BOB 
KERREY, who has worked intimately 
with us. He was not on our Communications 
Committee, but I thought he 
was by the way he attended the meetings, 
and his staff was in there making 
suggestions and making sure that the 
public interest was protected. 

So it is a particular pleasure for me 
at this time to yield to the distinguished 
Senator from Nebraska, Senator 
KERREY. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
GREGG). The Senator from Nebraska. 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I thank 
the Senator from South Carolina and 
the Senator from South Dakota. 

I believe this conference report is 
substantially improved from both the 
House and the Senate bill. I voted 
against the bill when it left here, and I 
intend to support the conference report 
in its current form. 

I appreciate in particular the language 
that provides a more meaningful 
role for the Department of Justice. I, 
frankly, would have preferred the language 
which the Commerce Committee 
produced last year. I think that would 
have been better than the 14-part interconnection 
competitive checklist requirement 
that is in there. But I think 
that a meaningful role, including the 
substantial weight requirement for the 
Department of Justice, will make it 
more likely that we will see competition 
at the local level. 

I appreciate very much the concern 
of both the chairman and the ranking 
member, concern about including some 
good consumer protection provisions as 
well as the inclusion of interconnectivity 
language, incidental interLATA relief 
for the RBOC’s to provide Internet 
and interactive distance learning services 
to K through 12 schools, and the 
so-called Snowe-Rockefeller-Exon-
Kerrey, et al, language that will allow 
the K through 12 schools to be able to 
go either to the Public Service Commission 
or the FCC. They will now 
have the force of law to be able to 
argue for subsidized rates. 

I particularly appreciate as well, finally, 
the inclusion of the so-called 
farm team provisions in the conference 
report. 

Mr. President, when the request 
came for a unanimous consent on a 
time agreement, I asked for 15 minutes. 
I do not know if it will take that long 
given where I am right now in my comments. 


I will observe, as I did on a number of 
occasions during the debate earlier on 
the bill, that this is a very unusual 
piece of legislation in that the demand 
for it is not coming from the citizens; 
it is really coming from corporations, 
the whole range of corporations—I do 
not mean the RBOC’s; I mean RBOC’s, 
long-distance, cable, broadcast; all of 
them are in this business—that feel the 

current law, which does not allow them 
to do a variety of things, is too restrictive. 
And they say, if you change the 
law and allow us to do these things, 
you are going to generate a lot of new 
economic activity and create new jobs. 
We have heard all kinds of representations 
about all the good things that are 
going to happen. 

I am an advocate for embracing the 
future and changing the current law. 
So there is no question in my mind 
that the Communications Act needs to 
be changed. But I am very mindful and 
very aware that the demand for this 
change does not come from at least the 
citizens of Nebraska, whom I represent. 
I did not hear any question in my reelection 
campaign in 1994 coming from 
citizens saying, ‘‘Well, Senator, how do 
you feel about the regulation of local 
telephone, long distance, and so forth, 
because I do not like the structure? I 
am unhappy with my phone, I am unhappy 
with my cable, or I am unhappy 
with my network service, whatever it 
is I am buying.’’ Yes. They might complain 
sometimes about the rates and 
have concerns about that sort of thing, 
and a lot of concern about the content, 
pornography, violence, and so forth. 
But nobody was really coming to me 
asking for this change. This is Congress 
initiating change and saying it is 
going to be good for the people. 

It must be said, Mr. President, that 
that requires a substantial amount of 
courage at the beginning. It is not my 
intention to come here and say that 
Members who are enthusiastic about 
this change are under the influence of 
special interest money. That is not my 
point at all. I am not trying to say that 
any Member has been bought out or 
anything like that. The problem, 
though, when you once cross the line, 
is saying, OK, we are going to try to do 
something that is good for the people. 
It seems to me that you have to do, in 
an irrationally cold-blooded way, an 
analysis of what the impact is going to 
be. 

There are about 100 million households 
in the United States of America, 
and we have achieved, over the 60 years 
of this Communications Act, a remarkable 
degree of not just penetration, but 
of universal service. Ninety-four percent 
of all households today have a 
telephone. It may be significantly 
lower than that when the Communications 
Act was passed in 1934. But we did 
not do it by saying let us let the market 
run wild. We did it by monopoly, 
by creating a monopoly and giving monopoly 
rights in 1934. We changed it 
substantially by divestiture. But even 
with divestiture, we retained monopoly 
rights for local telephone service. We 
have accomplished a remarkable thing. 

Yes, there are market forces. There 
is lots of private capital. Most of these 
companies are private shareowner companies. 
But we have achieved not just 
universal service, but by all accounts 
the best telephone and telecommunications 
system in the world, an active, 
vibrant industry, competitive industry, 
and it is a great success story. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S697 

So when we radically alter the landscape, 
as we are with this legislation, 
it seems to me appropriate to sort of 
ask ourselves: What is the consumer 
going to get out of it? I know the one 
thing that is going to happen is that 
the subsidy that has been in place for 
all these years at the local level in 
order to achieve universal service is 
going to begin to come off. Say I have 
a market. If I am going to be out there 
trying to compete with a long distance 
company, to compete with a cable company, 
whoever, at the local level, that 
subsidy is going to come off. 

Indeed, the regional Bell operating 
company in our region has already indicated 
they would like to increase the 
residential rate by a $2 State subscriber-
line charge in order to provide 
lower costs for long distance. For those 
of us whose incomes are over $100,000, 
that sounds like a pretty good deal. We 
have a lot of long distance charges. But 
there are, I would surmise, a majority 
of Americans for whom long distance is 
still a bit of a luxury. They budget it. 
They watch it. They are careful about 
it. They do not have unlimited long 
distance service. They may not come 
out so good in that transaction. 

In fact, one of the things that is very 
often not understood in this whole debate 
about universal service is there 
still is a substantial means test on it. 
Ninety-nine percent of the households 
in America with incomes over $100,000, 
which includes all of us in Congress, 
have telephones. Only 75 percent with 
incomes under $5,000 have telephones, 
largely because of cost. They probably 
would say, ‘‘I cannot afford it. I cannot 
afford to buy it. So I am not going to 
have a telephone connected to my 
house.’’ 

There is a means test on these services. 
There is a means test as these dollar 
figures go up for the cost of local 
service. I think you are going to see 
people say, ‘‘I cannot afford it any 
longer. I cannot afford to pay the 
price.’’ Though we have some protection 
in the farm team universal service 
provisions, I think that we are going to 
have to be alert in the first instance 
that there are going to be households 
out there currently able to afford the 
fare who are going to find themselves 
saying, ‘‘I cannot afford it any longer.’’ 

I think, on the basis of policy, if the 
market does not get the job done, we as 
Members of Congress are going to have 
to ask ourselves a question: Well, what 
is it like if you are in a household 
without a telephone? How essential is 
it? How important, how valuable is it? 
One measure is going to be: Can I get 
out and talk to the people who may 
need to come to my household and haul 
me to the hospital if I have a heart attack 
or some other sort of health problem? 


But increasingly the question is 
going to be not only if I do not have 
the dial tone, but if I do not have the 
volume, the enhanced services, I may 
not be able to get as good an education 
as my neighbor, I may not be able to 

get as good a break with the economy, 
I may not be able to have a home-based 
company. One out of seven jobs in the 
State of Nebraska are self-employed 
today. We are seeing an increasing 
number of households that, in fact, are 
taking advantage of enhanced telecommunications 
services. I think we 
are going to have to be alert to that in 
the second instance. Many Americans 
are not going to be able to buy enhanced 
services. 

I think there is general agreement 
among Republicans and Democrats, before 
you ever get to the point of are we 
going to spend money, that this land of 
opportunity ought to be a land of opportunity 
for everybody. That opportunity 
does not necessarily fall equally 
as a consequence of your birth. 

The next thing, Mr. President, that I 
think we are going to have to be alert 
to is this question of the control of 
content. I have heard the concentration 
debate. I appreciate very much the 
language changes made in the legislation 
on media concentration. I think 
that we do have to worry about this 
even though there are all kinds of 
other choices out there. 

All of us know it is the networks that 
dominate this deal. If the networks decide 
they want to raise a stink about 
something, they will raise a stink 
about something and they will drive it 
into the household. If they decide they 
are not going to, as the distinguished 
majority leader said earlier about the 
sale of digital spectrum, they are not 
going to say anything about it. They 
are not going to talk about that ripoff. 
They are not going to talk about something 
that might have an impact upon 
them. 

This concentration issue is a very 
important issue, and we, it seems to 
me, are going to have to be alert to it 
and watch it very carefully in the 
aftermath of passing this conference 
report, and watch what happens to universal 
service. Is there change in rural 
America? Are there people who are 
genuinely not going to get service? We 
have accomplished a great thing in the 
United States of America with universal 
service. 

Second, we are going to have to 
watch very carefully as to whether or 
not people can afford to buy enhanced 
services. The laws of this land ought to 
provide equal opportunity for all Americans 
who are willing to make the effort. 
It ought to reward people who 
work hard and are determined through 
self-discipline to be a success. We need 
to be careful over this legislation and 
watch in the aftermath and see what 
the impact is going to be. 

Finally, whether it is in education or 
whether it is in health care or whether 
it is merely trying to find out what is 
going on in your country with the 
budget and other sorts of things, we are 
going to have to pay a great deal of attention 
to content. Content determines 
what an individual receives in their 
household. We do not want to follow 
this legislation sort of blindly in pre


suming it is going to in all cases do 
good. 

Again, I intend to vote for the conference 
report. I appreciate very much 
the efforts made by the distinguished 
chairman, the Senator from South Dakota, 
and the distinguished ranking 
member, the Senator from South Carolina. 
I think this conference report is 
substantially better than the bill that 
we earlier passed. I believe it will in 
the main be good for the economy, but 
there is a great deal of scrutiny that is 
going to have to occur in the aftermath 
of this legislation being enacted and 
signed by the President. 

Mr. President, the conference report 
before us is substantially better than 
the bill that this body considered last 
summer for competition and consumers, 
for a number of reasons. 

First, the House and Senate bills did 
not contain a meaningful role for the 
Department of Justice [DOJ] in safeguarding 
competition before local telephone 
companies are allowed to enter 
new markets. Under the conference report, 
the DOJ’s opinion on regional 
Bell operating company [RDOC] entry 
will be accorded substantial weight by 
the Federal Communications Commission 
[FCC] in its proceeding and will be 
included in the official record of decision. 


Neither bill had sufficient provisions 
to ensure that the local telephone market 
was open to competition before the 
RBOC’s entered long distance. The conference 
report provides that before 
RBOC’s can enter long distance, they 
must complete an interconnection 
checklist, have a facilities-based competitor 
and satisfy a public interest 
analysis at the FCC. They are required 
to offer long distance through a separate 
subsidiary for 3 years, which the 
FCC can extend for a longer period. 

The underlying legislation also would 
have preempted the States from using 
rate-of-return regulation and forced 
them to use price caps or alternative 
rate regulation. Under the conference 
report, States continue to regulate 
local phone rates as they choose. 

I strongly supported retention in the 
final bill of the Snowe-Rockefeller-
Exon-Kerrey [SREK] provision—which 
was not included in the House bill— 
that will ensure that K–12 schools, libraries, 
and rural hospitals have access 
to advanced telecommunications services. 
SREK was retained in the conference 
report, and there are important 
provisions to help rural areas, health 
care providers, libraries, and citizens 
with disabilities. 

Both House and Senate bills permitted 
waiver of the cable-telco 
buyout provision. These were overly 
broad, and would have permitted an excessive 
number of in-region buyouts between 
telephone companies and cable 
operators. The conference report limits 
cable-telco mergers to communities 
with fewer than 35,000 inhabitants that 
are outside of urban areas according to 
the Census Bureau. 

Both bills also deregulated cable monopolies 
before there was effective 


S698 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

competition. The conference report 
deregulates small cable systems only 
immediately, and does not deregulate 
enhanced basic programming for all 
cable systems until March 31, 1999. 

And both bills permitted excessive 
concentration in ownership of local TV 
and radio stations. The conference report 
retains the cross-ownership ban on 
newspaper/broadcast and cable/broadcast; 
retains limits prohibiting one person 
from owning two stations in one 
market; expands the limits on local 
radio stations but retains numeric limits 
on the number of stations in a market; 
dropped the provision allowing a 
loophole in the ownership attribution 
rules for TV stations; and expands the 
national limit on TV ownership to 35 
percent national market reach, but 
drops the provision allowing waivers. 

‘‘MEANINGFUL ROLE’’ FOR DOJ 

Mr President, I would like to elaborate 
further on the role afforded the 
Department of Justice in the conference 
report. The final bill appropriately 
includes a strong role for the 
Justice Department in evaluating applications 
by regional bell operating 
companies to provide interLATA telecommunications. 


The Antitrust Division has unrivaled 
expertise in assessing marketplace effects, 
particularly so in telecommunications, 
where it has been deeply involved 
continuously for more than 20 
years. 

During floor debate on S. 652, we 
worked hard to secure an independence 
role for the Antitrust Division in determining 
when and to what extent to remove 
the consent decrees’s core restriction, 
the long distance or 
interLATA restriction. 

Independent DOJ role narrowly lost 
in the Senate, but conferees were persuaded 
to give DOJ a special, strong 
advisory role within FCC procedure, almost 
equivalent protection for competitive 
freedom. Thirty-six Senators 
cosigned a letter supporting this meaningful 
role. 

As I earlier indicated, the FCC is required 
by the conference report to consult 
with the Attorney General and 
give the Attorney General’s evaluation 
substantial weight. 

In conjunction with this evaluation, 
the Attorney General may submit any 
comments and supporting materials 
under any standard she believes appropriate. 
Through its work in investigating 
the telecommunications industry 
and enforcing the MFJ, DOJ has 
important knowledge, evidence, and 
experience that will be of critical importance 
in evaluating proposed long-
distance entry—which, as I indicated 
earlier, requires an FCC finding that 
such entry is in the public interest, and 
that a facilities-based competitor is 
present. On both of these issues, the 
DOJ’s expertise in telecommunications 
and competitive issues generally 
should be of great value to the FCC. 

While the substantial-weight requirement 
does not preclude FCC departure 
from the Attorney General’s rec


ommendation if sufficiently indicated 
by other evidence on the record, this 
additional legal requirement means 
that the FCC’s decision must be appropriately 
mindful of the Antitrust Division’s 
special expertise in competition 
matters generally and in making predictive 
judgments regarding marketplace 
effects in particular. 

This requirement will ensure that 
DOJ’s position is given serious substantive 
consideration on the merits— 
by the courts on appeal as well as by 
the FCC. DOJ also retains its full statutory 
authority to represent the interests 
of the United States before the 
courts on appeal. 

Moreover, even after entry occurs, 
there are important separate affiliate 
requirements—section 271—that will 
apply for at least 3 years. 

The conference report further contains 
an absolute savings clause for 
antitrust laws. No authority that is 
given to the FCC, and no authorization 
that is given to any private entity, will 
diminish in any way the full applicability 
of the antitrust laws. This is an 
important guarantee that competition, 
and the innovation that results from 
healthy market forces, will be the centerpiece 
of our telecommunications 
policy. In addition, telco-cable, broadcast 
and other media mergers are subject 
to full antitrust scrutiny, 
regardliess of how they are treated by 
the FCC. 

REPEAL OF ANTITRUST EXEMPTION 

Finally, the conference report repeals 
a provision (47 U.S.C. Sec. 221(a)) 
that exempts mergers between telephone 
companies from antitrust review—
a provision left over from the 
1920’s, a bygone era when Federal telecommunications 
policy was actually to 
promote monopoly over competition. 

If not repealed, this provision could 
have taken on a new meaning under 
the bill, since the provision did not define 
telephone company. And, as a result 
of the walls brought down and the 
forces unleashed by the bill, it is not 
clear what will constitute a telephone 
company in the future—perhaps every 
firm that transmits information by 
any electronic means. Absent repeal of 
this provision, the entire communications 
industry might have merged into 
one vast monopoly without ever being 
subject to antitrust review. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
seeks recognition? 

Who yields time? 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, on behalf 
of the distinguished chairman, I yield 
myself 5 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Mississippi has 21 minutes. 

Mr. LOTT. We have 21 minutes remaining. 
I will take then 5. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I would 
like to begin by sincerely thanking and 
congratulating the members of the 
Commerce Committee in the Senate 
and also our House colleagues for the 

outstanding work that has been put 
into this legislation. But I particularly 
have to recognize the dogged, determined, 
tenacious, informed effort by 
the chairman of the Senate Commerce, 
Science and Transportation Committee. 
We would not be here without 
question if he had not continued to 
work on this legislation to try to find 
ways to keep informed all the Members 
on both sides of the Capitol on both 
sides of the aisle. He has been willing 
to accept some compromises, and, after 
all, that is the art of legislating. He 
has done a fantastic job. He has made 
history with this legislation. 

I believe we will pass this conference 
report overwhelmingly in a few minutes, 
and I venture to say right now 
there will not be a bigger, more important 
piece of legislation that passes the 
Congress this year and probably not 
one in the last decade in terms of the 
impact this is going to have in the creation 
of jobs and bringing legislation 
out of the Edsel era of the 1934 Communications 
Act into a modern Explorer 
because that is what this legislation is 
going to do—open up tremendous horizons 
for our people. 

So I just have to say I take my hat 
off to the chairman, Senator PRESSLER, 
from the great State of South Dakota. 
He has done a fantastic job. 

I also have to say we would not be 
here without the leadership and effort 
of the ranking member on the committee, 
Senator HOLLINGS. He has been 
good to his word. He has worked hard. 
He has been tough. He even thought I 
was trying to game him one time, 
which I might have been trying to do. 
But he was always open. He was always 
willing to talk with us. When he has 
made commitments, he has kept those 
commitments. He has continued to 
work with the chairman to move this 
thing forward. He has worked to keep 
his Members informed, and we have 
been informed on this side. 

I just think they have done a fantastic 
job. I think we will look back in 
years ahead and call this truly a historic 
activity and piece of legislation. I 
also have to say that Chairman BLILEY 
in the House took some real risks with 
his leadership, and the ranking member 
there, Congressman DINGELL, who 
is obviously a very experienced, long-
time, tough negotiator. But they have 
all done a great job. 

I wish to also commend the staff. 
There have been times, I am sure, when 
our staffs on both sides of the aisle 
were ready to throw in the towel or did 
not want to see us come in again. They 
worked hard, long hours, weekends, 
and they produced outstanding legislation. 


Let me take a minute to talk just a 
bit about the process. There were those 
who thought we could not get this bill 
through the Senate. There were those 
who thought we could not get it 
through the House. There were those 
who thought we could not get it 
through the conference. There were 
those who did not want a conference 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S699 

agreement. But we moved it forward, 
and we reached a point where some decisions 
had to be made, and the leaders 
of the committees in the House and 
Senate stepped up and made a decision. 

It has been suggested that maybe 
some Senators or some Congressmen or 
some of us got rolled. In some respects, 
all of us got rolled a little bit. I have 
some things I would like to change in 
this conference report that are important 
to me and my State. But when 
you look at the entire package, this is 
good legislation. It took a little extra 
effort during the past couple days to 
push it to where it could be completed 
today. And so while it is not perfect, it 
certainly is very good legislation that 
is going to be good for our country and 
good for the economy. 

This legislation is deregulatory. Just 
take a look at what it does in terms of 
opening up markets; the local markets, 
the cable industry. We are going to 
have competition. Local telephone 
companies will be able to get into long-
distance business and long distance 
will be able to get into local telephone 
service. They will be able to get into 
the cable area. Cable will be able to 
provide phone service. What it is going 
to mean is great competition and 
choices for the people. It is so fundamental 
to what America is all about. It 
is amazing to me it has been so hard to 
make this happen. But it is a bill that 
opens up markets. It is about more 
competition. It is deregulatory. I think 
that we should say that over and over 
again and recognize that is what we 
have here. 

There are all kinds of people who are 
supporting this legislation now. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask the 
Chairman, could I have an additional 5 
minutes? 

Mr. PRESSLER. Yes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LOTT. The telephone companies 
are supporting this legislation. The 
long-distance companies are supporting 
this legislation—both of them 
would like to have a little more in 
their sections, but basically they know 
this is good legislation—the cable industry, 
the broadcasters. The utility 
industry is going to be able to be involved 
and provide another option, 
more competition. We made sure that 
the public utilities law on the books 
did not keep the utilities from offering 
the services they could offer. We made 
sure that it was a fair bill even for the 
burglar alarm industry. 

There is going to be a tremendous explosion 
in technology. It will help education. 
It will help health care. We will 
have manufacturing. I hope we are 
going to have manufacturing of telephone 
equipment in America. But there 
will be more of it. At least now our 
companies that have been prohibited 
over the past 15 or 20 years will be able 
to get in there, get into manufacturing 
and offer additional equipment and create 
some jobs. 

But most of all, the beneficiaries of 
this bill will be the people. They are 

going to be staggered by the choices, 
Mr. President, that they are going to 
have to choose between on their telephones 
and on their television sets. 
There is going to be an absolute revolution 
occurring in the next 10 years in 
the telecommunications industry. 

It was a question, frankly, of would 
the Congress step up and acknowledge 
what was happening. Would the Congress 
take off the shackles and allow 
the telecommunications industry to 
move forward aggressively, or would 
we retard and restrain and regulate 
that potential? 

We have decided in this legislation to 
open it up. The people will be the beneficiaries. 
There are adequate safeguards 
in this legislation for consumers. 
Some people might say too 
much. But I think that they are there. 
I think they are important. We are 
going to get jobs creation from this 
legislation. The people will get choice 
in how they get their services. They 
can choose to have one company in the 
future to give them their local service, 
their long-distance service, their television. 


There is no end to the ideas that will 
come as a result of this legislation. It 
is going to provide opportunities for 
growth and development and lower 
prices. Competition will give us more 
choices, tremendous developments and 
activities at lower prices. 

So I just wanted to say briefly how 
important I think this legislation is. 
We are changing 60 years of law with 
it. It is going to have a tremendous impact. 


I have been honored to be a part of 
the process through the committee, on 
the floor of the Senate, in conference. I 
thank the distinguished majority leader 
for allowing us to get this legislation 
up this afternoon. Without his 
being willing to step up and say we 
should go forward with this, it would 
not be happening. 

He raises legitimate questions about 
the spectrum question. But the chairman 
and the ranking Member have 
made a commitment we are going to 
have hearings on this. We are going to 
see what can be done there. We are 
going to make sure we do it right. The 
FCC is not going to go forward with 
giving away spectrum until we have 
taken an additional look at it. But I 
have to say it is a very complicated 
area, and one we need to be careful 
about. 

We should not break our word, and 
we should not say we can get more 
money than we can get. And we should 
not take actions that slow down or 
stop the move to digital, the next step 
in the very pure picture that we can 
get. So we are going to get this legislation, 
and we are going to get additional 
action on spectrum. We are going to do 
it, and we are going to do it properly. 

Mr. President, I thank the Chair for 
recognizing me at this time. I thank 
the chairman for yielding it to me. I 
am anxiously awaiting the final vote 
on this historic legislation. 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, may 
I say to the Senator from Mississippi 

that this legislation would not have 
happened without him. He has been a 
valued member of the committee and a 
valuable friend. He has taken great 
personal risks. I have seen him in 
meetings really perform as a leader. I 
am very proud to have him as a friend. 
This legislation would not have happened 
without him. I pay tribute to 
Senator LOTT of Mississippi who made 
this happen. I thank him very, very 
much. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Dakota has 11 minutes. 
The Senator from South Carolina 
has 14 minutes. 

Mr. PRESSLER. I yield 4 minutes to 
the Senator from Montana. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana is recognized. 

Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, I thank 
my chairman and the Chair. 

First of all, I rise today to join my 
colleague in pledging my support for 
this piece of legislation, the Telecommunications 
Act of 1995. Let me 
first start out talking about the leadership 
that Senator PRESSLER has shown 
on this particular piece of legislation. 

As you know, we have gotten the reform 
of telecommunications further 
than it has come since I have been in 
this body. In 1989, we started working 
on telecommunications in the reform, 
the deregulation of it, to do one thing, 
and that was to push new technologies 
into areas where we desperately needed 
those new technologies, because all one 
has to do is to look around and say we 
are going to do things differently when 
it comes to educating our kids, we are 
going to do things differently when we 
talk about telemedicine. 

I can remember almost 5 years ago I 
joined with then-Senator Gore to introduce 
a series of telecommunications infrastructure 
bills. I remember that 
day. I think the ranking member of the 
Commerce Committee was chairman at 
that time. I can remember that situation. 
We both strongly believed at that 
time in the need to unleash the digital 
revolution through the substitution of 
competition for excessive regulation. 
The bill basically achieves that basic 
goal, and because of this, it will accelerate 
by decades the deployment of advanced 
telecommunications infrastructure. 


This is not to say, Mr. President, 
that the conference report is perfect or 
the best it could possibly be. In some 
places I would like to change it. But, 
you know, you do not get everything 
you want, but at least you want everything 
that you got. I think basically 
that is the position we are in. We cannot 
let the best become the enemy of 
the good. It is time that we take what 
we can get now and move forward with 
this piece of legislation. 

Under this bill, the nature of regulation 
will change. Instead of regulating 
the profits of telephone companies, 
regulation will now focus on ensuring 
that competition can take root in all 


S700 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

aspects of the telecommunications 
markets. Once full and effective competition 
can take root, it will protect 
the consumer interests and the need 
for regulation will end. This process of 
using regulation to embrace and advance 
the cause of competition toward 
an ultimate goal of deregulation will 
require the conscience and the constant 
vigilance of this Congress and 
Congresses to come. Cooperation between 
the FCC and the States will also 
be mandatory. 

We all must be vigilant to ensure 
that competition can take root and 
that it grow and it prosper. If it does 
not, then this bill will be a failure. I 
believe this bill will not be a failure. I 
am proud of most of the agreements 
that were made and reached in this 
conference. 

I believe that a good deal was struck 
where both rural and urban interests 
are well served. My home State of Montana 
will benefit greatly from the universal 
services provisions and lower 
telephone rates, better cable services, 
and increased competition in all segments 
of telecommunications across 
the board. 

What does it do? It removes almost 
all State and local government restrictions 
on competition and local exchange 
telephone, video services, wireless, 
and other communications markets. 
It also reforms the broadcast license 
renewal process to forestall 
strike units or other abusive practices 
by self-styled consumer groups and 
community activists, removing network 
cable owner limits and raising 
current radio and television station 
ownership caps. It restructures the remaining 
FCC procedures and requires 
speedy action on complaints, petitions 
for forbearance, applications and other 
requests, and establishes a permanent 
biennial regulatory review of the process. 


It also removes and relaxes the restrictions 
on the ability of public utility 
holding companies to engage in 
competitive telecommunications activities. 


Furthermore, the report’s rules on 
interconnection will empower competitors 
by ensuring that they can gain access 
on fair and reasonable terms to existing 
local telephone facilities without 
imposing unreasonable burdens on 
rural telephone companies. 

The report also protects the continuation 
of universal service, an essential 
feature, especially for rural areas 
where competition will be slow to 
evolve. 

And, a backup provision, the so-
called advanced telecommunications 
provision, was included in the report to 
ensure that competition and, hence, infrastructure 
deployment evolve in a 
reasonable and timely manner. If competition 
is stalled, the report gives the 
FCC authority to quicken the pace of 
competition and deregulation to accelerate 
the deployment of advanced telecommunications 
infrastructure. 

These provisions, taken together, 
will ensure that all Americans—in 

urban, suburban, rural, and remote 
areas—gain access to the most advanced 
telecommunications capability 
as quickly as market forces will allow. 

Finally, I also support the radio ownership 
deregulation provision included 
in the report. The provision is a good 
compromise between those who wanted 
complete deregulation and those who 
were concerned about concentration in 
radio ownership in local markets. By 
deregulating radio ownership rules, we 
are setting the groundwork for our Nation’s 
radio operators to compete and 
survive in this new telecommunications 
environment. 

For these reasons, I support the conference 
report and hope that my colleagues 
will as well in the confidence 
that its enactment will ensure the 
rapid deployment of advanced telecommunications 
capability to the benefit 
to all Americans. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana’s time has expired. 

Mr. BURNS. Again, I want to congratulate 
the leadership of Senator 
PRESSLER and the many people that it 
took to put this together, because we 
know that it was frustrating at times. 
It was frustrating to all of us at times. 
But, nonetheless, I think it is a good 
piece of legislation. I yield the floor. 

COMMERCIAL AVAILABILITY OF NAVIGATION 
DEVICES 

Mr. FAIRCLOTH. The competitive 
availability of navigation devices provision, 
section 304, instructs the FCC 
to consult with appropriate voluntary 
industry standards setting organizations 
for the purpose of promulgating a 
regulation. Given that the FCC is not a 
standards setting organization, do you 
agree that this legislation does not authorize 
the FCC to set a standard for 
interactive video equipment? 

Mr. BURNS. I agree. Moreover, FCC 
involvement in the emerging digital 
market could have the effect of freezing 
or chilling the development of that 
market. If private industry groups are 
able to develop sufficient standards on 
their own, there is no need for the FCC 
to intervene. One such example of this 
policy approach is the so-called Eshoo 
amendment which leaves the development 
of ‘‘features, functions, protocols, 
and other product and service options’’ 
for analog cable equipment to the private 
sector. 

Mr. FAIRCLOTH. Do you also agree 
that the intent of this provision is that 
the use of rate regulated services to 
subsidize equipment might unfairly penalize 
the general rate-payer? 

Mr. BURNS. I agree. However, when 
those services are no longer rate regulated 
such subsidy cannot be sustained 
and the prohibition on bundling is no 
longer necessary. The bill’s prohibition 
on bundling and subsidization no 
longer applies when cable rates are deregulated. 
Consumers should have the 
option of obtaining digital devices 
through commercial outlets, but this 
does not mean that network operators 
must make each type of equipment 
available through commercial outlets. 

Network operators should have the 
flexibility to package and bundle 
equipment and services. 

Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
speak today in opposition to the conference 
report on S. 652, the Telecommunications 
Deregulation Act of 
1995. I regret that I cannot support this 
legislation, because it contains important 
protections for parents to be able 
to monitor what their children are 
viewing. I support the language in the 
conference report that requires manufacturers 
to include V-chips in new 
televisions. I also hope that the television 
industry will voluntarily develop 
ratings for video programming. 
Parents need this rating system so 
that they can more fully monitor what 
their kids are viewing. 

This bill also represents so much for 
our country. I can imagine workers in 
rural Minnesota telecommuting to and 
from work as far away as New York or 
Washington without ever having to 
leave their homes or families. As a 
teacher the possibilities really excite 
me—schoolchildren in Minneapolis 
reading the latest publications at the 
Library of Congress via thin glowing 
fiber cables or rural health care providers 
on the iron range consulting 
with the top medical researchers at the 
Mayo Clinic in Rochester to better 
treat their patients. All of this is before 
us. 

When the Senate debated this bill in 
June, I felt then and still feel now that 
this bill presents to each Senator a 
daunting responsibility. The concern 
that I still have now that we are voting 
on the conference report, has to do 
with whether or not we can make sure 
that there will be true competition, 
and that this technology and information 
will truly be available to everyone 
in the Nation, not just the most privileged 
or the most wealthy. 

The conferees maintained some very 
important Senate provisions, including 
language to keep telecommunication 
rates low for schools and hospitals. 
This will help to ensure that our communication 
technologies are affordable 
for future generations. I was proud to 
support this provision when opponents 
tried to strip this provision in the Senate. 


The conferees also kept language requiring 
V-chips in new televisions. I 
am proud to say that I supported this 
provision that will help keep adult-oriented 
video programs away from children. 
I believe that this will give those 
who know best, parents, the ability to 
control the flow of new services into 
their homes. 

What disappoints me the most is that 
this bill did not go far enough to assure 
competition and therefor does not go 
far enough to protect consumers. I am 
not just concerned about the alphabet 
soup corporations. I am concerned 
about the people that live in Eveleth or 
Fergus Falls or Virginia or St. Paul or 
Northfield or Pipestone. I was hoping 
that at least we could build in more 
protection for consumers and more 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S701 

guarantees that there would in fact be 
the competition that we all talk about. 

I ask my colleagues, after you remove 
the protections against huge rate 
increases, against monopoly, against 
service just for the privileged, what 
would you replace them with? Words, 
Mr. President. Promises, guarantees, 
reassurances that this time, although 
many of these companies have misbehaved 
in the past, and have been 
fined repeatedly for violating promises 
to protect consumers, that this time 
the corporations promise to behave 
themselves and to conduct themselves 
in the consumer’s best interest. 

Mr. President, I have said it before, 
and I will say it again. I do not buy it. 
I would rather put my trust in solid 
protections, written in law, to make 
sure that rates remain affordable, services 
are available for everyone, and no 
one is left behind in the stampede for 
corporate profits. Protections that ensure 
affordability, fairness, and access 
in local and long distance phone service 
and cable TV. 

Mr. President, the need for the continuation 
of consumer protections and 
antitrust circuit breakers is clear. 
With every passing day, we see more 
integration in the telecommunications 
and information marketplace. Over the 
summer, we saw the Lotus Corp. agree 
to a friendly takeover by IBM. AT&T 
and McCaw Cellular will be joining 
forces, as will other companies, in preparing 
for this newly deregulated telecommunications 
environment. I am 
concerned that this integration will 
mean a broadcast concentration where 
consumers will get their news and information 
from fewer and fewer 
sources. 

This integration at the top corporate 
level and the market position of many 
of these companies demands that consumers 
be given a voice—a trusted 
voice—to speak for them in the coming 
years. No more trusted voice could be 
found on this subject than that of the 
Department of Justice. It was through 
that Department’s courageous leadership 
that the old AT&T Ma Bell monopoly 
was broken apart—it was a 
long, tough fight, but this experience 
gained by the DOJ has been invaluable 
in guiding the breakup of the Bell system, 
and the development of competition 
in long distance and other services. 
It only makes sense that we allow 
the DOJ to put this experience to use 
again as we move into an exciting, but 
potentially risky, new market. I believe 
that DOJ oversight is essential to 
ensure competition and consumer protection 
to keep telephone monopolies 
from reassembling themselves. 

While I fully appreciate the potential 
of this legislation, I am really worried 
about where we are heading because I 
think there is going to be entirely too 
much concentration of power. The New 
York Times reported in a December 19, 
1995, article: 

For Wall Street, a frenzy of deals would be 
a bonanza. For many consumers though, the 
activity is unlikely to make much difference 

in the price of quality of their phone service. 
Only in large metropolitan areas, where the 
lure of lucrative markets might intensify 
competition, could the average phone customer 
expect to see much benefit. 

The article goes on to report from 
one investment analyst that ‘‘What 
you need to have is a large footprint to 
reach more customers with one network.’’ 
He went on to say ‘‘There’s no 
reason on God’s Earth why you have to 
have seven bell companies.’’ 

Well this may be true if the only bottom 
line is to make money. But my 
bottom line is to ensure that consumers 
all over America have access to 
affordable, quality telecommunications 
services. 

I believe that this legislation will 
lead to too much concentration of 
power in a very, very important and 
decisive area of public life in the 
United States of America. I think we 
are making a mistake if we pass this 
piece of legislation. I will therefore, 
vote against it. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, there is 
language within S. 652 which requires 
all must carry challenges filed with the 
FCC to be resolved within 120 days. Let 
me further state that broadcast stations 
are important sources of local 
news, public affairs programming, and 
other local broadcast services. This 
category of service will be an important 
part of the public interest determination 
to be made by the Commission 
when deciding whether a broadcast 
renewal application shall be granted 
by the Commission. To prevent local 
television broadcast signals from being 
subject to noncarriage or repositioning 
by cable television systems and those 
providing cable services, we must recognize 
and reaffirm the importance of 
mandatory carriage of local commercial 
television stations, as implemented 
by Commission rules and regulations. 


Mr. GLENN. Mr. President, I rise to 
discuss the telecom conference report 
and its adherence to procedures we set 
up with passage of S. 1, the Unfunded 
Mandates Reform Act of 1995. 

We passed S. 1 one year ago with 
overwhelming bipartisan support. It 
was one of the two major items in the 
Contract with America that has actually 
been enacted. I am proud to be its 
coauthor along with my colleague, 
Senator KEMPTHORNE. 

S. 1 sets up a process where, first, we 
would understand the cost of future 
Federal mandates on State and local 
governments before we voted to enact 
them. We would get this cost information 
from CBO and, to do so, we secured 
an additional $1.4 million in fiscal 
year 1996 funds for CBO to hire the 
needed analysts. Second, S. 1 ensures 
that we would pay for those mandates 
or otherwise face a possible point of 
order on the floor. We set a date of 
January 1, 1996 for the act’s cost estimating 
and funding requirements to 
take effect. 
This telecom conference report violates 
S. 1’s spirit, intent and require


ments. Section 424(d) of the act stipulates 
that ‘‘the conference committee 
shall ensure, to the greatest extent 
practicable’’ that CBO shall perform 
cost estimates on conference reports 
containing Federal mandates. This provision 
was an amendment to S. 1 by 
Senator GRAMM from Texas that was 
unanimously adopted by the Senate. It 
is meant to address the possibility of 
Federal mandates all of a sudden showing 
up in conference reports. 

State and local government groups 
alerted Members to three sections of 
the report, section 302, 303, and 602 that 
restricted or limited their authority to 
raise revenues through licensing and 
franchising fees. Section 421(3) of the 
act defines direct costs to mean ‘‘the 
aggregate estimated amounts that all 
State, local, and tribal governments 
would be prohibited from raising in 
revenues in order to comply with the 
Federal intergovernmental mandate.’’ 
So the State and local groups were 
right to raise these concerns and ask 
that CBO do a scoring of the conference 
report as required under S. 1. 

Unfortunately, CBO did not receive 
the conference report until this morning. 
Earlier efforts by the CBO analysts 
to get copies of earlier versions of the 
conference report were also unsuccessful. 
Apparently, they were ignored by 
the conference committee staff. That’s 
not the process we envisioned under S. 
1. 

I understand that the rights of way 
provisions in section 303 were altered 
to address State and local concerns. 
Those were the provisions that were of 
the greatest concern to them. However, 
that still leaves sections 302 and 602. 
Those sections are being looked at 
right now by CBO for their cost on 
State and local governments, but I’m 
afraid it’s too late. We are going to 
pass this conference report shortly 
without having any estimate of what 
those costs might be. 

When we passed S. 1, I talked on the 
floor about how Congress and its committees 
would have to change the way 
they do business in order for the act to 
work. That change didn’t happen on 
this conference report. I hope there is a 
better effort at compliance next time. 

I support this conference report because 
it makes long-needed and important 
reforms in the telecom industry. 
But in terms of following S. 1’s rules 
and procedures, it falls far short. 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I am 
very pleased that the Senate will vote 
today on final passage of S. 652, the 
Telecommunications Competition and 
Deregulation Act of 1995—one of the 
most important bills to be considered 
by the 104th Congress. While there are 
many issues that have been addressed 
in this legislation, most notably to ensure 
that there is competition among 
the telecommunications technologies 
of the 21st century, I have been particularly 
concerned about one important 
issue associated with telecommunications 
reform—the impact of 
television programming on our children, 
and the importance of ensuring 


S702 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

that parents have information and the 
technology necessary to make an informed 
decision about television programming 
for their children. 

In this regard, I am very pleased that 
conferees have agreed to accept the Parental 
Choice in Television Programming 
provisions—the V-chip—that was 
adopted by both the House of Representatives 
and Senate by overwhelming 
margins during consideration 
of S. 652 and H.R. 1555 last summer. 
The importance of this parental 
choice technology for parents was underscored 
by President Clinton last 
week in his State of the Union Message 
to the Nation. 

In that message, the President called 
on Congress to pass the V-chip requirement 
in S. 652 that would permit parents 
to screen out television programming 
inappropriate for children. The 
President also called on the entertainment 
media to create movies, CD’s, and 
television programming that members 
of the entertainment community would 
want their children to view. He further 
challenged the broadcast industry to 
help parents protect their children by 
providing families with more information 
about TV programming through 
improved advisories or rating system. 
To accomplish this goal, the President 
invited leaders of the major entertainment 
media to the White House later 
this month to discuss and work on 
ways to improve what children view in 
entertainment programming. 

Mr. President, I commend President 
Clinton for strongly endorsing the V-
chip in his State of the Union Message, 
as well as for his leadership on behalf 
of parental choice chip technology during 
consideration of telecommunications 
reform legislation in the Senate 
and House. President Clinton remarked 
that the V-chip represents a 
reasonable solution—not censorship— 
to the concerns of parents who have 
little control over the television programming 
that is available to their 
children, and want more information 
on the content of this programming. 
The President said, ‘‘when parents control 
what their children see, that’s not 
censorship. That’s enabling parents to 
assume more responsibility for their 
children’s upbringing’’. I agree with 
President Clinton. 

Regrettably, the reaction of the 
broadcast media to President Clinton’s 
support for the V-chip technology and 
appeal to the media to work together 
to make the V-chip technology effective, 
has not been encouraging. Despite 
broad public support among parents, 
the medical community, educators and 
other children advocates for this technology, 
and successful tests of this 
technology in Canada, broadcasters say 
the V-chip proposal is unworkable, and 
unconstitutional on free-speech 
grounds. According to press reports, 
the broadcasters intend to oppose the 
V-chip in court. I believe this decision 
is unfortunate—children will be the 
losers if this technology does not become 
available to parents. Unfortu


nately, many in the television broadcast 
industry continue to misrepresent 
the provisions adopted in the conference 
agreement to S. 652. 

As adopted in the conference report 
(Section 551—Parental Choice in Television 
Programming), manufacturers 
of television sets (13 inches or larger), 
both domestic and foreign, would be required 
to install technology—the V-
chip—that would allow parents to 
block the display of programming with 
a common rating. The Federal Communications 
Commission, following consultation 
with the electronics industry, 
would determine a date for the implementation 
of this provision. There is 
also a provision under section 551 that 
would prohibit the shipping of television 
sets in interstate commerce that 
do not meet the requirements for the 
manufacture of television sets with 
blocking technology. These are the 
only mandates under section 551. 

To make the parental choice chip 
technology an effective tool for parents, 
section 551 calls on television 
broadcasters, cable operators, and 
other video programmers to work with 
concerned interest groups, including 
parents, over a 12-month period—before 
any of the provisions of section 551 become 
effective—to voluntarily develop 
rules for rating television programming 
with violent, sexual, or other indecent 
content. Broadcasters and cable 
operators during this same period 
would also be encouraged to voluntarily 
develop rules for the transmission 
of signals encoding the ratings 
that would block certain television 
programming. 

Effective voluntary rating systems 
have already been developed for television 
programming in Canada. In addition, 
as I noted during the telecommunications 
debate last summer, 
the Recreational Software Advisory 
Council and the Interactive Digital 
Software Association on behalf of video 
game manufacturers have voluntarily 
adopted a rating system that is included 
with most video games sold in 
the United States. A voluntary rating 
system is workable. 

Mr. President, following the 12-
month period from the date of enactment 
of S. 652, if the television broadcasters, 
cable operators have not taken 
the opportunity to voluntarily develop 
a rating system to guide parents, the 
Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) would be authorized to establish 
an advisory committee to develop recommendations 
and guidelines for the 
identification and rating of television 
programming. The advisory committee 
would include industry representatives, 
parents, and public interest groups. 
Any guidelines or recommendations established 
by the advisory committee 
could serve as a model for the television 
broadcast industry in the development 
of a rating system. 

Section 551 does not mandate a government 
rating system, or that a program 
be rated if a broadcaster refuses 
to rate programming. Nor does this 

legislation establish a government entity 
to rate television programming. 
There is also no authority or suggestion 
to rate or identify in any way religious 
or political programming. No 
penalties are established by this provision 
if a television broadcaster’s cable 
operator refuses to develop ratings, or 
apply whatever ratings or identification 
system is established voluntarily, 
or by the advisory committee under 
the FCC. The development of any rating 
or other television program identification 
is entirely voluntary—the effectiveness 
of the V-chip technology as 
an aid for parents rests with television 
broadcasters and cable operators, not 
the Federal Government. 

Mr. President, 90 percent of the public 
supports the installation of the V-
chip on television sets—parents want 
more information on the contents of 
television programming, and to be able 
to block that programming if they consider 
it inappropriate for children. 
They should have that right. In Canada, 
recent trials of V-chip technology 
that were conducted in Toronto and 
other communities have shown that 
the V-chip is popular, and workable. 
More than 80 percent of the families 
that participated in the demonstration 
felt positively toward the V-chip, and 
more than 70 percent thought the system 
effective and should be maintained. 


I urge television broadcasters, cable 
operators, and other video programmers 
to take advantage of the 12-
month period provided under section 
551 to voluntarily develop an identification 
or rating system that will help 
parents to make informed decisions 
about television programming that is 
appropriate for children. I hope that 
media executives will view the upcoming 
White House meeting on violence 
and children’s programming as an opportunity 
for constructive dialog on 
this important issue for children, and 
to make this new parental choice technology 
an effective tool for parents and 
families. The time has come to work 
together. 

I applaud House and Senate conferees 
on S. 652 for including the V-chip provisions 
in the final conference agreement. 
I also want to express my appreciation 
to Senator HOLLINGS for his 
leadership on behalf of children’s television 
programming, and for his strong 
support of the V-chip provision in conference. 
I urge my colleagues to lend 
their strong support for passage of this 
important telecommunications reform 
conference report. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, as we 
approach the end of the 20th century, it 
becomes increasingly clear that our 
telecommunications industry has outgrown 
the Communications Act of 1934. 
Changes in technology and in consumer 
demands since then mean that it is 
now time to pass the Telecommunications 
Competition and Deregulation 
Act of 1995. This legislation will foster 
technological growth, bring more 
choices and lower prices to consumers, 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S703 

increase productivity, jobs, and international 
competitiveness. 

The Telecommunications Competition 
and Deregulation Act of 1995 will 
provide consumers with more choices 
and lower prices in long distance phone 
service and television programming. 
And it will do so in a way that protects 
rural customers: This legislation explicitly 
preserves the universal service 
fund which subsidizes telephone services 
to rural areas. 

Right now, consumers have a choice 
among long distance phone companies. 
After this legislation takes effect, consumers 
will also be able to choose 
among companies that offer them local 
phone service. 

This legislation will also give consumers 
more choices in how they receive 
television programming. Currently, 
if a consumer’s area is served 
by cable, a consumer may choose between 
the cable company and Direct 
Broadcast Satellite [DBS] service. This 
legislation will allow the phone company 
to offer television over phone 
lines, so consumers will be able to 
choose television services from among 
cable companies, phone companies, and 
DBS. 

The Telecommunications Competition 
and Deregulation Act of 1995 will 
also encourage investment in domestic 
telecommunications industries. By requiring 
that local telephone service be 
provided solely through regulated monopolies, 
the Communications Act of 
1934 has forced U.S. companies wanting 
to invest in local phone markets to invest 
overseas. 

The President’s Council of Economic 
Advisors estimates that as a result of 
deregulation, by 2003, 1.4 million service 
sector, U.S.-based jobs will be created. 


Over the next 10 years, a total of 3.4 
million jobs will be created, and, according 
to telecommunications analyst 
George Gilder, the gross domestic product 
will increase by as much as $2 trillion. 


Increased investment in telecommunications 
products and services 
will bring a better quality of life to 
rural New Mexico. With fiber optic 
cable connections, doctors in Shiprock, 
NM, can consult with specialists at the 
University of New Mexico Medical Center 
or any medical center across the 
country. 

These new technologies will enable 
students in Hidalgo County, NM, in 
towns like Lordsburg and Animas, to 
share teachers through a video and 
fiber optic link. This legislation will 
remove the regulations that currently 
prevent local phone companies from 
making the investments necessary to 
provide such technologies. 

Mr. President, I support this legislation 
because it will help improve rural 
education and rural health care, enhance 
local and long distance phone 
services, and speed up the development 
of new technology and new jobs for 
Americans. I believe this legislation 
represents a key step forward toward 
achieving these valuable objectives. 

As with any effort at serious, large-
scale reform, this legislation leaves a 
few important policy questions unresolved. 
I am pleased that we have 
agreed to separate those issues out 
from this bill so that we can give them 
the full attention they deserve in the 
future. 

I wish to commend the managers of 
this bill, and their staffs for their tireless 
work to craft this legislation. In 
particular, I appreciate the legislative 
skill of Chairman PRESSLER, Majority 
Leader DOLE, Senator STEVENS, and 
ranking member Senator HOLLINGS, as 
well as their commitment to real reform 
of obsolete and burdensome regulations. 


The public ought to be proud that by 
working together, Democrats and Republicans 
have succeeded in crafting 
legislation that will enhance the capacity 
of our economy to respond to 
the new, and rapidly growing challenges 
of the information age. 

Mr. HEFLIN, Mr. President, telecommunications 
technology has undergone 
a major evolution in the six decades 
since Congress passed the landmark 
‘‘Communications Act’’ in 1934. 
Enacted during the Great Depression, 
the ‘‘Communications Act’’ alleviated 
the turf disputes which emerged when 
AT&T entered the broadcasting arena 
to compete with the well-established 
radio networks. The New Deal approach 
to this problem was to erect 
strict walls between public utility 
communication providers and broadcasters. 
Amazingly, though, the regulatory 
approach established 62 years 
ago is still the law of the land. 

Mr. President, it is my belief that 
cellular telephones, fax machines, 
cable television, direct broadcast satellites, 
and computers have rendered 
obsolete the Nation’s aging telecommunications 
regulatory framework. 
Therefore, I believe the time has 
come to overhaul that framework as 
we prepare to enter the 21st century. 
But as my friends on the Commerce 
Committee can attest, the task of rewriting 
the antiquated Communications 
Act of 1934 is much easier said 
than done. 

I suspect that we all agree that the 
present regulatory structure needs revision, 
but forming a consensus on just 
how to create a new regulatory environment 
that acknowledges and fosters 
competition while at the same time 
protects the public interest has proven 
to be elusive. After reviewing the conference 
report on the Telecommunications 
Act, though, I feel that the 
conferees have done a commendable job 
in finding an equitable balance between 
these two competing goals. 

The past few months have been witness 
to some historic agreements. For 
instance, those who negotiated the 
Dayton Peace Accord deserve credit for 
a job well done, but the conferees who 
were able to broker an agreement between 
the long distance industry and 
the Bell operating companies deserve 
the Nobel Peace Price. The ability of 

these two divergent interests to come 
to terms in regards to the Baby Bell’s 
entry into the long distance market is 
one of the reasons I plan to support the 
bill. 

In addition, I am pleased that the bill 
will provide independent, rural cable 
systems with the option to merge or be 
bought out by their local exchange carrier 
if the cable system in question decides 
it can not compete head-to-head. 
I specifically want to thank Senator 
HOLLINGS for his help on this section of 
the bill. 

One other issue worth mentioning in 
regards to the telecommunications bill 
is the spectrum flexibility issue. All 
television stations will soon be making 
the transition from an analog signal to 
a digital signal. This will provide the 
consumer with a better signal and will 
give television stations new sources of 
revenue, such as digital paging and 
data transmission. In that broadcasters 
provide their services to the viewing 
public for free, I think it would be a 
mistake to require them to pay for 
spectrum on which to start digital 
broadcasts, particularly since they will 
turn their analog spectrum back to the 
Government once the transition to digital 
is complete. This bill would not actually 
give spectrum to broadcasters, 
but it would leave the decision on how 
best to handle the transition to digital 
in the hands of the FCC, where it 
should be. 

Mr. President, in closing this bill is 
good for the consumer because it will 
open the floodgates of competition 
among communications providers. As 
we all know, increased competition 
means lower prices and new services in 
the marketplace. In addition, the bill 
is supported by the regional Bell companies, 
the long distance industry, the 
cable industry, and broadcasters. 
Therefore, I intend to vote in favor of 
this bill, and I urge my colleagues to 
do the same. 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, today, I 
am pleased to join the distinguished 
Senator from South Dakota, Senator 
PRESSLER, and the Senator from South 
Carolina, Senator HOLLINGS, in supporting 
the conference report to S. 652, 
the telecommunications reform bill. As 
a conferee on this historic piece of legislation, 
I firmly believe that this bill 
is a balanced approach to the overhaul 
of our telecommunications laws and 
regulations and towards a de-regulated 
and competitive telecommunications 
industry. 

In the last several months, the Congress 
has been highly criticized for the 
partisan nature of our debates. And it 
is true that a significant number of 
legislative initiatives are caught in intense 
partisan differences. But at the 
same time, there have been a number 
of developments where both sides of 
the aisle have come together, where 
both sides have been able to reach an 
accommodation of differing views and 
opinions. I believe that this conference 
report is just one example of how this 
Congress can work in a bi-partisan 
manner to produce solid legislation. 


S704 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

That is not to say that it is easy. 
This conference has been working 
throughout the fall and early winter to 
produce this conference report. Our negotiations 
were long and difficult ones. 
But, Mr. President, I am by nature a 
compromiser. I guess that is because I 
am from Kentucky. And Kentucky produced 
many fine legislators and statesmen, 
including the great compromiser, 
Henry Clay. And Henry Clay once said 
that compromise is ‘‘a mutual sacrifice.’’ 
Well, let me tell you Mr. President, 
that we conferees have made 
many sacrifices in order to reach a bi-
partisan conference report. 

When the House passed its version of 
telecommunications reform last August, 
I was asked what the significance 
of that event meant. I stated then that 
I was fairly confident that we could 
produce a final bill—but that it was 
not going to be easy. There were significant 
differences between the Senate 
and House bills. In particular, I know I 
and many of my colleagues on this side 
of the aisle were concerned about the 
scope of the deregulation contained in 
the House bill. But something significant 
happened in this conference. We 
sat down and we listened to each other. 
Throughout numerous discussions and 
informal meetings of conferees, we 
were able to state our concerns and 
have those concerns understood and appreciated. 
And more importantly, we 
were able to have those concerns addressed 
in a satisfactory manner. I do 
not think that any one side prevailed 
over the other. This conference was one 
of significant negotiations and compromises. 
But the result is that today 
we have a bi-partisan bill. I believe 
that this conference report is a fair, 
logical, and balanced approach towards 
reforming our Nation’s telecommunications 
law and policies. 

There is no question that we need to 
pass a reform bill. Not since the passage 
of the 1934 Communications Act 
has the Congress taken a step towards 
a major overhaul of that law. The 1934 
Act has served its purpose in guiding 
our telecommunications policy for the 
last 60 years. But we are at a crossroads 
in terms of policy and technology. 
Our telecommunications industry 
has been in a state of complex 
transformation that began in 1984 with 
the divestiture of AT&T. Since that 
time, the seven regional telephone 
companies have actively sought permission 
to enter into other areas of 
business. And as the regional Bell companies 
have sought to expand, other 
companies and industries have sought 
to enter into the local telephone market. 
Clearly, these changes cannot be 
made through court rulings and petitions 
to the Federal Communications 
Commission. 

The slow and haphazard de-regulation 
that has been on-going since 1984 
has frustrated the ability for real and 
effective competition. In turn, I think 
that has also frustrated the ability for 
the telecommunications industry to 
develop and improve technology. In 

fact, Mr. President, I would argue that 
an initial and almost immediate effect 
of this legislation will be rapid advances 
in telecommunications technology. 


Our telecommunications industry is 
on the cutting edge of technology. Research 
and development and existing 
technologies are inhibited by rules created 
several years ago, if not several 
decades ago. The reforms contained in 
this conference report will help ensure 
America remains competitive. 

Throughout my experience in this 
legislation, I always hear people talking 
about the so-called ‘‘information 
superhighway’’. If we want to make 
that ‘‘information superhighway’’ a reality 
for all Americans, then I think we 
need to spur competition which will encourage 
investments. 

Mr. President, competition and investments 
can only mean one thing— 
jobs. This conference report is not just 
a regulatory reform bill. It is a job creation 
bill as well. Today, the telecommunications 
industry is 15 percent 
of the GDP. And it is also a sector with 
high-growth potential which will create 
high-skill and high-paying jobs. 

In fact, in a recent study conducted 
by the Wharton School of Business, the 
Wharton Econometrics Forecasting Association 
(‘‘The WEFA Group’’) found 
that full competition in telecommunications 
has the potential to create 3.4 
million jobs by the year 2005. And the 
potential to cause a $298 billion increase 
in the gross domestic product 
within 10 years. 

In Kentucky, it is estimated that 
over 32,000 new jobs will be created during 
this same period. Telecommunications 
reform in Kentucky could 
mean the distribution of 1,000 new jobs 
in the mining industry; 2,900 jobs in the 
construction industry; 7,300 new jobs in 
manufacturing; 1,200 new jobs in the 
transportation and utilities sector; 
11,200 new jobs in the wholesale and retail 
trade sector; 1,300 new jobs to the 
financial services industry; and, 7,500 
new jobs to other services in general. 

Mr. President, this telecommunications 
reform bill is also a pro-consumer 
bill because it will create more 
competition, and in turn, lower prices. 
It is estimated that telecommunications 
reform will lower rates by 22 
percent, saving consumers nearly $550 
billion over the next 10 years. Lower 
long distance rates alone will yield $333 
billion in consumer savings. With lower 
local telephone rates, consumers can 
expect to save another $32 billion. 
Lower cellular rates could generate another 
$107 billion and lower cable television 
rates will yield another $78 billion 
in consumer savings. 

But this bill is not simply about jobs 
and money. This bill also contains important 
provisions which will enhance 
access to advanced services in our public 
schools. I am pleased that this conference 
report retains the provisions of 
the Senate bill known as the Snowe-
Rockefeller Amendment. Because of 
this provision in the legislation, our 

classrooms are going to be able to link 
with other institutions and other programs 
to enhance education. This is 
most important for a state like Kentucky 
with a large rural population. 
Students and teachers in rural areas 
will gain access to sources of information 
and libraries in other locations 
across Kentucky and the Nation. The 
reforms contained in this bill will hasten 
the pace by which schools in rural 
areas will receive comparable access to 
the Internet, just like those schools in 
more urban areas. Access to advanced 
services can lead to improvements and 
efficiencies in the administration of 
education. In fact, this is already occurring 
in Kentucky. Our State government 
has contracted for the establishment 
of the Kentucky Information 
Highway. Schools and school district 
offices are linked together on the network 
and advanced services are made 
available at preferential rates. 

Mr. President, as I have mentioned, 
this conference report includes important 
changes to our telecommunications 
laws which enable the development 
of new technologies. I am pleased 
to say that the conference report includes 
a provision which will limit the 
role of the Federal Communications 
Commission in setting standards that 
may affect the computer and home automation 
technologies. Section 301(f) of 
the bill provides that the FCC may 
only set minimal standards for cable 
equipment compatibility, to maximize 
marketplace competition for all features 
and protocols unrelated to 
descrambling of cable programming, 
and to ensure that the FCC’s cable 
compatibility regulations do not affect 
computer network services, home automation, 
or other types of telecommunications 
equipment. In short, this section 
keeps the government out of setting 
high technological standards and 
prevents the FCC from setting standards 
for the computer and communications 
services of the future. 

I believe that this section is a small 
but important aspect of this historic 
bill: to embrace the future by allowing 
new technologies to flourish with minimal 
government interference. Just as 
this bill will help open markets by 
eliminating the barriers to long-distance 
and equipment manufacturing 
competition, Section 301(f) ensures 
that our vital computer and high-tech 
markets remain open and competitive 
by ensuring that the FCC’s technical 
standards are kept to a minimum. 
Since almost all standards in the communications 
and computer industries 
are voluntary, private standards, this 
section of the bill maintains that this 
practice shall continue. This is very 
important as we see the accelerating 
pace of the convergence of the computer 
and the communications industries. 


Section 301(f) modifies the FCC’s authority 
in order to reign in the Commission’s 
ongoing rulemaking on cable 
equipment compatibility. This is a 
problem that arises out of the 1992 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S705 

Cable Act, which directed the FCC to 
assure compatibilitybetween televisions, 
VCR’s and cable systems. But, 
I believe that the FCC has gone beyond 
the directions contained in that 1992 
law. This section of the conference report 
prevents the FCC from standardizing 
any feature or protocols that are 
not necessary for descrambling, by preventing 
the selection of an other home 
automation protocol as part of the 
FCC’s cable compatibility regulations. 
It further prevents the FCC from affecting 
products in the computer or 
home automation industry in any way. 
Simply put, Section 301(f) leaves these 
standards to be set, as they should be, 
by competition in the marketplace. 

I understand that some have questioned 
whether the term ‘‘affect’’ is too 
broad. Indeed it is a broad term in 
order to effectively implement the 
principle that the FCC regulations 
should not interfere in competitive 
markets. Because there is no reason to 
affect computers or home automation 
products, and because even inadvertent 
or relatively small effects on emerging 
and rapidly changing markets can easily 
displace technological innovation, 
this section 301(f) is weighted toward 
protecting competition and open markets. 
The accompanying Statement of 
Managers states that any material influence 
on unrelated markets is prohibited. 
Because it is impossible for agencies 
or courts to judge whether the impact 
of technical standards in emerging 
markets would be harmful or substantial, 
Section 301(f) draws a bright line 
to avoid any regulatory impact whatsoever. 


I think this is an important policy. 
The risk associated with wide regulatory 
powers over technological issues 
in a time when we are seeing rapid 
technical change is that premature or 
overbroad FCC standards may interfere 
in the market-driven process of standardization 
or impede technological innovation 
itself. 

It is interesting to note that the industry 
itself has been able to solve 
compatibility problems, and create 
workable standards in the VCR, personal 
computer, compact discs and 
other products without any government 
involvement. I believe that the 
inclusion of Section 301(f) continues 
that tradition and will permit the industry 
to set the standards, not the 
FCC. That is in keeping with the nature 
of this legislation as a whole. 

Mr. President, in addition to reforms 
of the local and long distance telephone 
companies, this conference report 
includes a number of overdue revisions 
to the laws regulating the broadcasters. 
I believe that these changes 
are necessary to respond to the changing 
competitive nature of the broadcast 
industry, in the same manner as 
the changes this conference report 
foresees for the telephone industry. 
One of the changes in this legislation 
includes directions to the Federal Communications 
Commission to conduct a 
rule-making on the so-called duopoly 
rule. 

The duopoly rule was last revised by 
the FCC in 1964. And it prevents the 
ownership of more than one television 
station in a local market. This regulation 
served a useful purpose by ensuring 
there would be competition and a 
diversity of media voices in a television 
market. 

However, in the last 32 years, the 
local media have gained so many new 
competitors that I have begun to question 
whether the duopoly rule still promotes 
good policy. That is why I endorse 
the provisions of the conference 
report which direct the FCC to conduct 
a rule-making to determine whether to 
retain, modify, or eliminate this rule. 

Today, consumers have access to 
many more broadcast stations than a 
generation ago, let alone, a decade ago. 
More significantly, consumers today 
have access to a host of non-broadcast 
station video providers, all of which 
offer dozens or even hundreds of channels. 
Competition to broadcasters is 
coming from the cable industry, wireless 
cable systems, satellite systems, 
and video dialtone networks. With such 
competition, I believe that we may 
have reached the point where the viability 
of free over-the-air programming, 
provided by single-channel 
broadcasters, may be threatened by the 
new multi-channel competitors. 

Too many local broadcasters, particularly 
in smaller markets, are already 
losing money. This is a concern 
to me, and should be a concern to other 
Members, because I believe that local 
television broadcasters are just as important 
as local radio stations and 
local newspapers. Together, these local 
broadcasters help to develop a sense of 
community through the coverage of 
local events. It is my hope that the 
FCC will examine this matter thoroughly 
and revise the duopoly rule appropriately. 


In addition to the duopoly rule, I am 
also pleased to see that this conference 
report grandfathers local marketing 
agreements, or LMA’s. Many local 
broadcasters have stayed competitive 
by entering into these LMA’s with one 
another. These innovative joint ventures 
allow separately owned stations 
to function cooperatively, achieving 
economies of scale through combined 
sales and advertising efforts, and 
shared technical facilities. These local 
marketing agreements have served 
their communities in a number of 
ways: some have increased coverage of 
local news; others have increased coverage 
of local sports, particularly college 
sports; and, many LMA’s have provided 
outlets for innovative local programming 
and children’s programming. 


Together, a review of the duopoly 
rule and the grandfathering of LMA’s, 
these provisions will help ensure that 
consumers always have access to free 
local television programming. 

Mr. President, it is clear that the reform 
of our communications laws is 
long overdue. This conference report is 
a comprehensive and balanced ap


proach to rewrite our National telecommunications 
policy for the 21st 
Century and beyond. After years of debate, 
negotiations and compromise, we 
have finally reached the point where 
we can make the promises of the advanced 
telecommunications into realities. 


I applaud the efforts of the Chairman 
and Ranking Member for their determination 
and persistence in bringing 
together a comprehensive and bi-partisan 
bill to the floor. We would not be 
here today without their combined 
leadership. We would not have bi-partisan 
support on the conference. As a 
result, it has earned the support of 
many on both sides of the aisle and the 
support of the President. S. 652 deserves 
to become law and I urge my 
colleagues to join in supporting final 
passage. 

CLARIFICATION OF LOCAL STATION OWNERSHIP 
PROVISIONS 

Mr. INOUYE. Will the gentleman 
from South Carolina, the ranking 
member of the Commerce Committee, 
yield for a colloquy? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I’d be delighted to 
yield to the gentleman from Hawaii. 

Mr. INOUYE. The conference report 
directs the FCC to conduct a rule-
making proceeding to determine 
whether to retain, modify or eliminate 
its duopoly rule, which prevents ownership 
of more than one television station 
in a market. Is it the intent of 
Congress that in reviewing the duopoly 
rule the FCC should consider whether 
broadcasters are able to compete fairly 
with other media providers while ensuring 
that the public receives information 
from a diversity of media 
voices? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. The gentleman’s interpretation 
is my interpretation as 
well. 

Mr. INOUYE. I’d appreciate my colleague’s 
help in clarifying the conference 
report’s effect on the Hawaiian 
television market. No one needs a geography 
lesson to learn that my state 
is located in the middle of the Pacific 
Ocean. As such, interference with adjacent 
television markets is not a concern 
and, unlike every other market in 
the United States, every VHF channel 
is utilized somewhere in Hawaii’s market. 


I’d ask of the gentleman, when the 
FCC considers the duopoly rule, does 
he agree that the FCC should strongly 
consider that Hawaii’s unique situation 
represents an example of compelling 
circumstances that could permit the 
combination between two VHF stations 
in that market? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. The gentleman from 
Hawaii is correct. His state’s local television 
market developed differently 
from continental markets because of 
its unique geography and terrain, and 
thus is characterized by many VHF 
stations. Many of our concerns about 
combinations involving two VHF stations 
in local markets in the continental 
United States do not apply to 
Hawaii. The FCC should recognize this 


S706 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

distinction when considering the duopoly 
rule. 

Mr. INOUYE. I thank my colleague 
for his clarifications and for his expertise 
and leadership on this historic revision 
of our telecommunications law. 

Today’s local marketplace is characterized 
by an abundance of media outlets 
that were not present or contemplated 
when the rule was last revised, 
and the FCC should take this development 
into consideration. 

This new competition, such as from 
clustered cable systems offering advertisers 
the same buy as local broadcasters 
(but on multiple channels), 
threatens the very viability of free, 
over-the-air programming. Broadcasters 
have searched for creative solutions 
to these marketplace changes, 
and one proven solution has been Local 
Marketing Agreements. These LMAs 
are innovative joint ventures which enable 
separately owned stations in the 
same market to find economies of scale 
through combined operations. 

The need to relax the duopoly rule is 
illustrated by broadcasters’ experience 
with LMAs. These joint ventures have 
generated substantial rewards for both 
competition and diversity, and improved 
the quality and quantity of free 
local programming. In Hawaii, an LMA 
has made possible a significant increase 
in local programming, including 
an in-depth local news program at 9 
p.m., extensive coverage of the University 
of Hawaii’s sporting events, weekly 
programs on Hawaiian culture and 
local issues, and a doubling of children’s 
programming. 

It is my understanding that Sec. 
202(g) allows LMAs currently in existence 
to continue as long as they are 
consistent with FCC rules. These LMAs 
give stations the flexibility to meet 
the challenge of the multi-channel 
marketplace. 

Again, I thank the ranking member 
of the Commerce Committee for clarifying 
the intent of the conference report 
regarding the duopoly rule. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I rise 
today in strong support of one portion 
of the telecommunications legislation 
we are currently considering. In particular, 
I wish to speak on the 
cyberporn provisions of the bill. I believe 
that it is high time that Congress 
apply the same rules to protect children 
on the Internet that have laws applied 
to other communications media. 
Since 1934, indecency has been regulated 
in broadcast. And when it became 
clear that children were vulnerable to 
sexually explicit material over the 
telephone, Congress prohibited providing 
indecency to children via the 
telephone. Today, we are taking the 
next step in protecting children from 
child molesters and unscrupulous porn 
merchants. 

It is important to note that despite 
the best efforts of the liberal establishment, 
the Supreme Court has never— 
not even once—ruled that the indecency 
standard is unconstitutional. So 
the vocal opponents of the legislation 

before us today are going to have a 
very hard time to challenge it in court. 
Just a few weeks ago, in the Act III 
case, the Supreme Court was asked to 
review the constitutionality of the indecency 
standard. But the Supreme 
Court declined to do so, indicating to 
many constitutional lawyers that the 
indecency standard is on firmer footing 
than ever. 

I predict that the left-wing free-
speech absolutists who have promised 
to challenge the cyberporn provisions 
will have no more success with their 
antifamily efforts than they have had 
in the past. 

This summer, I had the opportunity 
to chair the first-ever congressional 
hearings on cyberporn. During that 
hearing, I had the opportunity to hear 
from parents who had discovered that 
their children had been sent pornography 
or solicited by adults. One teenager 
girl was even stalked on-line by 
someone who was later arrested—but 
had to be released because his conduct 
was not illegal. 

That’s why, with the assistance of 
the distinguished chairman of the Commerce 
Committee, Senator PRESSLER, I 
worked to include a cyberstalking provision 
in the conference committee report. 
That section makes it a crime to 
use computers to seduce or lure children. 
I believe that this is an important 
step. As with indecency on computers, 
America’s children should be 
given the same protections in the on-
line world that they have in the real 
world. 

In my hearing this summer, I asked 
each parent that appeared before the 
Judiciary Committee—do you believe 
that a technical solution alone, without 
Federal legislation, is enough to 
protect their children. Without exception 
these parents said no, that the 
technology is part of the Answer, but 
not the whole answer. So for those who 
claim that Congress has no role at all 
to play in protecting America’s children 
from on-line pornography and 
child stalking, I say ask America’s parents 
about that. The parents of America, 
who have to try to use cumbersome 
and highly technical computer 
programs to block out cyberporn and 
on-line child stalkers believe that congressional 
assistance is crucial and 
that there simply is no other way to 
keep America’s children safe. 

Finally, let me say that me of the 
most perplexing misrepresentations 
during the conference deliberations on 
this matter involved the so-called 
harmful to minors standard as opposed 
to the indecency standard. The harm-
ful-to-minors standard is a creature of 
State law, and there has never, during 
the entire history of our Nation, been a 
Federal harmful-to-minors law. On the 
other hand, Congress has had indecency 
regulations on the books since 
1934, the beginning of the mass communications 
era. So, despite statements 
to the contrary, the harmful-to-minors 
standard, which has never been the 
subject to congressional action, is too 

uncertain, too new to be applied to the 
dynamic medium of computer communications. 
I believe that the harmful-
to-minors standards would unduly chill 
the kind of freewheeling discussions we 
have become used to on the Internet. 
The tired-and-true indecency standard 
is much better, in the opinion of this 
Senator and noted constitutional 
scholars like Bruce Fein. 

I would like to take my hat off to 
Senator EXON, Senator COATS, and Senator 
HELMS for their work and leadership 
on this issue. I yield the floor. 

Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, I am 
pleased that the Senate finally is going 
to pass this important telecommunications 
bill (S. 652). There have been 
many attempts down through the years 
to reform the telecommunications law, 
and I am happy that the Republicans 
have been able to get the job done this 
year. 

This bill will remove barriers to competition 
and lead to lower prices for 
consumers. It can create as many as 
100,000 jobs in North Carolina, help spur 
the economy, lead to innovative developments 
in technology, and provide 
children with greater access to educational 
opportunities. In addition, in 
the near future, millions of consumers 
will be able to shop and bank from 
their homes through the use of their 
computers or television sets. 

Mr. President, one study conducted 
by the WEFA group projected that 
open competition could very well lead 
to 3.4 million new jobs in 10 years. It 
further concluded that consumers 
could pay $550 billion less in communications 
rates. 

There have been many hard fought 
battles on this bill. But in the end this 
legislation is a very carefully crafted 
balance. For example, earlier versions 
of this bill would have allowed for an 
unhealthy concentration of media 
power. These proposals could have 
made local community broadcasting a 
thing of the past; but this concern has 
been resolved. 

Perhpas most importantly, this bill 
will help protect children from computer 
pornography, which today is 
readily accessible on the Internet and 
elsewhere. I have been notified of numerous 
instances in which unscrupulous, 
sleazy individuals have used the 
Internet as a tool to distribute pornography 
to minors. This legislation provides 
tough prison terms for any smut 
peddler who uses a computer to send or 
display child pornography. This bill upholds 
standards of morality and decency 
as well as protects children and 
families from the peddlers of sleaze. 
This is a victory for families and children. 


Mr. President, the Telecommunications 
Competition and Deregulation 
Act of 1995 provides the American consumer 
with less expensive prices, more 
competitive opportunities, and better 
service. Chairman LARRY PRESSLER 
and all of his colleagues on the Senate 
Commerce Committee deserve the 
gratitude and respect of all Americans 
for a job well done. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S707 

Mr. COATS. Mr. President, I stand 
before you today to urge my colleagues 
to support final passage of this telecommunications 
reform legislation. It 
is truly a monumental piece of work. 
The competitive forces that this legislation 
will unleash will create an explosion 
of new jobs, new technology. It 
will secure for this Nation, well into 
the future, its rightful place in the 
forefront of industry and technological 
development and utilization. 

I am pleased that the conference report 
contains strong protections for 
America’s children. This provision reflects 
the concern of our Nation to ensure 
that, as we establish the framework 
for the rising tide of the technology 
society, we take care to establish 
an environment safe for our children. 
I am speaking about the provision, 
sponsored by myself and Senator 
EXON, that deals with the issue of pornographic 
material on the internet. 

Mr. President, sometimes our technology 
races beyond our reflection, and 
we are left with a dangerous gap—a period 
when society is unprepared to deal 
with the far-reaching results of rapid 
change. This is the situation we have 
on the internet. This is the situation 
which this legislation will address. 

The type of pornography currently 
available on the internet includes images 
and text dealing with the sexual 
abuse of children, the torture of women 
and images of perversion and brutality 
beyond normal imagination, and beyond 
the boundaries of human civilization. 


Childhood must be defended by parents 
and society as a safe harbor of innocence. 
It is a privileged time to develop 
values in an environment that is 
not hostile to them. But this foul material 
on the internet invades that 
place and destroys that innocence. It 
takes the worst excesses of that red-
light district and places it directly into 
a child’s bedroom, on the computer 
their parents bought them to help 
them with their homework. 

Let me take a moment to outline exactly 
what this legislation will do: 

Those who utilize a computer to persuade, 
include entice, or coerce a 
minor to engage in prostitution or any 
sexual act will be prosecuted, fined, 
and imprisoned up to 10 years. 

If you use your computer to contact 
and harass another individual, you will 
be prosecuted under this bill. 

This legislation would prosecute 
those who utilize an interactive computer 
service to send indecent material 
directly to a minor or use an interactive 
computer service to display indecent 
material in a manner easily 
available to a minor. 

On-line services and access software 
providers are liable where they are conspirators 
with, advertise for, are involved 
in the creation of or knowing 
distribution of obscene material or indecent 
material to minors. 

This legislation leaves unchanged E-
mail privacy laws. 

Simply put, this legislation extends 
the same protections for children that 

exist everywhere else in our society to 
the internet. 

The bottom line is simple: we are removing 
indecency from areas of cyberspace 
easily accessible to children, if 
individuals want to provide that material, 
it must be in areas with barriers 
to minors, if adults want to access that 
material, they must make a positive 
effort to get it. 

Our warning is equally clear: if you 
post indecent material on the internet 
in areas accessible to children, you will 
be held to account. 

Mr. President, one of the most urgent 
questions in any modern society is how 
we humanize our technology—how we 
make it serve us. America is at the 
frontier of human knowledge, but it is 
incomplete without applying human 
values. And one of our most important 
values is the protection of our children—
not only the protection of their 
bodies from violence, but the protection 
of their minds and souls from 
abuse. 

We can not, and should not, resist 
change. But our brave new world must 
not be hostile to the innocence of our 
children. 

Mr. President I am proud that we 
have taken this very important step. I 
am proud that as we usher in this information 
age, America has placed the 
protection of our children as a central 
issue in this landmark legislation. 

Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, telecommunications 
technology is evolving 
at a speed that is unprecedented, 
and it has been and will continue to be 
difficult to keep up with these revolutionary 
developments. However, without 
a vehicle that allows us to at least 
attempt to keep pace with these 
changes, we cannot even hope to take 
full advantage of the benefits that today’s 
technology potentially affords us. 

That is why I am pleased to support 
the telecommunications conference report 
that we are considering today. It 
has been a very long and difficult process 
over a number of years in order to 
get to this point today. There have 
been many hearings held in several 
committees, long debates in both 
houses of Congress, and extensive 
hours spent in conference meetings. 
And, as is always the case with legislation 
that is as important and far-reaching, 
the conference report we will vote 
on shortly is not perfect. 

As we have already heard on the floor 
today during this final debate, there 
are still a number of issues upon which 
total consensus has not been reached. 
In fact, we can expect to be revisiting 
a number of issues in the not too distant 
future, and I look forward to that. 

Nevertheless, I believe we can all 
agree that this legislation establishes 
some basic principles that will provide 
a gateway to the future of communications 
in our country. I am convinced 
that the basic policy changes contained 
in this conference report will not only 
positively impact our Nation’s economy 
be enhancing competition within 
a number of communications markets 

but will also result in noticeable benefits 
for individual consumers throughout 
the United States. 

I do not wish to take up too much 
time, but I want to commend the distinguished 
chairman of the Senate 
Commerce Committee for his leadership 
over the past year in bringing this 
historic legislation to the floor of the 
Senate. I especially want to thank him 
and his committee colleagues for effectively 
keeping the conference focused 
on the communications issues under its 
jurisdiction. Implementation of the 
legislation will raise issues in the area 
of intellectual property, which will 
need to be addressed in the future. 
These issues are best left to the appropriate 
committees of jurisdiction and 
expertise. As the chairman of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee, which is the 
committee of jurisdiction over intellectual 
property issues in the Senate, I 
look forward to working on these matters. 
We can support the efforts of the 
conference and to increase the opportunities 
the legislation makes available 
to creators and users of intellectual 
property. 

Again, let me commend the conferees 
for their work in the communications 
arena and thank them for not 
prejudicing the Judiciary Committee’s 
work on any relevant intellectual property 
issues. 

I am pleased to support this bill. It is 
a major step forward. 

Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise 
today to speak in favor of the conference 
report to S. 652, the Telecommunications 
Competition and Deregulation 
Act. This legislation will 
revolutionize our telecommunications 
industry as broadly as telecommunications 
have revolutionized our society. 


And I am pleased that it contains the 
Snowe-Rockefeller provision that was 
included in the original Senate bill—a 
provision of significant importance to 
rural regions and rural Americans. 

I would first like to thank my friend 
and colleague, the distinguished chairman 
of the Senate Commerce Committee 
who also served as chairman of 
the House-Senate conference committee 
on this legislation, Senator 
PRESSLER. 

For over a year now, he has worked 
tirelessly to shepherd this legislation 
through the Commerce Committee, the 
full Senate, and the House-Senate conference 
committee. In the process, he 
has worked to ensure that telecommunications 
reform remains a priority 
for our Nation as we enter the 
next century—a century that is certain 
to bring even greater advancements in 
technology and telecommunications. 

I also want to congratulate the distinguished 
Senate majority leader, 
Senator DOLE, for his outstanding efforts 
in bringing this critical legislation 
to the floor of the Senate. 

Telecommunications is an increasingly 
important part of our daily life. 
Over the past few years, most of us 
have become dependent on communications 
services as diverse as wireless 


S708 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

telephones, fax machines, information 
services, computers, pagers, alarm 
monitoring services, and cable television. 
In many cases, it is hard to 
imagine functioning without them. We 
are clearly witnessing a revolution in 
the way we do business and in the way 
we live, a telecommunications and information 
revolution as important to 
our future as the industrial revolution 
was in the last century. 

As I stated during debate on the legislation 
last summer, my State of 
Maine has, for more than a century, 
faced serious economic challenges in 
attracting business and industry. Thus, 
the revolution in telecommunications 
technologies which has opened the door 
to the information age continues to be 
especially important for Maine. 

At 60 miles an hour, the speed of 
truck transportation, Maine’s geography 
can be an economic disadvantage. 
At the speed of light—the speed 
with which information can be transmitted 
over Maine’s state-of-the-art 
telecommunications networks— 
Maine’s location becomes an asset. Information 
technology coupled with our 
outstanding quality of life has created 
substantial business and employment 
opportunities in my State. 

Recognizing the importance of telecommunications 
to Maine, the Maine 
State Legislature adopted legislation 
that established the policy goal of ensuring 
that all of Maine’s businesses 
and citizens have affordable access to 
an integrated telecommunications infrastructure 
capable of providing voice, 
data and image-based services. 

Furthermore, Maine intends to adopt 
policies that encourage the development 
and deployment of new technologies, 
and encourages service applications 
that support economic development 
initiatives or otherwise improve 
the well-being of Maine citizens. 

Mr. President, this conference report 
will bring unprecedented competition 
and development to the telecommunications 
industry. And while competition 
can bring an array of improved 
services at a lower cost, we must ensure 
that competition ultimately 
achieves this goal for all Americans, in 
both urban and rural areas. 

I am, therefore, particularly pleased 
that the conference report before us 
recognizes that strong universal service 
provisions are a necessary and important 
part of telecommunications reform. 


Residents of rural areas should bear 
no more cost for essential telecommunications 
services than residents 
of densely populated areas. Just 
as extending basic telephone service 
and electrification to rural areas rose 
to the top of our national agenda in the 
1930’s and 1940’s, so telecommunications 
must be a top priority today. 
No American citizen should be left out 
of the communications revolution. 

Indeed, the concept of universal service 
was established in the 1934 Communication 
Act, to establish widely available 
basic telephone service at reason


able rates. The rationale for this policy 
is that telephone service is essential to 
link Americans together, so that all 
Americans can communicate with each 
other on approximately equal footing. 
It was an important economic development 
tool, as well. 

Everyone in our country must be 
able to engage in commerce using the 
tools and technologies necessary to 
interact with buyers and sellers, and be 
able to be informed and to inform others 
of emergency situations and to access 
emergency services. 

Presently, every telephone can interconnect 
with every telephone, but 
every computer cannot hook up with 
every computer. If in the future, computers 
replace telephones and become 
the basic standard equipment for communication, 
a mechanism must to be 
in place to ensure that all Americans 
can continue to be interconnected as 
they are presently via the telephone. 

Central to the concept of universal 
service is access for public institutions, 
which provide services to a broad segment 
of our population. We must ensure 
that key institutions in our society—
schools, libraries, and rural hospitals—
are also assured affordable access 
to telecommunications services. 

That can not be done when schools 
and libraries are paying business rates 
for educational services like access to 
the Internet. Business rates are frequently 
beyond these institutions’ ability 
to pay—and without access, I am 
concerned about the consequences. 

The Internet, the ‘‘information highway,’’ 
is increasingly critical to our 
children and our Nation. How can we 
hope to compete in the world economy 
if our educational institutions are unable 
to link with a critical telecommunications 
link? 

I strongly believe that the economic 
future of our children is inexorably 
tied to their education. In turn, education 
is becoming increasingly entwined 
with the use of emerging technologies 
and the information these 
services carry and provide. 

Our schools need access to educational 
telecommunications services 
to prepare our children for economic 
success. In the 21st century, our children 
will be competing in a global 
economy where knowledge is power. 
Their future depends on their ability to 
master the tools and skills needed in 
that economy. 

Unfortunately, there is a widening 
gap between the high expectations of 
an increasingly technologically driven 
society and the inability of most 
schools—particularly rural schools—to 
prepare students adequately for the 
high-technology future. Almost 90 percent 
of kindergarten through 12th 
grade classrooms lack even basic access 
to telephone service. 

Telecommunications can help us provide 
a world class education to children 
across America. If we want young people 
to actively use the technology of 
the future so it becomes second nature 
to them, then we must ensure that 

schools are part of the national information 
infrastructure. 

For starters, telecommunications 
will enable students and teachers to do 
research in libraries across the country 
and the world, and to connect to experts 
and other students across the 
country. It will ensure that small 
schools in remote rural areas, and 
schools with limited financial resources 
have access to the same rich 
learning resources. 

Consider that only 30 percent of 
schools with enrollments of less than 
300 have Internet access, while 58 percent 
of schools with enrollments of 
1,000 or more reported having Internet 
access. Only 3 percent of classrooms in 
public schools are connected to the 
Internet, and cost is cited as a major 
barrier to access. 

Rural schools and libraries usually 
pay more for access to information 
services than schools and libraries in 
urban areas because the information 
service providers do not have access 
points in local calling regions, meaning 
that rural schools and libraries must 
make a long distance telephone call to 
access the Internet and other information 
services. It is imperative that access 
the information superhighway be 
affordable, because America’s schools 
and public libraries operate on very 
slim, inflexible budgets. 

And it is an area where we need the 
strength and innovation of the private 
sector as well. That’s why I am especially 
pleased to note that NYNEX and 
the independent telephone companies 
that serve Maine have already taken 
steps to deploy and encourage the utilization 
of needed telecommunications 
services throughout Maine. As a result 
of a unique agreement with Maine’s 
telephone companies—all Maine libraries 
and schools are now eligible to receive 
substantially discounted long distance 
services that will now allow access 
to a broad range of information 
services. 

But schools and libraries in Maine 
and across America will not be the 
only ones to benefit from this provision. 
So does our health care system 
through telemedicine. When I served in 
the House of Representatives, I 
cowrote the Rural Health Care Coalition’s 
‘‘Rural Health Care Bill of 
Rights.’’ 

The paper argued that Congress 
should adopt policies that seek to ensure 
that those who live in rural areas 
receive the same quality of health care 
as other Americans. All Americans, regardless 
of their age, income, employment 
status, medical history or geographic 
location, have a right to access 
affordable, quality health care. 

Telemedicine can help us achieve 
this goal by enabling physicians in 
rural areas to communicate through 
state-of-the-art telecommunications 
networks with providers and specialists 
in other areas. 

With Telemedicine, a burn victim in 
Presque Isle, ME, may be able to get 
care from some of the Nation’s best 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S709 

burn specialists, without ever leaving 
the local hospital. Rural doctors will 
be able to connect directly to major 
hospital centers for consultation, diagnostic 
assistance, and ongoing professional 
education. However, rural areas 
pay significantly more than urban 
areas for transmission of Telemedicine 
services. 

Mr. President, I believe that the 
Snowe-Rockefeller provision is fundamentally 
important to assuring that 
we do not end up with a two-tiered 
telecommunications system in America. 


The Snowe-Rockefeller provision is 
fundamental to assuring that all areas 
in America have access to the essential 
telecommunications services of the future. 
And it is fundamental to ensuring 
that this legislation provides a solid 
foundation for the future. 

Mr. President, I believe that this legislation 
offers tremendous promise, 
making this among the most exciting 
and meaningful bills we will vote on 
this session. 

By promoting true competition in 
telecommunications while providing 
necessary safeguards that further the 
goal of competition and serve the public 
interest, this conference report offers 
a strong framework on which the 
technological future of America can be 
built. I believe that this bill strikes the 
right balance that is needed, and offer 
my strong support. Thank you, Mr. 
President. I yield the floor. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I am 
pleased that after years of struggle, the 
Senate has before it, a telecommunications 
reform conference report that 
represents the dawning of a new telecommunications 
era in this country. 

I want to commend the Commerce 
Committee chairman, Senator PRESSLER, 
and the ranking member, Senator 
HOLLINGS, for their hard work and efforts 
in bringing a measure before us 
today that will enhance true competition 
in telecommunications without 
shortchanging American consumes. 

This is complex and potentially far-
reaching legislation, that will affect an 
economic sector that constitutes 20 
percent of our economy, and whose 
services reach virtually every American. 


Mr. President, this bill is all about 
competition in telephone services, 
cable services, information and data 
services, and broadcasting services. By 
unleashing these competitive forces, 
innovation and progress will flourish in 
the rapidly expanding telecommunications 
field, and will greatly increase 
the opportunity for every citizen to 
affordably access the rapidly changing 
world of advanced telecommunications 
technology. 

While this legislation focuses on 
competition and deregulation, the conference 
report contains essential rural 
safeguards in the form of universal 
service provisions that will benefit our 
rural communities and greatly increase 
their ability to persevere in the 21st 
century. 

There is little doubt that our urban 
areas can and will sustain the enormous 
expansion of telecommunications 
services in the years ahead. We must 
make certain that our rural areas are 
not left behind as services expand and 
new products come on line. In the long 
run, universal service at high standards 
nationwide is in the best interests 
of the entire economy. 

I believe that telecommunications 
reform is essential in preserving the 
economic vitality of rural America and 
am optimistic that the affordable accessibility 
to these new telecommunications 
services will be the harbinger 
for a new renaissance among the main 
street economies in communities 
throughout rural America. 

Already, many in my home State of 
South Dakota are beginning to realize 
the importance and value of telecommunications 
services. Many small, 
rural medical clinics and hospitals are 
linking together with larger, more 
urban hospitals via telemedicine to 
provide their citizens with a higher 
quality of care. Children in schools 
that are hundreds of miles from the 
nearest population center can now 
have access to the world’s greatest libraries 
at their fingertips. An increasing 
number of South Dakota agricultural 
producers are determining weather 
forecasts and market reports with a 
simple keystroke. And all across main 
street South Dakota, small businesses 
are reducing their overhead via networking 
services, reducing their paper 
work through electronic mail, and saving 
thousands of dollars a year in travel 
expenses through their use of teleconferencing. 


And all of this is just the beginning, 
As these technologies continue to develop, 
the playing field for economic 
development will begin to level. South 
Dakota is already enjoying the benefits 
of advanced telecommunications and 
they can only stand to benefit from 
further telecommunications reform. 

The bill before us also recognizes the 
important role that must be played by 
Public Utilities Commissions [PUC’s] 
in rural States. PUC’s are the best entities 
to judge whether a given market 
within their State can support competition. 
That’s not a judgment we 
should make from Washington. 

Nor is it something we can or should 
leave to the unbridled, unsupervised 
judgment of the private sector. Those 
who have taken the risks and made the 
investments to extend cable or phone 
services to smaller rural communities 
should not be placed a risk of being 
overwhelmed by larger, better-financed 
companies. 

I want to note, Mr. President, that 
consideration of this conference report 
was delayed by the concerns raised by 
Senator DOLE and others about the future 
use of broadcast spectrum. There 
is no question that the issues surrounding 
national spectrum management 
policy are complex, and worthy 
of full debate and thorough consideration 
in the Congress. I am pleased 

that the telecommunications conference 
report, which in my view is not 
a spectrum giveaway bill, will move to 
the President’s desk for his signature. 

Mr. President, let me once again congratulate 
the distinguished chairman 
and ranking member for their efforts in 
producing this telecommunications reform 
conference report. 

Having been raised in a small community 
in rural South Dakota, I can 
truly remark with wonder and appreciation 
at the rapid pace in which our 
communities are being brought together 
through the use of telecommunications 
services. The changes 
that have occurred in our lives due to 
these services have been remarkable, 
and have benefited society greatly. I 
believe that the telecommunications 
reform conference report before us 
today strikes the balance needed between 
deregulation and consumer protection 
to allow these services to continue 
their remarkable advances in improving 
our society and preparing us 
for the challenges ahead. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, the 
United States and, indeed, the world 
have embarked upon a new technological 
revolution. Like previous revolutions 
sparked by technological innovation, 
this one has the potential to 
change dramatically our daily lives. It 
will certainly transform the way we 
communicate with each other. 

What we are witnessing is the development 
of a fully interactive nationwide 
and, indeed, worldwide communications 
network. It has the potential 
to bring our Nation and our world enormous 
good; without appropriate 
groundrules to assure fair competition, 
however, this revolution could create 
giant monopolies. It could hurt workers 
and families. We bear a tremendous 
responsibility to assure that does not 
happen with this legislation. The communications 
policy framework we create 
here will determine whether many 
voices and views flourish, or few voices 
dominate our society. 

The impact of this new age communications 
revolution on the way we 
send and receive information, and the 
way we will view ourselves and the 
world, is profound. Even more staggering 
is its potential impact on our 
economy. We could be seeing the largest 
market opportunity in history. 
Some forecasters, including the WEFA 
Group in Burlington, MA, predict an 
opening of the telecommunications 
market this year to full competition 
would create 3.4 million new jobs, increase 
GDP by $298 billion, save consumers 
nearly $550 billion in lower 
communications rates and increase the 
average household’s annual disposable 
income by $850 over the next ten years. 
As the Communications Workers of 
America have underscored, delaying 
free and fair competition means fewer 
new high-wage, high-skill jobs. 

For workers and companies in Massachusetts, 
which has a significant comparative 
advantage in technology or 
knowledge-intensive industries, this 


S710 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

legislation is good news. It should expand 
opportunities for our current telecommunications 
companies, it should 
create a fertile climate for the creation 
of new companies and it should create 
more family-wage jobs. The telecommunications 
industry in Massachusetts 
is well situated to take advantage 
of the communications and information 
revolution. 

New telecommunications-related or 
dependent technologies and industries 
seem to be emerging and merging almost 
daily. They range from such sectors 
as entertainment and education to 
broadcasting, advertising, home shopping 
and publishing. One key player in 
this revolution is the Internet—the 
global computer cooperative with a 
current subscriber base of approximately 
37 million in North America 
alone and a 10–15 percent monthly 
growth rate. One billion people are expected 
to have access to the ‘‘net’’ by 
the end of the decade. While some may 
consider the ‘‘net’’ to be the revolution, 
it is only one of many players in 
the new communications network 
game. 

We see examples of this new era almost 
daily, such as someone driving a 
car while talking on a cellularphone. In 
the future, we are likely to see more 
Americans accessing video dialtone, 
choosing their television programs 
through their telephone service. Likewise, 
cable franchises may enter the 
local telephone service market. Residents 
of Springfield, MA, may be able 
to watch their state legislators in Boston 
debate an education bill and instantaneously 
communicate with those 
legislators about how to vote on an 
amendment. 

As we consider this brave new age of 
communications, it is clear the current 
law, the l934 Communications Act, is 
not a sufficiently sturdy foundation 
upon which to build a communications 
system for the 21st Century. Moreover, 
although the courts on occasion properly 
have intervened to halt monopoly 
abuse—most notably a little over a 
decade ago in the telephone industry— 
we should no longer leave the fundamentals 
of telecommunications policy 
to the courts. 

The conference report on S. 652, the 
Telecommunications Competition and 
Deregulation Act of l996, is not perfect. 
In some respects, I would have preferred 
S. 1822, the bill crafted so ably 
by Senator HOLLINGS and reported by 
the committee in l994. However, the 
conference report before the Senate 
now is preferable to the status quo. It 
will foster competition and establish 
fair and reasonable groundrules for the 
intense competition that will continue 
in the communications sector as we 
enter the next century. 

This legislation sets forth a national 
policy framework to promote the private 
sector’s deployment of new and 
advanced telecommunications and information 
technologies and services to 
all Americans by opening all telecommunications 
markets to competi


tion. Free and fair competition and 
maintaining universal service are the 
twin pillars of this new framework. 

The bill seeks to assure that no competitor, 
no business and no technology 
may use its existing market strength 
to gain an advantage on the competition. 
The legislation requires that a 
company or group of companies satisfy 
certain competitive tests before being 
able to offer a new service or enter a 
new market. Entry into new services 
and new areas is contingent upon a 
demonstration that competition exists 
in the market in which the business 
currently competes. But once competition 
has been achieved, most Federal 
and State regulation is replaced by 
consumer demand to regulate the market. 


These fundamental features of the 
conference report on S. 652 are designed 
to create a level playing field where 
every player will be able to compete on 
the basis of price, quality, and service, 
rather than on the basis of monopoly 
control of the market. 

The conference report also maintains 
universal service as a cornerstone of 
our Nation’s communications system. 
With many new entrants in the communications 
market, the legislation 
provides that every player is to pay his 
fair share to continue universal service 
throughout our Nation. 

I am also pleased the conference report 
includes three amendments which 
I sponsored. The first deals with the 
cable broadcast rates for public, educational 
and governmental entities, 
known as ‘‘PEG’’ access groups. These 
are the local channels that produce and 
broadcast such things as town council 
meetings, Chamber of Commerce seminars 
and little league baseball games. 
My amendment will assure the continued 
production and broadcast of these 
important community events by guaranteeing 
that the PEG access groups 
are not charged more than local broadcasters 
to air their programs. 

The second amendment will establish 
a level playing field for independent 
payphone providers. For too long, these 
small, independent entrepreneurs have 
gone toe-to-toe against some of the 
biggest players in the telecommunications 
market. We have in Massachusetts 
about 75 independent payphone 
providers, employing several hundred 
people. They range from ‘‘mom and 
pop’’ operations with a handful of 
payphones to several that have more 
than 1,000 payphones. Virtually all of 
them have invested their own capital 
in their businesses, from life savings to 
the proceeds of mortgages on their 
homes, and it is a tribute to their perseverance 
that they now own ten percent 
of the payphone market in Massachusetts. 
My amendment will allow all 
the players in the payphone market to 
compete against each other on the 
basis of price, quality and service, 
rather than on marketshare and subsidies. 


The third amendment will make sure 
that as we build the information high


way, the builders do not bypass poor 
rural or urban communities. When 
interstate highways were built through 
cities across our Nation, oftentimes 
they went directly through poor neighborhoods. 
Construction of the technology 
interstate system must not be 
allowed to detour around children and 
families in the same or similar areas 
who already face enormous challenges. 
My amendment is designed to assure 
that the telecommunications network 
will reach every neighborhood, offering 
access to those who need it most for a 
decent education, to upgrade their job 
skills or to connect them to medical 
help they need. 

Another provision that I am pleased 
was included in the final hours of negotiations 
on the conference report relates 
to local regulation of public 
rights-of-way. The language added to 
the conference report brings needed 
clarification to this area. It retains for 
local authorities the right to regulate 
public rights-of-way while at the same 
time guaranteeing that if local authorities 
exercise that latitude, they 
do so in a manner that is non-discriminatory 
and competitively neutral. A 
cable or phone company that needs to 
tear up a street to lay new line should 
not be allowed to disturb a neighborhood 
in the middle of the night. The 
clarifying language on public rights-of-
way should help in this regard. 

Through the debate we have had on 
this legislation, I believe we have 
crafted a solid telecommunications 
policy framework for the next century. 
Today, each of us is in a sense a pioneer 
heading out on the new information 
highway. Each of us is not only a 
witness to, but a participant in, one of 
the most amazing technological revolutions 
in history. We, as legislators, 
bear a special responsibility to assure 
that competition in this new era is fair 
and that every American in this and 
future generations may enjoy the 
fruits of this competition. This is truly 
one of the greatest challenges we face 
as we enter the 21st century. 

I want to express my deep admiration 
for the outstanding work my good 
friend and colleague from South Carolina, 
Senator HOLLINGS, has done on 
this landmark legislation. He has exercised 
visionary leadership throughout 
this long and arduous process. I also 
want to extend my appreciation to his 
very able staff, particularly Kevin 
Curtin, John Windhausen and Kevin 
Joseph, for their tireless efforts and 
the good humour they always brought 
to the task. I also want to thank Chairman 
PRESSLER and his staff for their 
hard work on this legislation. 

Mr. THURMOND. Mr. President, I 
rise to commend the leadership, the 
distinguished chairman of the Commerce 
Committee, Senator PRESSLER, 
and the distinguished ranking member, 
Senator HOLLINGS, for their extensive 
efforts and good work on the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996. I am 
pleased that the Senate is now giving 
consideration to final passage of this 
legislation. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S711 

I have seen the telephone business 
develop from its infancy, when obtaining 
a party-line telephone was a truly 
amazing step for many Americans, to 
today’s tremendous range of telecommunications 
products and services. 
It is impossible to predict what the future 
holds in this dynamic sector of 
our economy, but it is clear that telecommunications 
is among the most 
critical and far-reaching issues before 
the Congress. 

As the chairman of the Judiciary 
Committee’s Antitrust, Business 
Rights, and Competition Subcommittee, 
two important antitrust 
issues deserve mention as we consider 
final passage of this historic legislation. 


First, I am pleased that the legislation 
now includes a meaningful role for 
the Department of Justice in determining 
when the Bell Operating Companies 
should be permitted to provide 
long distance telecommunications. As I 
have previously stated, the Bell companies 
certainly should be allowed to 
enter long distance markets under appropriate 
circumstances, for it is generally 
desirable to have as many competitors 
as possible in each market. 
The issue is how to determine the point 
at which entry by Bell companies will 
help rather than harm competition. 
That question, quite simply, is an antitrust 
matter which will be informed by 
the antitrust expertise and specialization 
of the Antitrust Division of the 
Justice Department. 

The Justice Department’s Antitrust 
Division has been deeply involved in 
nurturing and protecting a competitive 
environment in this industry for more 
than 20 years, through five administrations. 
The Justice Department was responsible 
for the breakup of the AT&T 
telephone monopoly, which created the 
current Bell companies. The Antitrust 
Division has been evaluating the potential 
competitive effects—positive and 
negative—of Bell entry into long distance 
since that time. Through this 
work, the Division has achieved 
unparalled expertise which is bolstered 
by its experience and perspective 
gained from evaluating numerous markets 
throughout our economy. 

Anticompetitive conduct in long distance 
markets was at the heart of the 
Antitrust Division’s case against the 
old Bell system monopoly, and it has 
been a central concern in the current 
legislation. During the debate over the 
telecommunications bill in the Senate 
in June 1995, I was on the floor for several 
days with an amendment to give 
the Department of Justice primary responsibility 
to determine when the Bell 
operating companies should be permitted 
to enter long distance markets, 
and to avoid duplicative efforts by the 
Federal Communications Commission. 

My amendment to give the Antitrust 
Division independent authority only 
narrowly failed on the Senate floor last 
June, while in August a similar amendment 
received the support of more than 
one-third of the House of Representa


tives. When it became clear that there 
would be one consolidated procedure 
within the FCC to decide on Bell applications 
for long distance authorization, 
it became important to ensure that the 
antitrust expertise of the Antitrust Division 
would be given adequate weight 
in the decision. 

I am pleased that in the final legislation 
we are considering today, proposed 
long distance entry is determined by 
the FCC subject to judicial review, but 
only after the FCC consults with the 
Attorney General on the application, 
and gives the Attorney General’s evaluation 
substantial weight. This process, 
which permits the Attorney General 
to submit any comments and supporting 
materials deemed appropriate, 
is critical to making accurate and 
proper determinations about long distance 
entry. Through its work in investigating 
the telecommunications industry 
and enforcing the MFJ, the 
Antitrust Division has accumulated 
important knowledge, evidence, and 
experience that can be constructively 
brought to bear on these evaluations. 

The substantial weight requirement 
will also ensure that the expertise of 
the Antitrust Division will be brought 
to bear in any appeal of a decision 
made on long distance entry. If the 
FCC rejects the Antitrust Division’s 
recommendation, the court must look 
to the weight the FCC accorded the Attorney 
General’s evaluation in 
ascertaining whether the FCC correctly 
followed the law. 

Review of this legal requirement 
should be governed by the standard 
that generally applies to questions of 
law. As a practical matter, this legal 
requirement ensures that the reviewing 
court will consider the Antitrust Division’s 
position on the merits—and will 
assess for itself the views and evidence 
put forward in support of that position—
and will not discount that position 
out of customary judicial deference 
to the FCC’s decision. Moreover, 
the Antitrust Division retains its full 
authority to represent the interests of 
the United States on appeal, which permits 
it to contribute its unique antitrust 
expertise and perspective to the 
judicial process. 

The second important antitrust issue 
in this legislation is the unequivocal 
antitrust savings clause that explicitly 
maintains the full force of the antitrust 
laws in this vital industry. Today 
we take for granted that the antitrust 
laws apply to the communications sector. 
During the Antitrust Division’s 
antitrust case in the 1970’s against the 
Bell system, however, some argued 
that the existence of FCC regulations 
displaced the antitrust laws and made 
them inapplicable. The courts emphatically 
rejected that challenge them, and 
the antitrust savings clause in the bill 
today makes clear that that question 
cannot be reopened. A strong, competitive 
communications sector is essential 
to continued American prosperity 
in the next century. Application of the 
antitrust laws is the most reliable, 

time-tested means of ensuring that 
competition, and the innovation it fosters, 
can flourish to benefit consumers 
and the economy. 

The antitrust savings clause makes 
clear, for example, that the antitrust 
enforcement agencies are not barred 
from scrutinizing, under appropriate 
circumstances, the home satellite 
broadcasting market, even though the 
new provision in section 205 of the bill 
gives the FCC exclusive jurisdiction to 
regulate the provision of direct-to-
home satellite services. While some 
might have been tempted to read that 
provision to mean that the antitrust 
enforcement agencies would not have 
any jurisdiction over these activities, 
the antitrust savings clause makes 
clear that that is not the case. The 
same is true of other provisions of the 
bill, including those concerning access 
requirements for commercial mobile 
providers—section 705—limits on telco-
cable buyouts—section 302—and broadcast 
ownership—section 202—and the 
joint marketing of commercial mobile 
services—section 601(d). In each case, 
the antitrust laws will continue to 
apply fully. 

Continued application of the antitrust 
laws is also the rule where the 
Bell companies’ entry into the long distance 
market is concerned. The fact 
that the Attorney General is given a 
defined role in the FCC proceeding to 
decide Bell entry does not in any way 
supplant or limit the separate applicability 
of the antitrust laws or the Justice 
Department’s antitrust enforcement 
authority—either pre-entry or 
post-entry. For example, if a Bell operating 
company sought to enter long 
distance markets through a merger or 
acquisition, that merger or acquisition 
would be fully subject to review under 
the Clayton Act. Likewise, if a Bell operating 
company were to engage in 
anticompetitive conduct after being 
granted entry into the long distance 
market, the Antitrust Division would 
not be precluded from addressing that 
conduct through the antitrust laws. 

The importance of the antitrust savings 
clause is underscored by the decision 
to repeal section 221(a) of the 
Communications Act of 1934. That provision, 
a relic from the period when 
Federal policy sought to promote monopoly 
over competition, exempts 
mergers between telephone companies 
from antitrust review. That is an era I 
believe all of us agree should be put behind 
us, and the fact that this exemption 
has been eliminated in this legislation 
is another confirmation that the 
Congress intends for the antitrust laws 
to be the means by which free markets 
are maintained in telecommunications. 

Finally, the hearing of the Antitrust, 
Business Rights, and Competition Subcommittee, 
which I chaired in May 
1995, confirmed the importance of competition 
to achieve lower prices, better 
services, and products, and more innovation 
in telecommunication markets 
for the benefit of consumers and our 
Nation. I am pleased, therefore, that 
this legislation preserves the role of 


S712 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the Antitrust Division in applying the 
antitrust laws—which have protected 
free enterprise for over 100 years—in 
the telecommunications industry. 

Mr. President, enacting legislation of 
this magnitude, where the stakes are 
so high for so many businesses and 
other interested groups, inevitably requires 
the resolution of many conflicts. 
I would like to commend all those who 
worked on this legislation and kept focused 
on the ultimate objective—replacing 
regulation and monopoly with 
healthy free market forces. This is the 
role that the Congress should play to 
assist this industry, as well as American 
consumers and the entire American 
economy. I urge the Senate to 
pass this important legislation. 

UNFUNDED MANDATES 

Mr. KEMPTHORNE. The majority 
leader is aware that State and local 
governments had previously raised an 
issue with this Senator that certain 
provisions of the conference report on 

S. 562 may violate the Unfunded Mandates 
Reform Act of 1995 regarding 
local governments’ ability to manage 
their rights-of-ways. The majority 
leader is also aware that I have worked 
with the Senate and House conferees 
for several days to resolve those difficulties 
and insert language to the satisfaction 
of the local representatives of 
State and local governments. 
Mr. DOLE. The Senator from Idaho is 
correct. I am aware that he has worked 
to represent the interests of State and 
local governments to assure that there 
is no unfunded mandates impact on 
them in this bill. 

Mr. KEMPTHORNE. The majority 
leader is aware that the Unfunded Mandates 
Reform Act of 1995 does not require 
the Congressional Budget Office 
to prepare an estimate of the impact of 
mandates on State and local governments 
for conference reports and that 
the Congressional Budget Office is currently 
preparing an estimate on this 
conference report. Based on discussions 
my staff have had with CBO, it is my 
understanding that this conference report 
does not include unfunded mandates. 


Mr. DOLE. That is correct. 

Mr. KEMPTHORNE. Will the majority 
leader agree that in the event the 
Congressional Budget Office determines 
that there are any unfunded 
mandates in S. 562 that he will work 
with me to make technical corrections 
in the bill to eliminate those mandates. 


Mr. DOLE. Yes. 

Mr. KEMPTHORNE. Will the majority 
leader agree that in the event such 
technical corrections bill comes from 
the House which corrects any unfunded 
mandates found by the Congressional 
Budget Office that he will seek to have 
the Senate take up the bill to make 
those corrections. 

Mr. DOLE. Yes, I do agree. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise 
in opposition to the conference report 
on S. 652, the Telecommunications Act 
of 1996. 

I know, Mr. President, that the conferees 
have made a number of improvements 
to this legislation and that 
many of the stakeholders in this bill 
are pleased with the results. 

And it is with regret that I must oppose 
this bill. But I cannot in good conscience 
cast a vote for legislation that 
I believe violates our fundamental first 
amendment rights to freedom of expression. 


The Internet indecency provisions of 
S.652, as passed in the Senate, remain 
virtually intact in the conference report. 
I am referring to the sections of 
this bill which would subject to criminal 
penalties constitutionally protected 
speech via interactive telecommunications 
networks—the so-
called Internet Indecency provisions. 

The sponsors of the Internet provisions 
have good intentions —to protect 
children from those who might use the 
Internet to harm them. Sadly, there 
are those who will use the Internet, as 
they will use any tool, to victimize 
children. The sponsors of the Internet 
provisions of this bill have pointed to 
the obscene materials and child pornography 
that can be accessed via the 
Internet. To be sure, Mr. President, it 
is out there. 

Unfortunately, the provisions in this 
bill will do very little, if anything to 
protect children. That is because much 
of what the proponents of this legislation 
wish to banish from cyberspace is 
already subject to criminal penalties— 
obscenity, child pornography and child 
exploitation via computer networks 
are already criminal acts. 

So, if that is the case, what exactly 
does the provision in the conference report 
cover? It covers ‘‘indecent’’ speech 
which is afforded far greater constitutional 
protection than obscenity which 
is not protected by the first amendment. 
What is indecent speech? Indecent 
speech may include mild profanity 
that children hear on the playground 
well before they read it on a computer 
screen. While that language may be offensive 
to some, it is protected by the 
first amendment. 

Mr. President, I have found the rhetoric 
of the Internet debate interesting. 
The terms obscenity and indecency 
have been used interchangeably even 
though they have very different meanings. 
I have heard parents voice legitimate 
concerns about the obscene materials 
available via computer networks. 
I have heard them express outrage that 
their children are solicited by adults 
for exploitative purposes. But I have 
never heard a parent say there is too 
much profanity on the Internet. And 
yet, that is precisely what this bill covers. 
Rather than addressing the enforcement 
needs of existing law, it adds 
unnecessary to provisions to criminal 
statutes. 

That is a fundamental flaw, Mr. 
President. The legislation does not address 
the problem it seeks to solve. 
This does nothing more than current 
law does to prevent obscenity on the 
Internet. Instead, this bill steps in and 

decides for parents which speech is appropriate 
for their children and which 
is not. I would contend, Mr. President, 
that is the role of parents, not the federal 
government, particularly given 
that technology exists for parents to 
block objectionable material. 

I think, Mr. President, this legislation 
will do more harm than good. Will 
parents become less observant of their 
childrens’ use of the Internet now that 
they think the government has solved 
the problem? Will they fail to use the 
technology available to them to regulate 
their children’s access to sites on 
the Internet? I fear that they will because 
the U.S. Congress has led them 
to believe that these new provisions 
protect children when in fact, they do 
not. 

This legislation which provides no 
additional protection for children 
comes at a great cost—our rights to 
free speech over the Internet. This legislation, 
when it becomes law, will establish 
different standards for the same 
speech appearing in different media. 
More protection will be afforded for 
profanity that appears in a library 
book than for the same text which appears 
on-line. Equally important, this 
legislation will require all adults to 
self censor the speech on public 
newsgroups on USENET to what is appropriate 
for children in the most conservative 
American communities. This 
legislation will bring about the immediate 
demise of many socially valuable 
forums on the Internet. It will likely 
happen as quickly as CompuServe 
dumped some 200 newsgroups from 
their network after a German prosecutor 
suggested they might violate 
German law. 

I have come to this floor many times 
to speak on this topic and I will not 
take the Senate’s time to reiterate the 
many arguments against these provisions. 


I do think, Mr. President, that this is 
a sad day on the Senate floor. That the 
Internet indecency provisions have met 
with the barest resistance in this 
chamber, indicates how quickly this 
Congress is willing to abandon the 
United States Constitution in favor of 
political expediency. 

My hope, Mr. President, is that the 
expedited judicial review process provided 
for in this bill, will quickly lead 
to a judgment that the Internet indecency 
provisions are unconstitutional. 
In the meantime, Mr. President, I will 
work toward solutions that will protect 
children on the Internet without 
trampling on the first amendment. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, the conference 
report on S. 652 is finally being 
considered by the Senate. We have 
heard much about the positive changes 
to this bill and the ramifications for 
the telecommunications industry. But 
I must still express my concern about 
the absence of a provision that I see as 
vital to the protection of the American 
consumer. I am referring to the capability 
of telecommunication entities to 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S713 

develop monopolies and dominate marketplaces 
to the detriment of the consumer. 


This Nation learned through long and 
hard experience that laissez-faire attitudes 
towards industries does not protect 
smaller entities when larger competition 
comes along and certainly 
does not provide safeguards where consumers 
are concerned. I acknowledge 
the roles of government oversight that 
the bill does now provide. But the larger 
corporations will not be constrained 
in their ability, should they desire, to 
monopolize media and various telecommunication 
mediums. And in our 
effort to allow such an environment do 
we want to place the consumer on the 
altar of deregulation? 

Nevertheless, my constituents from 
Nevada believe this bill will provide 
genuine competition. And I note with 
some pride, their foresight and fairness 
in establishing a telephony commission 
to watch over the changes within the 
industry. Mr. President, the telecommunications 
industry is clearly 
evolving. Everyday we read of new 
emerging technologies that will directly 
impact all that this bill is trying 
to accomplish. While we should give it 
freedom to compete; we must, as is our 
responsibility, watch carefully to protect 
the consumers and small businesses 
so that this sphere of our economy 
is truly competitive. Despite my 
reservations, I will vote for this bill because 
there are positives and I hope 
that steadfast government oversight 
will preserve the competitive marketplace. 


Mr. BREAUX. Mr. President, anyone 
who has followed the debate over telecommunications 
legislation in recent 
years knows that much of it has been 
over when and under what conditions 
the Bell companies will be allowed to 
compete in the long distance market S. 
652 resolves this issue. 

Congress has determined that removing 
all court ordered barriers to competition—
including the MFJ 
interLATA restriction—will benefit 
consumers by lowering prices and accelerating 
innovation. The legislation 
contemplates that the FCC should act 
favorably and expeditiously on Bell 
company petitions to compete in the 
long distance business. There are various 
conditions for interLATA relief. 
These include the establishment of 
Sate-by-State interconnection agreements 
that satisfy the 14 point check 
list outlined in Sec. 271 of the bill. Bell 
companies also have to show they face 
competition from a facilities based carrier. 
They can also show that they have 
not received a legitimate request for 
interconnection from a competing 
service provider within three months of 
enactment. 

In short, interLATA relief should be 
granted as soon as competing communications 
service providers reach an 
interconnection agreement. In some 
States these agreements have already 
been put in place with the approval of 
state public service commissions. In 

those instances, we see no reason why 
the FCC should not act immediately 
and favorably on a Bell company’s petition 
to compete, once the test for facilities 
based competition is satisfied. 

Congress fully expects the FCC to 
recognize and further its intent to open 
all communications markets to competition 
at the earliest possible date. 
The debate over removing legal and 
regulatory barriers to competition has 
been resolved with this legislation. Unnecessary 
delays will do nothing more 
than invite vested interests to ‘‘game’’ 
the regulatory process to prevent or 
delay competition. 

The time has come to let consumers—
not bureaucrats—choose. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, today 
we are voting on the approval of historic 
telecommunications legislation 
that will reshape the landscape of the 
entire communications industry and 
affect every household in this country. 
The future success of America’s economy 
and society is inextricably linked 
to the universe of telecommunications. 
After a decade of intense debate, this 
legislation rewrites the Nation’s communications 
laws from top to bottom. 

The bill before us, S. 652, has come a 
long way and survived many battles. It 
is not a perfect bill in the sense that no 
one got everything they wanted—but I 
believe it will unleash a new era in 
telecommunications that will forever 
change our society and make our Nation 
a key driver on the information 
superhighway. We should applaud this 
amazing effort and support the conference 
report to S. 562. 

The debate over this measure has 
never been about the need for reform— 
everyone agrees that it’s time. The real 
debate has been over how we reform 
our telecommunications law. The 1934 
Communications Act serves our country 
as the cornerstone of communications 
law in the United States. The 
current regulatory structure set up by 
the 1934 act is based on the premise 
that information transmitted over 
wires can be easily distinguished from 
information transmitted through the 
air. So regulations were put in place to 
treat cable, broadcast, and telephone 
industries separately and for the most 
part, to preclude competition. 

However, advances in technology 
have brought us to a melding of telephone, 
video, computers, and cable. 
Digital technology allows all media to 
speak the same language. These once 
neat regulatory categories between 
telecommunications industries have 
started to blur and the assumptions 
upon which they are based are fast becoming 
obsolete. 

The essential purpose of this measure 
is to foster competition by removing 
barriers between distinct telecommunications 
industries and allowing everyone 
to compete in each other’s business. 
But how do we increase competition 
while simultaneously ensuring 
that everyone is playing on a level 
playing field? 

Coming from a rural State, this was 
an especially important question for 

me. The overall goal of this legislation 
is to increase competition and I wholeheartedly 
believe that increased competition 
will benefit consumers. However, 
we must also recognize that telecommunications 
competition is limited 
in some areas, especially in many rural 
areas. The high cost of providing telecommunications 
to rural areas is prohibitive 
for most telecommunications 
service providers without some incentive. 
The 1934 communications bill understood 
this and adopted a principle 
called universal service, which was 
thankfully maintained and updated in 
S. 652. 

The universal service concept 
charged the FCC with responsibility for 
‘‘making available, so far as possible to 
all people of the United States a rapid, 
efficient, nationwide, and world-wide 
wire and radio communications service 
with adequate facilities at reasonable 
charges.’’ So far we have done a heck of 
a job: 98 percent of American homes 
have television and radio, 94 percent 
have telephone, close to 80 percent 
have a VCR, while 65 percent subscribe 
to cable TV—96 percent have the option. 


Without universal service protections, 
advanced telecommunications 
will blow right by rural America creating 
a society of information haves 
and have nots. S.652 recognizes that the 
definition of universal service is evolving 
as the technology changes. S. 652 
requires the FCC to establish a Federal-
State joint board to recommend 
rules to reform the universal service 
system. The Joint Board will base its 
policies on principles which understands 
that access to quality, advanced 
telecommunications services should be 
provided to all Americans at a reasonable 
cost. 

I was particularly pleased to support 
an amendment, now in the bill before 
us, which guarantees that our nation’s 
K–12 schools, libraries and rural health 
care providers have affordable access 
to advanced telecommunications services 
for education. As Congress moves 
forward on this bold legislation it is 
vital to provide a mechanism to assure 
that children and other community 
users have access to the information 
superhighway. The information superhighway 
must be available and affordable 
to all Americans through schools 
and libraries. 

And in the midst of the great battles 
among corporate titans like the Baby 
Bells and the major long distance carriers 
it’s also important to balance the 
needs of the little guy. Small businesses 
are the backbone of economic 
and community life in this country. I 
was proud to put forward two provisions, 
included in this bill, which maintained 
the integrity of small businesses 
in the telecommunications revolution. 

My first provision amended the telecommunications 
bill to allow companies 
with under 5 percent of the market 
nationally, to continue offering joint 
marketing services. Under current law, 
joint marketing companies can approach 
a business and offer to provide 


S714 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

them local and long distance service 
together, at a low rate. The business 
therefore gets a low cost integrated 
service, with the convenience of having 
only one vendor and one bill to deal 
with for all their telephone service. In 
an effort to prevent the big long distance 
companies from having a competitive 
advantage, the original telecommunications 
bill would have prohibited 
joint marketing. 

Such a prohibition would have put 
small company owners like Clark 
McLeod out of business. Mr. McLeod 
has been offering joint marketing services 
to businesses in Iowa for several 
years. In the process he has created 
thousands of jobs and filled a need for 
service. While I think any prohibition 
on joint marketing is anti-competitive, 
my proposal will at least allow the 
many innovative companies like Mr. 
McLeod, to continue their operations 
and continue to provide the services 
valued by so many Iowans. 

My other small business provision 
prevents the Bell Operating companies 
from entering into the alarm industry 
before a level playing field exists. The 
burglar and alarm industry is unique 
among small businesses in the telecommunications 
industry. It is the 
only information service which is competitively 
available in every community 
across the nation. This highly 
competitive $10 billion industry is not 
dominated by large companies. Instead, 
it is dominated by approximately 13,000 
small businesses employing, on average, 
less than ten workers. Vigorous 
competition among alarm industry 
companies benefits consumers by providing 
high quality service at lower 
prices. 

Lastly, I am pleased that the Senate 
unanimously adopted two amendments 
I wrote to crack down on phone scams 
where enterprising swindlers have used 
the telephone to scam unsuspecting 
customers out of their hard earned 
money. 

Today, it is all too easy for telemarketing 
rip-off artists to profit from 
the current system. The operators of 
many of these promotions set up telephone 
boiler rooms for a few months, 
stealing thousands of dollars from innocent 
victims. These scam artists 
often prey on our senior citizens. Then 
they simply disappear. They take the 
money and run—moving on to another 
location to start all over again. 

My provision will protect consumers 
by providing law enforcement the authority 
to more quickly obtain the 
name, address, and physical location of 
businesses suspected of telemarketing 
fraud. It makes it easier for officers to 
identify and locate these operations 
and close them down. This change was 
requested by the U.S. Postal Inspection 
Service—our chief mail and wire fraud 
enforcement agency. They do a very 
good job and this provision gives them 
an important new tool to protect the 
elderly and other Americans from scam 
artists and swindlers. 

I also succeeded in adopting a provision 
to help stop another outrageous 

phone scam that has added hundreds, 
even thousands of dollars, to a family’s 
phone bill. Worst of all, this ripoff exposes 
young people to dial-a-porn 
phone sex services—even when families 
take the step of placing a block on 
extra cost 900-number calls from their 
home. 

Companies promoting phone sex, psychic 
readings and other questionable 
services—often targeted at adolescents—
use 800-numbers for calls and 
then patch them through to 900-number 
service via access codes. My 
amendment closes the loophole that allows 
these unseemly services to swindle 
families and restores public confidence 
in toll free 800-numbers. 

If we pass this bill today, these provisions 
will become the law of the land. 
As Microsoft giant, Bill Gates said in a 
recent interview with Newsweek, 

The revolution in communications is just 
beginning. It is crucial that a broad set of 
people participate in the debate about how 
this technology should be shaped. If that can 
be done the highway will serve the purposes 
users want. Then it will * * * become a reality. 


This bill is a starting point, a gateway 
to the revolution, that allows all 
Americans to participate. I urge my 
colleagues to support this conference 
report. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I would 
like to engage my colleague from Nebraska, 
the author of Title V of the 
telecommunications conference report, 
in a colloquy. I have a number of questions 
I hope you can answer to help 
clarify the intent of title V. 

Is a company such as Compuserve 
which provides access to all 
mainframes on the Internet liable for 
anything on those mainframes which 
its users view? 

Is a company like Compuserve which 
maintains its own mainframe and 
which allows people to post material 
on its mainframe liable for prohibited 
material that other people post there 
in the absence of an intent that it be 
used for a posting of prohibited material? 


Is the entity that maintains a mainframe, 
such as a university, that allows 
a person to post material on its mainframe 
liable for prohibited material 
that other people post there in the absence 
of an intent that it be used for a 
posting of prohibited material? 

When a user accesses prohibited material 
on a mainframe that was posted 
by a third party, does that constitute 
an ‘‘initiation’’ of transmission for 
which the entity maintaining the 
mainframe or the entity providing access 
to the mainframe is liable? 

Mr. EXON. I appreciate the questions 
raised by my colleague, Senator LEVIN. 
These questions are important and 
helpful. In general, the legislation is 
directed at the creators and senders of 
obscene and indecent information. For 
instance, new section 223(d)(1) holds 
liable those persons who knowingly use 
an interactive computer service to send 
indecent information or to display in


decent information to persons under 18 
years of age. You can’t use a computer 
to give pornography to children. 

The legislation generally does not 
hold liable any entity that acts like a 
common carrier without knowledge of 
messages it transmits or hold liable an 
entity which provides access to another 
system over which the access 
provider has no ownership of content. 
Just like in other pornography statutes, 
Congress does not hold the mailman 
liable for the mail that he/she delivers. 
Nothing in CDA repeals the protections 
of the Electronic Message Privacy 
Act. 

For instance, new section 223(e)(1) 
states that ‘‘no person shall be held to 
have violated subsection (a) or (d) solely 
for providing access or connection to 
or from a facility, system, or network 
not under that person’s control, * * * 
that does not include the creation of 
the content of the communication.’’ In 
other words, the telephone companies, 
the computer services such as 
Compuserve, universities that provide 
access to sites on Internet which they 
do not control, are not liable. 

There are some circumstances, however, 
in which a computer service or 
telephone company or university could 
be held liable. If, for instance, the access 
provider is a conspirator with an 
entity actively involved in creating the 
proscribed information (223(e)(2)), or if 
the access provider owns or controls a 
facility, system, or network engaged in 
providing that information (223(e)(3)), 
the access provider could potentially 
be held liable. Access providers are responsible 
for what’s on their system. 
They are generally not responsible for 
what’s on someone else’s system. 

Even in these cases, however, an access 
provider that is involved in providing 
access to minors can take advantage 
of an affirmative defense 
against any liability if the entity takes 
‘‘good faith, reasonable, effective, and 
appropriate actions * * * to restrict or 
prevent access by minors to such communications 
‘‘(223(e)(5)). The Federal 
Communications Commission may describe 
procedures which would be taken 
as evidence of good faith. One such 
good faith method is set forth in the 
legislation itself—the access provider 
will not be liable if it has restricted access 
to such communications by requiring 
use of a verified credit card or 
adult access code (223(e)(5)(B)). This affirmative 
defense is similar to the defense 
provided under current law for 
so-called ‘‘dial-a-porn’’ providers. 

I hope that this response provides 
clarification to the Senator. 

Mr. LEVIN. Yes; it does, and I thank 
my friend from Nebraska for that clarification. 


Mr. President, when the telecommunications 
reform bill was before 
the Senate in June, I supported giving 
the Justice Department a role to 
ensure that existing monopoly powers 
are not used to take advantage of 
the new markets being entered. While 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S715 

the effort to give the Justice Department 
a role in this process was not successful 
at that time, I’m pleased to see 
a Justice Department role included in 
the final version of the bill. This is 
good news for American consumers. 

In addition to including a role for the 
Justice Department in determining 
when there is adequate competition in 
the local exchange, some of the other 
problems I had with the earlier bill 
have also been addressed in the conference 
report. For example, it protects 
the right of local governments to maintain 
access to their rights-of-way. 

I believe we should try to keep obscene 
material from being transmitted 
on the Internet and by other electronic 
media. That is a constitutional standard 
that is well known. But the words 
used in title V of the bill dealing with 
this matter include ‘‘filthy’’ and ‘‘indecent,’’ 
broad and vague enough so they 
are unlikely to meet the constitutional 
test. These words do, however, exist in 
current law covering telephone calls. 
That’s why it’s useful to have an expedited 
review to test the constitutionality 
of this provision which the 
bill provides for. 

I don’t think the intent of Title V is 
to hold Internet service providers liable 
for content they did not create or 
initiate. The previous colloquy with 
my colleague from Nebraska who is the 
sponsor of this provision developed this 
in greater detail. 

While there are some problems with 
the bill, on the whole, it strikes a better 
balance between making needed 
regulatory changes to encourage technological 
innovations while maintaining 
adequate protections of the public 
interest than earlier versions of the 
bill. I will therefore vote for the conference 
report before the Senate today. 

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, I rise 
in support of the conference report to 

S. 652, the Telecommunications Competition 
and Deregulation Act. This 
legislation will promote significant 
new investment in and improvement of 
our Nation’s telecommunications infrastructure. 
It will heighten opportunities 
to export American goods overseas. 
It will increase competition in 
many industries—the telephone industry, 
cable television, utilities, long-distance 
telephone service providers, telecommunications 
equipment manufacturers, 
and the alarm industry, to 
name several—leading to greater economic 
efficiency. Above all, the telecommunications 
bill marks a victory 
for consumers, who will enjoy lower 
prices and better services. 
Mr. President, I voted against the 
bill when the Senate first considered it 
last June because I was concerned 
about a provision which purported to 
prohibit computer transmission of obscene 
or indecent material, particularly 
to minors. Such activity is, of 
course, reprehensible. But I voted 
against that amendment, No. 1362, 
which the Senate adopted, because I 
feared that we were taking action improvidently 
and without adequate con


sideration for its constitutional and 
practical implications. 

I remain concerned that the conference 
report’s provisions dealing with 
computer transmission of obscene or 
indecent material and language may be 
overly broad, but this is a matter for 
the courts to decide and the conferees 
have paved the way for expedited judicial 
review of the measure’s constitutionality. 
Therefore, if this language is 
determined to be troublesome when put 
into practice, the courts will be able to 
correct it at the earliest possible moment. 


Notwithstanding my concern about 
this particular matter, the bill on balance 
is meritorious and I urge the 
adoption of the conference report. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, today I 
rise to associate myself with the comments 
of the distinguished chairman of 
the Commerce Committee, Senator 
PRESSLER, and with the comments of 
the able majority leader, Mr. DOLE, regarding 
the conference report to S. 652, 
the Telecommunications Competition 
and Deregulation Act of 1995. 

Mr. President, this is indeed a historic 
day in the annals of the Senate. 
By an overwhelming vote of 91 yeas to 
5 nays, the Senate passed legislation 
which will revolutionize the telecommunications 
industry. 

This landmark legislation will promote 
increased competition among 
telecommunications service providers 
and will remove Depression-era restrictions 
which have impaired the growth 
of this dynamic industry. 

This bill will enact much needed reforms 
so that the telecommunications 
industry is prepared to meet the challenges, 
and opportunities, of the 21st 
century. The conference report language, 
while not perfect, represents a 
marked improvement over current law. 

Consumers and firms in my own 
Commonwealth of Virginia will gain 
under this landmark legislation. Virginia 
is home to a rapidly developing 
high-technology and telecommunications 
industry. Northern Virginia, in 
particular, is at the forefront of this 
technological revolution and is poised 
to build on that lead under the bill. 

Virginia’s consumers will benefit 
from increased services and benefits at 
a lower cost as telecommunications 
providers compete for their business. 
At the same time, this legislation is 
pro-family and will assist parents in 
overseeing the type of programming 
that their children view. 

In short, Mr. President, both consumers 
and industry will benefit from 
the passage of this historic bill. I would 
like to take this occasion to commend 
the distinguished chairman of the Senate 
Commerce Committee, Senator 
PRESSLER, and Chairman BLILEY of the 
House Commerce Committee, and the 
distinguished majority leader, Senator 
DOLE, for their leadership in bringing 
this critical legislation to the floor of 
the U.S. Senate. Most importantly, I 
want to thank the numerous Virginians 
who, over the past year, have 

provided me with their views and guid


ance on this issue. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
rise in support of the conference report 
for the Telecommunications Act of 
1995. This legislation establishes real 
progress on important issues and I am 
pleased to provide my support. 

This legislation creates a new regulatory 
structure for the rapidly evolving 
communications technology and 
fills an important need. The current 
regulatory scheme divides industries, 
like local telephone service and long-
distance service, broadcast television, 
and cable television. 

A new regulatory framework is needed, 
to permit the creation of new companies, 
new services, and promote competition 
between the previously separated 
lines of business. Stronger competition 
in the communications industry 
will bring new services to the market, 
present more choices for the public 
and lower prices to consumers. This 
bill significantly deregulates the communications 
industry to permit that 
competition to take place. 

During consideration of the bill, I 
joined many of my colleagues in urging 
several components and I was pleased 
to see that a number of these important 
proposals were able to be incorporated 
in this legislation. Among the 
issues included were: 

The V-Chip requirement, which will 
assist families to monitor television in 
their homes to protect children from 
unsuitable and inappropriate TV programming, 
including sex or violence. 
During the state of the union speech, 
President Clinton called for passage of 
the telecommunications legislation 
with the V-chip and a content ratings 
system for television programming. I 
am pleased Congress could address the 
concerns of families across America 
and incorporate these provisions. 

The cable scrambling amendment I 
offered with Senator LOTT requiring 
cable companies to scramble indecent 
or sexually explicit materials to assist 
parents to protect minors. 

Senator EXON’s provisions to control 
access to indecent materials will require 
the operators of computer networks, 
like America Online, to screen 
out indecent materials for children. 
Conferees had a difficult time reconciling 
different proposals and I am 
pleased the provisions could be accommodated. 


Assisting high-technology industry 
from inappropriate standards and requirements: 
During consideration of 
the bill, some of California’s leading 
high-technology firms and computer 
companies raised a concern that regulations 
prepared by the FCC would 
deny flexibility and limit the computer 
industries’ ability to develop standards 
based on market needs. Computer companies 
including Apple, Motorola, and 
Echelon, urge adoption of a provision 
prohibiting the FCC from developing 
overbroad regulations that could impede 
progress in the computer industry. 
I was pleased these provisions to 


S716 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

allow the computer industry to develop 
and meet the needs of the market were 
incorporated. 

I know my colleagues on both sides 
of the aisle don’t want to stand in the 
way of technological innovation or 
consumer choice. When the Senate initially 
considered the legislation last 
May, Chairman PRESSLER observed 
that the computer industry has transformed 
America and that computer industry 
competition has brought huge 
benefits to our homes, schools and 
workplaces. These provisions preserve 
that competition, and keeps the government 
away from premature standards 
setting. 

Adoption of a stronger role for the 
Justice Department to review competition 
in the telecommunications industry: 
In the years since the break-up of 
AT&T, the Justice Department has developed 
the expertise to promote competition 
in the communications industry 
and protect consumers. It would be 
a shame to squander that expertise just 
as new concerns for competition and 
fairness arise under this bill. With the 
passage of this legislation, we will 
enter a new era of telecommunications 
policy and the experience of the Justice 
Department will be critical in protecting 
strong competition and consumer 
interests. 

Important steps to promote universal 
service: In the 1930’s, the nation’s universal 
service goals involved providing 
telephone service to everyone, but as 
communications have evolved, the concept 
of universal service also must develop 
and evolve as well. The bill recognizes 
the need to modernize the concept 
of universal service and will provide 
for telephone service discounts for 
schools, libraries and hospitals to protect 
against our station splitting into 
the high-technology haves and have-
nots. 

When this legislation came before 
the Senate last spring, I joined with 
our colleague Senator KEMPTHORNE 
raising concerns about the impact on 
our Nation’s cities and counties. As a 
former mayor, I know how important 
it is to protect the cities’ bridges, 
roads and other public rights-of-way. I 
know the local government officials remain 
concerned about the bill and the 
preemption provisions. 

While legislative adjustments addressed 
some of the concerns of State 
and local governments, cities, counties 
and States remain concerned about the 
future and the possibility they could be 
brought to Washington before the Federal 
Communications Commission to 
defend local laws, regulations or fee. 

The revised language clarifies that 
cities can impose fees on communications 
providers like cable companies, 
as long as the fees are imposed in a 
way that does not discriminate between 
different competitors and the 
fees are fair and reasonable. Further, 
the preemption authority only applies 
to communications issues and if the 
cities have other authority to regulate 
communications provider, they may 
continue to charge fees. 

I am pleased that section 253(c) recognizes 
the historic authority of State 
and local governments to regulate and 
require compensation for the use of 
public rights-of-way. It further recognizes 
that State and local governments 
may apply different management and 
compensation requirements to different 
telecommunications providers’ 
to the extent that they make different 
use of the public rights-of-way. Section 
253 (c) also makes clear that section 253 

(a) is inapplicable to right-of-way management 
and compensation requirements 
so long as those entities that 
make similar demands on the public 
rights-of-way are treated in a competitively 
neutral and nondiscriminatory 
manner. 
As for the issue of FCC preemption, 
while I favored the complete elimination 
of the preemption provision, I 
am pleased that the committee could 
accept the view that authorizes the 
Commission to preempt the enforcement 
only of State or local requirements 
that violate subsection (a) or 
(b), but not (c). The courts, not the 
Commission, will address disputes 
under section 253(c). 

The overwhelming vote in the House 
on the amendment offered by Representative 
BARTON and Representative 
STUPAK, as well as the unanimous acceptance 
of Senator GORTON’s amendment 
in the Senate, indicate that the 
Congress wishes to protect the legitimate 
authority of local governments to 
manage and receive compensation for 
use of the rights-of-way. 

I am concerned that mayors, county 
commissioners, and State utility commissioners, 
including California Public 
Utility Commissioner, are concerned 
that State telephone regulations will 
be preeempted. This is an important 
issue in California where 31 companies 
have applied to begin offering services 
in July. Under the bill, California’s efforts 
to license more competitors to 
offer local phone service could be preempted 
and slowed down if the Federal 
Government acts or declines to act. 
Under the bill, the State will be preempted 
and prohibited from acting 
contrary to the Federal decision. 

I am troubled by the significant uncertainty 
which remains regarding the 
role of cities, counties, and States who 
may face added burdens. Earlier, the 
unfunded mandates legislation was 
signed into law, yet the Congressional 
Budget Office acknowledges that the 
legislation includes unfunded mandates 
for State and local governments. Further, 
CBO recognizes it lacks the ability 
to evaluate the potential cost. I 
will continue to monitor this issue and, 
if necessary, Congress may need to return 
to evaluate the balance between 
our State and local governments and 
the Federal Government on telecommunications 
policy. 

Mr. President, the legislation raises 
important issues and represents important 
progress for the Nation. As a result 
of the bill, we can move forward 
with new technology, new products, 

and new services. The bill will open up 
exciting new challenges and opportunities 
and we should embrace them. I 
look forward to these exciting new 
challenges. While I remain concerned 
about mandates and the role of cities, 
States, and counties in our telecommunication 
policy, I am pleased by 
the exciting opportunities presented by 
the legislation. I am pleased to lend my 
support. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? The Senator from South 
Carolina has 14 minutes. The Senator 
from South Dakota has 6 minutes. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, let 
me, as we acknowledge the contributions 
of so many—specifically on Senator 
STEVENS’ staff, I meant to mention 
our friend Earl Comstock. I 
worked with him throughout the years 
on our Commerce Committee, and he 
was really diligent, along with Senator 
LOTT’s staff, in the early days, Chip 
Pickering and now Kevin Pritchett, 
and, of course, Senator LOTT himself 
over there, along with Senator STEVENS. 


On our side, you would have to comment 
on the contribution of Senator 
FORD, who has been down there helping 
us orchestrate everything. He was been 
there since the early times helping us, 
along with Senator EXON and his contribution 
on cyberporn and its control; 
Senator ROCKEFELLER, along with Senator 
SNOWE in the Snowe-Rockefeller 
particular amendment relative to the 
discounted rates of the schools, the libraries, 
the hospitals. 

Senator BREAUX of Louisiana has 
been very, very active on this measure. 
I certainly want to thank him. 

The reason we do this, Mr. President, 
to go right to the point while we have 
a minute, is so the public can understand 
the involvement. 

We had involved in this particular 
measure and in the conference report, 
which has just been adopted, incidentally, 
over on the House side by a vote 
of 414 to 16. I do not know what happened 
to 16 people, how they got misled. 
I do not see why we did not get a 
unanimous vote, but, in any event, it 
shows the wonderful work done by 
Chairman BLILEY, Congressman MARKEY, 
and the others over on the House 
side. 

Look at the entities involved: The regional 
Bell operating companies. They 
have a tremendous interest and influence, 
and the long-distance companies. 
I think that was the real contest. I 
mentioned earlier that on every Friday, 
we got together the RBOC’s, the 
regional companies, and every Monday 
the staff would work. It was all on top 
of the table. There was no downtown 
lawyering and that kind of thing. It 
was all on top of the table with the 
long-distance companies. Necessarily, 
the long-distance companies had been 
thrown into competition at the time of 
the divestiture back some 10 years ago. 
And Bob Allen, chairman of AT&T 
said, ‘‘Look, I have a third less personnel. 
I am doing a third more work 
and 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S717 

making an increased profit.’’ So as 
they downsized, as they call it, and became 
competitive, the best proof that 
competition has worked is with MCI 
and Sprint and AT&T and the rest of 
them that come in under that particular 
description. 

But the long-distance companies 
have been so aggressive that they were 
beginning to move into the local exchange. 
I know of one particular concern 
this Senator had in the southern 
region where our friends at MCI said 
they were going to move into Atlanta 
with our friends of Bell South. Bell 
South is, yes, a monopoly, but it was a 
control monopoly whereby they could 
not get into long distance. 

It was to our interest and the public 
interest, of course, that they not be 
cherry picked. In other words, take off 
the wonderful market of Atlanta and 
just leave the rest of the State wanting. 
That had occurred in downtown 
New York City with Teleport. So we 
wanted them to come in on an even-
steven, balanced basis. Trying to work 
that out was really the task to bring 
them on board where they all approved 
of this particular bill and supported 
this particular bill. Not that they are 
100 percent in agreement with every 
feature, obviously, but they realize this 
is a mammoth step forward in trying 
to bring the communications law of 
America into the modern technological 
age. 

So we had the guidance of the 8(c) 
test from our friend Judge Greene 
where he ruled that there be no substantial 
possibility of using monopoly 
power to impede competition. Every 
word meant something to every communications 
lawyer. So we had to really 
get a checklist of ‘‘unbundling’’ and 
‘‘dialing parity’’ and ‘‘access,’’ and all 
these things to be agreed upon. 

It took actually weeks on every one 
of those particular measures all last 
year where we worked around the clock 
to get it balanced and not overweighted 
one way and not let long distance 
come in and market without the 
ability, let us say, of our Bell companies 
to joint market also. 

So we were educated about that and 
came around to a balance in this particular 
measure and now have the support 
of, and can you imagine of all of 
these entities supporting this particular 
measure: The regional Bell operating 
companies, the long-distance 
companies, the broadcasters, the cable 
TV companies, the cellular, satellite 
companies, the newspapers, burglar 
alarm, electronic publishing, public 
utilities, pay phones, minority groups, 
computers were vitally interested in 
the outcome of this particular measure, 
the schools, libraries, the hospitals. 
Snowe-Rockefeller, the Secretary 
of Education, Dick Reilly, and 
the administration were strong in this 
information superhighway of our distinguished 
Vice President. 

The Department of Justice worked 
diligently to make sure it was not just 
a casual thing to send a letter or opin


ion over to the Federal Communications 
Commission and just be thrown 
in the wastebasket; that it should be 
given substantial weight to their opinion 
to make sure that no monopolistic 
tendencies and actual entities develop 
in opening up the markets for competition. 
The State public service commissions 
had to be coached and brought 
along. The cities, the retailers of 
equipment, the privacy groups, the 
local competition or competitors like 
Teleport, the manufacturers, the rural 
telephone companies, the independent 
program producers. I can go on and on. 
But we now have the support of every 
one of these groups. 

I think we have it because we feel 
very strongly that the public interest 
has been protected in the long-distance 
section, in the broadcast section and 
carried over from the 1934 Telecommunications 
Act. The antitrust 
laws have been protected, as I pointed 
out. 

One of the big disputes that we had 
was the takeover of 50 percent of the 
broadcast market in the United States. 
Mr. President, I could be President if I 
had that. I would call up Madison Avenue 
and say, ‘‘You’re not going to advertise 
your Miller High Life unless,’’ 
and then I would complete my thought. 
You can control 50 percent of the television 
advertising in this country, and 
we also already saw a tendency by 
cable news—CNN did not want to carry 
certain parts of advertisements because 
it was against their interest. We 
tried to protect against that. 

But if you had 50 percent, you might 
as well forget it, because the money is 
there, they buy it out, they control it. 
You could become the President, as we 
can see right now on the buying of the 
Presidency up in the distinguished 
State of New Hampshire where the distinguished 
Presiding Officer lives. I as 
a candidate, if I take the public moneys, 
am limited to $600,000. But if I 
have millions, I have spent millions, go 
to Channel 5 in Boston and cover Highway 
128 going up to Nashua where half 
of the population of that great State 
resides. 

It is not so much the flat tax as it is 
the sweep of the television control and 
the purchase. We will get to that later 
on with campaign financing, because I 
have a one-line constitutional amendment: 
The Congress of the United 
States is hereby empowered to control 
expenditures in Federal elections. 

We have had bipartisan support, a 
majority vote. All we lack is two-
thirds for that particular amendment. I 
go back to the day when our colleague 
from Louisiana, Senator Russell Long, 
was elocuting in 1974 about the Federal 
Election Campaign Practices Act and 
said every mother’s son was going to be 
able to run for President. Nobody was 
going to be able to buy it. Now they are 
buying it. But let me go back to communications. 


We are about to vote. We protected 
the 50 percent. We never would yield on 
that. That would be embarrassing for 

anybody to stand on the floor and ask 
for it. To tell you, the only reason I 
agreed to 35 percent is CBS. Westinghouse 
already has 32 percent, and we 
did not want to have to go backwards. 
Twenty-five percent is enough. 

We protected the rural areas. The 
distinguished chairman of our committee, 
Senator PRESSLER, Senator 
STEVENS of Alaska, and Senator BURNS 
of Montana and all, they protected 
those rural areas. Any competitor that 
comes in must serve the entire rural 
area. They cannot just come in and 
take a part. The public service commissions 
or authorities will determine 
how competition will occur in those 
rural areas. The infrastructure sharing 
is provided for from the regional Bell 
operating companies to help them sustain. 
We learned a lot with that blooming 
airline deregulation. 

I see I have a colleague who wants a 
few minutes. I want to yield to make 
sure he can comment. 

The RBOC’s, the checklist, and the 
long distance I have touched on. Universal 
service: Every carrier, Mr. President, 
coming into the local market 
shall contribute. 

We have the Rockefeller provision 
and Senator EXON’s cyberporn provision, 
which he is momentarily ready to 
address. 

How much time do I have left? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. About 3 
minutes 10 seconds. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I yield that to my 
colleague from Nebraska. 

Mr. EXON. I thank my friend from 
South Carolina. My heartiest congratulations 
to Senator PRESSLER, the chairman 
of the committee, and my friend 
and colleague from South Carolina, the 
ranking member, for a job well done 
under some extreme circumstances. I 
congratulate you. I understand that 
the House has just agreed to the conference 
report by an overwhelming majority. 
I think the same thing will happen 
here. 

Mr. President, I am pleased to voice 
my enthusiastic support for this most 
significant piece of telecommunications 
legislation since the enactment 
of the Communications Act of 1934. 

As a Conference Committee member 
and author and backer of key provisions 
of the bill I believe that this legislation 
is good for American families, 
children and citizens in rural America. 

Too often progress and discussions of 
this legislation has been segregated to 
the business pages of many of America’s 
newspapers. Too much attention 
has been paid to how this bill affects 
large corporations. This legislation is 
not only about large corporations. It is 
legislation which will touch every person’s 
life. It will open unprecedented 
economic, educational and information 
opportunities for all Americans. 

Few pieces of legislation considered 
by this or any other Congress have so 
embraced the concerns and needs of 
America’s children and families as has 
this legislation. I am very proud of the 
fact that this legislation includes the 


S718 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Communications Decency Act which I 
introduced earlier this Congress and in 
the last Congress to protect children 
from indecent, pornographic communications 
on the Internet and other 
computer services and to protect all 
Americans from computer obscenity 
and electronic stalking. With the passage 
of this bill, the Congress will help 
make the Information Superhighway 
safer for kids and families to travel. 
The current lawlessness on the Internet 
has opened a virtual Triple-X 
(XXX)-rated bookstore in the bedrooms 
of every child with a computer. This 
law alone will not clean up the Internet. 
Parental supervision, industry cooperation 
along with strict law enforcement, 
need to work together to 
make this exciting new technology the 
family friendly resource that it should 
be. 

I am especially pleased that the conference 
report also included legislation 
Senator GRASSLEY and I put forward to 
crack down on those who use various 
means of communications to lure children 
into illegal sexual activity. 

Concurrent with our efforts to make 
the Internet and other computer services 
safe for families and children, this 
bill includes legislation which will help 
turn the information revolution to the 
benefit of all Americans but especially 
for America’s children. The Snowe-
Rockefeller-Exon-Kerrey amendment 
which is part of this bill creates a 
unique partnership with private industry. 
It will ensure discount telecommunications 
rates for schools, libraries 
and rural health care facilities. 
This landmark provision will, perhaps, 
give children in Harvard and Cambridge, 
NE, opportunities to use telecommunications 
technologies to learn 
from libraries and scholars at Harvard 
and Cambridge Universities. 

Another area of critical importance 
is in enacting legislation to require 
new televisions to contain the so-called 
V-chip which will give families an opportunity 
to block violent, vulgar or 
other objectionable entertainment programming 
from their TV set. If successfully 
implemented, this legislation 
will lead to the objective rating of programs 
and give to parents the power to 
bar from their homes those programs 
which assault their values. I was proud 
to co-sponsor the Senate V-chip 
amendment. 

Mr. President, this legislation also 
represents a major victory for rural 
America. The conference report gives 
approval to the so-called farm-team 
provisions. These provisions assure 
that rural citizens enjoy telephone 
technologies and prices which are comparable 
to those in urban areas. The 
provisions also allow rural phone companies 
to pool resources with each 
other and with cable companies to 
share new technologies and to give 
states the power to prevent unfair 
cherry-picking competition in rural 
markets. Under the farm-team provisions 
States can require new telephone 
competitors to offer service to an en


tire community rather than just a select 
few highly profitable rural phone 
users. The provisions also give the Federal 
and State regulators flexibility in 
dealing with small and mid-sized phone 
companies. Too often, one-size-fits-all 
regulation needlessly pushes up costs 
for Nebraska’s home town phone companies. 


The farm team, by the way, is a 
group of rural Senators which pushed a 
package of rural-oriented reforms during 
last year’s consideration of telecommunications 
legislation. As a charter 
member of the farm team along 
with Senators BOB KERREY, JAY ROCKEFELLER, 
BYRON DORGAN, TED STEVENS, 
and the current chairman of the Commerce 
Committee Senator LARRY 
PRESSLER, it is very gratifying that 
our ideas on universal service, rural 
markets, regulatory flexibility and 
preferential rates for schools, libraries 
and rural health care facilities are now 
central principles of America’s future 
telecommunications policies. 

In a real sense this legislation is less 
about big corporation and more about 
changing the way Americans live, work 
and learn. No one will be untouched by 
this legislation. New options may confuse 
and frustrate some consumers at 
first, but will bring new services, new 
choices and more affordable prices to 
all Americans. 

The barriers to investment and innovation 
have been removed while protecting 
the essential elements of a free 
market. The telecommunications reform 
bill does not disrupt the Nation’s 
antitrust laws and does not change the 
Justice Department’s role in policing 
unfair competition and predatory pricing. 


Mr. President, most importantly this 
legislation illustrates that a Congress 
can make revolutionary change when 
it puts party labels aside and works together 
not as Democrats and Republicans 
but as Americans. I congratulate 
Senators HOLLINGS and PRESSLER and 
all the members of both parties and 
both Houses who brought this complex 
piece of legislation together. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

Mrs. BOXER. I would like to congratulate 
Senator EXON and the other 
members of the conference on bringing 
this very important conference report 
to the floor today. However, I would 
like to bring their attention to one section 
that is very troubling to me. 

Section 507 amends a preexisting section 
of the Criminal Code, 18 U.S.C. 
1462, and applies to the Internet. Now, 
it is my understanding that your intent 
behind adopting this provision was 
to place reasonable restrictions on obscenity 
on the Internet. I support this 
goal. However, a section of this act 
may be construed to curb discussions 
about abortion. It seems to me this 
provision would certainly be unconstitutional. 


Mr. EXON. I appreciate the Senator’s 
raising the issue of this provision. I 
certainly agree with her that any discussion 
about abortion is protected by 

the first amendment guarantee of free 
speech. I certainly agree that nothing 
in this title should be interpreted to inhibit 
free speech about the topic of 
abortion. 

Further, she is quite right that our 
interest in adopting this provision was 
to curb the spread of obscenity—speech 
that is not protected by the first 
amendment—from the Internet in 
order to protect our children. 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, with 
that assurance, I feel comfortable supporting 
this bill. And I hope that my 
colleagues who were also concerned 
about this provision will now feel comfortable 
supporting this bill. Once 
again, I thank the Senator for clarifying 
this point, and for his hard work 
on this bill. 

Mr. EXON. Mr. President, those who 
have fought all efforts to bring some 
level of decency to the Internet have 
employed all sorts of rhetorical devices 
to defeat the Communications Decency 
Act. 

The latest attack comes from those 
who suggest that amendments originally 
in the House bill to title 18 section 
1462 somehow revive obsolete provisions 
of the Comstock Act—(related 
in information on abortion)—which 
courts have essentially determined to 
be unconstitutional. The amendments 
to title 18 merely clarify that the current 
laws which prohibit the importation, 
transportation, or distribution of 
obscene materials apply to computers. 

The conference committee went to 
great lengths in section 507(c) to underline 
that the changes to the Criminal 
Code are clarifying and do not change 
the substantive coverage of the current 
law. The Congress last amended section 
1463 in 1994 by increasing penalties for 
violations of this section. Nothing in 
this legislation prohibits constitutionally 
protected speech and this legislation 
does not revive other-wise dead 
provisions of that law any more than 
the 1994 amendment revived those very 
provisions. 

I thank the Chair and I thank again 
those who put this act together. I am 
pleased that it is about to pass the 

U. S. Senate. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, we are on 
the verge of passing the most important 
piece of legislation in this Congress. 
By unleashing competition in 
the communications industry, America 
will have more jobs, a stronger economy, 
and more opportunity. It is a real 
economic stimulus package with one 
big difference: It relies on private-sector 
America, and not big government. 

Mr. President, this bill has been in 
the works for over a decade. It has 
stumped Congress after Congress. 
know that because I introduced the 
first deregulation bill after the breakup 
of the old ‘‘Ma Bell’’ system back in 
1986, 10 years ago. 

There is no doubt about it. This conference 
report was crafted in a bipartisan, 
I think nonpartisan, manner. It 
could not have been accomplished 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S719 

without the hard work of Chairman 
PRESSLER and his staff. Senator HOLLINGS 
has played a key role for years 
on this important issue. 

I want to say an additional word 
about Senator PRESSLER. I know the 
committee chairman sometimes gets a 
little anxious and comes to the leader 
quite often about, ‘‘When are you going 
to take up my bill?’’ And I can report 
that I did not get by one day without 
Senator PRESSLER asking me that at 
least two or three times. 

So I want to congratulate Senator 
PRESSLER for his dogged determination. 
I am very proud of the work he 
has done and the work of the other 
Members in the conference. We have 
some differences. We think there are 
still some things that should be addressed. 


I am satisfied with the letter which I 
have received from the FCC with reference 
to spectrum. I do not have any 
desire to put a roadblock in the way of 
the spectrum option. But I wish to 
make certain the taxpayers get their 
money’s worth. If it is not worth anything, 
that is fine. Let us have public 
hearings. Let us get it all out in the 
open. Let us make a decision, and then 
let us make that determination. 

I am proud of the fact that this bill 
willl pass in a Republican Congress. It 
is no small feat. It was only 3 years ago 
Congress reregulated the cable TV industry. 
That is not to say that cable 
TV did not have its problems, because 
it certainly did. The difference is Republicans 
believe competition and not 
Government is the best regulator of 
the marketplace. Competition also 
means more choices for the American 
people. And choice provides the highest 
level of consumer protection. 

It has been a tough bill to put together 
and some issues were resolved 
and some were not resolved. Important 
issues like the foreign ownership provision 
that were dropped, they would 
have helped American corporations pry 
open foreign markets that have been 
closed for too long. Or maybe it was 
the relaxation of the broadcast ownership 
rule which would have given the 
little guy access to capital and thereby 
be a stronger competitor. There could 
have also been language included that 
would have forbidden the FCC from 
regulating the Internet. At the same 
time, we did take steps to help parents 
protect their children from indecent 
material that is prevalent on this new 
service. 

I do not mean to take anything away 
from the bill and how it will propel our 
country into the next century. Instead, 
I wish to point out there is still much 
to be done. I think everybody has 
agreed to that. 

I have also been openly critical of the 
provision in the telecommunications 
bill that would junk all television sets 
in the country and create a giant welfare 
program for television broadcasters. 
I have worked closely with 
Chairman PRESSLER, who has also been 
critical of this issue for some time, 

Senator MCCAIN, the Speaker, and 
many others. 

So we have the letter. I am satisfied 
with it. They said, in any event, they 
would not be prepared until 1997, and it 
seems to me we are not going to retard 
progress in any way. We are just going 
to find out what the facts are. If it is 
worth $10 billion, $20 billion, $30 billion, 
$70 billion, or zero, the public will 
know after public hearings. We think 
the American taxpayers are entitled to 
at least that assurance. When we are 
talking about reducing the rate of 
growth of certain programs—Medicaid, 
Medicare, welfare—we ought to make 
certain we are not going at the bottom 
and giving somebody at the top a windfall. 
And again maybe someday, if we 
live long enough, this may be covered 
by the networks, the spectrum. I doubt 
it. They will be covering Members of 
Congress who might be going overseas 
on important business. But it could be 
that they might cover this, how much 
it is worth to them and how much it is 
worth to broadcasting generally. 

I think it should happen. There 
should not be a double standard is what 
they keep telling us. I agree with them. 
So I expect we would have objective reporting 
on this particular issue. 

Today we secured a letter signed by 
all five Commissioners at the Federal 
Communications Commission. These 
Commissioners stood with me, despite 
intense lobbying to do otherwise. That 
is courage and we owe them our 
thanks. 

In that letter, these Commissioners 
committed to Congress, 

Any award of initial licenses or construction 
permits for advanced television services 
will only be made in compliance with the express 
intent of Congress and only pursuant 
to additional legislation it may resolving 
this issue. 

I am determined to turn the FCC’s 
commitment to us into a victory for 
the American taxpayer. But Congress 
will conduct hearings in the full light 
of day on this issue. We will follow 
through and address this issue. For 
those who think this is an idle threat, 
guess again. Because we will give this 
our utmost scrutiny. 

Now, those may sound like tough 
words, but, Mr. President, taxpayers 
deserve nothing less. 

In closing, let me also assure those 
skeptics that these letters are not—I 
repeat, are not—about saving face. It is 
about saving the American taxpayer 
billions of dollars and stopping a give-
away, a giant corporate welfare program. 


Mr. President, despite this profound 
flaw, which we will fix, this legislation 
will create jobs and benefits that we 
yet cannot imagine. 

I ask unanimous consent that the 
FCC letter be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION, 

Washington, DC, February 1, 1996. 

Hon. LARRY PRESSLER, 

Chairman, Committee on Commerce, Science and 

Transportation, U.S. Senate, Hart Senate 

Office Building, Washington, DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN PRESSLER: Thank you very 
much for your letter this morning about the 
concerns expressed by Senate Majority Leader 
Dole and others regarding the distribution 
of additional spectrum to television broadcasters. 
We share the determination of you, 
Senator Dole and others to protect American 
taxpayers. As you know, under current law 
and pursuant to the language of the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 (should it become 
law), the Commission lacks authority 
to auction, or charge broadcasters for the 
use of, the spectrum that has been identified 
for the provision of these broadcast services. 
In addition, given the many administrative 
steps necessary to implement any assignment 
of digital broadcast licenses, we would 
not be in a position to issue those licenses 
any earlier than 1997. 

We recognize the serious policy questions 
involved, and that you intend to hold hearings 
and enact legislation dealing with this 
issue as part of an overhaul of policies governing 
the electromagnetic spectrum. Any 
award of initial licenses or construction permits 
for Advanced Television Services will 
only be made in compliance with the express 
intent of Congress and only pursuant to additional 
legislation it may adopt resolving 
this issue. 

Very truly yours, 

REED E. HUNDT, 

Chairman. 

JAMES H. QUELLO, 

Commissioner. 

ANDREW C. BARRETT, 

Commissioner. 

SUSAN NESS, 

Commissioner. 

RACHELLE B. CHONG, 

Commissioner. 

Mr. PRESSLER. How much time is 
remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Senator 
HOLLING’s time has expired, and the 
Senator from South Dakota has 5 minutes 
58 seconds. 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, I 
yield 3 minutes to my colleague from 
Washington. I thank him very much 
for his work on this bill. It would not 
have happened without him. 

Mr. GORTON. Mr. President, in dealing 
with highly complex and technical 
legislation, two requirements seem to 
me to be essential. The first is that 
those who have an interest in the legislation 
and have conflicts among themselves 
over what is most desirable, express 
their views so that Members can 
evaluate conflicting arguments and attempt 
to reach the truth. 

Each of these interest groups gives 
lip service to the consumer interest 
and to competition, but it is only by 
testing the groups’ competing ideas 
against one another that the consumer 
interest and competition can truly be 
served. That has clearly been the case 
in connection with the many year debate 
over telecommunications legislation. 
There were myriad interest 
groups. They had highly conflicting interests. 
I believe that we have reached 
good accommodations in connection 
with almost every one of those conflicts. 



S720 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

But the second and even more important 
requirement for dealing with legislation 
of this type is that the Members 
who deal with the issue in the 
committees, and particularly those 
who are in charge, keep the public interest 
as their objective. In this connection, 
I want to say how much that 
has been the case with the junior Senator 
from South Carolina [Mr. HOLLINGS] 
during his leadership in this 
process. Most particularly, however, I 
offer my appreciation to Senator 
PRESSLER, who was willing to listen to 
everybody, but be the prisoner of no 
one, in arriving at the right answers in 
connection with this bill. He did so in 
the Senate proceedings, and he did so 
as chairman of the conference committee. 
The fact that we are here today 
passing, nearly unanimously, this important 
piece of legislation is a real 
tribute to him. 

Personally, Mr. President, I should 
like to note two aspects of this comprehensive 
legislation. I have a great 
interest in the competitive nature of 
the wireless industry, and I am gratified 
that most of my suggestions in 
that connection, to strengthen the industry’s 
competitive position, have 
been accepted. I am also delighted that 
we were able to protect our American 
children and the power of our American 
parents through the V-chip provisions 
and through other provisions, 
which will give more authority to family 
members to supervise what their 
children see. 

Other details, obviously, cannot be 
gone into at the present time. This is a 
fine piece of legislation. As a result of 
the great work of our leaders, it will 
create employment for many tens of 
thousands of Americans, and ensure 
that telecommunications will be a cut-
ting-edge industry in this country for 
many years to come. 

I would like to clarify, and express 
my understanding, of a somewhat confusing 
provision in the bill regarding 
uniform pricing of cable rates. The conference 
report changes the uniform 
rate requirement in two essential 
ways. First, section 301(b)(2) of the legislation 
sunsets the uniform rate structure 
requirement in markets where the 
cable operator faces effective competition. 


The second change to the uniform 
rate requirement is the addition of language 
that permits cable operators to 
offer bulk discounts to multiple dwelling 
units or MDU’s. The language in 
this section permits cable operators to 
offer bulk discounts to MDU’s, ‘‘except 
that a cable operator of a cable system 
that is not subject to effective competition 
may not charge predatory 
prices to a multiple dwelling unit.’’ 

I understand that there has been concern 
that this somewhat awkwardly 
worded section implicitly condones 
predatory pricing once there is competition 
in a market, or for subscribers 
who do not live in MDU’s. Clearly it is 
not the intent of Congress to supersede 
the Sherman Act by allowing cable op


erators to engage in predatory pricing 
at any time or under any circumstances. 
In fact, the legislation includes 
a general antitrust savings 
clause in section 601(b). This clause 
guarantees that antitrust concerns 
still will be addressed in the telecommunications 
industry. 

Mr. PRESSLER. I join in that praise 
of Senator DASCHLE and also Senator 
DOLE. 

Mr. President, in closing this debate, 
let me say that we are passing a historic 
telecommunications bill that will 
have a sweeping impact. It is prospective, 
deregulatory, and it will affect 
every single American. It will have a 
great international impact. I know 
that our citizens will benefit greatly. 
There will be new devices and new 
technologies, and there will be lower 
prices. We are entering an era that is 
going to be like the Oklahoma land 
rush. There will be an explosion of new 
telecommunications opportunities for 
our citizens. 

I thank all the Senators. I have had 
the privilege of visiting with all 100 
Senators about this legislation. I also 
pay tribute to Congressman BLILEY, 
Congressman FIELDS, Congressman 
MARKEY, Congressman DINGELL, and 
others, whom I have had a chance, as 
chairman of the joint House-Senate 
conference, to become acquainted with. 
I have come to appreciate the work of 
a House-Senate conference. I want to 
pay tribute to our House colleagues 
who worked so hard on this legislation. 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous-consent that, consistent 
with the law and the rules of the Senate 
Rules Committee, the maximum 
amount of copies of the Senate version 
of this conference report be printed 
and, if possible, that 50 copies be delivered 
to each Senator’s office. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, I 
want to thank everyone. I yield the remaining 
time to the Senator from 
South Carolina. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, I ask 
for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the conference 
report accompanying S. 652. 
The yeas and nays have been ordered. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

Mr. LOTT. I announce that the Senator 
from Texas [Mr. GRAMM] is necessarily 
absent. 

Mr. FORD. I announce that the Senator 
from Connecticut [Mr. DODD] and 
the Senator from West Virginia [Mr. 
ROCKEFELLER] are necessarily absent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
THOMAS). Are there any other Senators 
in the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 91, 
nays 5, as follows: 

[Rollcall Vote No. 8 Leg.] 
YEAS—91 

Abraham Faircloth Lott 
Akaka Feinstein Lugar 
Ashcroft Ford Mack 
Baucus Frist 

McConnell 
Bennett Glenn 

Mikulski 
Biden Gorton 

Moseley-BraunBingaman Graham 

Moynihan

Bond Grams 

Murkowski

Boxer Grassley 

Murray

Bradley Gregg 

Nickles

Breaux Harkin 

Nunn

Brown Hatch 

Pell

Bryan Hatfield 
Bumpers Heflin 

Pressler 

Pryor 
Byrd Hollings 

Burns Helms 

Reid 
Campbell Hutchison Robb 
Chafee Inhofe Roth 
Coats Inouye Santorum 
Cochran Jeffords Sarbanes 
Cohen Johnston Shelby 
Conrad Kassebaum Simpson 
Coverdell Kempthorne 

Smith 
Craig Kennedy 

Snowe 
D’Amato Kerrey 

Specter

Daschle Kerry 

Stevens 

DeWine Kohl 

Thomas

Dole Kyl 

Thompson

Domenici Lautenberg 

Thurmond

Dorgan Levin 

Warner

Exon Lieberman 

NAYS—5 

Feingold McCain Wellstone 
Leahy Simon 

NOT VOTING—3 

Dodd Gramm Rockefeller 

So the conference report was agreed 
to. 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote by which the conference 
report was agreed to. 

Mr. PRESSLER. I move to lay that 
motion on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 
CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. 652, THE 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REFORM BILL 

Mr. CHAFEE. Mr. President, I congratulate 
the managers of this bill and 
the leadership of the House and Senate 
on bringing to the floor this complex, 
overdue effort to bring our Nation’s 
telecommunications laws into the 21st 
century. Although this legislation does 
not receive the attention in the media 
as do issues such as the Federal budget 
and tax cuts, its importance to our 
economy, to the livelihoods of all 
Americans, and to continued technological 
progress cannot be overstated. 
In fact, it has been said that the telecommunications 
reform bill is the 
most important piece of legislation we 
will pass in this Congress. 

This bill recognizes that market 
forces and competition are the fuels 
that drive our Nation’s economy. For 
too long, most sectors of our telecommunications 
industry, particularly 
the telephone industry, have been hamstrung 
by outdated laws that limit access 
to the marketplace. The great 
bulk of law in this area is actually 
some 61 years old. It should be obvious 
to everyone that communications technology 
has been revolutionized during 
these 61 years, and our laws ought to 
keep up with these changes in technology. 


Since the 104th Congress began consideration 
of telecommunications reform 
early last year, there have been 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S721 

countless forces pulling the authors of 
this legislation is many different directions. 
There have been industry groups, 
individual companies, consumer 
groups, unions, think tanks, the administration, 
and many, many more all 
with an interest in this bill who have 
rightfully voiced their concerns as this 
process has gone forward. I admire the 
long hours of hard work performed by 
the Commerce Committee and its staff 
in sorting through the maze of this 
highly complex issue and producing 
this conference report. I certainly did 
not envy these individuals as they 
tackled this extraordinary difficult 
task. 

While, as I have said, we all respect 
the ability of the free market to 
produce jobs and foster economic 
growth, there are many in Congress 
who are reluctant to let the marketplace 
operate completely freely in all 
telecommunications industries. For example, 
many of my colleagues are concerned 
that the regional Bell companies 
will take undue advantage of their 
ownership of local telephone networks 
to compete unfairly in the long distance 
market. On the other hand, 
many other colleagues are equally adamant 
that we should place very few restrictions 
on Bell companies as they 
are permitted to offer long distance 
service. 

This debate over long distance represents 
just one of the many, many difficult 
balancing acts the managers of 
this bill struggled with. In short, my 
colleagues had to reconcile the views of 
those who wanted to let the marketplace 
more or less reign free with those 
who sought regulatory protection for 
industries and for consumers. And let 
me tell you, this was no easy task for 
the authors of this bill; I commend 
them for their legislative ability. No 
one is 100 percent happy with the final 
product, but I am confident that the 
benefits we will realize in enacting this 
bill in the way of job creation and technological 
progress are real. We can all 
be proud of the job done by the authors 
of this legislation. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I wish 
to associate myself with the remarks 
made by the distinguished Senator 
from Rhode Island. Those of us who 
have worked with the distinguished 
chairman and ranking member on this 
bill wish to acknowledge the great 
credit for their leadership, and for our 
distinguished majority leader and the 
minority leader for their backup assistance. 


f 

CLOTURE VOTE POSTPONED ON 
THE FARM BILL 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, if I could 
have the attention of my colleagues, I 
ask that the cloture vote be postponed. 

Let me indicate what we believe is in 
progress. We have been working for the 
last 2 or 3 hours with a number of 
Members on each side of the aisle and 
with Chairman LUGAR and the ranking 
member, Senator LEAHY, on the Senate 

Agriculture Committee. I am not certain 
if there is an agreement yet, but 
we may be close to an agreement. We 
think it would save a considerable 
amount of time if we could suspend it 
temporarily. I understand the Democrats 
have a conference at 5:30. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Assuming we have an 
agreement to talk about, but I was told 
that we were close to an agreement. I 
felt it was important that we set a 
time, if it were possible to do that, and 
then immediately go back to the floor 
and continue our work. 

Mr. DOLE. I know a number of Members 
have other engagements. I will be 
in a position, maybe by 6 o’clock, to indicate 
whether we have an agreement 
or do not have an agreement. If we do 
not have an agreement, we will vote on 
cloture. If we do have an agreement, we 
will try to get a time agreement and 
consider all amendments—en bloc? 

Mr. DASCHLE. Hopefully. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the request to set aside 
the cloture vote and to come back at 6 
o’clock on this issue? Without objection, 
it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I can tell 
Members now that there will not be 
any votes for a while. We will try to 
give an a announcement at 6 o’clock. 
We hope we can have a short time 
agreement. If there is an agreement 
overall on the agriculture bill, we 
would not be here too late this evening. 
If not, we would have to come back tomorrow 
or sometime next week. 

So I say to my colleagues that we 
will let you know as soon as we have 
any information. And I appreciate your 
cooperation. 

Mr. DASCHLE addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The minority 
leader. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Let me commend the 
distinguished Senator from South Dakota, 
and in particular our minority 
ranking member, the Senator from 
South Carolina [Mr. HOLLINGS] for the 
remarkable job he has done in bringing 
us to the point we achieved today. 
Were it not for his contribution and 
leadership and incredible determination 
over the last several months, we 
would simply not have achieved what 
we achieved this afternoon. Senator 
HOLLINGS deserves commendation on 
both sides of the aisle. I publicly want 
to again thank him for the effort that 
he put forth, for the remarkable teamwork 
that he demonstrated in allowing 
us the opportunity to at long last 
achieve what we have all hoped we 
could achieve. 

So I commend Senator HOLLINGS and 
others who were involved, certainly the 
Senator from South Dakota, and I am 
very pleased with the result this afternoon. 


I yield the floor. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF RONALD 
REAGAN’S 85TH BIRTHDAY 
Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I understand 
a resolution I am about to offer 

has been cleared on each side. I send it 
to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 220) in recognition of 

Ronald Reagan’s 85th birthday. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the immediate consideration 
of the resolution? 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, 16 years 
ago, America was flat on her back. Our 
economy was a disaster. The only 
things up were inflation, interest rates, 
and unemployment—all in or near double 
digits. Abroad, our resolve was 
questioned by our allies and doubted by 
our adversaries. 

Many so-called experts—including 
some in the Government—surveyed the 
situation, wrung their hands, shook 
their heads, and pronounced that the 
United States was in decline: That our 
best days were far behind us. 

But one man knew better. And that 
man was Ronald Reagan. 

Ronald Reagan knew that power belonged 
with the people, not with the 
Government. He knew that the best solutions 
to our problems came not from 
bureaucrats on the Potomac, but from 
men and women on the Mississippi, the 
Colorado, and the Columbia. 

Ronald Reagan knew that economic 
recovery could be achieved not through 
regulations and redtape, but by allowing 
the magic of the marketplace to 
work its wonders. 

Ronald Reagan knew that America 
was right far more often than she was 
wrong. 

Ronald Reagan knew that military 
strength was not the means to war, but 
the key to peace. 

Ronald Reagan knew that world respect 
came not from appeasement, but 
from standing by your friends, by 
speaking up for freedom, and by drawing 
the line against dictators. 

Ronald Reagan knew that America 
was still a shining city on a hill, and 
that our Nation’s best days were truly 
yet to come. 

It was this vision that Ronald 
Reagan presented in 1980 and 1984. 

It was this vision that the voters approved 
in overwhelming margins. 

It was this vision that brought hope 
and opportunity to millions. 

It was this vision that revitalized 
America, and changed the world. 

Mr. President, next Tuesday is Ronald 
Reagan’s 85th birthday. And the 
resolution we pass today will extend to 
President Reagan the greetings and 
best wishes of the U.S. Senate. 

And I know I speak for all Members 
of the Senate, when I say that our 
thoughts and prayers are with the 
President and Nancy. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise 
tonight to wish Ronald Reagan, one of 
this country’s, indeed, one of the 
world’s, great leaders, a happy 85th 
birthday. The ‘‘Gipper’’ and his family—
and friends joining across the 


S722 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

world—will celebrate his birthday on 
Saturday. 

As a Senator in my first term, when 
President Reagan came to Washington, 
I found his vision, forthrightness and 
high principles, to be measures by 
which all elected officials can aspire. 
Ronald Reagan’s faith in God and his 
tremendous belief in the common sense 
of the American people, were sources of 
great strength and wisdom. His courage 
and willingness to stand up for 
what he believed in were admired by 
friend and foe alike. 

I am proud to say that I consider 
Ronald Reagan not just a friend, but a 
teacher and mentor to me and many 
other Senators back in our early Senate 
career. 

I fondly recall our times together, especially 
while we were riding horses 
over my Atoka farm. Our conversations 
varied from personal stories to 
serious discussions about the threat of 
the former Soviet Empire and America’s 
place in the world as a protector 
of freedom and Democracy. His humor 
paralleled that of Will Rogers. 

Mr. President, I am very proud of the 
fact that next year, in my home State, 
the Newport News Shipyard will lay 
the keel of the Navy’s newest aircraft 
carrier, the U.S.S. Ronald Reagan. I 
wish to join with my good friend from 
Idaho, Senator KEMPTHORNE, for together 
we sponsored the legislation 
that designated the ship with President 
Reagan’s name. It is a rightful designation 
for his contribution to the demise 
of the Soviet Union. 

I am also pleased that the Reagan 
Presidency will be honored just a few 
blocks from the Capitol. The Federal 
Triangle project under construction at 
14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, 
Northwest, will be designated as the 
Ronald Reagan Building and International 
Trade Center, thanks to legislation 
introduced by Majority Leader 
ROBERT DOLE. I am proud to have been 
a co-sponsor of this legislation, which 
has been passed by the Congress and 
signed into law by the President. 

I would like to close my remarks, Mr. 
President, by paying tribute to Nancy 
Reagan, a truly magnificent First 
Lady. In the White House and since 
President Reagan left office, Nancy 
Reagan has been a strong voice on significant 
public issues. Americans everywhere 
owe her a debt of gratitude 
for the outstanding work she has done 
and continues to do to educate the 
children and youth of this Nation, particularly 
about the tragedy of drug 
abuse. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the resolution. 


The resolution (S. Res. 220) was 

agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution and its preamble are 

as follows: 
S. RES. 220 
Whereas, February 6, 1996 is the 85th Birthday 
of Ronald Wilson Reagan; 
And Whereas, Ronald Reagan was twice 
elected by overwhelming margins as President 
of the United States; 

And Whereas, Ronald Reagan is loved and 
admired by millions of Americans, and by 
countless others around the world; 

And Whereas, Ronald Reagan, with the 
leadership of his wife, Nancy, led a national 
crusade against illegal drugs; 

And Whereas, Ronald Reagan’s eloquence 
united Americans in times of triumph and 
tragedy; 

And Whereas, the thoughts and prayers of 
the Senate and the country are with Ronald 
Reagan in his courageous battle with Alzheimer’s 
Disease; Therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate of the United 
States extends its birthday greetings and 
best wishes to Ronald Reagan. 

SEC. 2. That the Secretary of the Senate 
shall transmit a copy of this resolution to 
Ronald Reagan. 

Mr. DASCHLE. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. JEFFORDS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

THE D.C. APPROPRIATIONS 
CONFERENCE REPORT 

Mr. JEFFORDS. Mr. President, it is 
with some sadness that I come to the 
floor this evening. Those of us who 
have been on the District of Columbia 
conference committee have now 
worked some 90 days in trying to get a 
conference agreement. We have had a 
very difficult time. We have at times 
reached an agreement and then had 
those agreements disappear. 

This Congress has placed itself in a 
special relationship with the District 
of Columbia by recognizing the incredible 
problems it has, both with its financing 
as well with education. We 
have taken the responsibility of doing 
what we can to make this city proud 
and to give it the wherewithal in order 
to improve its educational system. 

I think we have a conference report 
that certainly, although it is not perfect—
and that is obvious from the situation 
we find ourselves in—is nevertheless 
one which could bring about a resolution 
of the problems involved with 
the educational system. It could also, 
in a noncontroversial manner, provide 
the economic wherewithal for the District 
to be able to move forward. 

This is an appropriations bill that includes 
nearly $5 billion in spending authority 
for the city of Washington. We 
were held up by disagreement over a 
provision of $5 million for a scholarship 
program, that represents one-tenth of 1 
percent of the money involved with 
this bill. Yet, it does reach such an 
emotional state with respect to those 
people who feel one way or the other 
about the utilization of Federal funds 
for scholarships to allow young people 
to go and seek another school in order 
to, hopefully, advance their education. 
However, this disagreement over the 
scholarship program is such a matter. 

I had hoped very much, and had expected, 
that we would be able to take 

up the D.C. appropriations conference 
report today. The House passed it yesterday. 
They did so with a fairly good 
vote. But I find now, after having 
verified with my counterpart on the 
other side of the aisle, what would happen 
in the event that I attempted to 
bring up the conference report this 
evening. There would be no time agreement 
at all, there would be a filibuster, 
and there would not be any desire to 
move that conference agreement, in its 
present state out of this body. 

I wish that we would stop damaging 
the District of Columbia’s efforts to revitalize 
itself. And keeping in mind 
that by grabbing control as we have— 
and I do not disagree with that—over 
the power to do things, we have taken 
the responsibility, and I am only 
thinking of the kids. I have spent 
many, many hours of my own time in 
this city by going around from school 
to school. 

I spend every Tuesday reading to a 
young man in the third grade whom I 
have seen change and he has become so 
much more able to participate in class 
in a meaningful way through knowing 
English. He is a student to whom 
English is a second language, I am incredibly 
impressed with his progress. 
We have 200 Senate staff members who 
are going every Tuesday and reading to 
kids. This program is going on. We are 
trying to do the best we can. But there 
is a lot that cannot be done without 
the ability to reorganize what is going 
on in the school system. 

So I just stand before you very, very 
discouraged at all the effort that we 
have put forth to try to bring about a 
resolution which this body could consider, 
and hopefully adopt, to now find 
that that cannot be considered. So I 
will continue to do all I can to find the 
answers. I know that they will not be 
easy. But I also will do everything in 
my power to assure that we can proceed 
as best we can under the circumstances. 
I will work to pass the 
conference report at some later date, 
but if that cannot be done, I will do my 
best to work within the structure we 
have created with the Control Board 
and others to see what we can do while 
we wait for this legislation to pass. 

I know the school board in Washington, 
DC, met today and had some 
concerns. Before I learned those concerns, 
I had initiated a call and a meeting 
with the chairwoman of the school 
board for tomorrow. I will be meeting 
with her tomorrow and we will look toward 
the future. 

I am hopeful still that we will find 
this matter, which is of great national 
concern, should not be used to deprive 
those who want to help the schools to 
move forward. We are nearly halfway 
through the school year now, much 
needs to be done, and I hope both sides 
of this issue will calm down and let us 
proceed in some manner so that we can 
help the children of this city. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor and I 
note the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. BENNETT). 
The clerk will call the roll. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S723 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

FARM BILL 
Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, the Senate 
is in session at this late hour—we 
just finished the telecom bill, a very 
important bill for our country—but we 
are in session now because we do not 
have a farm bill. 
I have been on the Agriculture Committee 
now for 22 years, 10 in the 
House, 12 in the Senate. I have seen a 
lot of farm bills. I have worked on a lot 
of farm bills. Some were contentious, 
some sort of passed easily. But in every 
instance—in every single instance—in 
the House and in the Senate, we 
worked diligently on both sides of the 
aisle to try to reach accommodations 
to get a farm bill through before the 
end of the year. In most cases, we got 
it through long before the end of the 
year. 
But I remember some particular 
ones. I remember the 1981 farm bill 
when I was in the House. We passed it 
in the early morning hours of December 
17. Why do I remember that? Because 
my daughter was born about 2 
hours later, and I remember being on 
the floor trying to get the farm bill 
passed. 
The reason I recall that, aside from 
the fact my daughter was born a couple 
of hours after we finished the farm bill, 
was that it was late in the year. It was 
1981, a very contentious year in agriculture 
regarding what kind of farm 
policy we were going to develop under 
the leadership of the new administration 
that had taken over that year. But 
we got our work done, and we got the 
farm bill passed and down to the President 
before the end of the year. 
That was with a Democratic House 
and a Republican Senate and a Republican 
President. We did not filibuster, 
we did not hold it up. We did our work, 
and we got it through before the end of 
the year. 
The hue and cry that came from 
around the country was that we had 
waited too long. A lot of the finger 
pointing was at the Democrats, because 
we allegedly had waited too long 
and we did not get the bill through by 
the end of the year. But we got it 
through. 
Now here we are in February of 1996, 
and we still do not have a farm bill for 
this year. I do not want to engage in 
finger pointing, but I do want to say at 
least that no Democrat on this side has 
filibustered a farm bill. We have not 
held it up. 
We passed a farm bill out of the Ag 
Committee in late September. We 
could have brought it out on the floor 
in the month of October. We could have 

brought it out in the month of November. 
We could have brought it out in 
the month of December. But, no, it was 
not brought up. No, instead, it was 
taken and put in the budget reconciliation 
bill so that we did not have an 
opportunity to really debate it and 
amend it and fashion a farm program 
for the future. The President vetoed 
that bill, as he should have. 

So here we are in February, and once 
again, a farm bill was laid down yesterday. 
Immediately, a cloture motion 
was filed to cut off debate, to cut off 
amendments, to limit the time. 

Well, I am not here to filibuster, but 
I do want some time to speak on the 
bill, to lay out what it would mean to 
farmers and rural communities in my 
State. I want some time to be able to 
offer amendments that I think are 
worthwhile. I may not win them, but at 
least I feel an obligation to my farmers 
in Iowa to try to craft and fashion a 
farm bill in their best interests. 

Now I understand that at this late 
hour we are being told that the House 
is going to go out. The Senate wants to 
adjourn and come back at the end of 
February, and we have to pass a farm 
bill tonight, or we will not be able to 
get it done because the Senate is going 
to adjourn for another month. What 
kind of nonsense is that? We are elected 
to come here and get the people’s 
legislation passed. I do not know of any 
compelling reason why we cannot bring 
the farm bill up, debate it tomorrow, or 
Saturday if need be. We do not need to 
be here Saturday; we can debate it 
Monday and Tuesday, and probably get 
it done by Tuesday night. At least everybody 
would have ample opportunity 
to speak, offer amendments, and have 
their amendments voted on. Then we 
can have a final vote on the passage of 
the bill and send it to conference. 

Yet, somehow a gun is being held to 
our heads tonight, and we are told that 
if we do not rubberstamp some farm 
bill that has been crafted in the back 
rooms—and we do not even know what 
is in it—that we are going to be held to 
blame because a farm bill was not 
passed here on February 1. I am telling 
you, Mr. President, I find this whole 
process contrary to everything I believe 
in, in terms of a democratic Government, 
and in terms of what I believe 
in, in terms of the processes here of 
open and free debate, with amendments, 
and allowing us to state our 
case and to try to make the best case 
we can for our constituents. 

So I am sorry, I am just not going to 
be a part of caving in and 
rubberstamping something simply because 
it is late, it is in February, and 
we have to get a farm bill passed. Our 
farmers need to know what to do. For 
Heaven’s sake, they need to know what 
to do. But it was not this Senator, or 
any Senator on this side of the aisle, 
that kept the farm bill from coming to 
the floor in October, November, or December. 
That was not our call to make. 
It was not brought up on the floor. It 
should have been brought up. It should 
have been brought up in October. Then 
we could have finished our work and 

sent it to conference. It may not have 
been what I wanted, but at least the 
process would have been fair and open 
and I could not complain. 

I am complaining now because the 
process is not fair and it is not open. I 
intend to make it so. I will use whatever 
power I have as a Senator to make 
sure we have that kind of an open process 
here on the farm bill and not be 
asked to rubberstamp something when 
we do not even know what is in it. 

But the people that are really suffering 
are our farmers, along with others 
involved in agriculture. My farmers 
in Iowa and throughout the Midwest 
right now have to make decisions, and 
they are doing it in the blind—what 
seed to buy, what to plant, how much 
credit do they need, how much fertilizer 
they need. How can they make 
those decisions when they do not even 
know what kind of farm program we 
have? They should have known this 
and could have known this in December 
or earlier. We could have had a 
farm bill passed in December. It may 
not have been what I would have liked, 
but at least the process could have 
been fair and open. 

We owe it, I believe, to our farmers 
and rural communities to act in a deliberate 
manner. We have a 1990 farm 
bill that was crafted here in a bipartisan 
fashion. I was not one of those 
preferring to extend the 1990 farm bill, 
I must admit. But at this late hour, it 
seems almost inevitable that some 
type of extension is probably the most 
realistic thing we can do. We can make 
some changes, I believe, that both sides 
of the aisle would agree with, such as 
more planting flexibility and getting 
rid of base acreage restrictions. We 
could do that. Then farmers would at 
least have some idea what the rules are 
because they have already operated 
under the 1990 farm bill for the past 5 
years. They would know what to expect, 
what to do, and there would be 
some certainty out there. Perhaps we 
would have to come back this year, or 
maybe even next year. Maybe we 
should extend it 2 years because it 
looks like this is going to be a short 
year with everybody out campaigning. 
Then maybe we can come back next 
year and craft a longer term farm bill 
that would take care of us for the next 
5 to 7 years. But this process of saying 
we have to do something tonight because 
we are going to adjourn in the 
Senate for the next month and, therefore, 
bang, we have to do something 
quickly tonight—we cannot debate it, 
look at it, or examine it—what kind of 
nonsense is that? 

So I hope we do not have to adjourn 
tonight. I see no reason why we cannot 
be in next week. Those who want to 
vote to adjourn had better be ready to 
go back and tell their farmers, no, we 
thought it was more important to take 
time off than to debate this farm bill 
fully, in an open and free debate, with 
opportunity for amendments to it. 


S724 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

So, Mr. President, perhaps I am just 
venting frustration, but I believe a lot 
of others share those frustrations. I 
hope that in some way I am representing 
the frustrations of the farmers 
I represent, because they are frustrated. 
They do not know what to expect. 
They would like to have a little 
certainty, too. Right now, all we are 
giving them is uncertainty. If we adjourn 
for a month tonight, they have 
another month of uncertainty. It is unfair 
and unconscionable that we would 
walk out of this place tonight and adjourn 
without having a full, fair, and 
open debate on amendments to a farm 
bill, which cannot take place in 3 hours 
tonight. It may take tomorrow and it 
might take Monday. That is fair. I do 
not know how many days the 1990 farm 
bill took. I am informed that it took 7 
days. The 1985 farm bill took about the 
same amount of time. We had the 
telecom bill. How many days did that 
take? I think a couple of weeks. The 
farm bill is every bit as important to 
our farmers as the telecom bill is to 
the people in telecommunications. I do 
not think the farm bill needs 7 days, 
but at least 2 or 3 days, to debate and 
amend it and have final passage. I do 
not see why we cannot do that tomorrow, 
Monday, and Tuesday. There is no 
reason we cannot do it. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. EXON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. EXON. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that I be allowed to 
speak for approximately 5 minutes on 
the matter of the agricultural bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

AGRICULTURE 
Mr. EXON. Mr. President, I have listened 
to my distinguished colleague 
from the neighboring State of Iowa. I 
want to share with the Senate the fact 
that my frustrations run very deep, as 
deep as so eloquently expressed by my 
colleague from the State of Iowa, Senator 
HARKIN. 
Here we are, Mr. President, 10 minutes 
after 7:00 on the 1st day of February, 
and there is rapid talk in this 
body about adjourning this evening 
until sometime around February 28. 
Now, obviously, adjourning here without 
taking any action whatever on a 
farm bill is not only wrong, it is not 
only bad policy, but it is ridiculous. 
How do we work ourselves out of the 
dilemma we find ourselves in right 
now? Mr. President, it would seem to 
me that it would be a time for cooler 
heads to prevail. I think we have two 
basic options: Either we stay here and 

work and not adjourn, as has been contemplated, 
and I suspect that would be 
the best possible course of action of all 
the options that we have; or the second 
option, it seems to me, would be if we 
are going to adjourn tonight, and if we 
adjourn I suspect we will have a roll-
call vote on adjournment so that we 
will all know in this body and elsewhere 
as to who wanted to adjourn 
when we have important work that we 
should remain here doing. The other 
option of not staying here, if we are 
bound and determined to adjourn, 
which I will oppose, but if that happens, 
we are going to leave here without 
any resolution whatever on the 
farm bill, would be the worse of all possible 
worlds. If we are not going to continue 
to stay here and work and hammer 
out a compromise of some kind, 
then I think the next best option would 
be for a simple 1-year extension of the 
present farm bill. 

The only significant changes that I 
suggest that we should make in that 
regard is to accept and provide a simplification 
of the rules, regulations, 
and red tape, and truly allow the farmers 
of America, for the most part, to 
farm for the 1996 year without all of 
the complicated restraints that they 
have. I simply say the simplification of 
the rules and allowing the farmers 
more freedom is one part of the Freedom 
to Farm Act that I generally have 
supported. 

I hope that all would realize and recognize 
that we either have the option 
of trying to work out something tonight, 
which I think is going to be extremely 
difficult. If we cannot do that, 
I think we should schedule to be here 
tomorrow and Saturday, if necessary, 
and again next week, in an effort to try 
and come to some kind of a workable 
compromise that can get the required 
number of votes, and/or tonight stand 
to face reality and say it is going to be 
very difficult to come to some kind of 
an agreement. Probably the best thing 
for all sides to do would simply be to 
recognize and realize that the best 
thing to do under the circumstances in 
consideration to the farmers of America, 
who are anxiously awaiting what 
we are going to do here with regard to 
a farm bill, is to have a 1-year extension 
of the present farm bill with the 
caveats I have just expressed. 

Mr. President, it seems to me, therefore, 
we once again are up against time 
constraints—some of them real, some 
of them imaginary. By and large, I see 
no reason why we should be adjourning 
when we should be here working. If adjournment 
is the way we are going to 
go, I appeal for all sides to realize and 
recognize, in the interests of agriculture, 
while extending the present 
farm bill for 1 year is not the way I 
would like to go, it may be the only 
way for us to go and provide a measure 
of assurance to the food producers of 
America that we do, indeed, care and 
appreciate what they are going 
through. 

Here we are in February talking 
about a farm bill that should have been 

passed no later than the beginning of 
the new fiscal year last October 1. Here 
we are, Mr. President, as the ranking 
Democrat on the Budget Committee, 
starting to make plans for the budget 
discussions in 1996, and we have not 
even finished the budget from last 
year. We are sadly behind what we 
should be doing—doing it right or 
wrong. 

I think that, by and large, most of 
the minority, and I hope a large portion 
of the majority, in the Senate 
would realize it is time to fish or cut 
bait. If we cannot come to an agreement, 
I suggest it would make sense 
and be reasonable for all sides to agree 
to an extension of 1 year, with the caveats 
I have outlined. 

f 

FEDERAL TEA TASTERS REPEAL 
ACT OF 1996 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate proceed 
to the immediate consideration of calendar 
306, S. 1518. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report. 

The bill clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S. 1518) to eliminate the Board of 
Tea Experts by prohibiting funding for the 
Board and by repealing the Tea Importation 
Act of 1897. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the immediate consideration 
of the bill? 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. DOLE. I ask unanimous consent 
that the bill be deemed read a third 
time, passed, the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table, and that any 
statements be placed at the appropriate 
place in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
So the bill (S. 1518) was deemed read 
the third time and passed, as follows: 
S. 1518 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Federal Tea 
Tasters Repeal Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION OF FUNDING. 

None of the funds appropriated or made 
available to the Federal Drug Administration 
shall be used to operate the Board of 
Tea Experts and related activities. 

SEC. 3. REPEAL OF TEA IMPORTATION ACT OF 
1897. 

The Tea Importation Act (21 U.S.C. 41 et 
seq.) is repealed. 

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

This Act shall take effect on the date of 
enactment of this Act. 

f 

AWARDING THE CONGRESSIONAL 

GOLD MEDAL TO RUTH AND 

BILLY GRAHAM 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate proceed 
to the immediate consideration of H.R. 
2657 just received from the House. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S725 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report. 

The bill clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 2657) to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal to Ruth and Billy Graham. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the immediate consideration 
of the bill? 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3315 

(Purpose: To strike section 5 of the bill) 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I send an 
amendment to the desk on behalf of 
Senator FAIRCLOTH and ask for its immediate 
consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The bill clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Kansas [Mr. DOLE], for 
Mr. FAIRCLOTH, proposes an amendment 
numbered 3315. 

Mr. DOLE. I ask unanimous consent 
that reading of the amendment be dispensed 
with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 4, following the period on line 7, 
strike all that follows: 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the amendment be 
agreed to, that the bill be deemed read 
a third time and passed, as amended, 
the motion to reconsider be laid upon 
the table, and that any statements relating 
to the bill appear at the appropriate 
place in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 3315) was agreed 
to. 

The bill (H.R. 2657) was deemed read 
the third time and passed. 

f 

THE FARM BILL 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, let me indicate, 
while we are waiting for another 
matter here, we have not been 
able to reach an agreement on the farm 
bill. We have had discussions throughout 
the day. We have had one cloture 
vote. 

What I would propose we do is postpone 
that cloture vote until after the 
leaders have conferred on Tuesday and, 
hopefully by that time, get some paper 
out there so that people can see what is 
proposed by Members on each side; if 
we cannot get an agreement, then have 
that cloture vote Tuesday and decide 
what to do after that. But I know there 
are Members probably waiting around 
in their offices. I would say there will 
probably be no further votes this 
evening, but there may be votes on 
next Tuesday. We will go out tonight 
and over until Tuesday; pro forma 
Monday. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Democratic leader. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I want 
to commend those who have been involved 
in these discussions. I think we 
have made a lot of progress in the last 

several hours. We just had a caucus. I 
think it is fair to say that much of 
what we reported to them was very 
well received. I think the question is 
whether or not, without having finalized 
the agreement and without knowing 
for sure just how it all affects current 
law, whether or not we are in a position 
yet tonight to come to closure. 

I think we are getting closer. I hope 
we can continue these negotiations, 
have an agreement that we could send 
out to everybody so in the next couple 
of days they could take a look at it, 
and then have a vote within a very limited 
timeframe on Tuesday. I would 
like to see if we can finish this on 
Tuesday and limit the votes and try to 
move this process along. 

So, I share the leader’s desire to 
come to closure and his expressed hope 
that we could do it as early as next 
Tuesday. 

Mr. CRAIG. Will the leader yield? 

Mr. DOLE. I will be happy to yield. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Idaho. 

f 

A CLEAR FARM POLICY 
Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I think I 
and a lot of other Senators are very 
frustrated at this moment as we have 
tried to move this issue over the last 
several weeks. 
All of us agree that the agricultural 
community deserves to hear a clear 
message from the Congress of the 
United States that relates to farm policy. 
I am terribly disappointed that 
this afternoon we could not gain cloture, 
that the other side chose to kill 
freedom to farm. We also put up an excellent 
alternative to that and that— 
we could not work with that issue. 
Obviously, farm policy in its formation 
has always been bipartisan. I was 
confident this afternoon, or at least I 
thought I could be, that we had worked 
for several days to build that bipartisan 
compromise and still maintain 
the kind of levels of expenditure that 
sent a clear message to American agriculture 
that there would be some safety 
nets but, at the same time, that 
they were going to move toward the 
market as they have told us—week 
after week, month after month, as we 
have held hearings in the Senate Agriculture 
Committee this year—that a 
reinstatement of current policy simply 
would not work anymore and it should 
not work. 
While I know none of us at this moment 
are working on a reinstatement 
of current policy, I am very concerned 
to see us edging back toward it at a 
time when agriculture has said to us 
that is not where we ought to head. 
So I hope we can arrive at something 
over the weekend and into next week. 
It is my understanding the House may 
not be able to get there, as we had 
hoped, so we could at least show the 
American farm community a timetable 
that we are all going to be sensitive to. 
But I am disappointed, and I think we 
all are, that this cannot be resolved in 
the fashion we had hoped. 

I am going to have to, as I think others 
on this side are, look a great deal 
more closely at the deals that are 
being put together. We, in my opinion—
certainly from this Senator’s 
point of view—have gone as far as I 
know is possible to go without saying 
to Idaho agriculture we have decided 
not to do what we told you we were 
going to do and what most of you had 
agreed to. I presented legislation yesterday 
that had the full endorsement of 
the American Farm Bureau and a variety 
of other organizations, wheat growers, 
corn growers and others. I had 
hoped we could arrive at that in a 
timely fashion. 

It appears we are not there. I hope we 
are closer than I am led to believe we 
might be. But, to the leader who, I 
know, has worked today, and the minority 
leader, I hope we can get this 
accomplished and the final plans 
worked out. Timing is of the essence, 
that we resolve it. It should have been 
resolved today. 

f 

TEMPORARY EXTENSION IN 
STATUTORY DEBT LIMIT 

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, H.R. 
2924 is, in effect, a temporary increase 
in the debt ceiling. 

Under the bill, the Secretary of the 
Treasury may issue Treasury securities 
in excess of the current $4.9 trillion 
ceiling in order to pay the March 1996 
Social Security benefits. Coupled with 
the normal end of month redeeming of 
Treasury securities held by the Social 
Security trust funds, this bill permits 
the Federal Government to meet all of 
its financial obligations on March 1. 

The bill provides much-needed time 
to consider a longer and perhaps permanent 
increase in the debt ceiling. 
Congress may not take up this issue 
again until the week of February 26, 
and, without this legislation, action 
would be required almost immediately 
to prevent default on February 29 or 
March 1. That is cutting it too close. 
Under this bill, we will have until 
March 15 to work out a long-term increase 
in the debt ceiling. 

And, importantly, this legislation 
commits the Congress to timely action. 
Item 1 in the bill’s ‘‘FINDINGS’’ 
states: 

(1) Congress intends to pass an increase in 
the public debt limit before March 1, 1996. 
This is a welcome statement of good 
faith. It will shortly pass the House of 
Representatives. I urge the Senate to 

concur. 

f 

GUARANTEEING THE TIMELY PAY


MENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY BEN


EFITS IN MARCH 1996 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent the Senate proceed to 
the immediate consideration of S. 1555, 
introduced today by Senators ROTH and 
DOLE, and that the bill be considered 
read a third time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 


S726 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

The bill (S. 1555) was considered read 
a third time. 

Mr. DOLE. Further, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate proceed now to 
the consideration of H.R. 2924, the bill 
be considered, deemed read a third 
time and passed, the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table, that any 
statements relating to these measures 
appear at this point in the RECORD, and 
that S. 1555 be indefinitely postponed; 
provided, of course, that H.R. 2924 as 
received from the House is the same 
text that I now send to the desk and 
ask to be printed in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 2924) was considered, 
deemed read a third time and passed. 

There being no objection, the text 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

H.R. 2924 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. TIMELY PAYMENT OF MARCH 1996 SO


CIAL SECURITY BENEFITS GUARAN


TEED. 

(a) FINDINGS.— 
(1) Congress intends to pass an increase in 
the public debt limit before March 1, 1996. 
(2) In the interim, social security beneficiaries 
should be assured that social security 
benefits will be paid on a timely basis in 
March 1996. 
(b) ASSURANCE OF SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT 
PAYMENTS.—In addition to any other authority 
provided by law, the Secretary of the 
Treasury may issue obligations of the United 
States before March 1, 1996, in an amount 
equal to the monthly insurance benefits payable 
under title II of the Social Security Act 
in March 1996. 
(c) OBLIGATIONS EXEMPT FROM PUBLIC DEBT 
LIMIT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Obligations issued under 
subsection (b) shall not be taken into account 
in applying the limitation in section 
3101(b) of title 31, United States Code. 
(2) TERMINATION OF EXEMPTION—Paragraph 
(1) shall cease to apply on the earlier of— 
(A) the date of the enactment of the first 
increase in the limitation in section 3101(b) 
of title 31, United States Code, after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, or 
(B) March 15, 1996. 
Mr. ROTH. Mr. President, during the 
past few weeks, we have been advised 
in writing by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, Robert Rubin, that it is unlikely 
that the Government can continue 
to meet its obligations on or 
about March 1, 1996. The Secretary believes 
that he will not have any difficulty 
meeting the Government’s obligations 
prior to that time. In view of 
these circumstances, some have suggested 
that the March social security 
payments—not the current checks, for 
February, but those for March—will 
not be payable. In order to allay any 
concerns, I am pleased to join the majority 
leader along with Senator 
MCCAIN, in introducing this legislation 
to ensure Government solvency and 
payment of all Social Security benefits 
on a timely basis in March. 
I urge my colleagues to support swift 
passage of this legislation. Two important 
findings are stated at the begin


ning of this legislation. Two important 
findings are stated at the beginning of 
this piece of legislation which help explain 
our position. First, Congress intends 
to pass an increase in the public 
debt limit before March 1, 1996. Second, 
in the interim, Social Security beneficiaries 
should be assured that social 
security benefits will be paid on a 
timely basis in March 1996. 

Let me be clear, it is this Senator’s 
intention to work toward passage of a 
debt limit extension before March 1. 
We will not default on our debts. That 
I find unthinkable. What this legislation 
does is simply ensure that timely 
payment of the March Social Security 
benefit payments and allow these 
checks to be mailed and cashed without 
any delay. 

The bill provides temporary relief 
from the current $4.9 trillion debt 
limit, and creates new legal borrowing 
authority not subject to the debt limit 
for a short period of time. The amount 
of this new legal borrowing authority 
is equal to the amount of the full Social 
Security benefit payments for 
March, approximately $28 billion. 

By creating new borrowing authority, 
this bill also allows full payment 
of all other U.S. Government obligations 
due on March 1, 1996, including 
veterans benefits, Medicare and SSI 
payments, Federal employee pay, and 
military and civil service retirement 
payments. 

Mr. DOLE. What this does do is it 
makes certain there will be timely 
payments made. There will not be any 
delay of payments of Social Security. 

I ask unanimous consent a summary 
of H.R. 2924 and S. 1555 be printed in 
the RECORD at this point. 

There being no objection, the summary 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

SUMMARY OF H.R. 2924, SOCIAL SECURITY 
BENEFIT PAYMENT GUARANTEE 

Findings: Congress intends to pass an increase 
in the public debt limit before March 
1, 1996. 

Bill ensures the timely payment of the 
March Social Security benefit payments and 
allows these checks to be mailed and cashed 
without any delay. 

Bill provides temporary relief from the 
current $4.9 trillion limit, and creates new 
legal borrowing authority not subject to the 
debt limit until March 15, 1996. 

The amount of this new legal borrowing 
authority is equal to the amount of the full 
Social Security benefit payments for March 
(approximately $28 billion). 

By creating new borrowing authority, this 
bill also allows full payment of all other U.S. 
Government obligations due on March 1, 
1996, including veterans benefits, Medicare 
payments and military and civil service retirement 
payments. 

f 

THE FARM BILL 
Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I will yield 
the floor in just a moment. Farm bills 
are very difficult to pass. I can recall 
other years when we have had this 
same tug of war. 
There was a time when farm bills 
were bipartisan. I am not certain that 

is the case. There is some bipartisanship 
now. Many years ago, we sat down 
in the Ag Committee, we worked out a 
bill, brought it to the floor, and the 
committee never wavered. Now most 
things are done on a party-line basis. 

But I want the record to reflect that 
the President vetoed a farm bill. So, 
for those on the other side who say 
‘‘What is going on?’’ they want us here 
next week and next week and next 
week, we are prepared to do anything 
we can. But if we cannot accomplish 
anything—we had a cloture vote today. 
We could have been on the farm bill 
right now. We could have had a second 
cloture vote. We had a bipartisan 
agreement led by Senators LUGAR and 
LEAHY. We were advised that some of 
the Members on the other side had 
been peeled off and we probably could 
not get cloture on that vote. 

So, as we normally try to do, we sat 
down in a bipartisan way. Was there 
any progress made? I do not know. But 
I would share the views expressed by 
the Senator from Idaho that I think we 
have gone the extra mile in an effort to 
go to conference. 

The House has not passed a bill. We 
would like to pass a bill in the Senate. 
But we are not going to be torpedoed 
by rhetoric on the other side. And keep 
in mind, we could have had a farm bill. 
The President vetoed it. That is why 
the farmers are concerned. That is why 
there is a lot of disarray in rural America. 
We could have had another farm 
bill today, but I think only two Democrats 
joined in a cloture vote. So, if we 
want to get partisan about farm legislation, 
that is fine. I have heard some 
very partisan statements this afternoon. 
But the bottom line is, we ought 
to go back where we used to be on farm 
legislation, sit down, work it out on a 
bipartisan basis. 

Do I think that will happen by Tuesday? 
I do not know. I will be happy to 
try to help. But I am not very optimistic, 
as I see some partisanship setting 
in around here. Maybe there is 
some reason for it. But our farmers’ 
winter wheat is planted. Winter wheat 
had to be planted. We could not wait. 
We planted our wheat. Now we are relying 
on the 1949 act. I assume farmers 
may conclude maybe that act is not so 
bad when they look at what the prices 
might be. But that is not how we ought 
to resolve it. 

So we are prepared to accommodate 
the Democratic leader, who I think certainly 
in good faith will present something 
in writing, and see what happens 
by next Tuesday. If we cannot agree, 
then we will have another cloture vote. 
I do not know what will happen with 
that cloture vote. Hopefully, we will 
have enough support at that point to 
get enough votes to go on to the 
Leahy-Lugar compromise bill. 

So I hope my colleagues on both sides 
will keep in mind that farmers really 
do not care about the politics. They do 
not care who stands up and shouts the 
loudest about who is at fault. All they 
know is that there is no farm bill. They 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S727 

would like to see us sit down and work 
it out. There are different philosophies 
in agriculture like most everything 
else, but we are prepared to try to accommodate 
some of the requests of our 
colleagues on both sides, particularly 
on the Democratic side, in an effort to 
get a bill done as quickly as possible. 

Mr. FORD addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Kentucky. 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I understand 
the frustration. I am a little 
frustrated, too. I would like to get a 
farm bill out. But let me make an observation 
or two. 

I do not know, in my 21 years, that 
we have ever failed to renew a farm bill 
within the year that it expired. Now we 
are in the year after the 1990 farm bill 
expired. This bill should have been 
completed last September. 

We also hear that the President vetoed 
a farm bill. Well, that farm bill 
that the President vetoed in reconciliation 
was a bill that they could not 
pass out of the Agriculture Committee 
in the House. So they take that bill 
and stick it in reconciliation. That was 
not passed out of the Agriculture Committee. 
Now, in the Senate, we have 
not passed an agriculture bill out of 
the Senate Agriculture Committee 
that I know of. 

So here we are arguing over an agriculture 
bill that really has never gone 
through the process. And we are October, 
November, December, January, 
and February later. We finally bring it 
to the floor without knowing exactly 
what is in it and want cloture on it so 
we cannot debate it and so we cannot 
amend it. 

The Senator from Vermont, when he 
was chairman of the Agriculture Committee 
in 1990, set a record. He completed 
the agriculture bill in 7 days of 
debate on the floor—7 days of debate on 
the floor. Now we want to bring it up 1 
day, vote cloture on it, and get it out. 
No wonder some people are digging 
their heels in. What might be good for 
Kentucky may not be good for Utah. 
But it is a regional bill that we have to 
bring together and satisfy generally 
the farmers in those areas. If I were 
farming, I would be frustrated, too. We 
have been begging for a farm bill; begging 
for a farm bill. And all of a sudden 
we get it on Thursday, want to complete 
it on Thursday, and go out for 3 
weeks. 

I say to my friends that they can 
blame whoever they want to, but this 
bill is 5 months late, at least 5 months 
late. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, will the 
Senator yield? 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I will yield 
for a question without losing my right 
to the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Vermont. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I will 
note that the distinguished Senator 
from Kentucky is absolutely right. In 
the 1985 farm bill—I see my good friend 
from North Dakota here, and I think 

he recalls the numbers—but the 1985 
farm bill took something like 11 or 12 
weeks to complete. There were a lot of 
sessions, as my friend from Kentucky 
will recall, until midnight or later. The 
1990 farm bill set a record. And with 
the House, the Senator from Kentucky, 
the Senator from North Dakota, and 
others, we passed it in 7 days with the 
distinguished Senator from Indiana—in 
7 days. That was an all-time record. 
But that was 7 days, as my friends will 
recall, of very intensive debate on 
some major policy issues involving 
tens of billions of dollars. 

Today I know is a long day. People 
may be tired. I know I am. I finished 
work in Vermont about 1:30 this morning 
and was on a flight right after 6 
o’clock this morning to come down 
here for this. 

The distinguished majority leader 
speaks of partisanship. It really has 
not been. Farm legislation, to my 
recollection, has always been bipartisan. 
We have worked it today. We had 
one vote of which everybody knew the 
outcome, the first vote today on cloture. 
Everybody knew. That was no 
surprise. The Republican leader, the 
Democratic leader, and all knew what 
that was going to be. We had a second 
one set up where there was a bipartisan 
coalition seeking it. But then we 
sought to make it better and to make 
it more bipartisan—I say to the distinguished 
presiding officers and others— 
by Republicans and Democrats. The 
Republican leader, the Democratic 
leader, the Republican chairman of the 
committee, the Democratic ranking 
member of the committee, and myself 
sat down and worked out at least some 
parameters to get us moving forward. I 
am convinced there is a bipartisan solution 
here. 

This is very complex legislation. 
Farmers who have to deal with it know 
it is very complex. I wish it had been 
done last year. I urged that it be done 
last year. I understand the other body 
had difficulty and could not get a bill 
out of committee at first. We have not 
had one out of our committee for a 
number of reasons. It was not done last 
year. We can easily do it this year, but 
it would take a little bit of time to 
work this out. 

There are distinguished Members on 
both sides of the aisle who have strong 
views who want to have votes. I have 
not heard a single one say they want to 
delay it. But at least they want to explain 
their amendments and have a 
vote on it. I might have some of my 
own. We ought to be able to do that. 
None is asking to hold it up. It takes a 
few days. 

Somebody raised the novel idea 
today about working out some kind of 
compromise and maybe we could see it 
in writing and read it before we voted 
on it. I do not think that is a bad idea. 
That is an idea that might actually 
catch on around here—that we read a 
piece of legislation and then vote on it. 
Who knows what the results might be? 

So I tell my friends on the other side 
of the aisle that this is something 

where Democrats and Republicans can 
work together. But while it should 
have been done last year, let us not 
make the problem worse by rushing it 
so much this year that it does not get 
done right. 

I thank the Senator from Kentucky 
for yielding. 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that I yield to the Senator 
from North Dakota for a question, 
or a statement, without my losing the 
right to the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. CONRAD. I thank the Chair. I 
thank my colleague from Kentucky. 

Mr. President, the Senator from Kansas 
indicated that the President had 
vetoed the farm bill. I ask the Senator 
from Kentucky, is not it a more accurate 
description that the President vetoed 
what we call reconciliation which 
contained the farm bill and which contained 
a lot more than the farm bill? It 
had $270 billion of cuts to Medicare, 
$182 billion of cuts to Medicaid, and a 
$245 billion tax reduction aimed disproportionately 
to the wealthiest 
among us. 

Is it not the case that that bill had 
lots of things in it other than the farm 
bill? 

Mr. FORD. I say to my friend, the 
Senator is absolutely correct. When 
you say just pick out one little piece— 
and the farm bill is a major piece to 
the farmers—that was in the overall 
reconciliation bill that contained the 
massive funding of Government. There 
were many things in there that even 
those—it was not bipartisan. We had 
some on the other side who objected to 
what was in the reconciliation bill, so 
voted here, and the President exercised 
his right and vetoed the legislation. So 
when you just single out the farm bill, 
there was much, much more in that 
bill than just the farm bill. 

Mr. CONRAD. I thank the Senator 
from Kentucky. Is it not also the case 
that the farm bill part of it was a farm 
bill that many in farm country did not 
want? It cut farm programs $12 billion; 
it meant a reduction in farm income of 
about 40 percent. And so I remember 
being at a meeting at the White House 
with people from across my State urging 
the President to veto the whole 
reconciliation bill just because of the 
farm bill provision. 

Mr. FORD. The Senator is absolutely 
correct. And I might say to him, the 
President of the American Farm Bureau 
at that time wrote us a letter saying 
they were opposed to it also. And I 
think that is a matter of record. The 
Senator from Nebraska [Mr. EXON] put 
it into the RECORD. I think he and the 
Senator from Iowa [Mr. HARKIN] had a 
colloquy on the floor and talked about 
bouncing like the ping-pong ball—the 
American Farm Bureau’s position. I 
think that confused all of us who were 
trying to support our farm community. 


S728 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

One thing I found out a long time 
ago, whatever the American Farm Bureau 
says I do not follow anymore because 
my farm bureau at home is autonomous 
and they do not support anything 
of the American Farm Bureau 
until their board approves it or they 
approve it at their convention. So regardless 
of what the American Farm 
Bureau might say, I wait until my Kentucky 
Farm Bureau endorses that. 

But just the idea of representing all 
of the American Farm Bureau, the 
head of that organization writing letters 
on both sides, bouncing back and 
forth, no wonder we are confused when 
last year they were opposed to it. That 
helped it not come out of the committee, 
I am sure, over there. And then 
they were for it. And then they want us 
to be for something they were against 
at their instructions. 

So I think the time for debate and 
consideration of this bill is more important 
than I have ever seen it since I 
have been here. There are radical, radical 
changes in this bill that in the 
years to come—and not too many short 
years—if the freedom to farm bill is 
passed, the American people will be up 
in arms when you decouple. 

If you do not understand what decoupling 
is, that is separating the payments, 
or the income from the commodity 
from the deficiency payments 
or the payments to the farmer so the 
farmer will continue to get the payments 
every year for 7 years up to 
$120,000 a year if you are in four different 
categories, which you can be and 
you can still raise your crop and still 
get big prices. 

I think when you are doing that—and 
the farmers have always said they were 
against a welfare program, just absolutely, 
teetotally against a welfare program, 
and they are absolutely, 
teetotally for a balanced budget 
amendment, and to do something like 
that for them and for them to come up 
here and say this is something we 
want, I am not sure the leadership is 
speaking the grassroots attitude of the 
farmers, particularly of my State. 

Now, you can come up here and say 
we want the money, we want you to 
pay us, but then decouple that to take 
away the safety net, take away the 
price stability of the marketplace, it is 
just something that is too radical to do 
immediately. Phased in, maybe. 
Phased out, maybe. But we need to 
think through this one. And I think 2 
years from now, if we are paying farmers 
big prices and letting them get big 
prices for their product, somewhere the 
American taxpayer who is sending 
them the money when they are making 
big money, or making good profit on 
their crops, says that will not last very 
long. I think we ought to realize that 
and do it now and do it right rather 
than have to come back and be fussed 
at a year or two from now for doing 
something that the American taxpayers 
will not accept. 

Mr. CONRAD. I thank the Senator 
from Kentucky. 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I yield the 
floor. 

Mr. CONRAD addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota. 

Mr. CONRAD. I will conclude. I know 
my colleague, the Senator from Iowa, 
is waiting patiently. 

f 

GETTING A GOOD FARM BILL 
Mr. CONRAD. I conclude by saying I 
hope very much that we can finish the 
farm bill matter by Tuesday of next 
week. I would have hoped we could 
have gotten it done today. It was not 
possible. But it is better to wait a few 
days and get it right than pass a farm 
bill that greased the skids from under 
farm producers and eliminate a program 
for the future. 
That is precisely what this Chamber 
was faced with today, a plan to eliminate 
a farm program over time, a plan 
that would have guaranteed the elimination 
of farm programs because I believe 
there would have been a scandal 
when people discovered farmers were 
getting large Government payments 
even when they were having high income 
as a result of high prices that we 
are experiencing currently. The key is 
to have protection for farmers in low 
price years. That is when they need 
protection. 
I think it is critically important we 
reach an agreement that provides a 
safety net in low price years and that 
also recognizes many farmers are hard-
pressed by cash-flow this year because 
of the requirement to pay back advance 
deficiencies from last year. 
I am hopeful we can achieve an 
agreement between the two sides that 
bridges those differences and achieves 
a settlement that is fair for American 
farmers, fair for the American taxpayers 
and that achieves a result that 
ensures we can pass farm legislation 
for the future. 
I likened earlier today the proposal 
we had to the Reverend Jim Jones 
when he handed out the Kool-Aid that 
was laced with poison. It tasted good 
going down. When people drank it, they 
were dead. 
Mr. President, there is no reason for 
us to take that kind of action. It is 
worth it to take a few extra days to get 
it right. 
I thank the Chair. I thank my colleague 
from the State of Iowa. 
Mr. GRASSLEY addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

f 

PASSAGE OF A FARM BILL 

Mr. GRASSLEY. In the last hour and 
15 minutes I believe, both before the 
floor leaders talked and since, we have 
heard people on both sides of the aisle 
speak about not having a farm bill, 
why we do not have a farm bill, even 
who is to blame for not having a farm 
bill. The fact is we do not have one, 
and it looks as if we are not going to 
have one. 

We heard earlier during debate how 
awful it was—we heard this from the 
other side—that we were not going to 
be able to pass a farm bill. You have 
heard many times this evening that 
the President vetoed a farm bill, a 7-
year farm bill in December. The President 
vetoed it after it passed Congress. 

You heard this side of the aisle 
blamed because we have not passed a 
farm bill when this afternoon we had 53 
votes for the Freedom to Farm Act. A 
majority of this body supported the 
Freedom to Farm Act. 

Now, it is one thing to say it is too 
bad we do not have one, we ought to 
have one, we ought to stay here and 
work to get one, but it seems to me it 
takes a lot of gall from the other side 
of the aisle to blame this side of the 
aisle that we do not have a farm bill 
when we either did pass one and the 
President vetoed it or we demonstrated 
today that we had the votes to pass another 
one. 

It just does not add up. It just does 
not make sense. I do not think the 
American people are going to buy that 
argument. They can add. They know 
what a majority vote is. They know 
what it means when a President vetoes 
a bill. They know what it means when 
the President threatened this week to 
veto a bill that came out of the House 
Agriculture Committee by a bipartisan 
vote, the substance of which was the 
backbone for the legislation that we 
had 53 votes for here today. The President 
did not even wait until it got to 
his desk, a bipartisan bill. The President 
threatened to veto it. 

It happens that there was a Lugar-
Leahy alternative that could have been 
before this body. What is the Lugar-
Leahy bill? It is the freedom to farm 
bill with a list of about 10 things that 
the Democrats wanted us to include in 
the bill, that we included. It was their 
language, their points. We included 
them. We never even got to a vote on 
that today. The President had already 
sent a letter up here—it has been put 
in the RECORD by the floor leader—that 
he was threatening to veto that. And 
we are being admonished by the other 
side of the aisle that we should have a 
bipartisan bill because we have always 
had farm bills developed in a bipartisan 
manner? 

The Lugar-Leahy bill had added to it 
just exactly what the other side of the 
aisle wanted. Well, there may be people 
on the other side of the aisle who do 
not like what was in Lugar-Leahy, but 
they cannot say it was not bipartisan. 
It seems to me they cannot blame this 
side of the aisle because we do not have 
a farm bill, and particularly when the 
President said he was going to veto it 
before we ever got to it. 

Then we are told that what was bad 
about the freedom to farm bill that was 
in the Balanced Budget Act was that it 
was going to cut $13 billion, three or 
four times what the President wanted 
cut, from farm programs in an attempt 
to balance the budget. But the bill that 
got 53 votes today only cut $4 billion, 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S729 

and that $4 billion is exactly equal to 
what the President had been suggesting 
all last year what should come 
from programs in an effort to balance 
the budget. 

Mr. President, I think the debate 
today is bigger than the debate about 
just the farm bill. The debate today is 
what the last election was all about, 
whether or not we are going to continue 
to do business as usual or whether 
or not there is going to be some 
changes. The people in the last election 
sent a message—no longer business as 
usual. 

It seems to me, as far as agriculture 
is concerned, no longer business as 
usual is that we do not continue to rely 
on 1949 legislation as backup legislation. 
The 1949 act was written for agriculture 
of the 1940’s and 1950’s, when all 
we were concerned about was domestic 
consumption and production to meet 
that domestic demand. It was all based 
upon allotments, a great deal of Government 
regulation, and a great deal of 
decisionmaking, even more than under 
the 1990 farm bill, here in Washington, 
DC. That is not the farm environment, 
the agricultural economic environment 
of the 1990’s, and it surely is not for the 
next century. The 1990 farm bill is not 
even a Government program for the 
next century. 

So what we tried to develop this year 
was a farm program that would bring 
us around to a point where we could 
meet the demands for agriculture in 
the next century and the realities of 
the world trading environment. That is 
what freedom to farm is all about, to 
provide transition payments that are 
certain payments that will get us from 
1996 until the year 2002, with farmers 
being able to make decisions on what 
to plant and what to market based 
upon the marketplace and not on the 
decisions of faceless bureaucrats in 
Washington, and, lastly, not to set 
aside our productive capacity, but to 
produce for the demands of the world 
marketplace and to tell our world competition 
that we are going to do it and 
compete with every market we can and 
meet that world competition. 

That is what the legislation that we 
got 53 votes today for is intended to do. 
But ‘‘business as usual’’ are people, as 
the vote went today, mostly on the 
other side of the aisle, as I can see it, 
who want to maintain Government involvement 
in the decisionmaking for 
the farmer, to have the possibility of 
not producing to capacity to meet the 
world marketplace, the demands of the 
hungry around the world, and to make 
sure that we have a roller coaster of 
Government support for agriculture— 
high payments when prices are moderate 
and no payments when prices are 
higher. 

What is wrong with that, Mr. President, 
is, as we transition into an agriculture 
environment that meets world 
competition and trade, there is not any 
certainty in that as there is in the freedom 
to farm bill. 

There are some farm organizations, 
Mr. President, who actually believe 

that the Government ought to have 
their fingers into every aspect of agriculture. 
I believe they will not be satisfied 
until there is as much regimentation 
of American agriculture as there 
is of European agriculture by the European 
governments. 

Business as usual on the farm debate 
is a desire to maintain the fingers of 
Government into agriculture to the 
greatest extent possible. It is all right 
to do that if that is what you believe. 
But it is not, it seems to me, right in 
the process to blame Republicans when 
you cannot have a farm bill when the 
President of the other party vetoed it 
and we had 53 votes on a bipartisan bill 
to pass it this year or a bipartisan vote 
to get it out of the House Agriculture 
Committee earlier this week. 

It seems to me it is OK to have that 
philosophy of maintaining Government’s 
fingers in agriculture, but you 
should not be blaming us for not passing 
a farm program. What the major 
farm organizations of America want, it 
seems to me, is that we have to have a 
farm program that meets this new economic 
environment. That is what freedom 
to farm is all about. 

It seems we heard debate today, 
again from the other side of the aisle, 
about sometimes not enough money 
being in agriculture because the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1995 would have 
taken $13 billion out of the baseline. 

Then the next time, we are being admonished 
that we have a program that 
is going to let farmers receive some 
payments when prices are high. We 
present a farm bill that has $6 billion 
for the year we are in when the program 
that we accepted from the other 
side of the aisle would not have any 
payments this year in the sense that it 
would be done away with as a result of 
farmers paying back last year’s deficiency 
payment. 

With the certainty of $43 billion over 
the next 7 years, we have a chance in 
those parts of rural America where 
they did not have a good crop last year 
to benefit from the higher prices of 
grain this year, but yet they would be 
caught with writing a check back to 
the Federal Government for the advance 
deficiency payment that they 
got last year. 

Our program would solve that. It 
would have a $6 billion investment in 
agriculture, it seems to me just exactly 
what we are hearing the other side of 
the aisle cry about that our farm program 
was taking $13 billion out of the 
baseline. 

I hope that we can reach an agreement. 
The way things developed today, 
when you have a situation where the 
Democratic and Republican leaders get 
together and we on this side of the 
aisle buy everything that the Democratic 
leader asked for, and it looks 
like we have a bipartisan agreement 
put together, and then the other side 
cannot even go with a sweetheart deal 
that we accept—as I said once before 
on the Lugar-Leahy bill, there were 10 
or 12 items that they put on a sheet of 

paper that they wanted, and we just accepted 
them. Yet, in the caucus for the 
other side, they cannot agree to move 
forward tonight. And when they come 
out of that caucus, then they come to 
the floor and blame us when we had 53 
votes, a majority vote to pass a bill, 
they blame us? 

That is what I mean when I say I 
think it takes a lot of gall when we 
take almost everything they want, I 
guess, in these two instances, everything 
they ask for, and then eventually 
we cannot move forward. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota. 

f 

CONSTRUCTING A COMPROMISE 
FARM PROGRAM 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, Ogden 
Nash wrote a little four line poem 
about a man who was a drunk and a 
spouse of his who nagged him about it 
all the time. I am reminded of that listening 
to what I have listened to in the 
last hour or so. 

He drinks because she scolds, he thinks. 
She scolds because he drinks, she thinks. 
And neither will admit what is really true. 
He’s a drunk and she’s a shrew. 

I listened today to discussions about 
who is at fault for failure. I listened to 
creative inventive discussions in which 
any one of several people choose to say 
that ‘‘It’s her fault,’’ or ‘‘his fault’’ or 
‘‘their fault.’’ 

It is of little use or value, it seems to 
me, to worry about anything other 
than how we construct a compromise 
farm program. 

There is a wide range of agreement in 
this Chamber about a farm program. 
There ought to be total planting flexibility 
for farmers. Any new farm program 
should provide for total planting 
flexibility on base acres. There is wide 
agreement on that. 

Most of us agree that there ought to 
be forgiveness of advance deficiency 
payments for those who suffered crop 
losses last year. Most of us would agree 
to some kind of advance deficiency 
payment that would not have to be repayable 
in the next year or two. I 
would have no objection to that. 

I would not be pleased with providing 
payments for people who do not farm. 
If the requirement for getting a payment 
is simply to have some land and 
a bank account, but you do not have to 
plant a seed and you still get a generous 
payment, that is wrong. I have 
some trouble with that. But I have no 
problem at all with providing some 
kind of advance or certain payments 
for farmers in order to recapitalize 
their farm operation. 

My hope had been this evening that 
we would proceed during this period to 
have constructed some kind of a compromise. 
The reason that we are not 
proceeding late tonight or tomorrow or 
Saturday or Sunday or Monday I assume 
has a lot to do with what a lot of 
people are doing around the country. 


S730 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

There is a Presidential campaign 
going on. We have the equivalent of a 
football team in the U.S. Senate running 
for the Presidency. They are off 
around the country campaigning. I understand 
all that. 

I have to tell you, I have enormous 
respect for the majority leader. I think 
the majority leader in this Chamber is 
a remarkable legislator, someone for 
whom I have had deep respect for 
many, many years. I had hoped, and I 
think the minority leader had hoped, 
and others had hoped, that there would 
be some method found by which we 
could reach a compromise. The talks 
that have been ongoing for the last 
number of hours have appeared to me 
to reach some significant agreement. 

Will that agreement mean that next 
Tuesday there will be a compromise? I 
do not know the answer to that, but I 
sure hope there will be a compromise, 
because there is plenty of area for 
agreement between the aisles. 

There is one area in which there is 
wide disagreement, and it seems to me 
it is the reason that we have not had a 
farm program to this point. The freedom 
to farm bill presupposes that there 
will be no further farm program. I 
know some of the supporters say, ‘‘No, 
that’s not what we are trying to do.’’ 
Others are more candid and up front 
and say, ‘‘Sure, that is what we are 
doing. We will have a buy-out up front 
with transition payments and we will 
transition you, and once you are 
transitioned, there will not be a safety 
net in the event that prices collapse.’’ 

My concern with that is I do not 
think we will have family farmers in 
our country if, when prices collapse— 
and there are plenty of reasons for 
grain prices to collapse from time to 
time—there is then not some kind of 
basic safety net. 

The interesting thing about the 
farmers is they face a so-called free 
market with a lot of enemies in that 
free market. They have a big grain 
trade that would love to knock down 
prices at every opportunity. They 
would love to knock down prices the 
minute prices start to strengthen, and 
they do it in dozens of different ways. 
When farmers try to market, they have 
to market up the narrow neck of a bottle 
with about a dozen major grain 
trading firms controlling where that 
market stream of product goes. 

The fact is, they want to buy grain at 
lower prices, not higher prices, and in 
dozens of ways, they try to find a way 
to knock down higher prices when 
prices firm up. 

Do you think millers love to see high 
prices? No; no, they would like to find 
a way to knock down prices a bit. Food 
processors, do they like high grain 
prices? No, they find a way to knock 
them down. So every time prices start 
to firm up—and, yes, even USDA. 

I heard an Assistant Secretary about 
5 or 6 years ago sidle up to the table in 
the House Agriculture Committee and 
say, ‘‘We had to take action to release 
grain, because we thought prices were 

firming up too much.’’ That is a euphemism 
for saying, ‘‘We over in USDA 
thought farm prices were getting too 
high, so we used our leverage and the 
mechanisms we have to try to trim 
them down a bit.’’ 

The interesting thing is, family farmers 
never seem to be able to take advantage 
on any continuing basis of a 
free market of higher prices, because 
there is always someone in there to interrupt 
those higher prices, big grain 
trading firms, food processors and others. 
Well, I do not object—in fact I 
think we must find a much more market-
oriented, market-sensitive farm 
program. Those who say we should are 
absolutely correct and they will find 
support from me for that. But I do not 
believe that we ought to decide that 
there should be no further price supports 
in the outyears in order that 
when international prices drop, family 
farmers will be left with no ability to 
deal with that risk. 

Frankly, they cannot deal with that 
risk. Family farmers will not survive. 
Prices will drop and family farmers 
will fail and FAPRI, the research agency, 
says wheat prices will drop to $3.22 
next year. USDA predicts a drop in 
1998. I do not know the facts. I know 
wheat prices go up and down. But they 
go down a lot easier than they go up. 

When they go down, the question is, 
for somebody farming 800 acres of 
wheat land in the northern great 
plains, and wheat drops to $3 a bushel 
and their production costs are $4.50 a 
bushel, and there is no loan rate, no 
target price, no marketing loan, no restitution 
payment, no nothing, what 
happens to that family farm? 

The family farm goes broke. Who 
farms it? An agrifactory buys it. Corporations 
farm in this country from 
California to Maine. That is what will 
happen if you decide this country has 
no interest in retaining a safety net for 
family farms. 

Every time I hear somebody—especially 
somebody from Washington with 
a white shirt—talking about 
transitioning somebody—especially a 
farmer—I suggest you fasten the seatbelt 
on the tractor seat. If you are 
going to be transitioned, you better 
look at what is behind that so-called 
transition. It may be going to a marketing 
policy that says: 

Let us have a buyout and make some big 
payments up front in exchange for no further 
help, even some minimum safety net in the 
long-term. 

There does need to be a farm program 
enacted by the U.S. Senate and the 

U.S. House, and it needs to be done 
soon. I do not want to revisit the question 
of who did what and why. I can 
make a strong case that this is the 
first day of the 104th Congress we have 
had a debate on the farm bill on the 
floor of the Senate. I know one was put 
in the reconciliation bill, but it was 
not debated on the floor. I am not interested 
in revisiting that because it is 
not very important. 
What is important is the question of 
what do we do now, how quickly can we 

do it, and can we do it in a way that 
advantages the rural economies in this 
country. Can we do it in a way that especially 
tries to provide basic help to 
family-size farmers when prices drop. 

It is my expectation and my hope 
that, with the leadership of Senator 
DOLE and Senator DASCHLE, and the 
work that has been ongoing today, in 
which I think there has been some fair 
amount of agreement, between now and 
next Tuesday, provide a proposal. We 
could provide to both caucuses an approach 
that provides a bridge, or deals 
with filling in the gaps between the divergent 
proposals, and come to the 
floor and truly, in a bipartisan way, 
join hands and say this makes sense 
and meets the test. 

This does what some in this Chamber 
have counseled, which is to make a 
more market-oriented farm program 
work. It provides more flexibility and 
it moves into the future with a more 
modernistic program that is more market-
sensitive. It still retains, for those 
concerned about whether we will have 
family farmers in the future, a basic 
safety net of some consequence, so that 
when prices drop, family farmers will 
be able to ride out those times. 

I come from a town of 300 people and 
from an area that is a family farming 
area. I suppose some people can say, 
‘‘Of what importance is it whether our 
farms are farmed by family farmers or 
whether they are farmed by one large 
giant corporation that farms two counties 
at a time?. 

I think there is plenty of reason for 
us to believe, for both social and economic 
reasons, in the retention of the 
opportunity to farm, and that to have 
a network of family farms dotting 
these prairies in America, dotting the 
northern great plains, makes a lot of 
sense. It supports a lifestyle that I 
think is admired by a lot of Americans. 
Turn on the news in any major city in 
the country and ask yourself if what 
you hear there compares well with 
what you understand is going on in our 
small towns and out on our farms. 

Does the news compare in terms of 
family values and good living, living in 
circumstances relatively free from 
crime, living in neighborhoods and 
farm areas where you know all of your 
neighbors. The fact is that there are a 
lot of reasons to care about whether we 
have a network of family farms in our 
future. The answer to that question depends 
on what kind of farm program we 
develop here in the U.S. Congress. 

Mr. President, let me conclude by 
saying that it is not my intention to do 
anything other than suggest that all of 
us find a way to serve the common interests 
that we have in rural America. 
There are farm families who depend on 
us, and they depend on us to do the 
right thing. There are mixed messages 
coming from different groups, commodity 
groups and farm organizations. 
Some like this approach and some like 
that approach. It seems to me that 
there is a basis for compromise. 

I hope that between now and next 
Tuesday, we will reach out and find 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S731 

that basis and, on Tuesday, move to a 
conference committee, a piece of farm 
legislation passed by the U.S. Senate in 
a bipartisan manner. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
just say, in answer to the Senator from 
North Dakota, I feel confident that 
Senators on both sides of the aisle 
want to reach an agreement on a substantial, 
constructive farm bill. Nothing 
is more important, and it is prime 
legislation. I feel sure that I can speak 
on behalf of Senators on my side of the 
aisle that would say we are going to 
reach that agreement, and we will all 
work together in good faith to achieve 
what is very important, coming from a 
farm State, as I do myself. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that there now 
be a period for the transaction of routine 
morning business, with Senators 
permitted to speak therein for up to 5 
minutes each. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

NATIONAL APPRECIATION WEEK 
FOR CATHOLIC SCHOOLS 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, during 
this National Appreciation Week 
for Catholic Schools I would like to 
take a few moments to recognize the 
high quality and the hard work of the 
Catholic School System. 

Our thanks and praise should go to 
the Catholic Schools for their special 
efforts to put children first. In the 
midst of increased school drop-outs, illiteracy, 
teenage pregnancy, drug-
abuse, youth violence and growing 
pressures on teenagers and children— 
Catholic Schools provide their students 
a safe and healthy environment for 
learning. These schools give pupils an 
advantage by helping them develop a 
solid moral foundation. 

In today’s challenging society, mere 
words and good intentions are not 
enough. Catholic Schools’ actions demonstrate 
their commitment to children. 
With a 99.98 percent graduation 
rate and 85 percent college matriculation 
rate, South Dakota Catholic 
Schools are proving that a solid combination 
of educational and spiritual 
guidance is the key to healthy living. 
In assisting pupils to build better lives, 
Catholic Schools reaffirm the value of 
life. 

Catholic Schools extend the lessons 
we try to teach children at home: respect 
and love of our fellow neighbors, 
respect of the individual, personal discipline, 
individual responsibility and 
concern for the larger community. 
Catholic schools reinforce these family 
values which are the key to strong 
communities. We want the best for our 
families, our communities, and South 
Dakota. We must work to put the best 
tools in the hands of the future—our 
children. The Catholic schools give stu


dents the tools to be responsible adults 
and concerned citizens. 

I want to thank all the individuals 
who have contributed to Catholic 
School Systems’ continued success and 
growth—the teachers, administrators, 
and of course the parents, many being 
graduates of Catholic schools themselves. 
One special week each year is a 
modest way to pay special tribute and 
thanks to the Catholic Schools across 
our country for the service they provide 
to our communities and our future. 


f 

GOOD THINGS ARE HAPPENING IN 
MALTA, MONTANA 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, at a 
time when we hear so much about what 
is wrong with America, I want to take 
a moment to talk about a place where 
good things are happening. That place 
is Malta, Montana. 

Malta is a small community in 
Northern Montana, up along what we 
in Montana call the ‘‘Hi-Line’’. Like 
any small Montana town, it is a place 
where people work hard and don’t 
think twice about helping out a neighbor 
or a friend in need. 

This past Christmas Eve, a fire destroyed 
Malta’s high school and junior 
high school. But folks in Malta pitched 
right in to get a temporary school up 
and running. 

Students, teachers, and others from 
the community have spent the past 
month salvaging lost items and fixing 
up temporary school sites. Almost 
every Montana community has helped 
by sending items to start up the new 
schools. Also, Federal and State Agencies, 
Veterans groups, private as well 
as small businesses and many other organizations 
have contributed to this effort. 


And I was privileged to spend a day 
working as part of this effort. While 
the entire community deserves credit, I 
would like to recognize three individuals 
who have taken a leading role in 
this undertaking. First, I would like to 
acknowledge the Principal of Malta 
High, Marty Tyler, who quickly took 
control of the situation and led the 
students and the community in the effort 
to rebuild the schools. For example, 
Principal Tyler and members of 
the student council collected about 
4,000 bricks to construct an entrance 
sign when the new school is built. During 
my work day at the Malta schools 
I participated in building windbreaks 
in front of doors and collecting bricks 
with Schoolboard Chairman Doug Ost 
and School Superintendent Bill Parker. 
Both of whom deserve a big thanks for 
the commitment and support they have 
given to the Malta School District. 

Finally, this fire also prompted the 
creation of PRIDE, People Rebuilding 
Investing and Developing Education, a 
local group to offer advice and manpower 
to the school district. I would 
like to extend my sincere thanks for 
their community involvement. 

Mr. President, it is an honor and a 
privilege for me to recognize the 

achievements of the students, teachers, 
administrators, and citizens of the 
Malta community and all others who 
have helped to get this project off to a 
great start. 

f 

A STRONG NATIONAL GUARD 
Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, over 
the last month I’ve traveled to every 
county in South Carolina. And one of 
the things that I heard from people was 
that they want America to keep a 
strong National Guard. 
As a veteran, I know that a strong 
National Guard is vital to national security. 
Time and again, National 
Guard troops proved themselves to be 
as competent—if not more so—as regular 
troops in the active military. Air 
National Guard troops from South 
Carolina routinely are rated among the 
best in the service. They flew countless 
missions in the Persian Gulf War and 
flew them with skill, accuracy and expertise. 
Army National Guard troops 
from South Carolina proved themselves 
to be ready to mobilize and fight almost 
at the drop of a hat. 
Mr. President, a strong National 
Guard also makes common sense. In 
these days where dollars are stretched 
thin, we can get three qualified and 
highly trained guardsmen for the cost 
of one active-duty soldier. Perhaps 
more importantly, however, having a 
strong Guard builds community support 
for the military. Think about it— 
the men and women who serve in the 
National Guard work in towns and 
counties every day across the country. 
They work in stores, construction 
sites, mills, factories and offices. And 
they set the example of public service 
for everyone. When their units are 
called up, their co-workers all turn out 
to support their efforts. 
Mr. President, a couple of weeks ago 
when I was in Laurens, South Carolina, 
Rich Browne, the local newspaper editor, 
and I discussed the value of a 
strong Guard. His comments in a recent 
column are to-the-point. I hope 
every Senator would read this wise column 
and resist efforts to reduce the 
size of our National Guard units. 
Mr. President, I ask that Rich 
Browne’s column from the January 4 
edition of the Laurens County Advertiser 
be reprinted in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. 
The column follows: 

AVOIDING MILITARY ADVENTURES 

[From the Laurens County Advertiser by 

Rich Browne] 

This should be an interesting year for the 

U.S. military. 
With the active duty services once again 
calling on reserves to support the efforts to 
police the peace in Bosnia, according to news 
reports, the Department of Defense once 
again is leading a charge to reduce the role 
of National Guard units in preparing for the 
defense of the nation. 

Well, the truth be known, the Department 
of the Army would like for all the combat 
arms units in the National Guard to just go 
away—they are a threat to the active Army’s 
jobs. I saw this first-hand in Desert Storm 


S732 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

and despite the Pentagon’s contention that 
it would save the military a billion dollars 
per year to shift the focus of reserve units 
from fighting units to support units, the 
Army wants to deny that it would be cheaper 
and more effective to reduce the active component 
even further while increasing the 
number of troops in the reserve components. 

However, don’t look for this to happen and 
I’ll tell you why. 

First, it drastically would cut the number 
of active duty staff officer positions at the 
Pentagon and they are the ones who are 
drawing up the plans to downsize the military. 
No one, and I mean no one, is willingly 
going to say ‘‘Eliminate me and destroy my 
career,’’ when an option can be made to 
eliminate someone else’s job (even if they do 
it at less than half the cost). 

Second, it is a matter of control. Because 
of its dual state-federal role, the National 
Guard is not totally under the control of federal 
army, something senior staff members 
resent and dream up ways to eliminate. Even 
though, again speaking from personal experience, 
Guard and reserve units often meet or 
exceed the standards set for active duty 
units, despite the fact they don’t practice at 
the job 270 days a year. 

Third, it limits the options of the executive 
branch to use the military in questionable 
operations. Note that the hue and cry 
about the use of U.S. forces in the Balkans 
and places like Somalia and Haiti are muted 
when the troops used are professional, full-
time volunteers when compared to the times 
when the political leadership has to bite the 
bullet to tap into every village and hamlet 
to send forces in harm’s way. 

The civilian and military leadership in the 
Pentagon knows these things full well and, 
hence, would rather keep their jobs and control 
of careers, while keeping open the options 
for ticket-punching operations that are 
so vital to career progression. 

The argument is that the combat units in 
the National Guard won’t go to war and are 
ill-prepared to fight if they are sent, which— 
to borrow a phrase from retired Gen. H. Norman 
‘‘Stormin’ Norman’’ Schwarzkopf—is 
just so much bovine scatology. 

When the Arm went to war in the Persian 
Gulf, its units were no more prepared than 
many National Guard units. Most used the 
months preceding the ground attack to 
‘‘train up’’ in the desert and bring their 
troops up to the needed ‘‘combat readiness.’’ 

The three National Guard armored brigades 
that were mobilized during Desert 
Storm where held in the U.S. not so much 
because their training was not up to snuff 
but because if they had gone to the desert 
and acquitted themselves well . . . well, it 
would have disproved the myth that reserve 
soldiers can’t perform up to the same standards 
as active duty soldiers. 

Imagine what Congress and the budget cutters 
would have thought then. Gee, for 40 
cents on the dollar, we can field a capable 
force that doesn’t need all the full-time auxiliary 
services like housing, medical care and 
other benefits that we have to give the active 
duty force. We might be able to get a lot 
more bang for our buck. 

Lay aside those arguments, and the arguments 
about all the support and benefits to 
national defense that come from a truly citizen 
army, and there is one vital reason why 
the political leadership in Washington and 
the Pentagon should not be allowed to reduce 
the Army to just professional soldiers: 
It removes the political cost on military adventures 
overseas. 

If the civilian leadership has to go to every 
hamlet and village to draw men (and now 
women) to carry rifles and man tanks and 
artillery pieces, then it has to be able to justify 
the mission to the American people. 

This can be a tough sell and can be avoided 
if it is just a matter of sending in the professionals 
that have slipped under the radar of 
the folks back home. Hey, they volunteered 
for the job and it goes with the territory. 

But don’t look for that argument to be 
made. Even though we learned that lesson in 
Vietnam, when we didn’t have large scale 
mobilizations of the reserve components and 
paid the price in 58,000 lives, we have forgotten 
it again. Gone, now, is the leadership 
that created the ‘‘Total Force’’, the Army 
that was built so that the civilian leadership 
couldn’t commit U.S. forces in substantial 
numbers without paying the political price 
of getting the American people on board. 

The new leadership wants to be able to go 
anywhere, anytime and not worry about support 
back home. It saves their careers. 

f 

HONORING BLACK HISTORY 
MONTH 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, I rise 
today to salute the fine work South 
Carolina Educational Television is 
doing to promote Black History Month. 
On Wednesday, February 21, SC ETV 
will feature the ninth annual Black 
History Teleconference live from the 
campus of Benedict College in Columbia, 
S.C. 

‘‘The Struggle Continues: African-
American Women as Nurturing and 
Contributing Forces in America’’ will 
feature eight South Carolina high 
school seniors who will question a 
panel of nationally acclaimed African-
American leaders. The 90-minute teleconference 
will be broadcast live via 
satellite to more than 500 school districts 
nationwide, colleges, and universities. 


The eight high school panelists for 
South Carolina are Dion Alexander of 
Woodruff High School, LaShonda R. 
Davis of Bishopville High School, 
Felicia DuRante of Mauldin High 
School, Latasha Johnson of Baptist 
High School, Tahnee Johnson of 
Walterboro High School, Juontonio 
Pinckney of Battery Creek High 
School, Lemekia Stewart of Lockhart 
High School, and Joey Walker of Silver 
Bluff High School. I send my congratulations 
to each of them for their academic 
and civic achievements. 

Also, I would like to commend Dr. 
Marianna Davis of Keenan High School 
in Columbia. She has been the driving 
force behind this annual event. She is 
an inspiring role model for our youth 
because she encourages them to set 
high goals and to work hard to reach 
them. 

Mr. President, I also commend Henry 
Cauthen, president of South Carolina 
ETV; Dr. Davis; the students; and the 
panelists of ‘‘The Struggle Continues’’ 
for their continuing devotion to cultural 
excellence in broadcasting. We 
are very proud of our fine educational 
network in South Carolina. It serves as 
an example for the Nation in presenting 
this teleconference during 
Black History Month. 

f 

THE BAD DEBT BOXSCORE 
Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, about 4 
years ago I commenced these daily re


ports to the Senate to make a matter 
of record the exact Federal debt as of 
close of business the previous day. 

In that report, February 27, 1992, the 
Federal debt stood at 
$3,825,891,293,066.80, as of close of business 
the previous day. The point is, the 
Federal debt has escalated by 
$1,161,545,065,098.40 since February 26, 
1992. 

As of the close of business yesterday, 
Wednesday, January 31, 1996, the Federal 
debt stood at exactly 
$4,987,436,358,165.20. On a per capita 
basis, every man, woman and child in 
America owes $18,930.74 as his or her 
share of the Federal debt. 

f 

BOX SCORE ON IMPORTS OF FOR


EIGN OIL BY THE UNITED 

STATES 

Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, the 
American Petroleum Institute reports 
that, for the week ending January 26, 
the U.S. imported 6,895,000 barrels of 
oil each day, 5 percent more than the 
6,550,000 barrels imported during the 
same period 1 year ago. 

Americans now rely on foreign oil for 
more than 50 percent of their needs, 
and there are no signs that this upward 
trend will abate. 

Since a barrel of oil is 55 gallons, this 
means that the United States purchased 
379,225,000 gallons of oil from 
foreign countries this past week. 

Anybody else interested in restoring 
domestic production of oil—by U.S. 
producers using American workers? If 
the American people don’t become concerned 
perhaps they had better ponder 
the economic calamity that will occur 
in America if and when foreign producers 
shut off our supply, or double 
the already enormous cost of imported 
oil flowing into the United States—now 
6,895,000 barrels a day. 

f 

UNITED STATES-GERMANY 
AVIATION RELATIONS 

Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, I rise 
today to discuss a critically important 
international aviation matter I have 
raised in this body on numerous occasions. 
I refer to the significant opportunity 
that has presented itself to fully 
liberalize our aviation relations with 
the Federal Republic of Germany. 

I am delighted to inform my colleagues 
that this morning the United 
States and Germany agreed on a framework 
for an open skies agreement. This 
is a major step in liberalizing aviation 
relations with one of our most important 
trading partners. A United States-
Germany open skies agreement would 
produce significant new air service opportunities 
for all U.S. passenger carriers. 
Now that the mutually agreed 
upon structure for a liberalized air 
service agreement is in place, a round 
of formal talks has been scheduled for 
February 22 in Washington to finalize 
any remaining details. 

Mr. President, I would like to praise 
both the Department of Transportation 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S733 

and the State Department for the excellent 
work they are doing in pursuing 
this opportunity. Also, I would be remiss 
if I failed to recognize the outstanding 
leadership German Transport 
Minister Matthias Wissmann has provided. 
I appreciate fully that Germany’s 
membership in the European 
Union creates an added challenge in accomplishing 
our shared goal of securing 
an open skies agreement. For that 
reason, I commend Minister Wissmann 
for the great political courage he and 
the German Government have shown in 
pursuing this initiative. 

An open skies agreement with Germany 
is tremendously significant since 
it would benefit the U.S. economy, our 
airline industry and consumers. Let me 
briefly expand on each point. 

First, both immediately and from a 
long-term perspective, a United States-
Germany open skies agreement would 
produce significant economic benefits 
for the United States. Due to the competitiveness 
of U.S. passenger and 
cargo carriers, they consistently generate 
for the United States significant 
net trade surpluses. I fully expect the 
same will continue to be true under a 
fully liberalized aviation regime with 
Germany. In fact, the performance of 
our cargo carriers under the liberalized 
air cargo agreement we signed with 
Germany in 1993 has been very impressive. 


Germany also would benefit greatly 
from such an agreement. To confirm 
this point, one need only look to the 
Netherlands which continues to reap 
enormous economic benefits from the 
open skies agreement we signed with 
the Dutch several years ago. Unquestionably, 
the economic benefits of open 
skies agreements are a two-way street. 
I believe a United States-Germany 
open skies agreement is an excellent 
long-term economic investment for 
both countries. 

Second, an open skies agreement 
with Germany would create tremendous 
new international air service opportunities 
for the U.S. airline industry. 
As I have previously explained to 
this body, such an agreement would 
generate both direct and indirect benefits 
for all U.S. passenger carriers. 

In terms of direct benefits, an open 
skies agreement with Germany would 
immediately produce new air service 
opportunities between the United 
States and Germany. Is there pent-up 
demand among U.S. passenger carriers 
to serve Germany? Absolutely. Recently, 
eight U.S. passenger carriers 
sought to offer 316 roundtrip flights between 
the United States and Germany 
each week during the 1996 summer season. 
Under the current bilateral aviation 
agreement, however, U.S. passenger 
carriers can only offer 276 weekly 
roundtrip flights to Germany. Under 
an open skies agreement, there would 
be no such limit and the number of 
roundtrip frequencies would be set by 
market demand, not governments. 

Equally important, German airports 
would provide well-situated gateway 

opportunities for our carriers to serve 
points throughout Europe, the Middle 
East, Africa and the booming Asia-Pacific 
market. Is it realistic to think 
that German airports will provide key 
gateways to the rapidly expanding 
Asia-Pacific market? Absolutely. In 
fact, Japan Airlines recently announced 
it intends to initiate new service 
between Osaka and Frankfurt. Non-
stop service is presently available from 
Frankfurt-Main Airport to cities 
throughout the Asia-Pacific market including 
Hong Kong, Seoul, Bangkok 
and Singapore. Moreover, non-stop 
service to the Asia-Pacific market also 
is currently available from Munich 
Airport. These examples illustrate my 
point well. 

With respect to indirect benefits, an 
open skies agreement with Germany 
would be an important catalyst for further 
liberalization of air service opportunities 
throughout Europe. Since it is 
such a critical fact, let me reiterate a 
point I have made in this body before. 
An open skies agreement with Germany 
—in combination with liberalized 
air service agreements we already secured 
with the Netherlands in 1992 and 
with nine other European countries 
last year—would mean nearly half of 
all passengers traveling between the 
United States and Europe would be flying 
to or from European countries with 
open skies regimes. Under such a scenario, 
competition would be our best 
ally in opening the remaining restrictive 
air service markets in Europe. 

Will an open skies agreement with 
Germany, or any other country for 
that matter, benefit all U.S. passenger 
carriers equally? Of course not. A market-
oriented framework only guarantees 
carriers the opportunity to compete. 
As should be the case, the market 
will determine which carriers will benefit 
most under an open skies agreement 
with Germany. Overall, however, 
I do predict with confidence that the 

U.S. aviation industry as a whole will 
benefit immensely from unrestricted 
opportunities to serve Germany. 
Third, undoubtedly consumers in the 
United States and Germany would be 
the biggest winners. Due to enhanced 
service options as well as the assurance 
of competitive air fares, consumers always 
benefit most under open skies 
agreements. 

In conclusion, I am very pleased that 
we are well on our way to an open skies 
agreement with Germany. Such an 
agreement would be in the best economic 
interest of the United States 
and it would create considerable new 
international air service opportunities 
for all U.S. passenger carriers. Of great 
importance to me, consumers would 
reap significant benefits as well. I hope 
an open skies agreement with Germany 
will soon be in hand. 

Let me add that I know some of my 
colleagues are frustrated that we have 
not made more progress liberalizing air 
service opportunities with several 
other major trading partners. I share 
this frustration but do not believe it 

results from a lack of effort on the part 
of our negotiators. In fact, our successful 
talks with the Germans illustrate a 
critical element which has been lacking 
in those other negotiations. I refer 
to the keen vision the Germans have 
shown in recognizing that the economic 
benefits of an open skies agreement 
with the United States are a two-
way street. 

In this regard, I believe my colleagues 
who are frustrated about the 
continued reluctance of the British to 
permit U.S. carriers greater access to 
London Heathrow Airport should be 
very pleased by this development with 
Germany. As I said earlier, competition 
will be our best ally in expanding 
air service opportunities with European 
countries such as the United 
Kingdom that continue to restrict the 
access of U.S. carriers. An open skies 
agreement with Germany will add 
great force to this market dynamic. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO LOWELL KRASSNER 
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I rise 
today in honor of the late Lowell 
Krassner of Burlington, VT, who passed 
away unexpectedly on January 15, 1996. 
As a longtime activist with the 
Vermont chapter of the Sierra Club, 
Lowell dedicated much of his life and 
energy to the conservation and stewardship 
of our natural resources—both 
in Vermont and nationally. 
Lowell, together with his wife and 
partner Diane Geerken, worked tirelessly 
to protect the Vermont they 
loved, making major contributions to 
the eventual passage of the Vermont 
Wilderness Act of 1983 and the Green 
Mountain National Forest Management 
Plan of 1986. 
Lowell and Diane functioned as a 
two-person citizen oversight committee, 
making sure that the actions of 
State and Federal public lands and natural 
resource managers were carefully 
reviewed. Indeed, friends and colleagues 
have often remarked how their 
South Burlington home served as both 
a hub of environmental activism and a 
Vermont conservation archive for so 
many years. 
Lowell stood as a staunch defender of 
the Long/Appalachian Trail. He could 
also be both a strong supporter and 
sharp critic of the U.S. Forest Service, 
depending on the issue at hand. 
In his commitment to the environment, 
Lowell Krassner also looked well 
beyond the Green Mountains, Lake 
Champlain, and the Connecticut River. 
He was well read on the various national 
environmental debates of the 
day—clean water, clean air, endangered 
species, wetlands, ANWR, Forest Service 
timber policy—and readily shared 
his views with his congressional representatives. 
Lowell was particularly concerned 
with the recent attacks on our Nation’s 
environmental laws represented by 
such actions as the timber salvage 
rider on the fiscal 1995 rescission legislation. 



S734 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Over the last few years, Lowell immersed 
himself in the work of the 
Northern Forest Lands Council and 
strongly supported legislation to implement 
the council’s recommendations. 


Lowell Krassner will be truly missed, 
not only by his family and the 
Vermont chapter of the Sierra Club, 
but also by those many of us who 
counted on his unswerving commitment 
and honesty in furthering the 
cause we share—the wise stewardship 
of our public lands and natural resources. 


f 

JOYCE ROUILLE 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I would 
like to let the entire Senate know how 
proud I am of Joyce Rouille, a wonderful 
person and someone who I am fortunate 
enough to call my friend. Joyce 
was recently named the Volunteer of 
the Week by the Burlington Free Press 
for her work at the Community Health 
Center in Burlington, VT. While Joyce 
may technically be retired, anyone who 
knows her will attest to her constant 
devotion to her family, church, and 
community. The time and love she 
spends each day on other people would 
exhaust any normal person. Joyce and 
Jack have shown all of us how to be 
good parents and good citizens. 

I ask unanimous consent that the article 
appearing in the Burlington Free 
Press be printed in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. 

There being no objection, the article 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

[From the Burlington Free Press, Jan. 22, 

1996] 

VOLUNTEER OF THE WEEK 

(By Beth Gillespie) 

Joyce Rouille is enhancing her retirement 
by helping parents at the Community Health 
Center of Burlington. 

As coordinator of the CHC library, Rouille 
helps ensure that patients have easy access 
to the hundreds of parenting books and other 
materials. 

She keeps track of the books patients take 
out, sends notices for overdue items and generally 
keeps library materials organized. She 
also helps with filing, billing, mailing and 
other clerical work in the center’s main office. 


‘‘Joyce does anything we ask her to,’’ says 
CHC director Alison Calderara. ‘‘She’s totally 
committed and always here when we 
need her. It’s been really nice to have her 
around.’’ 

Rouille lives in Burlington with her husband, 
John. She enjoys sewing, seasonal 
crafts, gardening and quilting. 

‘‘After you stop working, you don’t want 
to just sit in a chair and do nothing. I really 
do enjoy working at the center—the staff are 
very outgoing and friendly,’’ Rouille says. 

f 

NATIONAL PRAYER BREAKFAST 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, each 
year we celebrate in the Nation’s Capital 
a National Prayer Breakfast. It 
was my privilege to attend today, the 
44th consecutive gathering. The President 
of the United States and the First 

Lady, together with the Vice President 
and his wife are, as they were today, 
regular attendees. Leaders from many 
countries, leaders from every State 
join with members of the judiciary, executive, 
and legislative branches of our 
government. It is invariably an inspirational, 
memorable event. 

As is customary, Members of Congress 
preside and today Senator ROBERT 
BENNETT, Utah, whose father likewise 
was a distinguished U.S. Senator, 
contributed masterfully as a master of 
ceremonies. Senators and House Members 
share in the program. 

Strong messages were given by all, 
especially President Clinton and Vice 
President GORE. The Senate participants 
were Senator CAROL MOSELEY-
BRAUN, Illinois, who read beautifully 
from the scriptures and Senator ALAN 
SIMPSON who spoke with deep sincerity 
and humility. 

But the most memorable contribution 
of all was from the principal 
speaker, Senator SAM NUNN, Georgia. 
The audience, at the breakfast and 
watching television, all across America, 
were given a stirring, uplifting 
message. Remarks that are deserving 
to be recorded for present and future 
generations the world over. 

It is with pride and humility that I 
ask unanimous consent to have printed 
in the RECORD the remarks of my two 
valued friends, Senator SIMPSON and 
Senator NUNN. 

There being no objection, the remarks 
were ordered to be printed in 
the RECORD, as follows: 

REMARKS BY SENATOR SIMPSON, NATIONAL 

PRAYER BREAKFAST, FEBRUARY 1, 1996 

Mr. President, First Lady Hillary, Mr. Vice 
President and President of our Senate and 
Tipper Gore, Distinguished guests. Greetings, 
my fellow seekers, discoverers, and 
wanderers (not necessarily in that order!) always 
a grand morning. 

One of the great honors of my life was to 
give the principle address at this national 
prayer breakfast in 1989. I was filled with 
trepidation that a seeker like me would be 
asked. 

The night before, the Reverend Billy 
Graham, one of the most loving, inspirational, 
caring men in this world, called and 
said, ‘‘Alan, we are praying for you.’’ I said, 
‘‘You’re praying for me! I’m doing plenty of 
that for myself!’’ So typical of Billy Graham. 

Long ago in public life I learned where to 
turn when I didn’t know where to turn. One 
source. 

The Senate prayer breakfast group gathers 
every Wednesday morning for a convivial 
half hour between 8 and 9:00. Our leaders are 
Bob Bennett, the Republican from Utah and 
Dan Akaka a Democrat from Hawaii. Rare 
gentlemen both. 

The presentor of the day—after an opening 
prayer—shares much of himself or herself 
with us for fifteen or twenty minutes and 
then a time of discussion and fellowship. 
Promptly at the hour of nine we close with 
a prayer as we stand with hands joined 
around the tables. Sometimes the theme is 
the Bible. Sometimes it’s public life. Sometimes 
it’s about family and our jobs but always 
it’s about ourselves and the impact of 
that greater force in our lives—a higher 
being. All faiths. All philosophies. All believers. 


These are always very moving times. We 
share much with each other and we gain 
much from each other. 

It helps us endure in the partisan and political 
world in which we have chosen to 
labor. Kindness, civility, tolerance and forgiveness 
all are part of the essence of our 
gatherings. We try to put aside harsh judgment 
and criticism. 

I remember the words of a wonderful cou


plet my mother used to share. 
There is so much good in the worst of us. 
And so much bad in the best of us. 
That it ill behooves any of us 
To find fault with the rest of us. 

I like that one. I knew you would! 

We also talk about our human frailties. We 
talk about how easy it is to fall for the blandishments 
of flattery and be overcome by 
ego. 

I have often said that those who travel the 
high road of humility in Washington DC are 
not really troubled by heavy traffic! 

It is always a very uplifting time. Yes, actually 
too a time of sharing of our own 
vulnerabilities. It was Will Rogers, our great 
American humorist, who said, ‘‘It’s great to 
be great but it is greater to be human.’’ 

We are very privileged to be able to serve 
in the United States Senate. A special obligation. 
People do observe us. We are scrutinized. 
(Indeed we are!) We hope to do more 
than just talk a good game. We need to live 
the things we learn and share. 

Let me close with a poem that is something 
we try to take from the weekly Senate 
prayer breakfast group and something we 
might hope to remember from this marvelous 
convocation today. That little poem. 

We’d rather see a sermon than hear one any 

day, 
We’d rather you would walk with us than 

merely show the way. 
The eye is a better pupil and more willing 

than the ear. 
Fine counsel is confusing, but example’s al


ways clear. 
We can soon learn how to do it if you’ll let 

us see it done, 
We can watch you well in action, but your 

tongue too fast may run 
And the lecture you deliver may be very wise 

and true, 
But we’d rather get our lessons by observing 

what you do. 

Now there’s ‘‘the word’’ for the day! 

God bless you all. 

REMARKS OF SENATOR NUNN 
Thank you Bob Bennett, President and 
Mrs. Clinton, Vice President and Mrs. Gore, 
fellow sinners. Have I left anyone out? I say 
to my good friend, Alan Simpson, Billy 
Graham called me also, Alan. He said, as he 
did in his message, that he was praying for 
us all. But, he felt particularly compelled to 
pray for Alan Simpson and for me. Alan, I 
don’t know what he meant by that, but you 
and I appreciate it. 
A few years ago during the Bresznev era, 
Dr. Billy Graham returned from a highly 
publicized trip to Moscow and was confronted 
when he returned by one of his critics 
with these words, ‘‘Dr. Graham, you have 
set the church back 50 years.’’ Billy Graham 
lowered his head and replied, ‘‘I am deeply 
ashamed. I have been trying very hard to set 
the church back 2,000 years.’’ 
Today we represent different political parties, 
different religions and different nations, 
but as your invitation states, we gather as 
brothers and sisters in the spirit of Jesus 
who lived 2,000 years ago, and who lives in 
our hearts and minds today. 
The first prayer breakfast was held in 1953 
in a world of great danger. President Eisenhower 
was newly inaugurated and had just 
returned from Korea where our young soldiers 
were fighting desperately. World Communism 
was on the move. Eastern Europe 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S735 

and the Baltics were locked behind the Iron 
Curtain. All across the globe, the lights of 
religious freedom and individual rights were 
going out, and the specter of nuclear destruction 
loomed over our planet. 

I wonder this morning how those who attended 
that first national prayer breakfast 
43 years ago would have reacted if God had 
given them a window to see the world of the 
1980’s and 1990’s. 

They would have seen truly amazing 
things: Catholic nuns kneeling to pray in the 
path of 50-ton tanks—the power of their faith 
bringing down the Philippine dictatorship; 
the Iron Curtain being smashed, not by 
tanks of war, but by the hands of those who 
built it and those who were oppressed by it; 
the Cold War ending, not in a nuclear inferno, 
but in a blaze of candles in the churches 
of Eastern Europe, in the singing of 
hymns and the opening of long-closed synagogues. 
I believe that God gave Joseph Stalin 
the answer to his question, ‘‘How many 
divisions does the Pope have?’’ 

They also would have seen a black man in 
South Africa emerge from prison after 26 
years and become the President of his nation, 
personifying forgiveness and reconciliation; 
the first hesitant but hopeful steps toward 
peace between Jews and Arabs in the 
Middle East, and between Protestants and 
Catholics in Northern Ireland. They would 
see that in 1996 we are blessed to live in a 
world where more people enjoy religious 
freedom than at any other time in history. 
Can we doubt this morning that a loving God 
has watched over us and guided us through 
this dangerous and challenging period? 

During the early days of the Russian parliament, 
the Duma, I joined several other 
Senators in attending a meeting with a number 
of newly elected members of that body. 
The second day, a few of us were invited to 
a very small ‘‘prayer breakfast’’ with a 
group of Duma members who were just forming 
a fellowship, no doubt stimulated by 
Doug Coe. As in the larger meeting the day 
before, the breakfast discussion started with 
a degree of coldness and tension. One of the 
Russians, in obvious sadness and a little embarrassment, 
remarked that Russia was in 
great economic distress and that the United 
States was the only remaining superpower. 
It was clear that this was a very sensitive 
point for them. It had been abundantly clear 
the day before. 

Senator Dirk Kempthorne and I then 
pointed out that in the real sense there is 
only one superpower in the world, our heavenly 
Father who watches over us all. The 
tension immediately eased and the spirit of 
fellowship was built, and we prayed together 
to that superpower, the God who loves us all. 

Our world is a strange and tragic place. It 
is very ironic in many ways. The Cold War is 
now over, but in a tragic sense, the world has 
now been made safer for ethnic, tribal, and 
religious vengeance and savagery. Such tragedy 
has come to the people of Somalia, Bosnia, 
Rwanda, Burundi, Sudan, Haiti and others. 


At home, the pillar of our national 
strength, the American family, is crumbling. 
Television and movies saturate our children 
with sex and violence. We have watered down 
our moral standards to the point where 
many of our youth are confused, discouraged 
and in deep trouble. We are reaping the harvest 
of parental neglect, divorce, child abuse, 
teen pregnancy, school dropouts, illegal 
drugs, and streets full of violence. 

It’s as if our house, having survived the 
great earthquake we call the Cold War, is 
now being eaten away by termites. Where 
should we turn this morning and in the days 
ahead? 

Our problems in America today are primarily 
problems of the heart. The soul of our 

nation is the sum of our individual characters. 
Yes, we must balance the federal 
budget and there are a lot of other things we 
need to do at the Federal level, but unless we 
change our hearts we will still have a deficit 
of the soul. 

The human inclination to seek political solutions 
for problems of the heart is nothing 
new. It is natural. Two thousand years ago, 
another society found itself in deeper trouble 
than our own. An oppressive empire strangled 
liberties. Violence and corruption were 
pervasive. 

Many of the people of the day hoped for the 
triumphant coming of a political savior, a 
long-expected king to establish a new, righteous 
government. Instead, God sent his son, 
a baby, born in a stable. Jesus grew up to become 
a peasant carpenter in a backwater 
town called Nazareth. He condemned sin but 
made it clear that he loved the sinner. He befriended 
beggars and prostitutes and even 
tax collectors while condemning the hypocrisy 
of those in power. He treated every individual 
with love and dignity and taught that 
we should do the same. He died like a common 
criminal, on a cross, and gave us the opportunity 
for redemption and the hope of 
eternal life. 

He also put the role of government in proper 
perspective when he said, ‘‘Render unto 
Caesar that which is Caesar’s and unto God 
that which is God’s.’’ 

Shortly after I announced that I would not 
seek reelection, a reporter asked me, 
‘‘You’ve been in the Congress for 24 years; 
what do you consider to be your greatest accomplishment?’’ 
I paused for a moment and 
replied, ‘‘Keeping my family together for 24 
years and helping my wife Colleen raise two 
wonderful children, Michelle and Brian.’’ 
Upon hearing this, the reporter scoffed, 
‘‘Don’t give me that soft sound-bite stuff. 
What laws did you get passed?’’ 

When he said that, I had several thoughts— 
only a couple of them I can share with you 
this morning. Four years ago, my daughter, 
Michelle, and a few of her friends started an 
organization in Atlanta called Hands on Atlanta, 
making it exciting, efficient and fun 
for young people to volunteer their time to 
help those in need. Now, about 5 years later, 
10,000 volunteers each month render about 
20,000 hours of personal, one-on-one service. 
What laws have I passed that have had this 
impact? 

I also thought about the difference between 
being a Senator and being a father. 
When we in the Senate make a mistake, we 
have checks and balances—99 other Senate 
colleagues, plus the House of Representatives, 
plus the President, plus a final review 
by the Supreme Court. But, when we as parents 
make a mistake with our children, 
where are the checks and where are the balances? 


Congress can pass laws cracking down on 
those who refuse to support their children. 
But we cannot force husbands to honor their 
wives, wives to love their husbands, and both 
parents to nurture their children. Congress 
can pass laws on civil rights and equal 
rights, but we cannot force people of different 
races to love each other as brothers. 
Congress can promote fairness and efficiency 
in our tax code, but we cannot force the rich 
to show compassion toward the poor. We can 
join with our NATO allies to separate the 
warring factions in Bosnia, as we are doing, 
and give them a breathing space, but we cannot 
force Muslims, Croats and Serbs to live 
together as brothers in peace. 

I recently heard a story on the radio. It 
happened in Bosnia, but I think it has meaning 
for all of us. A reporter was covering that 
tragic conflict in the middle of Sarajevo, and 
he saw a little girl shot by a sniper. The 
back of her head had been torn away by the 

bullet. The reporter threw down his pad and 
pencil, and stopped being a reporter for a few 
minutes. He rushed to the man who was 
holding the child, and helped them both into 
his car. 

As the reporter stepped on the accelerator, 
racing to the hospital, the man holding the 
bleeding child said, ‘‘Hurry, my friend, my 
child is still alive.’’ 

A moment or two later, ‘‘Hurry, my friend, 
my child is still breathing.’’ 

A moment later, ‘‘Hurry, my friend, my 
child is still warm.’’ 

Finally, ‘‘Hurry. Oh my God, my child is 
getting cold.’’ 

When they got to the hospital, the little 
girl had died. As the two men were in the 
lavatory, washing the blood off their hands 
and their clothes, the man turned to the reporter 
and said, ‘‘This is a terrible task for 
me. I must go tell her father that his child 
is dead. He will be heartbroken.’’ 

The reporter was amazed. He looked at the 
grieving man and said, ‘‘I though she was 
your child.’’ 

The man looked back and said, ‘‘No, but 
aren’t they all our children?’’ 

Aren’t they all our children? 

Yes, they are all our children. They are 
also God’s children as well, and he has entrusted 
us with their care in Sarajevo, in Somalia, 
in New York City, in Los Angeles, in 
my hometown of Perry, Georgia and here in 
Washington, D.C. 

In the book of Micah, the prophet asks, 
‘‘Shall I give my firstborn for my transgressions, 
the fruit of my body for the sin of 
my soul?’’ 

The cruelest aspect of our wars and our 
sins is what they do to our children. Jesus 
said, ‘‘Suffer the little children to come unto 
me * * * For of such is the kingdom of God.’’ 
Too often today we shorten this commandment 
to—suffer—little children. 

Mrs. Clinton, thank you for the emphasis 
you have put on children and the spotlight 
you have shined on our challenges. You are 
great. 

The world is watching America today. People 
around the world are watching not just 
our President or our Congress or our economy 
or even our military deployments. They 
are watching our cities, our towns, and our 
families to see how much we value our children, 
and whether we care enough to stop 
America’s moral and cultural erosion. Do we 
in America in 1996 love our neighbors as ourselves 
as explained by Bob Bennett as our 
theme for the morning and by Tom Lantos 
and his personal example? 

I do not have the answer to these questions 
this morning, and I don’t pretend to. These 
problems can be solved only in the hearts 
and minds of our people and one child at a 
time. I do, however, have a few observations. 

The Cold War provided us with a clarity of 
purpose and a sense of unity as a people. Our 
survival as a nation was at stake. We came 
together often in fear. The challenges that 
confront us today are far different, but the 
stakes are the same. I pray that our children, 
all of our children, will be the bridge 
that brings us together, not in fear, but in 
love. 

Each year millions of our children are 
abused, abandoned and aborted. Millions 
more receive little care, discipline and almost 
no love. While we continue to debate 
our deeply-held beliefs as to which of these 
sins should also be violations of our criminal 
code, I pray that we as parents, as extended 
families, and as communities, will come together 
to provide love and spiritual care to 
every mother and to every child, born or unborn. 


Government at every level must play a 
role in these challenges, but I do not believe 
that it will be the decisive role. What, then, 


S736 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

are our duties as leaders, not just in the 
world of politics and government, but in 
every field represented here this morning 
and throughout our land? Like basketball 
stars Charles Barkley and Dennis Rodman, 
we are role models whether we like it or not. 

I believe that the example we set, particularly 
for our young people, may be the most 
important responsibility of public service. 
We must demonstrate with our daily lives 
that it is possible to be involved in politics 
and still retain intellectual honesty and 
moral and ethical behavior. 

We are all sinners, so we will slip and we 
will fall. But I have felt God’s sustaining 
hand through every phase of my life—growing 
up in Perry, Georgia, raising a family, 
my relationship with my wife Colleen, in 
Senate floor debates, in committee meetings, 
visiting our troops in war, or being part 
of a mission for peace. 

In the years ahead, when I think back on 
my public service, I am certain that my 
most cherished memories will be those moments 
spent with my colleagues in the Senate 
prayer breakfasts and in my meetings 
with leaders from around the world, usually 
arranged by Doug Coe, in the spirit of Jesus. 

I have also been blessed by many friends in 
the Senate and also a small fellowship with 
a group of Senate brothers like the late 
Dewey Bartlett, Republican of Oklahoma; 
Lawton Chiles, Democrat of Florida; Pete 
Domenici, Republican of New Mexico; Harold 
Hughes, Democrat of Iowa; and Mark Hatfield, 
Republican of Oregon. No one can accuse 
that group of being of like minds politically. 


Yet, these brothers have listened to my 
problems, shared in my joys, held me accountable 
and upheld me in their prayers. 
Fellowship in the spirit of Jesus does amazing 
things. It puts political and philosophical 
differences, even profound differences, in a 
totally different perspective. 

I believe that 2,000 years ago Jesus was 
speaking to each of us when he delivered his 
Sermon on the Mount. And, my prayer this 
morning for our leaders and our nation is in 
the spirit of his words then. 

May we who would be leaders always be 
aware that we must first be servants. May 
we who compete in the arena of government 
and politics remember that we are commanded 
to love our enemies and pray for 
those who persecute us. I can’t find any exception 
for the news media or our opponents. 
May we who seek to be admired by others remember 
that when we practice our piety before 
men in order to be seen by them, we will 
have no reward in heaven. May we who have 
large egos and great ambitions recall that 
the Kingdom of Heaven is promised to those 
who are humble and poor in spirit. May we 
who depend on publicity as our daily bread 
recall that when we do a secret kindness to 
others, our Father, who knows all secrets, 
will reward us. May the citizens whom we 
serve as stewards of government be sensitive 
to the fact that we are human beings subject 
to error and that while we need their critiques, 
we also desperately need their prayers. 
May we never forget that the final judgment 
of our tenure here on earth will not be 
decided by a majority vote, and that an election 
is not required to bring us home. 

May God bless each of you. 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 

Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Kalbaugh, one of his 
secretaries. 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 
As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 
from the President of the United 
States submitting sundry nominations 
which were referred to the appropriate 
committees. 
(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 
At 10:32 a.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Ms. Goetz, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has passed the 
following bills, in which it requests the 
concurrence of the Senate: 

H.R. 2036. An act to amend the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act to make certain adjustments in 
the land disposal program to provide needed 
flexibility, and for other purposes. 
The message also announced that the 
House agrees to the report of the committee 
of conference on the disagreeing 
votes of the two Houses on the amendment 
of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 
2546) making appropriations for the 
government of the District of Columbia 
and other activities chargeable in 
whole or in part against the revenues 
of said District for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 1996, and for other 
purposes. 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

The message further announced that 
the Speaker has signed the following 
enrolled bill: 

H.R. 2353. An act to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to extend certain expiring authorities 
of the Department of Veterans’ Affairs 
relating to delivery of health and medical 
care, and for other purposes. 
The enrolled bill was signed subsequently 
by the President pro tempore 
[Mr. THURMOND]. 

At 4:49 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Hays, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House agrees to the 
report of the committee of conference 
on the disagreeing votes of the two 
Houses on the amendments of the 
House to the bill (S. 652) to provide for 
a procompetitive, deregulatory national 
policy framework designed to 
accelerate rapidly private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications 
and information technologies 
and services to all Americans by opening 
all telecommunications markets to 
competition, and for other purposes. 

At 8:32 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Hays, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has agreed to 
the following concurrent resolution, in 
which it requests the concurrence of 
the Senate: 

H. Con. Res. 141. Concurrent resolution 
providing for the adjournment of the two 
Houses. 
At 8:46 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 

Mr. Hays, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has passed the 
following bill, in which it requests the 
concurrence of the Senate: 

H.R. 2924. An act to guarantee the timely 
payment of Social Security benefits in 
March 1996. 
f 

MEASURES REFERRED 
The following bill was read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent 
and referred as indicated: 

H.R. 2036. An act to amend the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act to make certain adjustments in 
the land disposal program to provide needed 
flexibility, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 
f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE 

The following report of committee 
was submitted: 

By Mr. HATFIELD, from the Committee 
on Appropriations: 

Special Report entitled ‘‘Revised Allocation 
to Subcommittees of Budget Totals 
from the Concurrent Resolution for Fiscal 
Year 1996’’ (Rept. No. 104–228). 

By Mr. CHAFEE, from the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works, without 
amendment: 

H.R. 2005. A bill to direct the Secretary of 
the Interior to make technical corrections in 
maps relating to the Coastal Barrier Resources 
System (Rept. No. 104–229). 
The committee of conference submitted a 
report on the disagreeing votes of the two 
Houses to the bill (S. 652) to provide for a 
procompetitive, deregulatory national policy 
framework designed to accelerate rapidly 
private sector deployment of advanced telecommunications 
and information technologies 
and services to all Americans by 
opening all telecommunications markets to 
competition, and for other purposes (Rept. 
No. 104–230). 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second time by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. BROWN: 

S. 1549. A bill to improve regulation of the 
purchase and sale of municipal securities, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 
By Mr. HELMS: 

S. 1550. A bill to eliminate the duties on 2-
Amino-3-chlorobenzoic acid, methyl ester; to 
the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. DORGAN (for himself, Mr. HOLLINGS, 
Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. CONRAD, and 
Mr. KERREY): 

S. 1551. A bill to restore the broadcast ownership 
rules under the Communications Act 
of 1934 to the status quo ante the enactment 
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 
By Mr. DASCHLE: 

S. 1552. A bill to amend the Railroad Retirement 
Act of 1974 to prevent the canceling 
of annuities to certain divorced spouses of 
workers whose widows elect to receive lump 
sum payments; to the Committee on Labor 
and Human Resources. 
By Mr. MCCAIN: 

S. 1553. A bill to provide that members of 
the Armed Forces performing services for 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S737 

the peacekeeping effort in the Republic of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be entitled to 
certain tax benefits in the same manner as if 
such services were performed in a combat 
zone; to the Committee on Finance. 

By Mr. COCHRAN: 

S. 1554. A bill to amend the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 to clarify the exemption 
for houseparents from the minimum 
wage and maximum hours requirements of 
that Act, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Labor and Human Resources. 
By Mr. DOLE (for himself, Mr. ROTH, 
Mr. MCCAIN, and Mr. DOMENICI): 

S. 1555. A bill to guarantee the timely payment 
of social security benefits in March 
1996; read twice. 
By Mr. KOHL (for himself and Mr. 
SPECTER): 

S. 1556. A bill to prohibit economic espionage, 
to provide for the protection of United 
States proprietary economic information in 
interstate and foreign commerce, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. SPECTER (for himself and Mr. 
KOHL): 

S. 1557. A bill to prohibit economic espionage, 
to provide for the protection of United 
States vital proprietary economic information, 
and for other purposes; to the Select 
Committee on Intelligence. 
f 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. SPECTER (for himself, Mr. 
SIMON, Mr. DOLE, Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
Mrs. BOXER, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. HEFLIN, 
Ms. MIKULSKI, Ms. SNOWE, Mr. 
GRASSLEY, Mr. THURMOND, Mr. 
GLENN, Mr. BRADLEY, Mr. KENNEDY, 
Mr. KERRY, Mr. REID, Mr. MACK, Ms. 
MOSELEY-BRAUN, Mr. SARBANES, Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN, Mr. COHEN, Mrs. MURRAY, 
Mr. BIDEN, Mr. PRESSLER, Mr. LEVIN, 
Mr. THOMAS, Mr. DODD, and Mr. WARNER): 


S. Res. 219. A resolution designating March 
25, 1996 as ‘‘Greek Independence Day: A National 
Day of Celebration of Greek and 
American Democracy’’; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
By Mr. DOLE (for himself, Mr. 
DASCHLE, and Mr. WARNER): 

S. Res. 220. A resolution in recognition of 
Ronald Reagan’s 85th birthday; considered 
and agreed to. 
By Mr. DOLE (for himself and Mr. 
DASCHLE): 

S. Res. 221. A resolution to authorize testimony 
by a former Senate employee; considered 
and agreed to. 
S. Res. 222. A resolution to authorize the 
production of documents by the Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations; considered 
and agreed to. 
By Mrs. HUTCHISON (for herself and 
Mr. GRAMM): 

S. Res. 223. A resolution to commemorate 
the sesquicentennial of Texas statehood; 
considered and agreed to. 
f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. BROWN: 

S. 1549. A bill to improve regulation 
of the purchase and sale of municipal 
securities, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 
THE MUNICIPAL SECURITIES INVESTOR 
PROTECTION ACT OF 1996 

Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise to 
offer a bill to protect municipal securities 
investors. 

The Securities Act of 1933, and the 
Exchange Act of 1934 were drafted in 
response to the stock market crash of 
1929. Congress passed the 1933 and 1934 
acts to prevent fraud in the securities 
markets and ensure uniform and reliable 
information for investors. At that 
time however, Congress decided to exempt 
the relatively insignificant municipal 
securities market from new 
laws, because unlike corporations, the 
States, cities, and counties issuing 
bonds could back their obligations with 
their power to raise taxes. 

Now, with over 52,000 municipal 
issuers, and $1.2 trillion in outstanding 
debt obligations, the municipal securities 
market in one of the largest unregulated 
markets in the world. Complex 
financing arrangements are created 
behind the shelter of the municipal 
securities exemption. Over 70 percent 
of all municipal bonds are revenue 
bonds, backed not by tax revenues, but 
the isolated revenues of special 
projects like toll roads, powerplants 
and airports. Revenue bonds for major 
projects can exceed $1 billion, and are 
often bought and sold internationally 
by individuals, corporations, banks, 
and governments. These revenue bonds 
present many of the same investment 
risks as corporate enterprises, but because 
they are municipal securities, 
they are subject only to voluntary 
market guidelines and the SEC’s authority 
to prevent fraud. 

Since its inception, people have questioned 
whether the Security and Exchange 
Commission’s lack of authority 
over the municipal securities market 
was adequate to protect investors. A 
1993 staff report of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission examined that 
question and commented on the shortcomings 
of the SEC’s authority: ‘‘Because 
of the voluntary nature of municipal 
issuers disclosure, there is a 
marked variance in the quality of disclosure, 
during both the primary offering 
stage and in the secondary market.’’ 
Other groups have echoed the 
SEC’s sentiment. The Public Securities 
Association testified that, ‘‘secondary 
market information is difficult to 
come by even for professional municipal 
credit analysts, to say nothing of 
retail investors.’’ The SEC staff concluded 
that while the SEC could take 
steps to improve disclosure, any comprehensive 
changes to the existing system 
would require congressional action. 


The SEC took an indirect step toward 
improving municipal securities 
disclosure when it began enforcing 
15c2–12 last summer. That rule requires 
municipal securities dealers to contract 
with issuers for the provision of 
disclosure documents and annual reports. 
These regulations however, fall 
short of the protections offered investors 
in the 1933 and 1934 acts because 

they do not give the SEC the authority 
to review municipal disclosures, regulate 
content, or require continuing disclosure 
of financial information. 

This bill would take additional steps 
toward full disclosure. Under my proposal, 
a municipal security issuer who 
offers more than $1 billion in related 
securities, but does not pledge its taxing 
authority toward repayment of the 
obligations, must conform to the registration 
and continuous reporting requirements 
of the Securities Act of 1933 
and the Exchange Act of 1934. In other 
words, when a municipal issuer acts 
like a corporation by pledging the revenues 
of a particular project toward repayment 
of debt, it should be treated 
like a corporation. 

Recent collapses in the municipal securities 
market underline the need for 
congressional action: 

New York: After issuing record levels 
of debt from 1974 through 1975, New 
York City was unable to issue additional 
debt to cover maturing obligations. 
As a result, $4 billion of the 
city’s short-term bonds lost over 45 
percent of their value by December 
1975, and interest rates for municipalities 
across the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic 
regions rose 0.05 percent. The 
subsequent SEC investigation uncovered 
distorted financial information including 
a systematic overstatement of 
revenues. 

Washington Public Power Supply 
System: With an initial cost estimate 
of $2.25 billion to build nuclear reactors, 
the Washington Public Power 
Supply System issued bonds between 
1977 and 1981. By the time the final 
bond sale was issued, the project’s estimated 
cost exceeded $12 billion. Construction 
was halted, the WPPSS went 
into default, and the SEC began investigating 
the WPPSS’s disclosure practices. 


The SEC found that the WPPSS had 
mislead investors by not releasing reports 
about cost overruns, that underwriters 
failed to critically analyze the 
information provided by the WPPSS, 
that bond rating agencies failed to conduct 
due diligence to confirm WPPSS 
information, and that attorneys provided 
unqualified legal opinions as to 
the validity of the financing agreements. 
Ultimately no enforcement action 
was taken because several class 
action civil suits concluded with the 
Federal district court approving a $580 
million global settlement. 

Orange County: In 1994, a lack of disclosure 
led many investors of Orange 
County bonds to be surprised when the 
Orange County investment fund declared 
bankruptcy. The fund’s risky investments 
in derivatives led to a loss of 
over $1.7 billion and put every debt obligation 
of the county at risk. 

Denver International Airport: Original 
plans called for Denver to finance 
its new $1.3 billion international airport 
with bonds backed by operation 
revenues following its October 1993 
opening. The actual cost of the Denver 
International Airport [DIA] exceeded 


S738 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

$4.8 billion and construction delays 
postponed its opening to February 28, 
1995. Questions regarding contracting 
practices, construction problems, and 
delays caused by its high-technology 
baggage system led to several Federal 
and State investigations and class action 
lawsuits, including an investigation 
by the SEC to review Denver’s 
knowledge and disclosure of delays 
with the baggage system. 

These examples demonstrate how the 
voluntary nature of the municipal market 
is failing to adequately inform investors. 
Whereas updated, accurate information 
is readily available to investors 
of corporate securities, municipal 
securities investors are often caught 
offguard and unaware of the risks associated 
with their investment. Current 
law only encourages municipalities to 
comply with the voluntary guidelines 
of the Government Finance Officers Association, 
and only requires disclosure 
of facts so as not to violate the anti-
fraud provisions of the 1933 and 1934 
acts. In other words, municipal issuers 
are under no obligation to provide annual 
financial information, conform to 
generally accepted accounting principals, 
or report conflicts of interest. 
In addition, disclosure is only necessary 
to avoid making a material 
misstatements of fact, a standard 
which some commentators argue is 
met by remaining silent even as material 
events and facts change. The end 
result can be uniformed investors who 
suffer losses from undisclosed risks. 

This legislation is designed to protect 
investors by requiring municipal 
issuers who act like corporations to 
meet the same requirements as corporations. 
Instead of receiving guidance 
from voluntary standards, municipalities 
and investors would have 
the benefit of mandatory guidelines 
and requirements for judging what information 
needs to be disclosed and 
what form it needs to take. Instead of 
relying on documents which can be 
outdated and unaudited, investors 
would be able to review the latest numbers 
when analyzing risk. The end result 
would be greater information for 
investors, more security for issuers, 
and lower cost for consumers. 

In Denver’s case, the requirements of 
the 1933 and 1934 acts could have eliminated 
some of the problems the city 
now faces. Since issuers under the 1933 
act are strictly liable for misinformation 
in their documents, the city would 
have taken extra precautions to accurately 
disclose information in a timely 
manner—a practice which could have 
prevented the facts driving the current 
SEC investigation. Investors would be 
more willing to invest because they 
would be able to easily obtain current, 
audited financial information similar 
in form and content to other offerings. 
Finally, without the specter of pending 
lawsuits and investigations, the cost of 
borrowing would go down saving millions 
of dollars for the city and allowing 
it to lower rents to airlines. Lower 
rents in turn would allow the airlines 

to pass savings on to consumers in the 
form of lower ticket prices. 

As the Denver example shows, everyone 
can benefit from the accurate and 
continuous disclosure required of corporations 
by the securities acts. If municipalities 
are going to operate like 
corporations, and back securities with 
revenues from specific projects, then 
the investing public deserves to receive 
complete and updated information regarding 
those revenues. This bill takes 
the commonsense approach of bringing 
municipalities who offer revenue bonds 
totaling more than $1 billion, under the 
same rules and regulations as faced by 
private companies. 

I ask unanimous consent that the bill 
be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1549 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Municipal 
Securities Investor Protection Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES 
IN THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933. 

Section 3 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 

U.S.C. 77c) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection: 
‘‘(d)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), a 
security issued by a municipal issuer shall 
only be exempt from the provisions of this 
title— 

‘‘(A) if the municipal issuer pledges the 
full faith and credit or the taxing power of 
that municipal issuer to make timely payments 
of principal and interest on the obligation; 
or 

‘‘(B) if the municipal issuer— 

‘‘(i) offers or sells such securities in a single 
transaction in an aggregate principal 
amount equal to less than $1,000,000,000; or 

‘‘(ii) offers or sells such securities in a series 
of related transactions, and at the time 
of the offer or sale of such securities, does 
not reasonably anticipate that the aggregate 
principal amount of the series of related 
transactions will exceed $1,000,000,000. 

‘‘(2) For purposes of this subsection— 

‘‘(A) the term ‘municipal issuer’ means— 

‘‘(i) a State, the District of Columbia, or a 
Territory of the United States; or 

‘‘(ii) a public instrumentality or political 
subdivision of an entity referred to in clause 
(i); 

‘‘(B) the term ‘series of related transactions’ 
means a series of separate securities 
offerings made— 

‘‘(i) as part of a single plan of financing; or 

‘‘(ii) for the same general purpose; and 

‘‘(C) the term ‘reasonably anticipate’ shall 
have the meaning provided that term by the 
Commission by regulation, taking into consideration, 
as necessary or appropriate— 

‘‘(i) the public interest; 

‘‘(ii) the protection of investors; and 

‘‘(iii) the need to prevent the circumven


tion of the requirements of this subsection.’’. 

SEC. 3. TREATMENT OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES 

IN THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 

OF 1934. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a)(12) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
78c(a)(12)) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking clause 
(ii) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(ii) any security issued by a municipal 
issuer with respect to which the municipal 
issuer— 

‘‘(I) pledges the full faith and credit or the 
taxing power of that municipal issuer to 
make timely payments of principal and interest 
on the obligation; or 

‘‘(II)(aa) offers or sells such securities in a 
single transaction in an aggregate principal 
amount equal to less than $1,000,000,000; or 

‘‘(bb) offers or sells such securities in a series 
of related transactions, and at the time 
of the offer or sale of such securities, does 
not reasonably anticipate that the aggregate 
principal amount of the series of related 
transactions will exceed $1,000,000,000;’’; 

(2) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking 
‘‘municipal securities’’ and inserting ‘‘the securities 
described in subparagraph (A)(ii)’’; 
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
subparagraph (D); and 
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
following: 

‘‘(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii)— 

‘‘(i) the term ‘municipal issuer’ means— 

‘‘(I) a State or any political subdivision 
thereof, or an agency or instrumentality of a 
State or any political subdivision thereof; or 

‘‘(II) any municipal corporate instrumentality 
of a State; 

‘‘(ii) the term ‘series of related transactions’ 
means a series of separate securities 
offerings made— 

‘‘(I) as part of a single plan of financing; or 

‘‘(II) for the same general purpose; and 

‘‘(iii) the term ‘reasonably anticipate’ 
shall have the meaning provided that term 
by the Commission by regulation, taking 
into consideration, as necessary or appropriate— 


‘‘(I) the public interest; 

‘‘(II) the protection of investors; and 

‘‘(III) the need to prevent the circumven


tion of the requirements of subparagraph 
(A)(ii).’’. 

(b) TREATMENT OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES 
THAT ARE NOT EXEMPTED SECURITIES.—The 
third sentence of section 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) is 
amended by inserting before the period the 
following: ‘‘, except that, with respect to a 
class of municipal securities that are not exempted 
securities, the duty to file under this 
subsection may not be suspended by reason 
of the number of security holders of record of 
that class of municipal securities’’. 
(c) REPORTING PRIOR TO THE SALE OF SECURITIES.—
Section 15B(d)(1) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o–4(d)(1)) is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(d)(1) Neither’’ and inserting 
‘‘(d)(1)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph 
(B), neither’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(B) Subparagraph (A) does not apply to an 
issuer of any municipal security that is not 
an exempted security.’’. 

SEC. 4. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN MUNICIPAL SE


CURITIES IN THE TRUST INDENTURE 

ACT OF 1939. 

Section 304(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act 
of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77ddd(a)(4)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘of subsection 3(a) thereof’’ and inserting 
‘‘of subsection (a), or subsection (d) 
of section 3 of that Act’’. 

By Mr. DASCHLE: 

S. 1552. A bill to amend the Railroad 
Retirement Act of 1974 to prevent the 
canceling of annuities to certain divorced 
spouses of workers whose widows 
elect to receive lump sum payments; 
to the Committee on Labor and 
Human Resources. 
THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT AMENDMENT ACT 
OF 1996 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, today 
I am introducing legislation on behalf 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S739 

of Valoris Carlson of Aberdeen, SD, and 
the handful of others like her whose 
lives have been terribly disrupted. This 
legislation will right a wrong that was 
not due to any error or deception on 
Valoris’ part, but due to an administrative 
error by the Railroad Retirement 
Board [RRB]. 

In 1984 Valoris, as the divorced 
spouse of a deceased railroad employee, 
applied for a survivor’s pension. The 
RRB failed to check if a lump sum 
withdrawal had previously been made 
on the account at the time of her 
former spouse’s death—even though 
Valoris clearly stated on her application 
that there was a surviving widow. 
In fact, a lump sum payment had been 
made, but not identified. The RRB 
began paying Valoris $587 per month in 
1984 and continued to pay her benefits 
for 11 years. Only recently did they discover 
that an error had been made over 
a decade ago. 

Not until 1995 was Valoris told she 
was not eligible for the pension she was 
awarded in 1984. Had the RRB reviewed 
their records, they would have seen 
that a lump-sum payment had been 
made on that account. Valoris, who 
was married for 26 years, lost her eligibility 
to the widow of the railroad 
worker who had been married to him 
for only 3 years. Valoris made an honest 
application for benefits. The RRB 
failed to do their job properly, resulting 
in 11 years of ‘‘overpayments’’ to 
Valoris. 

These payments affected Valoris’ 
planning for the future. Valoris 
planned her retirement on that modest 
sum of $587. Had she been told she was 
not eligible for benefits, she would 
have worked longer to build up her own 
Social Security benefits. Her railroad 
divorced widow’s pension has been her 
only steady income. She has picked up 
a few dollars here and there by renting 
out rooms in her home, but without her 
pension income, Valoris does not know 
how she will live. 

The bill I am introducing today will 
address the errors made by the RRB 
that have disrupted the life of Valoris 
Carlson and others like her. The RRB 
advises that 17 other widows are similarly 
situated, and their pensions 
would also be restored by this bill. 

The bill, which was developed with 
technical assistance from the RRB, 
would allow the 18 women impacted by 
the RRB’s administrative error to 
begin receiving their monthly benefits 
again. It requires them to repay the 
lump sum, but they are allowed to do 
so through a marginal withholding 
from their monthly benefit. The 
monthly withholding can be waived if 
it would cause excessive hardship for a 
widow. 

Mr. President, I will work to enact 
this legislation as quickly as possible 
to restore the benefits to those women 
who are now suffering as a result of the 
Government’s mistakes. There is no excuse 
for further delay in providing 
these Americans with benefits they 
were led to expect by the RRB. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Railroad Retirement 
Amendment Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. 2. PROTECTION OF DIVORCED SPOUSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6(c) of the Railroad 
Retirement Act of 1974 is amended— 
(1) in the last sentence of paragraph (1), by 
inserting ‘‘(other then to a survivor in the 
circumstances described in paragraph (3))’’ 
after ‘‘no further benefits shall be paid’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(3) Notwithstanding the last sentence of 
paragraph (1), benefits shall be paid to a survivor 
who— 

‘‘(A) is a divorced wife; and 

‘‘(B) through administrative error received 
benefits otherwise precluded by the making 
of a lump sum payment under this section to 
widow; 

if that divorced wife makes an election to 
repay to the Board the lump sum payment. 
The Board may withhold up to 10 percent of 
each benefit amount paid after the date of 
the enactment of this paragraph toward such 
reimbursement. The Board may waive such 
repayment to the extent the Board determines 
it would cause an unjust financial 
hardship for the beneficiary.’’. 

(b) APPLICATION OF AMENDMENT.—The 
amendment made by this section shall apply 
with respect to any benefits paid before the 
date of enactment of this Act as well as to 
benefits payable on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act. 
By Mr. MCCAIN: 

S. 1553. A bill to provide that members 
of the Armed Forces performing 
services for the peacekeeping effort in 
the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
shall be entitled to certain tax benefits 
in the same manner as if such services 
were performed in a combat zone; to 
the Committee on Finance. 
TAX RELIEF LEGISLATION 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, as we 
continue to debate a balanced budget, 
20,000 of our service men and women 
are participating in Operation Joint 
Endeavor in war torn Bosnia and 
Herzegovina. 

The bill I am introducing today is designed 
to provide some peace of mind 
to our troops and their families. This 
bill is identical to H.R. 2778 introduced 
earlier this month by Congressman 
BUNNING from Kentucky. Specifically, 
this bill would provide a tax exemption 
and additional benefits for our service 
men and women serving in Bosnia, 
which is but a small gesture showing 
our support. 

I hope and pray that this operation 
will remain a peaceful deployment, but 
the fact remains that the lives of our 
military personnel are continually at 
risk from landmines, sniper fire, or accident 
in this peacekeeping operation. 

I know personally the character of 
the Americans who take up arms to defend 
our Nation’s interests and to advance 
our democratic values. I know of 

all the battles, all the grim tests of 
courage and character, that have made 
our Armed Forces the envy of our allies 
and enemies alike. 

Our people are our greatest asset. 
They make sacrifices day after day, 
and are prepared to make the ultimate 
sacrifice. Without the ‘‘can do’’ attitude 
our military personnel persistently 
display, we would not have the 
finest military force in the world 
today. As our troops carry out their assigned 
duties in Bosnia, we must do our 
part to let them know how much their 
dedication and efforts are appreciated 
by the American people. 

Because it is a peacekeeping mission, 
Bosnia has not been declared a ‘‘combat 
zone’’ by the Department of Defense. 
Had the designation been made, 
tax exemptions and other benefits, as 
well as hazardous duty pay, would 
automatically be invoked without this 
bill. This bill would ensure that tax 
and certain other benefits are provided. 
I want to point out, however, that it 
does not authorize hazardous duty pay 
which would entail a very significant 
cost. In these times of fiscal constraint, 
we must take a conscientious 
look at the financial impact on the 
Federal budget of this initiative and 
how this standard may be applied to future 
peacekeeping or other non-combat 
missions. 

I hope that the potential danger to 
our troops remains low. If, however, 
any U.S. soldiers were to be fatally injured 
while serving in this peacekeeping 
operation, this bill would provide 
additional benefits to their families. 


Mr. President, the men and women 
participating in Operation Restore 
Hope in Somalia did not receive these 
benefits, and unfortunately some of 
those men lost their lives in a mission 
gone tragically awry. This bill is intended 
to help relieve some of the financial 
burdens on our service men and 
women caused by their deployment and 
allay the economic concerns of their 
families. I believe this measure deserves 
our careful and full review, and 
I intend to seek expeditious consideration 
of this legislation. 

By Mr. COCHRAN: 

s. 1554. A bill to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to clarify 
the exemption for houseparents from 
the minimum wage and maximum 
hours requirements of that Act, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on 
Labor and Human Resources. 
THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT OF 1938 
AMENDMENT ACT OF 1996 

S Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, today 
I am introducing legislation to provide 
a specific exemption for houseparents 
from the minimum wage and overtime 
requirements of the Fair Labor Standards 
Act. This bill will provide significant 
relief to orphanages and group 
homes throughout the United States. 

Houseparents are men and women 
who work and live in a group home setting 
to care for, nurture, and supervise 
children. These children may live at 


S740 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the home for any number of reasons. 
They may be abused, neglected, orphaned, 
or homeless. The importance 
of houseparents in providing a family-
like, healthy environment for these 
children cannot be overstated. It is the 
love, hard-work, and dedication of 
these people that enables the children 
at the home to enjoy a caring and stable 
environment. 

As compensation for their services, 
houseparents receive a very unconventional 
package of benefits, including a 
fixed annual salary, food, housing, and 
transportation. The Department of 
Labor, however, has determined that 
these men and women are also entitled 
to overtime wages. 

For example, in Mississippi, the Department 
of Labor determined that 
since houseparents at a particular 
home answered long-distance calls, 
opened out-of-State mail, and took the 
children on trips across the State line 
that houseparents were engaged in 
commerce and therefore covered by the 
minimum wage and overtime provisions 
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. 
This interpretation has threatened the 
houseparent system by placing an unbearable 
burden on the extremely limited 
resources of non-profit group 
homes. 

The legislation I am introducing 
today will remedy this situation by 
providing nonprofit group homes with 
a specific exemption for houseparents 
from minimum wage and overtime requirements. 
Without such an exemption, 
these homes would be forced to 
use a shift model of employment where 
quasi-houseparents work 8 hour shifts 
to care for the children. This alternative 
would not furnish the same family-
like setting for these children that 
the houseparent system provides. 

It is important to note that this 
measure creates only a very narrow exemption 
from the Fair Labor Standards 
Act. This bill would only exempt 
those houseparents who meet the following 
criteria: First, the houseparents 
must be employed by nonprofit homes; 
second, the group home in question 
must be the children’s primary residence; 
third, the houseparents must reside 
with the children at the home for 
a minimum of 72 hours per week; and 
fourth, the houseparent must receive 
board and lodging from the home, free 
of charge, and be compensated, on a 
crash basis, at an annual rate of not 
less than $8,000. 

This legislation will allow nonprofit 
group homes to continue to provide the 
best possible care for children. I hope 
my colleagues will carefully consider it 
and join me in support of its enactment.
S 

By Mr. KOHL (for himself and 
Mr. SPECTER): 

S. 1556. A bill to prohibit economic 
espionage, to provide for the protection 
of United States proprietary economic 
information in interstate and foreign 
commerce, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 
THE ECONOMIC ESPIONAGE ACT OF 1996 

S Mr. KOHL. Mr. President, we have a 
problem in America today: The systematic 
pilfering of our country’s economic 
secrets by our trading partners 
which undermines our economic security. 
It would not be unfair to say that 
America has become a full-service 
shopping mall for foreign governments 
and companies who want to jump start 
their businesses with stolen trade secrets. 


Sadly, we are under-unequipped to 
fight this new war. Our laws have glaring 
gaps, allowing people to steal our 
economic information with vitual impunity. 


So I introduce the Industrial Espionage 
Act of 1996 with Senator SPECTER. 
I am also pleased to cosponsor with 
Senator SPECTER the Economic Security 
Act of 1996. Together these laws 
will enable Federal law enforcement 
agencies to catch and vigorously prosecute 
anyone who tries to steal proprietary 
information from American companies. 
Our two measures should be 
read together as a unified approach to 
the problem. They are not panaceas, 
but they are an effort to deal with this 
problem systematically and comprehensively. 
The Department of Justice 
and the FBI have also been extremely 
helpful in drafting these pieces 
of legislation, and we look forward to 
working with them as we move these 
measures forward. 

Mr. President, businesses spend huge 
amounts of money, time, and thought 
developing proprietary economic information—
their customer lists, pricing 
schedules, business agreements, manufacturing 
processes. This information 
is literally a business’s lifeblood. And 
stealing it is the equivalent of shooting 
a company in the head. But these 
thefts have a far broader impact than 
on the American company that falls 
victim to an economic spy. The economic 
strength, competitiveness, and 
security of our country relies upon the 
ability of industry to compete without 
unfair interference from foreign governments 
and from their own domestic 
competitors. Without freedom from 
economic sabotage, our companies 
loose their hard-earned advantages and 
their competitive edge. 

The problem is not new. But with expanding 
technology and a growing 
global economy, economic espionage is 
entering its boom years. American 
companies have estimated that in 1992, 
they lost $1.8 billion from the theft of 
their trade secrets. A 1993 study by the 
American Society for Industrial Security 
found a 260-percent increase in the 
theft of proprietary information since 
1985. And the theft of these secrets is 
not random and disorganized. The press 
has reported that one government 
study of 173 nations discovered that 57 
of them were trying to get advanced 
technologies from American companies. 
The French intelligence service 
has even admitted to forming a special 
unit devoted to obtaining confidential 
information from American companies. 

Let me give you a few examples. Just 
last year, a former employee of two 
major computer companies admitted to 
stealing vital information on the manufacture 
of microchips and selling it to 
China, Cuba, and Iran. For almost a 
decade, he copied manufacturing specifications—
information worth millions 
of dollars. And armed with it, the Chinese, 
Cubans, and Iranians have been 
able to close the gap on our technology 
leads. Late last year, the FBI arrested 
this man and charged him with the 
interstate transportation of stolen 
property and mail fraud. It appears 
that the charges may be a bit of a 
stretch because he did not actually 
steal tangible property. He only stole 
ideas. 

Not all of the theft is sponsored by 
foreign governments. Domestic theft is 
as reprehensible and as threatening as 
theft by foreign governments. For example, 
in Arizona, an engineer for an 
automobile air bag manufacturer was 
arrested in 1993 for selling manufacturing 
designs, strategies, and plans. 
He asked the company’s competition 
for more than half a million dollars—to 
be paid in small bills. And he sent potential 
buyers a laundry list of information 
they could buy: $500 for the 
company’s capital budget plan; $1,000 
for a piece of equipment; $6,000 for 
planning and product documents. 

Sadly, current civil remedies are inadequate 
to deal with these problems. 
Although many companies can privately 
sue those who have stolen from 
them, these private remedies are too 
little, too late. A private suit against a 
foreign company or government often 
just goes nowhere, and the company 
continues to use the stolen information 
without pause. 

Similarly, our current criminal laws 
are not specifically targeted at protection 
of proprietary economic information. 
Most of our Federal theft statutes 
deal with tangible property and not intellectual 
property. Federal prosecutors 
have done a valiant job finding 
laws they can use against these people, 
but they need something stronger and 
more coherent than what they have 
gerry-rigged. 

Mr. President, the Industrial Espionage 
Act and the Economic Security 
Act provide the solution we need. 
These measures are simple, straightforward, 
and effective. They carefully 
define proprietary economic information—
the data that corporations privately 
develop and need to maintain in 
secrecy. People who steal that information 
in order to harm the business that 
rightfully owns and developed it are 
subject to criminal penalties. They can 
serve up to 15 years in jail. And if the 
theft is sponsored by a foreign government, 
the penalties are even harsher. 
Moreover, the bills include forfeiture 
provisions, so that people will not benefit 
from their illegal acts. They authorize 
the President to impose sanctions 
on countries that engage in these 
activities. And they assure companies 
that their proprietary information will 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S741 

not seep out during a criminal persecution. 


We need to take steps to stem the 
flow of information out of our country. 
We need a new law that definitively 
and harshly punishes anyone who 
steals information from American 
companies. Over the coming months, 
these measures will provide a framework 
for our discussions about the best 
way to solve this problem, and we plan 
to hold hearings on them in both the 
Intelligence and Judiciary Committees.
S 
S Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to join Senator KOHL as a cosponsor 
of this bill to make theft of 
proprietary information a crime. Senator 
KOHL is also a cosponsor of a bill 
I have introduced to cover economic 
espionage by foreign governments or 
those acting on their behalf and this 
bill is designed to protect that same 
vital economic information from theft 
by nongovernmental entities and individuals. 


While economic espionage by foreign 
governments presents a clear issue of 
national concern, the economic cost of 
industrial espionage by domestic and 
nongovernment-owned foreign corporations 
may be even greater. Federal law 
already provides some sanctions to protect 
technology and innovation within 
the United States. For example, we accord 
protection to patents, trademarks, 
and copyrights. The Federal 
Government will not enter into a contract 
with a bidder who has inside information 
of another bidder’s price. 
There are also laws in some States that 
specifically address the theft of proprietary 
information. 

These laws may not, however, be adequate. 
Thus, I am also joining Senator 
KOHL in cosponsoring legislation to 
provide criminal penalties in title 18 of 
the United States Code for cases in 
which corporations and individuals, 
foreign or domestic, steal proprietary 
information from U.S. entities. While 
the bill I have introduced amending the 
National Security Act of 1947 focuses 
on our Nation’s economic security 
against foreign governments, similar 
arguments can be made that protection 
is also needed for domestic economic 
interests from theft by nongovernmental 
sources. Moreover, even where 
there are strong indications that a foreign 
government is behind the theft of 
proprietary information, it may not be 
possible in all cases to prove such government 
involvement. 

The normal recourse for protecting 
proprietary information from theft by 
private sector sources is through civil 
remedies governed by State law. Some 
businesses and Federal law enforcement 
agencies, however, believe that 
current State laws are inadequate and 
fail to provide remedies, particularly 
with respect to the kind of intangible 
proprietary information that is typical 
in today’s computer age. They argue 
that comprehensive federal criminal 
sanctions are needed at this time to 
provide an adequate deterrent. 

While I believe there are legitimate 
questions about the need for federal 
criminal penalties in this context, I am 
also convinced the issue needs to be 
considered. It may be that after thorough 
review, criminal penalties are the 
best means of deterring the misappropriation 
of proprietary information by 
individuals or business competitors. On 
the other hand, we may determine that 
a more efficient response would be to 
create a federal civil cause of action or 
to leave it to State law to develop 
sanctions against such theft if not 
committed by, or done on behalf of, a 
foreign government. 

As part of this effort to address the 
economic threat from the theft of proprietary 
information from U.S. businesses, 
I therefore believe we need to 
consider how to address such thefts 
when carried out by the private sector. 
As a result, I am cosponsoring this second 
bill, with the expectation that it 
will generate discussion and debate and 
assist us in developing the best approach 
to this problem. I look forward 
to working with all interested parties 
to reach such a result.S 

By Mr. SPECTER (for himself 
and Mr. KOHL): 

S. 1557. A bill to prohibit economic 
espionage, to provide for the protection 
of United States vital proprietary economic 
information, and for other purposes; 
to the Select Committee on Intelligence. 
THE ECONOMIC SECURITY ACT OF 1996 

S Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I am 
introducing a bill today, along with my 
colleague, Senator KOHL, entitled the 
‘‘Economic Security Act of 1996,’’ 
which amends the National Security 
Act of 1947 to protect against the theft 
of vital proprietary economic information 
by or for foreign governments. 

The bill would punish those who steal 
vital proprietary economic information 
from a U.S. owner for the benefit of a 
foreign government or a corporation, 
institution, instrumentality, or agent 
that is owned or guided by a foreign 
government. It provides penalties of up 
to $500,000 in fines or 25 years in prison, 
except that corporations working on 
behalf of a foreign government can be 
fined up to $10,000,000. The law would 
ensure that fruits of the espionage 
would be forfeited, and that victims 
would receive some restitution from 
funds recovered. This bill also provides 
for a ban for up to 5 years on the importation 
into, or export from, the 
United States of any product produced, 
made, assembled, or manufactured by a 
person convicted under this provision. 

To address concerns by industry that 
criminal proceedings might result in 
the disclosure of the very trade secret 
the prosecution is aimed at protecting, 
the bill also gives courts authority to 
enter protective orders and take any 
other such measures as may be necessary, 
consistent with the applicable 
rules and laws. It also provides for an 
interlocutory appeal by the United 
States from a decision or order of a dis


trict court authorizing the disclosure 
of vital proprietary economic information. 


The bill provides for extraterritorial 
jurisdiction where the offender is a 

U.S. person or the victim of the offense 
is a U.S. owner and the offense was intended 
to have, or had, a direct or substantial 
effect in the United States. In 
addition, the bill adds this newly created 
crime to the list of offenses in 
title 18, chapter 119, of the United 
States Code—Wire and Electronic Communications 
Interception and Interception 
of Oral Communications—so that 
it may be investigated with authorized 
wire, oral, or electronic intercepts. 
We have drafted this new provision as 
an amendment to the National Security 
Act of 1947 to emphasize the importance 
of this issue to the national 
security of our Nation. Anyone who 
doubts that this is a national security 
issue need only stop to consider why 
foreign governments would devote so 
much effort to obtaining this information 
from U.S. companies. The reality 
is that U.S. economic and technological 
information may be far more 
valuable to a foreign government than 
most of the information that is classified 
in the United States today. The 
March 1990 and February 1995 national 
security strategies published by the 
White House focus on economic security 
as an integral part not only of U.S. 
national interest but also of national 
security. 

Economic espionage by foreign governments 
targeting U.S. industry and 
innovation is an issue the Senate Select 
Committee on Intelligence has 
been examining for some time. The 
Committee has held a number of hearings 
which addressed this issue and has 
met extensively with the intelligence 
and law enforcement communities. In 
1992, then-Director of Central Intelligence 
Robert M. Gates told the Committee: 


We know that some foreign intelligence 
services have turned from politics to economics 
and that the United States is their 
prime target. We have cases of moles being 
planted in U.S. high-tech companies. We 
have cases of U.S. businessmen abroad being 
subjected to bugging, to room searches, and 
the like * * * [W]e are giving a very high priority 
to fighting it. 

This reflects a shift from the traditional 
counterintelligence efforts directed 
at military, ideological, or subversive 
threats to national security. 
Beginning as early as 1990, the Intelligence 
and Counterintelligence Communities 
have been directed to detect 
and deter foreign intelligence targeting 
of U.S. economic and technological interests, 
including efforts to obtain U.S. 
proprietary information from companies 
and research institutions that 
form our strategic industrial base. 
These counterintelligence efforts, however, 
must be complemented by, and 
carefully coordinated with, a coherent 
and rigorous law enforcement effort. It 
is to strengthen this aspect of the fight 
against economic espionage that I introduce 
this bill today. 


S742 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Some foreign governments have been 
quite open about the importance they 
attach to obtaining U.S. commercial 
secrets. Former French Intelligence 
Director Pierre Marion, for example, 
was quoted in a recent Foreign Affairs 
article as saying about the French-
United States relationship: ‘‘In economics, 
we are competitors, not allies. 
America has the most technical information 
of relevance. It is easily accessible. 
So naturally your country will 
receive the most attention from the intelligence 
services.’’ 

It is important to emphasize that no 
one country can be singled out for engaging 
in economic espionage. While 
there are a handful of well-publicized 
incidents involving a few countries, the 
problem is actually much more widespread. 
FBI tells us that 23 countries 
are being actively investigated and 
that there has been a 100 percent increase 
in the number of investigative 
matters relating to economic espionage 
in the United States during the 
past year—from 400 to 800. Thus, this 
bill is not aimed at any one country, or 
even a handful of countries. It is designed 
to address a widespread threat 
from a broad spectrum of countries, including 
traditional counterintelligence 
adversaries and traditional allies. 

Last year, the Congress included in 
the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
fiscal year 1995 a requirement that the 
President submit an annual report on 
the activities of foreign governments 
to obtain commercial secrets from U.S. 
companies and how the U.S. Government 
counters this threat. The Intelligence 
Committee received the first 
report in July 1995, accompanied by a 
classified annex. 

According to the report, prepared by 
the National Counterintelligence Center 
in coordination with relevant agencies, 
‘‘economic and technological information 
is often not specifically protected 
by Federal laws, making it difficult 
to prosecute thefts of propriety 
technology or intellectual property. 
Law enforcement efforts instead must 
rely on less specific criminal laws— 
such as espionage, fraud and stolen 
property, and export statutes—to build 
prosecutable cases.’’ At our request, 
the FBI has provided some examples of 
the difficulties caused by this patchwork 
of laws. 

According to the Bureau, there have 
been three specific declinations of prosecution 
over the past year. In the first, 
passage to a foreign power of proprietary 
economic information was declined 
for lack of a specific statute. In 
the second case, the unauthorized disclosure 
of a confidential U.S. Trade 
Representative document was not prosecuted 
because the document was not 
considered to contain ‘‘national defense 
information’’ as required by the 
espionage statute. In a third case, a 
foreign government-owned corporation 
attempted to use its position of power 
after a merger to gain access to proprietary 
economic information despite a 
specific prohibition in the sales agree


ment which would have provided for a 
‘‘Chinese wall’’ between the foreign 
government corporation and the information. 
Again, the U.S. Attorney declined 
to prosecute because of the lack 
of a specific statutory basis. These examples 
do not include cases that were 
not fully investigated because of the 
lack of adequate statutory basis. 

A legal review by the Administration 
has shown that there is currently no 
specific criminal statute that would 
apply to many of the 800 cases involving 
22 foreign countries currently being 
investigated. 

The National Counterintelligence 
Center Report states that ‘‘the aggregate 
losses that can mount as a result 
of [Foreign economic espionage] efforts 
can reach billions of dollars per year 
constituting a serious national security 
concern.’’ Determining the full 
qualitative and quantitative scope and 
impact of economic espionage is difficult. 
Industry victims have reported 
the loss of hundreds of millions of dollars, 
lost jobs, and lost market share. 
However, U.S. industry may in fact be 
under-reporting these occurrences because 
of the negative impact publicity 
of a loss could have on stock values 
and customers’ confidence, as well as 
the risk of broader exposure of the 
trade secret itself. 

The industries that have been the 
targets in most cases of economic espionage, 
according to this report, include 
those ‘‘of strategic interest to the Untied 
States because they produce classified 
products for the Government, 
produce dual use technology used in 
both the public and private sectors, 
and are responsible for leading-edge 
technologies, critical to maintaining 

U.S. economic security.’’ 
Mr. President, these are complex 
issues and I do not assume that this 
bill represents the prefect solution. 
However, I believe this bill represents a 
reasonable and carefully tailored approach 
to addressing an issue of tremendous 
importance.S 

f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 332 

At the request of Mr. CONRAD, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
[Mr. WELLSTONE] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 332, a bill to provide 
means of limiting the exposure of children 
to violent programming on television, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 743 

At the request of Mrs. HUTCHISON, the 
names of the Senator from Hawaii [Mr. 
INOUYE] and the Senator from Oklahoma 
[Mr. INHOFE] were added as cosponsors 
of S. 743, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
a tax credit for investment necessary 
to revitalize communities within 
the United States, and for other pur


poses. 
S. 793 
At the request of Mr. SIMPSON, the 
names of the Senator from Michigan 

[Mr. LEVIN] and the Senator from Mississippi 
[Mr. COCHRAN] were added as 
cosponsors of S. 793, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
an exemption from income tax for 
certain common investment funds. 

S. 953 
At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, the 
names of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
[Mr. SPECTER], the Senator from 
Missouri [Mr. ASHCROFT], the Senator 
from Pennsylvania [Mr. SANTORUM], 
the Senator from Louisiana [Mr. 
BREAUX], the Senator from Maryland 
[Mr. SARBANES], the Senator from California 
[Mrs. FEINSTEIN], and the Senator 
from California [Mrs. BOXER] were 
added as cosponsors of S. 953, a bill to 
require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint coins in commemoration of 
black revolutionary war patriots. 
S. 1093 
At the request of Mr. REID, the name 
of the Senator from Alabama [Mr. 
SHELBY] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1093, a bill to prohibit the application 
of the Religious Freedom Restoration 
Act of 1993, or any amendment made by 
such act, to an individual who is incarcerated 
in a Federal, State, or local 
correctional, detention, or penal facility, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1095 
At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
name of the Senator from Ohio [Mr. 
GLENN] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1095, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to extend permanently 
the exclusion for educational 
assistance provided by employers to 
employees. 
S. 1219 
At the request of Mr. MCCAIN, the 
name of the Senator from Washington 
[Mrs. MURRAY] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1219, a bill to reform the financing 
of Federal elections, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 1271 
At the request of Mr. CRAIG, the 
name of the Senator from Virginia [Mr. 
ROBB] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1271, a bill to amend the Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act of 1982. 
At the request of Mr. LEVIN, his name 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 1271, 
supra. 
S. 1392 
At the request of Mr. BAUCUS, the 
name of the Senator from Arkansas 
[Mr. PRYOR] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1392, a bill to impose temporarily 
a 25-percent duty on imports of certain 
Canadian wood and lumber products, to 
require the administering authority to 
initiate an investigation under title 
VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 with respect 
to such products, and for other 
purposes. 
S. 1439 
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, her 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1439, a bill to require the consideration 
of certain criteria in decisions to relocate 
professional sports teams, and for 
other purposes. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S743 

S. 1519 

At the request of Mr. DOLE, the 
names of the Senator from Alaska [Mr. 
STEVENS], the Senator from Michigan 
[Mr. ABRAHAM], the Senator from New 
Hampshire [Mr. SMITH], and the Senator 
from Arizona [Mr. KYL] were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1519, a bill to 
prohibit United States voluntary and 
assessed contributions to the United 
Nations if the United Nations imposes 
any tax or fee on United States persons 
or continues to develop or promote proposals 
for such taxes or fees. 

S. 1534 

At the request of Mr. HATFIELD, the 
name of the Senator from Florida [Mr. 
MACK] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1534, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to provide additional support 
for and to expand clinical research 
programs, and for other purposes. 

S. 1541 

At the request of Mr. LUGAR, the 
names of the Senator from Utah [Mr. 
HATCH], the Senator from Missouri 
[Mr. BOND], the Senator from Oklahoma 
[Mr. INHOFE], the Senator from 
Indiana [Mr. COATS], the Senator from 
Kentucky [Mr. MCCONNELL], the Senator 
from Michigan [Mr. ABRAHAM], the 
Senator from Missouri [Mr. ASHCROFT], 
and the Senator from Idaho [Mr. KEMPTHORNE] 
were added as cosponsors of S. 
1541, a bill to extend, reform, and improve 
agricultural commodity, trade, 
conservation, and other programs, and 
for other purposes. 

At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1541, supra. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3184 

At the request of Mr. STEVENS, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 3184 proposed to S. 
1541, a bill to extend, reform, and improve 
agricultural commodity, trade, 
conservation, and other programs, and 
for other purposes. 

At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 3184 proposed to S. 
1541, supra. 

f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 219—TO DES


IGNATE GREEK INDEPENDENCE 

DAY 

Mr. SPECTER (for himself, Mr. 
SIMON, Mr. DOLE, Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
Mrs. BOXER, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. HEFLIN, 
Ms. MIKULSKI, Ms. SNOWE, Mr. GRASSLEY, 
Mr. THURMOND, Mr. GLENN, Mr. 
BRADLEY, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KERRY, 
Mr. REID, Mr. MACK, Ms. MOSELEY-
BRAUN, Mr. SARBANES, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, 
Mr. COHEN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BIDEN, 
Mr. PRESSLER, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. THOMAS, 
Mr. DODD, and Mr. WARNER) submitted 
the following resolution; which was referred 
to the Committee on the Judiciary: 


S. RES. 219 
Whereas the ancient Greeks developed the 
concept of democracy, in which the supreme 
power to govern was invested in the people; 
Whereas the Founding Fathers of the 
United States of America drew heavily upon 

the political experience and philosophy of 
ancient Greece in forming our representative 
democracy; 

Whereas the founders of the modern Greek 
state modeled their government after that of 
the United States in an effort to best imitate 
their ancient democracy; 

Whereas Greece is one of only three nations 
in the world, beyond the former British 
Empire, that has been allied with the United 
States in every major international conflict 
this century;; 

Whereas 1996 will mark the historic first 
official state visit to the United States of an 
elected head of state of Greece; 

Whereas these and other ideals have forged 
a close bond between our two nations and 
their peoples; 

Whereas March 25, 1996 marks the 175th anniversary 
of the beginning of the revolution 
which freed the Greek people from the Ottoman 
Empire; and 

Whereas it is proper and desirable to celebrate 
with the Greek people, and to reaffirm 
the democratic principles from which our 
two great nations were born: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That March 25, 1996 is designated 
as ‘‘Greek Independence Day: A National 
Day of Celebration of Greek and American 
Democracy’’. The President is requested to 
issue a proclamation calling upon the people 
of the United States to observe the day with 
appropriate ceremonies and activities. 

S Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, today 
I am submitting a resolution to designate 
March 25, 1996, as ‘‘Greek Independence 
Day: A Celebration of Greek 
and American Democracy.’’ 

One hundred and seventy-five years 
ago, the Greeks began the revolution 
that would free them from the Ottoman 
Empire and return Greece to its 
democratic heritage. It was, of course, 
the ancient Greeks who developed the 
concept of democracy in which the supreme 
power to govern was vested in 
the people. Our Founding Fathers drew 
heavily upon the political and philosophical 
experience of ancient Greece 
in forming our representative democracy. 
Thomas Jefferson proclaimed 
that, ‘‘to the ancient Greeks * * * we 
are all indebted for the light which led 
ourselves out of Gothic darkness.’’ It is 
fitting, then, that we should recognize 
the anniversary of the beginning of 
their efforts to return to that democratic 
tradition. 

The democratic form of government 
is only one of the most obvious of the 
many benefits we have gained from the 
Greek people. The ancient Greeks contributed 
a great deal to the modern 
world, particularly to the United 
States of America, in all areas of art, 
philosophy, science, and law. Today, 
Greek-Americans continue to enrich 
our culture and make valuable contributions 
to American society, business, 
and government. 

It is my hope that strong support for 
this resolution in the Senate will serve 
as a clear goodwill gesture to the people 
of Greece with whom we have enjoyed 
such a close bond throughout history. 
Similar resolutions have been 
signed into law each of the past several 
years, with overwhelming support in 
both the House of Representatives and 
the Senate. Accordingly, I urge my 
Senate colleagues to join me in supporting 
this important resolution.S 

SENATE RESOLUTION 220—IN REC


OGNITION OF RONALD REAGAN’S 

85TH BIRTHDAY 

Mr. DOLE (for himself, Mr. DASCHLE, 
and Mr. WARNER) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered 
and agreed to: 

S. RES. 220 
Whereas, February 6, 1996 is the 85th Birthday 
of Ronald Wilson Reagan; 
And Whereas, Ronald Reagan was twice 
elected by overwhelming margins as President 
of the United States; 
And Whereas, Ronald Reagan is loved and 
admired by millions of Americans, and by 
countless others around the world; 
And Whereas, Ronald Reagan, with the 
leadership of his wife, Nancy, led a national 
crusade against illegal drugs; 
And Whereas, Ronald Reagan’s eloquence 
united Americans in times of triumph and 
tragedy; 
And Whereas, the thoughts and prayers of 
the Senate and the country are with Ronald 
Reagan in his courageous battle with Alzheimer’s 
Disease; Therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the Senate of the United 
States extends its birthday greetings and 
best wishes to Ronald Reagan. 
Section 2 That the Secretary of the Senate 
shall transmit a copy of this resolution to 
Ronald Reagan. 

f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 221—TO AU


THORIZE TESTIMONY BY 

FORMER SENATE EMPLOYEE 

Mr. DOLE (for himself and Mr. 
DASCHLE) submitted the following resolution; 
which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 221 
Whereas, the plaintiff in Margaret C. Carlson 
v. Mike Eassa, et al., No. MDA 7203, a civil 
action pending in the Superior Court of California, 
County of Monterey, is seeking testimony 
through submission of a declaration by 
Amy L. Silvestri, a former employee of the 
Senate on the Staff of Senator William V. 
Roth, Jr.; 
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of 
the United States and Rule XI of the Standing 
Rules of the Senate, no evidence under 
the control or in the possession of the Senate 
can, by administrative or judicial process, be 
taken from such control or possession but by 
permission of the Senate; 
Whereas, when it appears that evidence 
under the control or in the possession of the 
Senate is needed for the promotion of justice, 
the Senate will take such action as will 
promote the ends of justice consistent with 
the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore, 
be it 
Resolved, That Amy L. Silvestri is authorized 
to submit a declaration in the case of 
Margaret C. Carlson v. Mike Eassa, et al., except 
concerning matters for which a privilege 
should be asserted. 

f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 222—TO AUTHORIZE 
THE PRODUCTION OF 
DOCUMENTS BY THE PERMANENT 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS 


Mr. DOLE (for himself and Mr. 
DASCHLE) submitted the following resolution; 
which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 222 
Whereas, the Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations of the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs conducted an investigation 


S744 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

into allegations concerning the Department 
of Justice’s handling of a computer software 
contract with INSLAW, Inc.; 

Whereas, in the case of INSLAW, Inc., et al. 

v. United States of America, Cong. Ref. No. 95– 
338X, pending in the United States Court of 
Federal Claims, counsel for the plaintiffs 
have requested that the Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations of the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs provide copies 
of records from its investigation; 
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of 
the United States and Rule XI of the Standing 
Rules of the Senate, no evidence under 
the control or in the possession of the Senate 
can, by administrative or judicial process, be 
taken from such control or possession but by 
permission of the Senate; 

Whereas, when it appears that evidence 
under the control or in the possession of the 
Senate is needed for the promotion of justice, 
the Senate will take such action as will 
promote the ends of justice consistent with 
the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That the chairman and ranking 
minority member of the Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations of the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs, acting 
jointly, are authorized to provide records to 
all parties in the case of INSLAW, Inc., et al. 

v. United States of America, except concerning 
matters for which a privilege should be asserted. 
f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 223—TO COM


MEMORATE THE SESQUICENTEN


NIAL OF TEXAS STATEHOOD 

Mrs. HUTCHISON (for herself and 
Mr. GRAMM) submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 223 
Whereas 1995 marks 150 years since the 
United States of America admitted Texas as 
the 28th State in the Union; 
Whereas the sesquicentennial of Texas 
statehood is a truly momentous occasion 
that allows all Texans to reflect on their 
State’s proud heritage and bright future; 
Whereas acting on the advice of President 
John Tyler, the United States Congress 
adopted a joint resolution on February 28, 
1845, inviting the Republic of Texas to enter 
the Union as a State with full retention of 
its public lands; today, a century and a half 
later, Texas enjoys the distinction of being 
the only State admitted with such extensive 
rights; 
Whereas the citizens of the Republic of 
Texas were deeply committed to the goals 
and ideals embodied in the United States 
Constitution, and, on June 16, 1845, the Congress 
of the Republic of Texas was convened 
by President Anson Jones to consider the 
proposal of statehood; 
Whereas Texas took advantage of the offer, 
choosing to unite with a large and prosperous 
Nation that could more effectively 
defend the borders of Texas and expand its 
flourishing trade with European countries; 
by October 1845, the Congress of the Republic 
of Texas had approved a State constitution, 
charting a bold new destiny for the Lone 
Star State; 
Whereas the proposed State constitution 
was sent to Washington, DC, and on December 
29, 1845, the United states of America formally 
welcomed Texas as a new State; the 
transfer of governmental authority, however, 
was not complete until February 19, 
1846, when Anson Jones lowered the flag that 
had flown above the Capitol for nearly 10 
years and stepped down from his position as 
president of the Republic of Texas; and 

Whereas with the poignant retirement of 
the flag of the Republic, Texas emerged as a 
blazing Lone Star in America’s firmament, 
taking its place as the 28th State admitted 
into the Union: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) commemorate the sesquicentennial of 
Texas statehood; and 
(2) encourage all Texans to observe such 
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities 
on this historic occasion. 
The Secretary of the Senate shall transmit a 
copy of this resolution to the Texas Congressional 
Delegation, to the Governor of Texas, 
to the National Archives, and to the Texas 
Archives. 

f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED 

THE AGRICULTURAL MARKET 
TRANSITION ACT OF 1996 

FEINGOLD AMENDMENTS NOS. 

3186–3191 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. FEINGOLD submitted six amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill (S. 1541) to extend, reform, 
and improve agricultural commodity, 
trade, conservation, and other 
programs, and for other purposes; as 
follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3186 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


Subtitle ll—Agricultural Promotion 
Accountability 
SEC. ll1. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Agricultural 
Promotion Accountability Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. ll2. PURPOSE. 

The purpose of this subtitle is to make agricultural 
promotion boards and councils 
more responsive to producers whose mandatory 
assessments support the activities of 
such boards and councils, to improve the representation 
and participation of such producers 
on such boards and councils, to ensure 
the independence of such boards and 
councils, to ensure the appropriate use of 
promotion funds, and to prevent legislatively 
authorized agricultural promotion and research 
boards from using mandatory assessments 
to directly or indirectly influence legislation 
or governmental action or policy. 

SEC. ll3. DEFINITIONS. 

In this subtitle: 

(1) INFLUENCING LEGISLATION OR GOVERNMENTAL 
ACTION OR POLICY.—The term ‘‘influencing 
legislation or governmental action or 
policy’’ includes— 
(A) establishing, administering, contributing 
to, or paying the expenses of a political 
party campaign, political action committee, 
or other organization established for 
the purpose of influencing the outcome of an 
election; 
(B) attempting to influence— 
(i) the outcome of any Federal, State or 
local election, referendum, initiative, or 
similar procedure through a cash contribution, 
in-kind contribution, endorsement, 
publicity or public relations activity or similar 
activity; 
(ii) the introduction, modification, or enactment 
of any Federal or State legislation 
or signature or veto of any enrolled Federal 
or State legislation, including through— 
(I) communication with any member or 
employee of a legislative body or agency or 
with any governmental official or employee 
who may participate in the formulation of 
the legislation, including engaging State or 
local officials in similar activity (not including 
a communication to an appropriate government 
official in response to a written request 
by the official for factual, scientific, or 
technical information relating to the conduct, 
implementation, or results of promotion, 
research, consumer information and 
education, industry information, or producer 
information activities under a promotion 
program); 

(II) planning, preparing, funding, or distributing 
any publicity or propaganda to affect 
the opinion of the general public or a 
segment of the public in connection with a 
pending legislative matter; or 
(III) urging members of the general public 
or any segment of the general public to contribute 
to, or participate in, any mass demonstration, 
march, rally, fund-raising drive, 
lobbying campaign, letter-writing campaign, 
or telephone campaign in connection with a 
pending legislative matter; 
(C) carrying out a legislative liaison activity, 
including attendance at a legislative session 
or committee hearing to gather information 
regarding legislation or to analyze 
the effect of legislation, if the activity is 
carried on in support of, or in knowing preparation 
for, an effort to influence legislation 
or government action or policy; 
(D) carrying out an opinion survey of the 
general public or a segment of the public, 
general research, or information gathering, 
if carried out in support of, or in knowing 
preparation for, an effort to influence legislation 
or government action or policy; or 
(E) attempting to influence any agency action 
or agency proceeding, as the terms are 
defined in section 551 of title 5, United States 
Code, through— 
(i) communication with any government 
official or employee who may participate in 
the action or proceeding (not including a 
communication to an appropriate government 
official in response to a written request 
by the official for factual, scientific, or technical 
information relating to the conduct, 
implementation, or results of promotion, research, 
consumer information or education, 
or industry information of producer information 
activities under a promotion program); 
(ii) planning, preparing, funding, or distributing 
any publicity or propaganda to affect 
the opinions of the general public or any segment 
of the general public in connection 
with the action or proceeding; or 
(iii) urging members of the general public 
or any segment of the general public to contribute 
to, or participate in, any mass demonstration, 
march, rally, fundraising drive, 
lobbying campaign, letter-writing campaign, 
or telephone campaign in connection with 
the action or proceeding. 
(2) PROMOTION PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘promotion 
program’’ means— 
(A) the cotton research and promotion program 
established under the Cotton Research 
and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.); 
(B) the potato research, development, advertising, 
and promotion program established 
under the Potato Research and Promotion 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2611 et seq.); 
(C) the egg research, consumer and producer 
education, and promotion program established 
under the Egg Research and Consumer 
Information Act (7 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.); 
(D) the beef promotion and research program 
established under the Beef Research 
and Information Act (7 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.); 
(E) the wheat research and nutrition education 
program established under the Wheat 
and Wheat Foods Research and Nutrition 
Education Act (7 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.); 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S745 

(F) the dairy promotion program established 
under the Dairy Production Stabilization 
Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.); 
(G) the honey research, promotion, and 
consumer education program established 
under the Honey Research, Promotion, and 
Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 4601 et 
seq.); 
(H) the pork promotion, research, and consumer 
information program established 
under the Pork Promotion, Research, and 
Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 4801 et 
seq.); 
(I) the watermelon research, development, 
advertising, and promotion program established 
under the Watermelon Research and 
Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 4901 et seq.); 
(J) the pecan promotion, research, industry 
information, and consumer information 
program established under the Pecan Promotion 
and Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6001 et seq.); 
(K) the mushroom promotion, research, 
and consumer and industry information program 
established under the Mushroom Promotion, 
Research, and Consumer Information 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.); 
(L) the lime research, promotion, and consumer 
information program established 
under the Lime Research, Promotion, and 
Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.); 
(M) the soybean promotion, research, consumer 
information, and industry information 
program established under the Soybean 
Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information 
Act (7 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.); 
(N) the fluid milk advertising and promotion 
program established under the Fluid 
Milk Promotion Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6401 et 
seq.); 
(O) the flowers and greens promotion, consumer 
information, and related research program 
established under the Fresh Cut Flowers 
and Fresh Cut Greens Promotion and Information 
Act of 1993 (7 U.S.C. 6801 et seq.); 
(P) the sheep promotion, research, consumer 
information, education, and industry 
information program established under the 
Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information 
Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.); and 
(Q) any other coordinated program of promotion, 
research, industry information, and 
consumer information that is funded by 
mandatory assessments on producers and designed 
to maintain and expand markets and 
uses for an agricultural commodity, as determined 
by the Secretary. 
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
SEC. ll4. INFLUENCING LEGISLATION OR GOVERNMENTAL 
ACTION OR POLICY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—A board or council established 
by a promotion program may not use 
any funds collected by the board or council 
for the purpose of directly or indirectly influencing 
legislation or governmental action 
or policy, except for the development and 
recommendation of amendments to the promotion 
program to the Secretary. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) COTTON.—Section 7(h) of the Cotton Research 
and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2106(h)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘influencing governmental 
policy or action’’ and inserting ‘‘directly 
or indirectly influencing legislation or 
governmental action or policy (as defined in 
section ll3(1) of the Agricultural Promotion 
Accountability Act of 1996)’’. 
(2) POTATOES.—Section 308(f)(3) of the Potato 
Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 
2617(f)(3)) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
governmental policy or action’’ and 
inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly influencing 
legislation or governmental action or policy 
(as defined in section ll3(1) of the Agricultural 
Promotion Accountability Act of 
1996)’’. 
(3) EGGS.—Section 8(h) of the Egg Research 
and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 
2707) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
governmental policy or action’’ and inserting 
‘‘directly or indirectly influencing legislation 
or governmental action or policy (as 
defined in section ll3(1) of the Agricultural 
Promotion Accountability Act of 1996)’’. 
(4) BEEF.—Section 5(10) of the Beef Research 
and Information Act (7 U.S.C. 2904(10)) 
is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘influencing governmental 
action or policy’’ and inserting ‘‘directly or 
indirectly influencing legislation or governmental 
action or policy (as defined in section 
ll3(1) of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996)’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘to the Secretary’’ before 
the period at the end. 
(5) WHEAT.—Section 1706(i) of the Wheat 
and Wheat Foods Research and Nutrition 
Education Act (7 U.S.C. 3405(i)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘influencing governmental policy 
or action’’ and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly 
influencing legislation or governmental 
action or policy (as defined in section 
ll3(1) of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996)’’. 
(6) DAIRY.—Section 113(j) of the Dairy Production 
Stabilization Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 
4504(j)) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
governmental policy or action’’ and inserting 
‘‘directly or indirectly influencing legislation 
or governmental action or policy (as 
defined in section ll3(1) of the Agricultural 
Promotion Accountability Act of 1996),’’. 
(7) HONEY.—Section 7(h) of the Honey Research, 
Promotion, and Consumer Information 
Act (7 U.S.C. 4606(h)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘influencing governmental policy or 
action’’ and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly 
influencing legislation or governmental action 
or policy (as defined in section ll3(1) 
of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996)’’. 
(8) PORK.—Section 1620(e) of the Pork Promotion, 
Research, and Consumer Information 
Act (7 U.S.C. 4809(e)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘influencing legislation’’ and all 
that follows through the period at the end 
and inserting the following: ‘‘directly or indirectly 
influencing legislation or governmental 
action or policy (as defined in section 
ll3(1) of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996), except to recommend 
amendments to the order to the 
Secretary.’’. 
(9) WATERMELONS.—Section 1647(g)(3) of the 
Watermelon Research and Promotion Act (7 
U.S.C. 4906(g)(3)) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
governmental policy or action’’ 
and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly influencing 
legislation or governmental action or 
policy (as defined in section ll3(1) of the 
Agricultural Promotion Accountability Act 
of 1996)’’. 
(10) PECANS.—Section 1910(g)(1) of the 
Pecan Promotion and Research Act of 1990 (7 
U.S.C. 6005(g)(1)) is amended— 
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘to,’’ and inserting ‘‘for the 
purpose of,’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘to—’’ and inserting ‘‘for 
the purpose of—’’; 
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘influence 
legislation or governmental action’’ and inserting 
‘‘directly or indirectly influencing 
legislation or governmental action or policy 
(as defined in section ll3(1) of the Agricultural 
Promotion Accountability Act of 
1996)’’; 
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘engage’’ 
and inserting ‘‘engaging’’; and 
(D) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘engage’’ 
and inserting ‘‘engaging’’. 
(11) MUSHROOMS.—Section 1925(h) of the 
Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer 
Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6104(h)) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
legislation or governmental action or policy’’ 
and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly influencing 
legislation or governmental action 
or policy (as defined in section ll3(1) of the 
Agricultural Promotion Accountability Act 
of 1996)’’. 

(12) LIMES.—Section 1955(g) of the Lime Research, 
Promotion, and Consumer Information 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6204(g)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘influencing legislation or governmental 
policy or action’’ and inserting 
‘‘directly or indirectly influencing legislation 
or governmental action or policy (as defined 
in section ll3(1) of the Agricultural 
Promotion Accountability Act of 1996)’’. 
(13) SOYBEANS.—Section 1969(p) of the Soybean 
Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information 
Act (7 U.S.C. 6304(p) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘influencing 
legislation or governmental action or 
policy’’ and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly 
influencing legislation or governmental action 
or policy (as defined in section ll3(1) 
of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996)’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘to 
the Secretary’’ before the semicolon; and 
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘, in 
response to a request made by the officials,’’ 
after ‘‘officials’’. 
(14) MILK.—Section 1999H(j)(1) of the Fluid 
Milk Promotion Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6407(j)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
legislation or governmental action or 
policy’’ and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly 
influencing legislation or governmental action 
or policy (as defined in section ll3(1) 
of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996)’’. 
(15) FLOWERS AND GREENS.—Section 5(i) of 
the Fresh Cut Flowers and Fresh Cut Greens 
Promotion and Information Act of 1993 (7 
U.S.C. 6804(i)) is amended by striking ‘‘influencing 
legislation or government action or 
policy’’ and inserting ‘‘directly or indirectly 
influencing legislation or governmental action 
or policy (as defined in section ll3(1) 
of the Agricultural Promotion Accountability 
Act of 1996)’’. 
(16) SHEEP.—Section 5(l)(1) of the Sheep 
Promotion, Research, and Information Act 
of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7104(l)(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘influencing legislation or government 
action or policy’’ and inserting ‘‘directly 
or indirectly influencing legislation or 
governmental action or policy (as defined in 
section ll3(1) of the Agricultural Promotion 
Accountability Act of 1996)’’. 
SEC. ll5. PROMOTING THE IMAGE OF AN INDUSTRY 
PROHIBITED. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—A board or council established 
by a promotion program may not use 
any funds collected by the board or council 
for the purpose of enhancing the image of an 
industry, except that the board or council 
may promote the image of a product with 
the express intent of stimulating demand for 
and sales of an agricultural product in the 
marketplace. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) BEEF.—Section 3(9) of the Beef Research 
and Information Act (7 U.S.C. 2902(9)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘, increased efficiency’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘industry’’ and 
inserting ‘‘and increased efficiency’’. 
(2) PECANS.—Section 1907(12) of the Pecan 
Promotion and Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6002(12)) is amended by striking ‘‘, increased 
efficiency’’ and all that follows through ‘‘industry’’ 
and inserting ‘‘and increased efficiency’’. 
(3) MUSHROOMS.—Section 1923(7) of the 
Mushroom Promotion, Research, and 

S746 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6103(7)) is amended by striking ‘‘, increased 
efficiency’’ and all that follows through ‘‘industry’’ 
and inserting ‘‘and increased efficiency’’. 


(4) SOYBEANS.—Section 1967(7) of the Soybean 
Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information 
Act (7 U.S.C. 6302(7)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘, and activities’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘industry’’. 
SEC. ll6. LIMITATIONS ON CONTRACTING. 

(a) PERMITTED CONTRACTS OR AGREEMENTS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, a board or council established by 
a promotion program shall not be limited to 
contracting with, or entering into an agreement 
with, an established national nonprofit 
industry-governed organization. 
(b) COMPETITIVE BIDDING.—It is the policy 
of Congress that boards and councils should, 
to the extent practicable, use competitive 
bidding in the awarding of contracts and 
grants for activities authorized under a promotion 
program. 
(c) INDEPENDENCE OF BOARDS AND COUNCILS.— 
(1) APPLICATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
NOT BINDING.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, a board or council established 
by a promotion program shall not be 
bound by a proposed application for a board 
or council contract or a recommendation or 
advice of a potential contractor or a national 
nonprofit industry-governed organization on 
the use of board or council receipts. 
(2) INTERLOCKING BOARDS OR MEMBERSHIP.— 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
no person shall be eligible to be a member of 
any board or council established by a promotion 
program (including operating and 
nominating committees) if the person serves 
in any decision making capacity, such as 
that of a member of the board of directors, 
executive committee, or other committee, 
for an entity that enters into a contract or 
other agreement with the board or council. 
(3) REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTING.—A 
contractor or grantee of a board or council 
may not use funds collected through mandatory 
assessments under a promotion program 
to fund any staff (including expenses or 
other activities of the staff) who, in part, engage 
in 1 or more activities to influence legislation 
or governmental action or policy. 
(d) PRODUCER APPROVAL OF RELATIONSHIPS 
WITH BOARDS OR COUNCILS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2) and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the entering into of a permanent 
cooperative arrangement or the establishment 
of a joint committee (including 
an arrangement that is advisory in nature) 
by a board or council established by a promotion 
program with a national nonprofit 
industry-governed organization shall require 
the prior approval of at least 2/3 of the eligible 
producers under the promotion program. 
(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
apply to a cooperative arrangement or joint 
committee— 
(A) that was established prior to January 
1, 1995; or 
(B) that includes representatives or participation 
from all producer-, processor-, or 
handler-governed national nonprofit organizations 
(including general farm organizations) 
that represent any but an insignificant 
number of producers, processors, or 
handlers paying assessments under the promotion 
program to the board or council, as 
determined by the Secretary. 
(3) PERMANENT COOPERATIVE ARRANGEMENT.—
In this subsection, the term ‘‘permanent 
cooperative arrangement’’ means a formal 
or informal, written or unwritten agreement 
or understanding establishing a relationship, 
a liaison, a sole source contract, or 
an operational mechanism under which a 
board or council shares staff, facilities, or 
other resources or carries out coordinated 
activities with any entity on a more or less 
permanent and exclusive basis. 

(e) FUNGIBILITY OF BOARD OR COUNCIL 
FUNDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Inspector General of 
the Department of Agriculture shall conduct 
an annual review of contractual arrangements 
between each board or council established 
by a promotion program and any entity 
or association that engages in activities 
to influence legislation or governmental action 
or policy and receives a significant 
amount of funding from the board or council 
as determined by the Secretary. 
(2) SCOPE OF REVIEW.—A review under paragraph 
(1) shall examine whether any funds 
collected by the board or council are used to 
directly or indirectly fund or subsidize an entity 
or association that engages in influencing 
legislation or governmental action or 
policy. 
(3) REPORT.—The Secretary shall submit a 
report on the findings of any review under 
this subsection and make recommendations 
for any actions that should be taken as a result 
of the findings to the Committee on Agriculture 
of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate. 
SEC. ll7. PERIODIC REFERENDA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, not less than 4 nor 
more than 6 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act or the date on which the 
Secretary determines the results of the most 
recent referendum for a promotion program, 
whichever is earlier, and not less than once 
every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary shall 
conduct a referendum to determine whether 
to approve or terminate the order under the 
promotion program and whether refunds 
should be made under the order. 
(b) PROCEDURE.—The referendum under 
subsection (a) shall be conducted using the 
same eligibility and other procedures as the 
referendum used to approve the original 
order under the promotion program, except 
that, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, no greater than a simple majority of eligible 
producers shall be required to approve 
the making of refunds to producers. 
(c) TERMINATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the percentage of persons 
voting to approve the order does not 
equal or exceed the percentage of persons 
necessary to approve the continuation of the 
original order under the promotion program, 
the Secretary shall terminate the order. 
(2) TIME OF TERMINATION.—The Secretary 
shall terminate the order at the end of the 
marketing year during which the referendum 
is conducted. 
(d) REFUNDS.—If the making of refunds is 
approved in a referendum under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall establish a procedure 
for making the refunds not later than 180 
days after the date of the referendum. 
(e) COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.—Notwithstanding 
subsection (b), a cooperative association 
may not vote on behalf of the members 
of the association in a referendum conducted 
under this section. 
(f) INACTIVE PROMOTION PROGRAMS.—The 
Secretary shall not conduct a referendum of 
a promotion program under this section if 
the Secretary determines that the promotion 
program is not active. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3187 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. ll. DAIRY PROMOTION PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT. 


(a) FUNDING OF DAIRY PROMOTION AND RESEARCH 
PROGRAM.— 
(1) DECLARATION OF POLICY.—The first sentence 
of section 110(b) of the Dairy Production 
Stabilization Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 
4501(b)) is amended— 
(A) by inserting after ‘‘commercial use’’ 
the following: ‘‘and on imported dairy products’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘products produced in’’ and 
inserting ‘‘products produced in or imported 
into’’. 
(2) DEFINITIONS.—Section 111 of the Act (7 
U.S.C. 4502) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (k), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(B) in subsection (l), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following new 
subsections: 
‘‘(m) the term ‘imported dairy product’ 
means— 
‘‘(1) any dairy product, including milk and 
cream and fresh and dried dairy products; 

‘‘(2) butter and butterfat mixtures; 

‘‘(3) cheese; 

‘‘(4) casein and mixtures; and 

‘‘(5) other dairy products; 
that are imported into the United States; 
and 

‘‘(n) the term ‘importer’ means a person 
that imports an imported dairy product into 
the United States.’’. 

(2) FUNDING.— 
(A) REPRESENTATION ON BOARD.—Section 
113(b) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 4504(b)) is amended— 
(i) by designating the first through ninth 
sentences as paragraphs (1) through (5) and 
paragraphs (7) through (10), respectively; 
(ii) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by 
striking ‘‘thirty-six’’ and inserting ‘‘38’’; 
(iii) in paragraph (2) (as so designated), by 
striking ‘‘Members’’ and inserting ‘‘Of the 
members of the Board, 36 members’’; and 
(iv) by inserting after paragraph (5) (as so 
designated) the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(6) Of the members of the Board, 2 members 
shall be representatives of importers of 
imported dairy products. The importer representatives 
shall be appointed by the Secretary 
from nominations submitted by importers 
under such procedures as the Secretary 
determines to be appropriate.’’. 

(B) ASSESSMENT.—Section 113(g) of the Act 
is amended— 
(i) by designating the first through fifth 
sentences as paragraphs (1) through (5), respectively; 
and 
(ii) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(6)(A) The order shall provide that each 
importer of imported dairy products shall 
pay an assessment to the Board in the manner 
prescribed by the order. 

‘‘(B) The rate of assessment on imported 
dairy products shall be determined in the 
same manner as the rate of assessment per 
hundredweight or the equivalent of milk. 

‘‘(C) For the purpose of determining the assessment 
on imports under subparagraph (B), 
the value to be placed on imported dairy 
products shall be established by the Secretary 
in a fair and equitable manner.’’. 

(C) RECORDS.—The first sentence of section 
113(k) of the Act is amended by striking 
‘‘person receiving’’ and inserting ‘‘importer 
of imported dairy products, each person receiving’’. 
(D) REFERENDUM.—Section 116 of the Act (7 
U.S.C. 4507) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection: 
‘‘(d)(1) On the request of a representative 
group comprising 10 percent or more of the 
number of producers subject to the order, the 
Secretary shall— 

‘‘(A) conduct a referendum to determine 
whether the producers favor suspension of 
the application of the amendments made by 
section 2 of the Dairy Promotion Program 
Improvement Act of 1995; and 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S747 

‘‘(B) suspend the application of the amendments 
until the results of the referendum are 
known. 

‘‘(2) The Secretary shall continue the suspension 
of the application of the amendments 
made by section 2 only if the Secretary 
determines that suspension of the application 
of the amendments is favored by a 
majority of the producers voting in the referendum 
who, during a representative period 
(as determined by the Secretary), have been 
engaged in the production of milk for commercial 
use.’’. 

(b) PERIODIC REFERENDA.—Section 115(a) of 
the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 
1983 (7 U.S.C. 4506(a)) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘Within 
the sixty-day period immediately preceding 
September 30, 1985’’ and inserting 
‘‘Every 5 years’’; and 
(2) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘six 
months’’ and inserting ‘‘3 months’’. 
(c) PROHIBITION ON BLOC VOTING.—Section 
117 of the Dairy Production Stabilization Act 
of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 4508) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘Secretary 
shall’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary shall 
not’’; and 
(2) by striking the second through fifth 
sentences. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3188 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . LOCATION ADJUSTMENTS FOR MINIMUM 
PRICES FOR CLASS I MILK 

Section 8c(5) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(5)), reenacted with 
amendments by the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937, is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (A)— 
(A) in clause (3) of the second sentence, by 
inserting after ‘‘the locations’’ the following: 
‘‘within a marketing area subject to the 
order’’; and 
(B) by striking the last 2 sentences and inserting 
the following: ‘‘Notwithstanding 
paragraph (18) or any other provision of law, 
when fixing minimum prices for milk of the 
highest use classification in a marketing 
area subject to an order under this subsection, 
the Secretary may not, directly or 
indirectly, base the prices on the distance 
from, or all or part of the costs incurred to 
transport milk to or from, any location that 
is not within the marketing area subject to 
the order, unless milk from the location constitutes 
at least 50 percent of the total supply 
of milk of the highest use classification 
in the marketing area. The Secretary shall 
report to the Committee on Agriculture of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
of the Senate on the criteria that are 
used as the basis for the minimum prices referred 
to in the preceding sentence, including 
a certification that the minimum prices 
are made in accordance with the preceding 
sentence.’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (B)(c), by inserting after 
‘‘the locations’’ the following: ‘‘within a 
marketing area subject to the order’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3189 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . MILK MANUFACTURING MARKETING ADJUSTMENT. 


Subsections (a) and (b) of section 102 of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 1446e–1) are amended to 
read as follows: 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) FEDERAL MAKE ALLOWANCE.—The term 
‘Federal make allowance’ means the allowance 
for the processing of milk that is permitted 
under a Federal program to establish 

a Grade A price for manufacturing butter, 
nonfat dry milk, or cheese. 

‘‘(2) PERSON.—The term ‘person’ includes a 
cooperative. 

‘‘(3) STATE MAKE ALLOWANCE.—The term 
‘State make allowance’ means the allowance 
for the processing of milk that is permitted 
by a State for manufacturing butter, nonfat 
dry milk, or cheese. 

‘‘(b) MILK MANUFACTURING MARKETING AD-
JUSTMENT.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, if a person collects a State 
make allowance that is higher than the Federal 
make allowance and the milk or product 
of milk that is subject to the allowance is 
purchased by the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
regardless of the point of sale, the Corporation 
shall reduce the support purchase 
price for the milk and each product of the 
milk by an amount that is equal to the difference 
between the State make allowance 
and the Federal make allowance for the milk 
and product, as determined by the Secretary 
of Agriculture.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3190 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . SPECIAL RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2(c)(2) of the 
Competitive, Special, and Facilities Research 
Grant Act (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)(2)) is 
amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘or’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) unless the project to receive the grant 
has been subject to a competitive selection 
process and a scientific peer review evaluation 
by qualified scientists in the Federal 
Government, colleges and universities, State 
agricultural experiment stations, and the 
private sector.’’. 

(b) APPLICATION.—The amendments made 
by subsection (a) shall apply only in the case 
of a project that has not been specifically authorized, 
or for which no funds have been 
made available, as of the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3191 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. 7. COMPETITIVE MATCHING GRANT PROGRAM 
FOR APPLIED RESEARCH. 

(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section 
is to convert the current special grants program 
administered by the Secretary under 
subsection (c) of the Competitive, Special, 
and Facilities Research Grant Act (7 U.S.C. 
450i(c)) into a competitive matching grant 
program for applied research in coordination 
with the research priorities outlined in section 
1402 of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3101). 
(b) TITLE CHANGES.—The Competitive, Special, 
and Facilities Research Grant Act (7 
U.S.C. 450i) is amended— 
(1) In the section heading, by striking ‘‘, 
SPECIAL, AND FACILITIES’’ after ‘‘COMPETITIVE’’; 
(2) In subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘, Special, 
and Facilities’’ after ‘‘Competitive’’; 
and 
(3) In the heading of subsection (b) by 
striking ‘‘Competitive’’ and inserting ‘‘National 
research initiative’’. 
(c) COMPETITIVE GRANT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED 
RESEARCH.—Section 2(c) (7 U.S.C. 
450i)(c)) is amended— 
(1) In the heading, by striking ‘‘SPECIAL 
GRANTS’’ and inserting ‘‘COMPETITIVE 
GRANTS FOR APPLIED RESEARCH’’; 
(2) In paragraph (1) by striking ’’grants,’’ 
and all that follows, including subparagraphs 
(A) and (B), and inserting ‘‘competitive 
grants for applied research in the research 
priority areas identified in section 1402 of 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977.’’; 
(3) In paragraph (3), by striking all that 
follows ‘‘MATCHING FUNDS.—’’ and inserting 
‘‘The Secretary may establish such matching 
requirements for grants made pursuant to 
this section as the Secretary deems appropriate. 
Such matching requirements established 
by the Secretary may be met with unreimbursed 
indirect costs and in-kind contributions, 
except that the Secretary may 
include an evaluation preference for projects 
for which the applicant proposes funds for 
the direct costs of the project to meet the required 
match.’’; and 
(4) In paragraph (4), by striking all text 
after ‘‘(4)’’ and inserting ‘‘ELIGIBLE INSTITUTIONS.—
For purposes of this subsection, ‘‘eligible 
institutions’’ mean State agricultural 
experiment stations, land-grant colleges and 
universities, research foundations established 
by land-grant colleges and universities, 
colleges and universities receiving 
funds under the Act of October 10, 1962 (16 
U.S.C. 582a, et seq.), and accredited schools or 
colleges of veterinary medicine.’’. 
DOMENICI AMENDMENT NO. 3192 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. DOMENICI submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

On page 52, line 16, strike ‘‘New Mexico.’’ 
and insert the following: ‘‘New Mexico and 
that, in the case of the 1996 and subsequent 
crops, Valencia peanuts not physically produced 
in the State shall not be eligible to 
participate in the pools of the State, except 
that a resident of the State who entered a 
quantity of Valencia peanuts physically produced 
outside the State in the pools of the 
State during the 1995 crop year shall be eligible 
to enter not more than the same quantity 
of Valencia peanuts physically produced 
outside the State in the pools of the State.’’ 

STEVENS (AND MURKOWSKI) 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 3193–3194 

Mr. STEVENS (for himself and Mr. 
MURKOWSKI) submitted two amendments 
intended to be proposed by them 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra, as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3193 
At the appropriate place in the amendment, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . WATER SYSTEMS FOR RURAL AND NATIVE 
VILLAGES IN ALASKA. 

The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act is amended by inserting after section 
306C (7 U.S.C. 1926c) the following: 

‘‘SEC. 306D. WATER SYSTEMS FOR RURAL AND NATIVE 
VILLAGES IN ALASKA. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
make grants to the State of Alaska for the 
benefit of rural or Native villages in Alaska 
to provide for the development and construction 
of water and wastewater systems to improve 
the health and sanitation conditions in 
those villages. 

‘‘(b) MATCHING FUNDS.—To be eligible to 
receive a grant under subsection (a), the 
State of Alaska shall provide equal matching 
funds from non-Federal sources. 

‘‘(c) CONSULTATION WITH THE STATE OF 
ALASKA.—The Secretary shall consult with 
the State of Alaska on a method of 
prioritizing the allocation of grants under 
subsection (a) according to the needs of, and 
relative health and sanitation conditions in, 
each village. 


S748 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3194 
At the appropriate place in the substitute, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . WATER SYSTEMS FOR RURAL AND NATIVE 
VILLAGES IN ALASKA. 

The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act is amended by inserting after section 
306C (7 U.S.C. 1926c) the following: 

‘‘SEC. 306D. WATER SYSTEMS FOR RURAL AND NATIVE 
VILLAGES IN ALASKA. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
make grants to the State of Alaska for the 
benefit of rural or Native villages in Alaska 
to provide for the development and construction 
of water and wastewater systems to improve 
the health and sanitation conditions in 
those villages. 

‘‘(b) MATCHING FUNDS.—To be eligible to 
receive a grant under subsection (a), the 
State of Alaska shall provide equal matching 
funds from non-Federal sources. 

‘‘(c) CONSULTATION WITH THE STATE OF 
ALASKA.—The Secretary shall consult with 
the State of Alaska on a method of 
prioritizing the allocation of grants under 
subsection (a) according to the needs of, and 
relative health and sanitation conditions in, 
each village. 

‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’. 

BRYAN AMENDMENTS NOS. 3195– 
3198 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BRYAN submitted four amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3195 
In Title I, strike the section 107 beginning 
on page 1–67, line 1 through page 1–73, line 11. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3196 
In Title II, Section 202, on page 2–2, line 8, 
strike ‘‘$100,000,000’’ and insert ‘‘$2,000,000’’ 
where appropriate. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3197 
In Title II, Section 202, on page 2–2, line 8, 
strike ‘‘$100,000,000’’ and insert ‘‘$70,000,000’’ 
where appropriate. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3198 
In Title I, strike the section 106 beginning 
on page 1–50, line 6 through page 1–66, line 24. 

BAUCUS AMENDMENT NO. 3199 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BAUCUS submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

Amend section 110 by adding the following 
at the end: 

(d) NONRECOURSE MARKETING ASSISTANCE 
LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.—In 
the case of the 2003 and subsequent crops of 
wheat and feed grains, the Secretary shall 
provide marketing loans to producers of such 
crops. 
(1) AVAILABILITY OF NONRECOURSE LOANS.— 
(A) AVAILABILITY.—For each of the 1996 
through 2002 crops, the Secretary shall make 
available to producers on a farm nonrecourse 
marketing assistance loans for wheat and 
feed grains produced on the farm. The loans 
shall be made under the terms and conditions 
that are prescribed by the Secretary 
and at the loan rate established under subsection 
(2) for the commodity. 

(B) ELIGIBLE PRODUCTION.—The following 
production shall be eligible for a marketing 
assistance loan under this section: 
(i) In the case of a marketing assistance 
loan for a contract commodity, any production 
by a producer who has entered into a 
production flexibility contract. 
(2) LOAN RATES.— 
(A) WHEAT.— 
(i) LOAN RATE.—The loan rate for wheat 
shall be— 
(I) not less than 90 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
wheat, as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
five preceding 5 crops of wheat, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period. 
(B) FEED GRAINS.— 
(i) LOAN RATE.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for corn shall be— 
(I) not less than 90 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of corn 
as determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately five 
preceding 5 crops of corn, excluding the year 
in which the average price was the highest 
and the year in which the average price was 
the lowest in the period. 
(II) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan for a 
marketing assistance loan for grain sorghum, 
barley, and oats, respectively, shall be 
established at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the rate that loans are made available for 
corn, taking into consideration the feeding 
value of commodity in relation to corn. 
(3) TERM OF LOAN.—In the case of wheat 
and feed grains, a marketing assistance loan 
under subsection (a) shall have a term of 9 
months beginning on the first day of the 
first month after the month in which the 
loan is made. 
(4) REPAYMENT.— 
(A) REPAYMENT RATES FOR WHEAT AND FEED 
GRAINS.—The Secretary shall permit a producer 
to repay a marketing assistance loan 
under subsection (a) for wheat, corn, grain 
sorghum, barley, and oats at a level that the 
Secretary determines will— 
(i) minimize potential loan forfeitures; 
(ii) minimize the accumulation of stocks of 
the commodities by the Federal Government; 
(iii) minimize the costs incurred by the 
Federal Government in storing the commodities; 
and 
(iv) allow the commodities produced in the 
United States to be marketed freely and 
competitively, both domestically and internationally. 
(5) LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 
(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary may 
make loan deficiency payments available to 
producers who, although ineligible to obtain 
a marketing assistance loan under subsection 
(a) with respect to a loan commodity, 
agree to forego obtaining the loan 
for the commodity in return for payments 
under this subsection. 
(B) COMPUTATION.—A loan deficiency payment 
shall be computed by multiplying— 
(i) the loan payment rate under paragraph 
(3) for the loan commodity; by 
(ii) the quantity of the loan commodity 
that the producers on a farm are eligible to 
place under loan but for which the producers 
forego obtaining the loan in return for payments 
under this subsection. 
(C) LOAN PAYMENT RATE.—For purposes of 
this subsection, the loan payment rate shall 
be the amount by which— 
(i) the loan rate established under subsection 
(2) for the loan commodity; exceeds 
(ii) the rate at which a loan for the commodity 
may be repaid under subsection (d). 
(6) SOURCE OF LOANS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
the loans authorized by this section and 
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
U.S.C. 1281 et seq.) through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation and other means available 
to the Secretary. 
(B) PROCESSORS.—Whenever any loan or 
surplus removal for any agricultural commodity 
is carried out through purchases 
from or loans or payments to processors, the 
Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, 
obtain from the processors such assurances 
as the Secretary considers adequate that the 
producers of the commodity have received or 
will receive the maximum benefit from the 
loan or surplus removal operation. 
(7) ADJUSTMENTS OF LOANS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may make 
appropriate adjustments in the loan levels 
for differences in grade, type, quality, location, 
and other factors. 
(B) LOAN LEVEL.—The adjustments shall, 
to the maximum extent practicable, be made 
in such manner that the average loan level 
for the commodity will, on the basis of the 
anticipated incidence of the factors, be equal 
to the level of support determined as provided 
in this section or the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.). 
(8) PERSONAL LIABILITY OF PRODUCERS FOR 
DEFICIENCIES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), no producer shall be personally 
liable for any deficiency arising from 
the sale of the collateral securing any non-
recourse loan made under this section or the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1281 et. seq.), unless the loan was obtained 
through a fraudulent representation by the 
producer. 
(B) LIMITATIONS.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
prevent the Commodity Credit Corporation 
or the Secretary from requiring the producer 
to assume liability for— 
(i) a deficiency in the grade, quality, or 
quantity of a commodity stored on a farm or 
delivered by the producer; 
(ii) a failure to properly care for and preserve 
a commodity; or 
(iii) a failure or refusal to deliver a commodity 
in accordance with a program established 
under this section or the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938. 
(C) ACQUISITION OF COLLATERAL.—The Secretary 
may include in a contract for a non-
recourse loan made under this section or the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 a provision 
that permits the Commodity Credit Corporation, 
on and after the maturity of the 
loan or any extension of the loan, to acquire 
title to the unredeemed collateral without 
obligation to pay for any market value that 
the collateral may have in excess of the loan 
indebtedness. 
(D) SUGARCANE AND SUGAR BEETS.—A security 
interest obtained by the Commodity 
Credit Corporation as a result of the execution 
of a security agreement by the processor 
of sugarcane or sugar beets shall be superior 
to all statutory and common law liens 
on raw cane sugar and refined beet sugar in 
favor of the producers of sugarcane and 
sugar beets from which the sugar was derived. 
(9) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding the provisions 
of the previous section, the provisions 
of this section shall be applicable to 1996 
through 2002 crops if the provisions of title I 
of this Act are rendered inapplicable to such 
crops of wheat and feed grains. 
EXON AMENDMENT NO. 3200 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S749 

Mr. EXON submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to 
amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


Section 110 is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 

‘‘(d) PERMANENT LAW.—Title III of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1301 et seq.) is amended by adding after section 
307 the following: 

‘SEC. 308. MARKETING LOANS. 

‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subsection (c) in the case of the 1996 and subsequent 
crops, the Secretary shall make 
available to producers on a farm a non-
recourse marketing assistance loan for crops 
of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, rice, 
and oilseeds (hereafter referred ‘‘loan crops’’) 
produced on the farm. The loans shall be 
made under terms and conditions that are 
prescribed by the Secretary and at the loan 
rate established under subsection (b). 

‘(b) LOAN RATE.—The loan rate shall be not 
less than 95 percent of the simple average 
price received by producers of loan crops, as 
determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately preceding 
5 crops for the specific loan crop. 

‘(c) SUSPENSION.—The provisions of this 
section are suspended for the 1996 through 
2002 crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, 
rice, and oilseeds.’’’ 

BAUCUS AMENDMENT NO. 3201 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BAUCUS submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert the following: 
‘‘Notwithstanding the provisions of 
the Federal Crop Insurance Act, the Secretary 
shall ensure that crop insurance is 
made available to producers so that protection 
at the 75 percent level of coverage shall 
be available at the rate for which coverage 
at the 65 percent level is available on the 
date prior to the date of enactment.’’ 

GREGG (AND OTHERS) 

AMENDMENT NO. 3202 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. GREGG (for himself, Mr. REID, 
Mr. SANTORUM, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) 
submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed by them to amendment No. 
3184 proposed by Mr. LEAHY to the bill 

S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
Strike section 107 on page 70. 
WELLSTONE AMENDMENTS NOS. 
3203–3204 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. WELLSTONE submitted two 
amendments intended to be proposed 
by him to amendment No. 3184 proposed 
by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, 
supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3203 
Amend Title I by adding to the end the following: 


SEC. 112 ADJUSTMENT TO LOAN RATE CAPS. 

‘‘(a) ATTRIBUTION.—Notwithstanding the 
provisions of sections 1001 and 1001A of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308 and 
1308–1) in the case of the 1996 through 2002 
crops of wheat, feed grains, and oilseeds, the 
Secretary shall attribute payments specified 

in section 1001 of Food Security Act of 1985 
to persons who receive the payments directly, 
and attribute payments received by 
entities to the individuals who own such entities 
in proportion to their ownership interest 
in the entity.’’ 

‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENTS IN CONTRACT ACCOUNTS 
AND LOAN GUARANTEE AUTHORITY.—For the 
crops after the Secretary has implemented 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) notwithstanding the provisions of this 
Title, reduce the Contract Payment wheat 
and feed grains provided in section 103 for 
each fiscal year by $80,000,000; and 

‘‘(2) use such savings generated in paragraph 
(1) to carry out a program to issue 
guarantee against the risk of non-payment 
arising out of loans taken out by agricultural 
producers to finance the purchase of 
stock or membership capital in cooperative 
associations engaged in value added, food, or 
industrial-use processing of agricultural 
commodities.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3204 
Amend Title I by adding to the end the following: 


SEC. 112 ADJUSTMENT TO LOAN RATE CAPS. 

‘‘(a) ATTRIBUTION.—Notwithstanding the 
provisions of sections 1001 and 1001A of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308 and 
1308–1) in the case of the 1996 through 2002 
crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, 
rice, and oilseeds, the Secretary shall attribute 
payments specified in section 1001 of 
Food Security Act of 1985 to persons who receive 
the payments directly, and attribute 
payments received by entities to the individuals 
who own such entities in proportion to 
their ownership interest in the entity.’’ 

‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENTS IN CONTRACT ACCOUNTS 
AND LOAN RATE CAPS.—For the crops after 
the Secretary has implemented subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) notwithstanding the provisions of this 
Title, reduce the Contract Payment Account 
provided in section 103 for each fiscal year by 
$140,000,000; and 

‘‘(2) increase the loan rate caps in section 
104 as follows: 

‘‘(A) $3.25 per bushel for wheat; 

‘‘(B) $2.25 per bushel for corn; 

‘‘(C) $0.60 per pound for upland cotton; 

‘‘(D) $7.00 per hunderweight for rice; 

‘‘(E) $5.10 per bushel for soybeans; and 

‘‘(F) $.10 per pound for sunflower seed, 
canola, rapeseed, safflower, mustard seed, 
and flaxseed.’’ 

MOYNIHAN (AND MIKULSKI) 

AMENDMENT NO. 3205 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. MOYNIHAN (for himself and Ms. 
MIKULSKI) submitted an amendment intended 
to be proposed by them to 
amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


On page 1–73, strike line 9 and insert the 
following: 

(i) EMERGENCY RELIEF FOR SUGARCANE REFINERS.—
Section 902(a) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (Public Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 1446g 
note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ‘‘The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall permit the importation of additional 
raw cane sugar, from individuals who held 
quotas under part VII of subtitle B of title 
III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359aa et seq.) on the day before 
the date of enactment of the Agricultural 
Market Transition Act, during such time as 
the Secretary determines that the domestic 
price of raw cane sugar exceeds 115 percent of 
the loan rate determined under section 107 of 
the Agricultural Market Transition Act.’’. 
(j) CROPS.—This section (other than subsections 
(h) and (i)). 
DORGAN AMENDMENTS NOS. 3206– 
3207 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. DORGAN submitted two amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3206 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be referred to as the ‘‘Agricultural 
Act of 1996.’’. 

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. 

The Congress findings that failure to enact 
timely legislation extending farm and related 
programs will: 

(a) Cause economic uncertainty to family 
farmers across the country who represent 
the backbone of American Agriculture; 
(b) Create instability in commodity markets; 
(c) Result in lost export markets for U.S. 
agricultural commodities; and 
(d) Prevent the Secretary of Agriculture 
from administering such programs in an orderly 
and efficient manner. 
SEC. 3. AUTHORITY FOR 1996 AGRICULTURAL 
PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provisions of law except as provided in 
this Act and the amendments made by this 
Act, the provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment 
of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.), the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et 
seq.), the Food Security Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99–198), and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624) and each program that was authorized 
or reauthorized by any of the Acts, that 
were applicable on September 30, 1995, shall 
be applicable for 1996. 
(b) FLEXIBILITY.—Amend section 504 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1464) by— 
(1) Striking subsections (c), (d), and (e) and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(c) NON-PAYMENT ACRES.—In the case of 
the 1996 crops, any crop or conserving crop 
specified in subsection (b)(1) may be planted 
on the acres of a crop acreage base that is 
not eligible for payment under this Act.’’; 

‘‘(d) LOAN ELIGIBILITY.—In the case of the 
1996 crops, producers on a farm with crop 
acreage base may plant any program crop on 
the crop acreage base and shall be eligible to 
receive purchases, loans, and loan deficiency 
payments for the program crop.’’. 

SEC. 4. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 

(a) PAYMENTS.—Section 114(a)(2) of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445(j)(a)(2)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(K) 1995 DISASTERS.—In the case of the 
producers who were prevented from planting, 
or incurred a reduced yield of 20 percent or 
more of, the 1995 crop due to weather or related 
condition, the Secretary may settle 
claims for the repayment by producers required 
under subparagraph (G) or (H) on 
terms determined by the Secretary to be fair 
and equitable, except that no claim shall be 
reduced by more than $3,500.’’ 

(b) CONSERVATION.—Section 1231(b)(4) of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3831(b)(4)) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘or’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(E) if the Secretary determines that such 
lands will be used to store water for flood 
control in a closed basin.’’ 

(c) ADVANCED PAYMENTS.— 

S750 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of 1996 crops, 
advanced payments shall be made in accordance 
with the formula described in paragraph 
(2). 
(2) FORMULA.—Payments authorized under 
this subsection shall be based on a rate equal 
to 50 percent of the average deficiency payment 
rate for the 1990 through 1994 crops. 
(3) NONREFUNDABLE.—Payments authorized 
under this subsection shall not be refundable. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3207 
Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘Farm Security Act of 1996’’. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
of this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 
TITLE I—COMMODITY PROGRAMS 
Sec. 101. Wheat, feed grain, and oilseed program. 
Sec. 102. Upland cotton program. 
Sec. 103. Rice program. 
Sec. 104. Peanut program. 
Sec. 105. Dairy program. 
Sec. 106. Sugar program. 
Sec. 107. Sheep industry transition program. 
Sec. 108. Suspension of permanent price sup


port authority. 
Sec. 109. Extension of related price support 

provisions. 
Sec. 110. Crop insurance administrative fee. 
Sec. 111. Effective date. 

TITLE II—CONSERVATION 
Sec. 201. Conservation reserve program. 
Sec. 202. Environmental quality incentives 
program. 
TITLE III—NUTRITION ASSISTANCE 
Sec. 301. Food stamp program. 
Sec. 302. Commodity distribution program; 
commodity supplemental food 
program. 
Sec. 303. Emergency food assistance program. 
Sec. 304. Soup kitchens program. 
Sec. 305. National commodity processing. 

TITLE I—COMMODITY PROGRAMS 

SEC. 101. WHEAT, FEED GRAIN, AND OILSEED 
PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.) is amended 
by adding the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 116. MARKETING LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY 
PAYMENTS FOR 1996 
THROUGH 2002 CROPS OF WHEAT, 
FEED GRAINS, AND OILSEEDS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) COVERED COMMODITIES.—The term ‘covered 
commodities’ means wheat, feed grains, 
and oilseeds. 

‘‘(2) FEED GRAINS.—The term ‘feed grains’ 
means corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, 
millet, rye, or as designated by the Secretary, 
other feed grains. 

‘‘(3) OILSEEDS.—The term ‘oilseeds’ means 
soybeans, sunflower seed, rapeseed, canola, 
safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, or as designated 
by the Secretary, other oilseeds. 

‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENT ACCOUNT.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF PAYMENT BUSHEL OF PRO-
DUCTION.—In this subsection, the term ‘payment 
bushel of production’ means— 

‘‘(A) in the case of wheat, 7/10 of a bushel; 
‘‘(B) in the case of corn, a bushel; and 
‘‘(C) in the case of other feed grains, a 

quantity determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall 
establish an Adjustment Account (referred 
to in this subsection as the ‘Account’) for 
making— 

‘‘(A) payments to producers of the 1996 
through 2002 crops of covered commodities 

who participate in the marketing loan program 
established under subsection (c); and 

‘‘(B) payments to producers of the 1994 and 
1995 crops of covered commodities that are 
authorized, but not paid, under sections 105B 
and 107B prior to the date of enactment of 
this section. 

‘‘(3) AMOUNT IN ACCOUNT.—The Secretary 
shall transfer from funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation into the Account— 

‘‘(A) $3,000,000,000 for fiscal year 1996; and 

‘‘(B) $3,900,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1997 through 2002; 
to remain available until expended. 

‘‘(4) PAYMENTS.—The Secretary shall use 
funds in the Account to make payments to 
producers of wheat and feed grains in accordance 
with this subsection. 

‘‘(5) TIER 1 SUPPORT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The producers on a farm 
referred to in paragraph (2) shall be entitled 
to a payment computed by multiplying— 

‘‘(i) the payment quantity determined 
under subparagraph (B); by 

‘‘(ii) the payment factor determined under 
subparagraph (C). 

‘‘(B) PAYMENT QUANTITY.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), the 
payment quantity for payments under subparagraph 
(A) shall be determined by the 
Secretary based on— 

‘‘(I) 90 percent of the 5-year average of the 
quantity of wheat and feed grains produced 
on the farm; 

‘‘(II) an adjustment to reflect any disaster 
or other circumstance beyond the control of 
the producers that adversely affected production 
of wheat or feed grains, as determined 
by the Secretary; and 

‘‘(III) an adjustment for planting resource 
conservation crops on the crop acreage base 
for covered commodities, and adopting conserving 
uses, on the base not enrolled in the 
environmental reserve program provided in 
paragraph (6). 

‘‘(ii) LIMITATIONS.—The quantity determined 
under clause (i) for an individual, directly 
or indirectly, shall not exceed 30,000 
payment bushels of wheat or feed grains and 
may be adjusted by the Secretary to reflect 
the availability of funds. 

‘‘(C) PAYMENT FACTOR.— 

‘‘(i) WHEAT.—The payment factor for wheat 
under subparagraph (A) shall be equal to the 
difference between a price established by the 
Secretary, of not to exceed $4.00 per bushel, 
and the greater of— 

‘‘(I) the marketing loan rate for the crop of 
wheat; or 

‘‘(II) the average domestic price for wheat 
for the crop for the calendar year in which 
the crop is normally harvested. 

‘‘(ii) CORN.—The payment factor for corn 
under subparagraph (A) shall be equal to the 
difference between a price established by the 
Secretary, of not to exceed $2.75 per bushel, 
and the greater of— 

‘‘(I) the marketing loan rate for the crop of 
corn; or 

‘‘(II) the average domestic price for corn 
for the crop for the calendar year in which 
the crop is normally harvested; 

‘‘(iii) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The payment 
factor for other feed grains under subparagraph 
(A) shall be established by the Secretary 
at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the payment factor for corn. 

‘‘(D) ADVANCE PAYMENT.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clauses (ii) and (iii), the Secretary shall 
make available to producers on a farm 50 
percent of the projected payment under this 
subsection at the time the producers agree 
to participate in the program. 

‘‘(ii) 1995 PAYMENTS.—In the case of producers 
on a farm who were prevented from 
planting, or incurred a reduced yield of 20 

percent or more of, the 1995 crop due to 
weather or related condition, the Secretary 
may settle claims for the repayment by the 
producers on terms determined by the Secretary 
to be fair and equitable, except that 
no claim shall be reduced by more than 
$3,500. 

‘‘(iii) 1996 PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—In the case of 1996 crops, 
advanced payments shall be made in accordance 
with the formula under subclause (II). 

‘‘(II) FORMULA.—Payments authorized 
under this clause shall be based on a rate 
equal to 50 percent of the average deficiency 
payment rate for the 1990 through 1994 crops. 

‘‘(III) NONREFUNDABLE.—Payments authorized 
under this clause shall not be refundable. 


‘‘(6) ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVE PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
enter into 1 to 5 year contracts with producers 
on a farm referred to in paragraph (2) 
for the purposes of enrolling flexible acreage 
base for conserving use purposes. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—Flexible acreage base 
enrolled in the environmental reserve program 
shall not be eligible for benefits provided 
in paragraph (5)(B). 

‘‘(c) MARKETING LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall 
make available to producers on a farm marketing 
loans for each of the 1996 through 2002 
crops of covered commodities produced on 
the farm. 

‘‘(2) ELIGIBILITY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible for a loan 
under this subsection, the producers on a 
farm may not plant covered commodities on 
the farm in excess of the flexible acreage 
base of the farm determined under section 
502. 

‘‘(B) AMOUNT.—The Secretary shall provide 
marketing loans for their normal production 
of covered commodities produced on a farm. 

‘‘(3) LOAN RATE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Loans made under this 
subsection shall be made at the rate of 90 
percent of the average price for the commodity 
for the previous 5 crop years, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) ADJUSTMENTS.—For each of the 1996 
through 2002 crops of covered commodities, 
the Secretary may not adjust local loan 
rates by a factor greater than 3 percent of 
the national loan rate. 

‘‘(4) REPAYMENT.— 

‘‘(A) CALCULATION.—Producers on a farm 
may repay loans made under this subsection 
for a crop at a level that is the lesser of— 

‘‘(i) the loan level determined for the crop; 
or 

‘‘(ii) the prevailing domestic market price 
for the commodity (adjusted to location and 
quality), as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) PREVAILING DOMESTIC MARKET PRICE.— 
The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation— 


‘‘(i) a formula to determine the prevailing 
domestic market price for each covered commodity; 
and 

‘‘(ii) a mechanism by which the Secretary 
shall announce periodically the prevailing 
domestic market prices established under 
this subsection. 

‘‘(d) LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may, for 
each of the 1996 through 2002 crops of covered 
commodities, make payments (referred to in 
this subsection as ‘loan deficiency payments’) 
available to producers who, although 
eligible to obtain a marketing loan under 
subsection (c), agree to forgo obtaining the 
loan in return for payments under this subsection. 


‘‘(2) COMPUTATION.—A payment under this 
subsection shall be computed by multiplying— 


‘‘(A) the loan payment rate; by 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S751 

‘‘(B) the quantity of a covered commodity 
the producer is eligible to place under loan 
but for which the producer forgoes obtaining 
the loan in return for payments under this 
subsection. 

‘‘(3) LOAN PAYMENT RATE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For the purposes of this 
subsection, the loan payment rate shall be 
the amount by which— 

‘‘(i) the marketing loan rate determined 
for the crop under subsection (c)(3); exceeds 

‘‘(ii) the level at which a loan may be repaid 
under subsection (c)(4). 

‘‘(B) DATE.—The date on which the calculation 
required under subparagraph (A) for the 
producers on a farm shall be determined by 
the producers, except that the date may not 
be later than the earlier of— 

‘‘(i) the date the producers lost beneficial 
interest in the crop; or 

‘‘(ii) the end of the marketing year for the 
crop. 

‘‘(4) APPLICATION.—Producers on a farm 
may apply for a payment for a covered commodity 
under this subsection at any time 
prior to the end of the marketing year for 
the commodity. 

‘‘(e) EQUITABLE RELIEF.—If the failure of a 
producer to comply fully with the terms and 
conditions of programs conducted under this 
section precludes the making of loans and 
payments, the Secretary may, nevertheless, 
make the loans and payments in such 
amounts as the Secretary determines are equitable 
in relation to the seriousness of the 
failure. 

‘‘(f) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this section through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 

‘‘(g) ASSIGNMENT OF PAYMENTS.—The provisions 
of section 8(g) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(g)) (relating to assignment of payments) 
shall apply to payments under this section. 

‘‘(h) TENANTS AND SHARECROPPERS.—In carrying 
out this section, the Secretary shall 
provide adequate safeguards to protect the 
interest of tenants and sharecroppers. 

‘‘(i) CROPS.—This section shall be effective 
only for the 1996 through 2002 crops of a covered 
commodity.’’. 

(b) FLEXIBLE ACREAGE BASE.— 
(1) DEFINITIONS.—Section 502 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1462) is amended 
by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) FEED GRAINS.—The term ‘feed grains’ 
means corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, 
millet, rye, or as designated by the Secretary, 
other feed grains. 

‘‘(3) GO CROPS.—The term ‘GO crops’ means 
wheat, feed grains, and oilseeds. 

‘‘(4) OILSEEDS.—The term ‘oilseed’ means a 
crop of soybeans, sunflower seed, rapeseed, 
canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, or, 
if designated by the Secretary, other oilseeds. 


‘‘(5) PROGRAM CROP.—The term ‘program 
crop’ means a GO crop and a crop of upland 
cotton or rice.’’. 

(2) CROP ACREAGE BASES.—Section 503(a) of 
the Act (7 U.S.C. 1463(a)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(A) GO CROPS.—The Secretary shall provide 
for the establishment and maintenance 
of a single crop acreage base for GO crops, 
including any GO crops produced under an 
established practice of double cropping. 

‘‘(B) COTTON AND RICE.—The Secretary 
shall provide for the establishment and 
maintenance of crop acreage bases for cotton 
and rice crops, including any program crop 
produced under an established practice of 
double cropping.’’. 

SEC. 102. UPLAND COTTON PROGRAM. 

(a) EXTENSION.—Section 103B of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1444–2) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), and 
(o), by striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 

(3) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ‘‘1998’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(4) in the heading of subsection 
(c)(1)(D)(v)(II), by striking ‘‘1997’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; 
(5) in subsection (e)(1)(D), by striking ‘‘the 
1997 crop’’ and inserting ‘‘each of the 1997 
through 2002 crops’’; and 
(6) in subsections (e)(3)(A) and (f)(1), by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(b) INCREASE IN NONPAYMENT ACRES.—Section 
103B(c)(1)(C) of the Act is amended by 
striking ‘‘85 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘80 percent 
for each of the 1996 through 2002 crops’’. 
(c) ADVANCE PAYMENT.—Section 103B(c)(1) 
of the Act is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(F) ADVANCE PAYMENT.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clauses (ii) and (iii), the Secretary shall 
make available to producers on a farm 50 
percent of the projected payment under this 
subsection at the time the producers agree 
to participate in the program. 

‘‘(ii) 1995 PAYMENTS.—In the case of producers 
on a farm who were prevented from 
planting, or incurred a reduced yield of 20 
percent or more of, the 1995 crop due to 
weather or related condition, the Secretary 
may settle claims for the repayment by the 
producers on terms determined by the Secretary 
to be fair and equitable, except that 
no claim shall be reduced by more than 
$3,500. 

‘‘(iii) 1996 PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—In the case of 1996 crops, 
advanced payments shall be made in accordance 
with the formula under subclause (II). 

‘‘(II) FORMULA.—Payments authorized 
under this clause shall be based on a rate 
equal to 50 percent of the average deficiency 
payment rate for the 1990 through 1994 crops. 

‘‘(III) NONREFUNDABLE.—Payments authorized 
under this clause shall not be refundable.’’. 


SEC. 103. RICE PROGRAM. 

(a) EXTENSION.—Section 101B of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1441–2) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsections (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), 
(c)(1)(A), (c)(1)(B)(iii), (e)(3)(A), (f)(1), and (n), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 

(3) in subsection (a)(5)(D)(i), by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’; and 
(4) in subsection (c)(1)— 
(A) in subparagraph (B)(ii)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘AND 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘THROUGH 2002’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘and 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘through 2002’’; and 
(B) in subparagraph (D)— 
(i) in clauses (i) and (v)(II), by striking 
‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in the heading of clause (v)(II), by 
striking ‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) INCREASE IN NONPAYMENT ACRES.—Section 
101B(c)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act is amended by 
striking ‘‘85 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘80 percent 
for each of the 1998 through 2002 crops’’. 
(c) ADVANCE PAYMENT.—Section 101B(c)(1) 
of the Act is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(F) ADVANCE PAYMENT.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clauses (ii) and (iii), the Secretary shall 
make available to producers on a farm 50 
percent of the projected payment under this 
subsection at the time the producers agree 
to participate in the program. 

‘‘(ii) 1995 PAYMENTS.—In the case of producers 
on a farm who were prevented from 
planting, or incurred a reduced yield of 20 
percent or more of, the 1995 crop due to 
weather or related condition, the Secretary 
may settle claims for the repayment by the 
producers on terms determined by the Secretary 
to be fair and equitable, except that 
no claim shall be reduced by more than 
$3,500. 

‘‘(iii) 1996 PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—In the case of 1996 crops, 
advanced payments shall be made in accordance 
with the formula under subclause (II). 

‘‘(II) FORMULA.—Payments authorized 
under this clause shall be based on a rate 
equal to 50 percent of the average deficiency 
payment rate for the 1990 through 1994 crops. 

‘‘(III) NONREFUNDABLE.—Payments authorized 
under this clause shall not be refundable.’’. 


SEC. 104. PEANUT PROGRAM. 

(a) EXTENSION.— 
(1) AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.—Section 108B 
of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 
1445c–3) is amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(B) in subsection (a)(1), (b)(1), and (h), by 
striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 
(C) in subsection (g)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘1997’’ in paragraphs (1) and 
(2)(A)(ii)(II) and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘the 1997 crop’’ each place 
it appears and inserting ‘‘each of the 1997 
through 2002 crops’’. 
(2) AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 
1938.—Part VI of subtitle B of title III of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 is 
amended— 
(A) in section 358–1 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in subsections (a)(1), (b), and (f), by 
striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; 
(B) in section 358b (7 U.S.C. 1358b)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(C) in section 358c(d) (7 U.S.C. 1358c(d)), by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(D) in section 358e (7 U.S.C. 1359a)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘1997’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) SUPPORT RATES FOR PEANUTS.—Section 
108B(a)(2) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1445c–3(a)(2)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(2) SUPPORT RATES.—The’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(2) SUPPORT RATES.— 
‘‘(A) 1991–1995 CROPS.—The’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) 1996–2002 CROPS.—The national average 
quota support rate for each of the 1996 
through 2002 crops of quota peanuts shall be 
$678 per ton.’’. 

(c) UNDERMARKETINGS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 358–1(b) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1358–1(b)) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (7), by adding at the end 
the following:: 
‘‘(C) TRANSFER OF ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
Additional peanuts on a farm from which the 
quota poundage was not harvested or marketed 
may be transferred to the quota loan 


S752 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

pool for pricing purposes at the quota price 
on such basis as the Secretary shall be regulation 
provide, except that the poundage of 
the peanuts so transferred shall not exceed 
the difference in the total quantity of peanuts 
meeting quality requirements for domestic 
edible use, as determined by the Secretary, 
marketed from the farm and the 
total farm poundage quota.’’; and 

(B) by striking paragraphs (8) and (9). 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
358b(a) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1358b(a)) is 
amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘undermarketings 
and’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘(including 
any applicable undermarketings)’’. 
SEC. 105. DAIRY PROGRAM. 

(a) PRICE SUPPORT.—Section 204 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446e) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsections (a), (b), (f), (g), and (k), 
by striking ‘‘1996’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(3) in subsection (h)(2)(C), by striking ‘‘and 
1997’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2002’’. 
(b) SUPPORT PRICE FOR BUTTER AND POWDERED 
MILK.—Section 204(c)(3) of the Act is 
amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Subject 
to subparagraph (B), the’’ and inserting 
‘‘The’’; 
(2) by striking subparagraph (B); and 
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
subparagraph (B). 
(c) SUPPORT RATE.—Section 204(d) of the 
Act is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraphs (1) through (3); 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) 
as paragraphs (1) and (2) respectively; and 
(3) in paragraph (1) (as so redesignated), by 
striking ‘‘$10.10’’ and inserting ‘‘$10.35’’. 
SEC. 106. SUGAR PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 206 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446g) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 206. SUGAR SUPPORT FOR 1996 THROUGH 
2002 CROPS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE.—The 
term ‘Agreement on Agriculture’ means the 
Agreement on Agriculture resulting from the 
Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. 


‘‘(2) MAJOR COUNTRY.—The term ‘major 
country’ includes— 

‘‘(A) a country that is allocated a share of 
the tariff rate quota for imported sugars and 
syrups by the United States Trade Representative 
pursuant to additional U.S. note 
5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule; 

‘‘(B) a country of the European Union; and 

‘‘(C) the People’s Republic of China. 

‘‘(3) MARKET.—The term ‘market’ means to 
sell or otherwise dispose of in commerce in 
the United States (including, with respect to 
any integrated processor and refiner, the 
movement of raw cane sugar into the refining 
process) and delivery to a buyer. 

‘‘(4) TOTAL ESTIMATED DISAPPEARANCE.— 
The term ‘total estimated disappearance’ 
means the quantity of sugar, as estimated by 
the Secretary, that will be consumed in the 
United States during a fiscal year (other 
than sugar imported for the production of 
polyhydric alcohol or to be refined and reexported 
in refined form or in a sugar-containing 
product), plus the quantity of sugar 
that would provide for adequate carryover 
stocks. 

‘‘(b) PRICE SUPPORT.—The price of each of 
the 1996 through 2002 crops of sugar beets and 
sugarcane shall be supported in accordance 
with this section. 

‘‘(c) SUGARCANE.—Subject to subsection 
(e), the Secretary shall support the price of 

domestically grown sugarcane through loans 
at a support level of 18 cents per pound for 
raw cane sugar. 

‘‘(d) SUGAR BEETS.—Subject to subsection 
(e), the Secretary shall support the price of 
each crop of domestically grown sugar beets 
through loans at the level provided for refined 
beet sugar produced from the 1995 crop 
of domestically grown sugar beets. 

‘‘(e) ADJUSTMENT IN SUPPORT LEVEL.— 

‘‘(1) DOWNWARD ADJUSTMENT IN SUPPORT 
LEVEL.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall decrease 
the support price of domestically 
grown sugarcane and sugar beets from the 
level determined for the preceding crop, as 
determined under this section, if the quantity 
of negotiated reductions in export and 
domestic subsidies of sugar that apply to the 
European Union and other major countries 
in the aggregate exceed the quantity of the 
reductions in the subsidies agreed to under 
the Agreement of Agriculture. 

‘‘(B) EXTENT OF REDUCTION.—The Secretary 
shall not reduce the level of price support 
under subparagraph (A) below a level that 
provides an equal measure of support to the 
level provided by the European Union or any 
other major country through domestic and 
export subsidies that are subject to reduction 
under the Agreement on Agriculture. 

‘‘(2) INCREASES IN SUPPORT LEVEL.—The 
Secretary may increase the support level for 
each crop of domestically grown sugarcane 
and sugar beets from the level determined 
for the preceding crop based on such factors 
as the Secretary determines appropriate, including 
changes (during the 2 crop years immediately 
preceding the crop year for which 
the determination is made) in the cost of 
sugar products, the cost of domestic sugar 
production, the amount of any applicable assessments, 
and other factors or circumstances 
that may adversely affect domestic 
sugar production.

‘‘(f) LOAN TYPE; PROCESSOR ASSURANCES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
the Secretary shall carry out this section by 
making recourse loans to sugar producers. 

‘‘(2) MODIFICATION.—During any fiscal year 
in which the tariff rate quota for imports of 
sugar into the United States is established 
at, or is increased to, a level that exceeds the 
minimum level for the imports committed to 
by the United States under the Agreement 
on Agriculture, the Secretary shall carry out 
this section by making nonrecourse loans 
available to sugar producers. Any recourse 
loan previously made available by the Secretary 
and not repaid under this section during 
the fiscal year shall be converted into a 
nonrecourse loan. 

‘‘(3) PROCESSOR ASSURANCES.—To effectively 
support the prices of sugar beets and 
sugarcane received by a producer, the Secretary 
shall obtain from each processor that 
receives a loan under this section such assurances 
as the Secretary considers adequate 
that, if the Secretary is required under paragraph 
(2) to make nonrecourse loans available, 
or convert recourse loans into non-
recourse loans, each producer served by the 
processor will receive the appropriate minimum 
payment for sugar beets and sugarcane 
delivered by the producer, as determined 
by the Secretary.

‘‘(g) ANNOUNCEMENTS.—The Secretary shall 
announce the type of loans available and the 
loan rates for beet and cane sugar for any 
fiscal year under this section as far in advance 
as is practicable.

‘‘(h) LOAN TERM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2) and subsection (i), a loan under 
this section during any fiscal year shall be 
made available not earlier than the beginning 
of the fiscal year and shall mature at 
the end of 3 months. 

‘‘(2) EXTENSION.—The maturity of a loan 
under this section may be extended for up to 

2 additional 3-month periods, at the option of 
the borrower, except that the maturity of a 
loan may not be extended under this paragraph 
beyond the end of the fiscal year. 

‘‘(i) SUPPLEMENTARY LOANS.—Subject to 
subsection (e), the Secretary shall make 
available to eligible processors price support 
loans with respect to sugar processed from 
sugar beets and sugarcane harvested in the 
last 3 months of a fiscal year. The loans shall 
mature at the end of the fiscal year. The 
processor may repledge the sugar as collateral 
for a price support loan in the subsequent 
fiscal year, except that the second 
loan shall— 

‘‘(1) be made at the loan rate in effect at 
the time the second loan is made; and 

‘‘(2) mature in not more than 9 months, 
less the quantity of time that the first loan 
was in effect. 

‘‘(j) USE OF COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—
The Secretary shall use the funds, facilities, 
and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to carry out this section. 

‘‘(k) MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Assessments shall be collected 
in accordance with this subsection 
with respect to all sugar marketed within 
the United States during the 1996 through 
2002 fiscal years. 

‘‘(2) BEET SUGAR.—The first seller of beet 
sugar produced from domestic sugar beets or 
domestic sugar beet molasses shall remit to 
the Commodity Credit Corporation a nonrefundable 
marketing assessment in an 
amount equal to 1.1894 percent of the loan 
level established under subsection (d) per 
pound of sugar marketed. 

‘‘(3) CANE SUGAR.—The first seller of raw 
cane sugar produced from domestic sugarcane 
or domestic sugarcane molasses shall 
remit to the Commodity Credit Corporation 
a nonrefundable marketing assessment in an 
amount equal to 1.11 percent of the loan 
level established under subsection (c) per 
pound of sugar marketed (including the 
transfer or delivery of the sugar to a refinery 
for further processing or marketing). 

‘‘(4) COLLECTION.— 

‘‘(A) TIMING.—Marketing assessments required 
under this subsection shall be collected 
and remitted to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation not later than 30 days after 
the date that the sugar is marketed. 

‘‘(B) MANNER.—Subject to subparagraph 
(A), marketing assessments shall be collected 
under this subsection in the manner 
prescribed by the Secretary and shall be nonrefundable. 


‘‘(5) PENALTIES.—If any person fails to 
remit an assessment required by this subsection 
or fails to comply with such requirements 
for recordkeeping or otherwise fails to 
comply with this subsection, the person shall 
be liable to the Secretary for a civil penalty 
of not more than an amount determined by 
multiplying— 

‘‘(A) the quantity of sugar involved in the 
violation; by 

‘‘(B) the loan level for the applicable crop 
of sugarcane or sugar beets from which the 
sugar is produced. 

For the purposes of this paragraph, refined 
sugar shall be treated as produced from 
sugar beets. 

‘‘(6) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may 
enforce this subsection in the courts of the 
United States. 

‘‘(l) INFORMATION REPORTING.— 

‘‘(1) DUTY OF PROCESSORS AND REFINERS TO 
REPORT.—A sugarcane processor, cane sugar 
refiner, and sugar beet processor shall furnish 
the Secretary, on a monthly basis, such 
information as the Secretary may require to 
administer sugar programs, including the 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S753 

quantity of purchases of sugarcane, sugar 
beets, and sugar, and production, importation, 
distribution, and stock levels of sugar. 

‘‘(2) DUTY OF PRODUCERS TO REPORT.—To efficiently 
and effectively carry out the program 
under this section, the Secretary may 
require a producer of sugarcane or sugar 
beets to report, in the manner prescribed by 
the Secretary, the producer’s sugarcane or 
sugar beet yields and acres planted to sugarcane 
or sugar beets, respectively. 

‘‘(3) PENALTY.—Any person willfully failing 
or refusing to furnish the information, or 
furnishing willfully any false information, 
required under this subsection shall be subject 
to a civil penalty of not more than 
$10,000 for each such violation. 

‘‘(4) MONTHLY REPORTS.—Taking into consideration 
the information received under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish on 
a monthly basis composite data on production, 
imports, distribution, and stock levels 
of sugar. 

‘‘(m) SUGAR ESTIMATES.— 

‘‘(1) DOMESTIC REQUIREMENT.—Before the 
beginning of each fiscal year, the Secretary 
shall estimate the domestic sugar requirement 
of the United States in an amount that 
is equal to the total estimated disappearance, 
minus the quantity of sugar that will 
be available from carry-in stocks. 

‘‘(2) QUARTERLY REESTIMATES.—The Secretary 
shall make quarterly reestimates of 
sugar consumption, stocks, production, and 
imports for a fiscal year not later than the 
beginning of each of the second through 
fourth quarters of the fiscal year. 

‘‘(n) CROPS.—This section shall be effective 
only for the 1996 through 2002 crops of sugar 
beets and sugarcane.’’. 

(b) MARKETING QUOTAS.—Part VII of subtitle 
B of title III of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359aa et seq.) is 
repealed. 
SEC. 107. SHEEP INDUSTRY TRANSITION PROGRAM. 


Title II of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 

U.S.C. 1446 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 208. SHEEP INDUSTRY TRANSITION PROGRAM. 


‘‘(a) LOSS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, on 
presentation of warehouse receipts or other 
acceptable evidence of title as determined by 
the Secretary, make available for each of the 
1996 through 1999 marketing years recourse 
loans for wool at a loan level, per pound, 
that is not less than the smaller of— 

‘‘(A) the average price (weighted by market 
and month) of the base quality of wool at 
average location in the United States as 
quoted during the 5-marketing year period 
preceding the year in which the loan level is 
announced, excluding the year in which the 
average price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period; or 

‘‘(B) 90 percent of the average price for 
wool projected for the marketing year in 
which the loan level is announced, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) ADJUSTMENTS TO LOAN LEVEL.— 

‘‘(A) LIMITATION ON DECREASE IN LOAN 
LEVEL.—The loan level for any marketing 
year determined under paragraph (1) may 
not be reduced by more than 5 percent from 
the level determined for the preceding marketing 
year, and may not be reduced below 
50 cents per pound. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION ON INCREASE IN LOAN 
LEVEL.—If for any marketing year the average 
projected price determined under paragraph 
(1)(B) is less than the average United 
States market price determined under paragraph 
(1)(A), the Secretary may increase the 
loan level to such level as the Secretary may 

consider appropriate, not in excess of the average 
United States market price determined 
under paragraph (1)(A). 

‘‘(C) ADJUSTMENT FOR QUALITY.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B), the Secretary may 
adjust the loan level of a loan made under 
this section with respect to a quantity of 
wool to more accurately reflect the quality 
of the wool, as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(ii) ESTABLISHMENT OF GRADING SYSTEM.— 
To allow producers to establish the quality 
of wool produced on a farm, the Secretary 
shall establish a grading system for wool, 
based on micron diameter of the fibers in the 
wool. 

‘‘(iii) FEES.—The Secretary may charge 
each person that requests a grade for a quantity 
of wool a fee to offset the costs of testing 
and establishing a grade for the wool. 

‘‘(iv) TESTING FACILITIES.—To the extent 
practicable, the Secretary may certify State, 
local, or private facilities to carry out the 
grading of wool for the purpose of carrying 
out this subparagraph. 

‘‘(3) ANNOUNCEMENT OF LOAN LEVEL.—The 
loan level for any marketing year of wool 
shall be determined and announced by the 
Secretary not later than December 1 of the 
calendar year preceding the marketing year 
for which the loan is to be effective or, in the 
case of the 1996 marketing year, as soon as is 
practicable after December 1, 1995. 

‘‘(4) TERM OF LOAN.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Recourse loans provided 
for in this section may be made for an initial 
term of 9 months from the first day of the 
month in which the loan is made. 

‘‘(B) EXTENSIONS.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (C), recourse loans provided for 
in this section shall, on request of the producer 
during the 9th month of the loan period 
for the wool, be made available for an 
additional term of 8 months. 

‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—A request to extend the 
loan period shall not be approved in any 
month in which the average price of the base 
quality of wool, as determined by the Secretary, 
in the designated markets for the 
preceding month exceeded 130 percent of the 
average price of the base quality of wool in 
the designated United States markets for the 
preceding 36-month period 

‘‘(5) MARKETING LOAN PROVISIONS.—If the 
Secretary determines that the prevailing 
world market price for wool (adjusted to 
United States quality and location) is below 
the loan level determined under paragraphs 

(1) through (4), to make United States wool 
competitive, the Secretary shall permit a 
producer to repay a loan made for any marketing 
year at the lesser of— 
‘‘(A) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year; or 

‘‘(B) the higher of— 

‘‘(i) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year multiplied by 70 percent; or 

‘‘(ii) the prevailing world market price for 
wool (adjusted to United States quality and 
location), as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(6) PREVAILING WORLD MARKET PRICE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall prescribe 
by regulation— 

‘‘(i) a formula to define the prevailing 
world market price for wool (adjusted to 
United States quality and location); and 

‘‘(ii) a mechanism by which the Secretary 
shall announce periodically the prevailing 
world market price for wool (adjusted to 
United States quality and location). 

‘‘(B) USE.—The prevailing world market 
price for wool (adjusted to United States 
quality and location) established under this 
paragraph shall be used to carry out paragraph 
(5). 

‘‘(C) ADJUSTMENT OF PREVAILING WORLD 
MARKET PRICE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The prevailing world 
market price for wool (adjusted to United 
States quality and location) established 
under this paragraph shall be further adjusted 
if the adjusted prevailing world market 
price is less than 115 percent of the current 
marketing year loan level for the base 
quality of wool, as determined by the Secretary. 


‘‘(ii) FURTHER ADJUSTMENT.—The adjusted 
prevailing world market price shall be further 
adjusted on the basis of some or all of 
the following data, as available: 

‘‘(I) The United States share of world exports. 


‘‘(II) The current level of wool export sales 
and wool export shipments. 

‘‘(III) Other data determined by the Secretary 
to be relevant in establishing an accurate 
prevailing world market price for wool 
(adjusted to United States quality and location). 


‘‘(D) MARKET PRICE QUOTATION.—The Secretary 
may establish a system to monitor 
and make available on a weekly basis information 
with respect to the most recent average 
domestic and world market prices for 
wool. 

‘‘(7) PARTICIPATION.—The Secretary may 
make loans available under this subsection 
to producers, cooperatives, or marketing 
pools. 

‘‘(b) LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, for 
each of the 1996 through 1999 marketing 
years of wool, make payments available to 
producers who, although eligible to obtain a 
loan under subsection (a), agree to forgo obtaining 
the loan in return for payments 
under this subsection. 

‘‘(2) COMPUTATION.—A payment under this 
subsection shall be computed by multiplying— 


‘‘(A) the loan payment rate; by 

‘‘(B) the quantity of wool the producer is 
eligible to place under loan but for which the 
producer forgoes obtaining the loan in return 
for payments under this subsection. 

‘‘(3) LOAN PAYMENT RATE.—For purposes of 
this subsection, the loan payment rate shall 
be the amount by which— 

‘‘(A) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year under subsection (a); exceeds 

‘‘(B) the level at which a loan may be repaid 
under subsection (a). 

‘‘(c) DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall 
make available to producers deficiency payments 
for each of the 1996 through 1999 marketing 
years of wool in an amount computed 
by multiplying— 

‘‘(A) the payment rate; by 

‘‘(B) the payment quantity of wool for the 
marketing year. 

‘‘(2) PAYMENT RATE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The payment rate for 
wool shall be the amount by which the established 
price for the marketing year of wool 
exceeds the higher of— 

‘‘(i) the national average market price received 
by producers during the marketing 
year, as determined by the Secretary; or 

‘‘(ii) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year. 

‘‘(B) MINIMUM ESTABLISHED PRICE.—The established 
price for wool shall not be less 
than $2.12 per pound on a grease wool basis 
for each of the 1996 through 1999 marketing 
years. 

‘‘(3) PAYMENT QUANTITY.—Payment quantity 
of wool for a marketing year shall be 
the number of pounds of wool produced during 
the marketing year. 

‘‘(d) EQUITABLE RELIEF.— 

‘‘(1) LOANS AND PAYMENTS.—If the failure of 
a producer to comply fully with the terms 
and conditions of the program conducted 
under this section precludes the making of 


S754 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

loans and payments, the Secretary may, nevertheless, 
make the loans and payments in 
such amounts as the Secretary determines 
are equitable in relation to the seriousness 
of the failure. The Secretary may consider 
whether the producer made a good faith effort 
to comply fully with the terms and conditions 
of the program in determining 
whether equitable relief is warranted under 
this paragraph. 

‘‘(2) DEADLINES AND PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—
The Secretary may authorize the 
county and State committees established 
under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(b)) to waive or modify deadlines and 
other program requirements in cases in 
which lateness or failure to meet such other 
requirements does not affect adversely the 
operation of the program. 

‘‘(e) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may 
issue such regulations as the Secretary determines 
necessary to carry out this section. 

‘‘(f) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this section through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 

‘‘(g) ASSIGNMENT OF PAYMENTS.—The provisions 
of section 8(g) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(g)) (relating to assignment of payments) 
shall apply to payments under this section. 

‘‘(h) SHARING OF PAYMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall provide for the sharing of payments 
made under this section for any farm 
among the producers on the farm on a fair 
and equitable basis. 

‘‘(i) TENANTS AND SHARECROPPERS.—The 
Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards 
to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers. 


‘‘(j) CROSS-COMPLIANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Compliance on a farm 
with the terms and conditions of any other 
commodity program, or compliance with 
marketing year acreage base requirements 
for any other commodity, may not be required 
as a condition of eligibility for loans 
or payments under this section. 

‘‘(2) COMPLIANCE ON OTHER FARMS.—The 
Secretary may not require producers on a 
farm, as a condition of eligibility for loans or 
payments under this section for the farm, to 
comply with the terms and conditions of the 
wool program with respect to any other farm 
operated by the producers. 

‘‘(k) LIMITATION ON OUTLAYS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The total amount of payments 
that may be made available to all producers 
under this section may not exceed— 

‘‘(A) $75,000,000, during any single marketing 
year; or 

‘‘(B) $200,000,000 in the aggregate for marketing 
years 1996 through 1999. 

‘‘(2) PRORATION OF BENEFITS.—To the extent 
that the total amount of benefits for 
which producers are eligible under this section 
exceeds the limitations in paragraph (1), 
funds made available under this section shall 
be prorated among all eligible producers. 

‘‘(3) PERSON LIMITATION.— 

‘‘(A) LOANS.—No person may realize gains 
or receive payments under subsection (a) or 

(b) that exceed $75,000 during any marketing 
year. 
‘‘(B) DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.—No person 
may receive payments under subsection (c) 
that exceed $50,000 during any marketing 
year. 

‘‘(l) MARKETING YEARS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, this section shall 
be effective only for the 1996 through 1999 
marketing years for wool.’’. 

SEC. 108. SUSPENSION OF PERMANENT PRICE 
SUPPORT AUTHORITY. 

(a) WHEAT.— 
(1) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.—
Sections 379d through 379j of 
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 

U.S.C. 1379d–1379j) shall not be applicable to 
wheat processors or exporters during the period 
June 1, 1995, through May 31, 2003. 
(2) SUSPENSION OF LAND USE, WHEAT MARKETING 
ALLOCATION, AND PRODUCER CERTIFICATE 
PROVISIONS.—Sections 331 through 339, 
379b, and 379c of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1331 through 1339, 
1379b, and 1379c) shall not be applicable to 
the 1996 through 2002 crops of wheat. 
(3) SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN QUOTA PROVISIONS.—
The joint resolution entitled ‘‘A 
joint resolution relating to corn and wheat 
marketing quotas under the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938, as amended’’, approved 
May 26, 1941 (7 U.S.C. 1330 and 1340), shall not 
be applicable to the crops of wheat planted 
for harvest in the calendar years 1996 
through 2002. 
(4) NONAPPLICABILITY OF SECTION 107 OF THE 
AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.—Section 107 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445a) shall 
not be applicable to the 1996 through 2002 
crops of wheat. 
(b) FEED GRAINS.— 
(1) NONAPPLICABILITY OF SECTION 105 OF THE 
AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.—Section 105 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1444b) shall 
not be applicable to the 1996 through 2002 
crops of feed grains. 
(2) RECOURSE LOAN PROGRAM FOR SILAGE.— 
Section 403 of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(7 U.S.C. 1444e–1) is amended by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(c) OILSEEDS.—Section 201(a) of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘oilseeds’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘determine),’’. 
(d) UPLAND COTTON.— 
(1) SUSPENSION OF BASE ACREAGE ALLOTMENTS, 
MARKETING QUOTAS, AND RELATED PROVISIONS.—
Sections 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, and 
377 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1342–1346 and 1377) shall not be 
applicable to any of the 1996 through 2002 
crops of upland cotton. 
(2) MISCELLANEOUS COTTON PROVISIONS.— 
Section 103(a) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1444(a)) shall not be applicable to 
the 1996 through 2002 crops. 
(e) PEANUTS.— 
(1) SUSPENSION OF MARKETING QUOTAS AND 
ACREAGE ALLOTMENTS.—The following provisions 
of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 shall not be applicable to the 1996 
through 2002 crops of peanuts: 
(A) Subsections (a) through (j) of section 
358 (7 U.S.C. 1358). 
(B) Subsections (a) through (h) of section 
358a (7 U.S.C. 1358a). 
(C) Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of section 
358d (7 U.S.C. 1359). 
(D) Part I of subtitle C of title III (7 U.S.C. 
1361 et seq.). 
(E) Section 371 (7 U.S.C. 1371). 

(2) REPORTS AND RECORDS.—Effective only 
for the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts, 
the first sentence of section 373(a) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1373(a)) is amended by inserting before ‘‘all 
brokers and dealers in peanuts’’ the following: 
‘‘all producers engaged in the production 
of peanuts,’’. 
(3) SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN PRICE SUPPORT 
PROVISIONS.—Section 101 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1441) shall not be applicable 
to the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts. 
SEC. 109. EXTENSION OF RELATED PRICE SUPPORT 
PROVISIONS. 

(a) DEFICIENCY AND LAND DIVERSION PAYMENTS.—
Section 114 of the Agricultural Act 
of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445j) is amended— 
(1) in subsections (a)(1) and (c), by striking 
‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF ESTABLISHED PRICES.— 
Section 402(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1422(b)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(c) ADJUSTMENT OF SUPPORT PRICES.—Section 
403(c) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1423(c)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(d) APPLICATION OF TERMS IN THE AGRICULTURAL 
ACT OF 1949.—Section 408(k)(3) of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1428(k)(3)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(e) ACREAGE BASE AND YIELD SYSTEM.— 
Title V of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1461 et seq.) is amended— 
(1) in subsections (c)(3) and (h)(2)(A) of section 
503 (7 U.S.C. 1463), by striking ‘‘1997’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
505(b) (7 U.S.C. 1465(b)), by striking ‘‘1997’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(3) in section 509 (7 U.S.C. 1469), by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(f) PAYMENT LIMITATIONS.—Section 1001 of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308) 
is amended by striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it 
appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(g) NORMALLY PLANTED ACREAGE.—Section 
1001 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 
(7 U.S.C. 1309) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
each place it appears in subsections (a), 
(b)(1), and (c) and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(h) OPTIONS PILOT PROGRAM.—The Options 
Pilot Program Act of 1990 (subtitle E of title 
XI of Public Law 101–624; 104 Stat. 3518; 7 
U.S.C. 1421 note) is amended— 
(1) in subsections (a) and (b) of section 1153, 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in section 1154(b)(1)(A), by striking 
‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(i) FOOD SECURITY WHEAT RESERVE.—Section 
302(i) of the Food Security Wheat Reserve 
Act of 1980 (7 U.S.C. 1736f–1(i)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 110. CROP INSURANCE ADMINISTRATIVE 
FEE. 

Section 508(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1508) is amended— 

(1) by striking paragraph (5); and 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through 
(10) as paragraphs (5) through (9), respectively. 
SEC. 111. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise specifically 
provided in this title, this title and 
the amendments made by this title shall 
apply beginning with the 1996 crop of an agricultural 
commodity. 
(b) PRIOR CROPS.—Except as otherwise specifically 
provided and notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, this title and the 
amendments made by this title shall not affect 
the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture 
to carry out a price support, production 
adjustment, or payment program for— 
(1) any of the 1991 through 1995 crops of an 
agricultural commodity established under a 
provision of law as in effect immediately before 
the enactment of this Act; or 
(2) the 1996 crop of an agricultural commodity 
established under section 406(b) of 
the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1426(b)). 
TITLE II—CONSERVATION 

SEC. 201. CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM. 

Section 1231 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ each place it appears in subsections 

(a) and (d) and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S755 

SEC. 202. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM. 

Chapter 2 of subtitle D of title XII of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3838 et 
seq.) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘CHAPTER 2—ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 
INCENTIVES PROGRAM 
‘‘SEC. 1238. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE.—The 
term ‘land management practice’ means nutrient 
or manure management, integrated 
pest management, irrigation management, 
tillage or residue management, grazing management, 
or another land management practice 
the Secretary determines is needed to 
protect soil, water, or related resources in 
the most cost efficient manner. 

‘‘(2) LARGE CONFINED LIVESTOCK OPERATION.—
The term ‘large confined livestock 
operation’ means a farm or ranch that— 

‘‘(A) is a confined animal feeding operation; 
and 

‘‘(B) has more than— 

‘‘(i) 700 mature dairy cattle; 

‘‘(ii) 1,000 beef cattle; 

‘‘(iii) 100,000 laying hens or broilers; 

‘‘(iv) 55,000 turkeys; 

‘‘(v) 2,500 swine; or 

‘‘(vi) 10,000 sheep or lambs. 

‘‘(3) LIVESTOCK.—The term ‘livestock’ 
means mature dairy cows, beef cattle, laying 
hens, broilers, turkeys, swine, sheep, or 
lambs. 

‘‘(4) OPERATOR.—The term ‘operator’ 
means a person who is engaged in crop or 
livestock production (as defined by the Secretary). 


‘‘(5) STRUCTURAL PRACTICE.—The term 
‘structural practice’ means the establishment 
of an animal waste management facility, 
terrace, grassed waterway, contour grass 
strip, filterstrip, permanent wildlife habitat, 
or another structural practice that the Secretary 
determines is needed to protect soil, 
water, or related resources in the most cost 
effective manner. 

‘‘SEC. 1238A ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRA


TION OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 

INCENTIVES PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—During the 1996 through 
2006 fiscal years, the Secretary shall enter 
into contracts with operators to provide 
technical assistance, cost-sharing payments, 
and incentive payments to operators, who 
enter into contracts with the Secretary, 
through an environmental quality incentives 
program in accordance with this chapter. 

‘‘(2) CONSOLIDATION OF EXISTING PRO-
GRAMS.—In establishing the environmental 
quality incentives program authorized under 
this chapter, the Secretary shall combine 
into a single program the functions of— 

‘‘(A) the agricultural conservation program 
authorized by sections 7 and 8 of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590g and 590h); 

‘‘(B) the Great Plains conservation program 
established under section 16(b) of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)); 

‘‘(C) the water quality incentives program 
established under this chapter; and 

‘‘(D) the Colorado River Basin salinity control 
program established under section 202(c) 
of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)). 

‘‘(b) APPLICATION AND TERM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A contract between an 
operator and the Secretary under this chapter 
may— 

‘‘(A) apply to 1 or more structural practices 
or 1 or more land management practices, 
or both; and 

‘‘(B) have a term of not less than 5, nor 
more than 10, years, as determined appro


priate by the Secretary, depending on the 
practice or practices that are the basis of the 
contract. 

‘‘(2) CONTRACT EFFECTIVE DATE.—A contract 
between an operator and the Secretary 
under this chapter shall become effective on 
October 1st following the date the contract 
is fully entered into. 

‘‘(c) COST-SHARING AND INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(1) COST-SHARING PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of 
cost-sharing payments to an operator proposing 
to implement 1 or more structural 
practices shall not be more than 75 percent 
of the projected cost of the practice, as determined 
by the Secretary, taking into consideration 
any payment received by the operator 
from a State or local government. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—An operator of a large 
confined livestock operation shall not be eligible 
for cost-sharing payments to construct 
an animal waste management facility. 

‘‘(C) OTHER PAYMENTS.—An operator shall 
not be eligible for cost-sharing payments for 
structural practices on eligible land under 
this chapter if the operator receives cost-
sharing payments or other benefits for the 
same land under chapter 1 or 3. 

‘‘(2) INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall make incentive payments in an amount 
and at a rate determined by the Secretary to 
be necessary to encourage an operator to 
perform 1 or more land management practices. 


‘‘(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall allocate 
funding under this chapter for the provision 
of technical assistance according to 
the purpose and projected cost for which the 
technical assistance is provided in a fiscal 
year. The allocated amount may vary according 
to the type of expertise required 
quantity of time involved, and other factors 
as determined appropriate by the Secretary. 
Funding shall not exceed the projected cost 
to the Secretary of the technical assistance 
provided in a fiscal year. 

‘‘(2) OTHER AUTHORITIES.—The receipt of 
technical assistance under this chapter shall 
not affect the eligibility of the operator to 
receive technical assistance under other authorities 
of law available to the Secretary. 

‘‘(e) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall use to 
carry out this chapter not less than— 

‘‘(1) $200,000,000 for fiscal year 1997; and 

‘‘(2) $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2002. 

‘‘(f) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary may use the funds, facilities, and 
authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
to carry out this subchapter. 

‘‘SEC. 1238B. CONSERVATION PRIORITY AREAS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall designate 
watersheds or regions of special environmental 
sensitivity, including the Chesapeake 
Bay region (located in Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, and Virginia), the Great Lakes region, 
the Long Island Sound region, prairie 
pothole region (located in North Dakota, 
South Dakota, and Minnesota), Rainwater 
Basin (located in Nebraska), and other areas 
the Secretary considers appropriate, as conservation 
priority areas that are eligible for 
enhanced assistance through the programs 
established under this chapter and chapter 1. 

‘‘(b) APPLICABILITY.—A designation shall 
be made under this section if an application 
is made by a State agency and agricultural 
practices within the watershed or region 
pose a significant threat to soil, water, and 
related natural resources, as determined by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘SEC. 1238C. EVALUATION OF OFFERS AND PAYMENTS. 


‘‘(a) REGIONAL PRIORITIES.—The Secretary 
shall provide technical assistance, cost-shar


ing payments, and incentive payments to operators 
in a region, watershed, or conservation 
priority area under this chapter based 
on the significance of soil, water, and related 
natural resources problems in the region, 
watershed, or area, and the structural practices 
or land management practices that best 
address the problems, as determined by the 
Secretary. 

‘‘(b) MAXIMIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In providing technical 
assistance, cost-sharing payments, and incentive 
payments to operators in regions, 
watersheds, or conservation priority areas 
under this chapter, the Secretary shall accord 
a higher priority to assistance and payments 
that maximize environmental benefits 
per dollar expended. 

‘‘(2) STATE OR LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—The 
Secretary shall accord a higher priority to 
operators whose agricultural operations are 
located within watersheds, regions, or conservation 
priority areas in which State or 
local governments have provided, or will provide, 
financial or technical assistance to the 
operators for the same conservation or environmental 
purposes. 

‘‘SEC. 1238D. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM PLAN. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Prior to approving cost-
share or incentive payments authorized 
under this chapter, the Secretary shall require 
the preparation and evaluation of an 
environmental quality incentives program 
plan described in subsection (b), unless the 
Secretary determines that such a plan is not 
necessary to evaluate the application for the 
payments. 

‘‘(b) TERMS.—An environmental quality incentives 
program plan shall include (as determined 
by the Secretary) a description of 
relevant— 

‘‘(1) farming or ranching practices on the 
farm; 

‘‘(2) characteristics of natural resources on 
the farm; 

‘‘(3) specific conservation and environmental 
objectives to be achieved including 
those that will assist the operator in complying 
with Federal and State environmental 
laws; 

‘‘(4) dates for, and sequences of, events for 
implementing the practices for which payments 
will be received under this chapter; 
and 

‘‘(5) information that will enable evaluation 
of the effectiveness of the plan in 
achieving the conservation and environmental 
objectives, and that will enable evaluation 
of the degree to which the plan has 
been implemented. 
‘‘SEC. 1238E. LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS. 

‘‘(a) PAYMENTS.—The total amount of cost-
share and incentive payments paid to a person 
under this chapter may not exceed— 

‘‘(1) $10,000 for any fiscal year; or 

‘‘(2) $50,000 for any multiyear contract. 

‘‘(b) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall 
issue regulations that are consistent with 
section 1001 for the purpose of— 

‘‘(1) defining the term ‘person’ as used in 
subsection (a); and 

‘‘(2) prescribing such rules as the Secretary 
determines necessary to ensure a fair and 
reasonable application of the limitations 
contained in subsection (a).’’. 

TITLE III—NUTRITION ASSISTANCE 
SEC. 301. FOOD STAMP PROGRAM. 

(a) EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING.—Section 
16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 2025(h)(1)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF PILOT PROJECTS.— 
The last sentence of section 17(b)(1)(A) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 

S756 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

2026(b)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 

(c) AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATIONS.— 
The first sentence of section 18(a)(1) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)(1)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(d) REAUTHORIZATION OF PUERTO RICO NUTRITION 
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.—The first sentence 
of section 19(a)(1)(A) of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2028(a)(1)(A)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘$974,000,000’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘$1,143,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1995 and 1996, $1,182,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1997, $1,223,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$1,266,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, $1,310,000,000 
for fiscal year 2000, $1,357,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2001, and $1,404,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002’’. 
SEC. 302. COMMODITY DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM; 

COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD 

PROGRAM. 

(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—The first sentence 
of section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (Public Law 93– 
86; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) FUNDING.—Section 5 of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (Public 
Law 93–86; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 303. EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. 


(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—The first sentence 
of section 204(a)(1) of the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983 (Public Law 98–8; 7 
U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) PROGRAM TERMINATION.—Section 212 of 
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 
(Public Law 98–8; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(c) REQUIRED PURCHASES OF COMMODITIES.— 
Section 214 of the Emergency Food Assistance 
Act of 1983 (Public Law 98–8; 7 U.S.C. 
612c note) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 304. SOUP KITCHENS PROGRAM. 

Section 110 of the Hunger Prevention Act 
of 1988 (Public Law 100–435; 7 U.S.C. 612c 
note) is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (c)(2)— 
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 305. NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING. 

The first sentence of section 1114(a)(2)(A) of 
the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (7 

U.S.C. 1431e(2)(A)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
DASCHLE AMENDMENTS NOS. 3208– 

3214 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. DASCHLE submitted seven 

amendments intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3208 
Strike section 104(b) and insert the following: 
‘‘(b) LOAN RATES.— 
‘‘(1) WHEAT.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for wheat shall be— 

(A) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
wheat, as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of wheat, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(B) not more than $2.58 per bushel. 
‘‘(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
‘‘(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for corn 
shall be— 

‘‘(i) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
wheat, as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of corn, excluding the year 
in which the average price was the highest 
and the year in which the average price was 
the lowest in the period; but 

(ii) not more than $1.89 per bushel. 
‘‘(B) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for grain 
sorghum, barley, and oats, respectively, 
shall be established at such level as the Secretary 
determines if fair and reasonable in 
relation to the rate that loans are made 
available for corn, taking into consideration 
the feeding value of the commodity in relation 
to corn. 

‘‘(3) UPLAND COTTON.— 

‘‘(A) The loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for upland cotton shall be established 
by the Secretary at such loan rate, per 
pound, as well reflect for the base quality of 
upland cotton, as determined by the Secretary, 
at average locations in the United 
States a rate that is 85 percent of the average 
price (weighted by market and month) of 
the base quality of cotton as quoted in the 
designated United States spot markets during 
3 years of the 5-year period ending July 
31 in the year in which the loan rate is announced, 
excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period; or 

‘‘(B) 90 percent of the average, for the 15-
week period beginning July 1 of the year in 
which the loan rate is announced, of the 5 
lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted 
for Middling 1 3/32-inch cotton C.I.F. Northern 
Europe (adjusted downward by the average 
difference during the period April 15 
through October 15 

‘‘(C) OTHER OILSEEDS.—The loan rates for a 
marketing assistance loan for other oilseeds 
shall be established at such level as the Secretary 
determines is fair and reasonable in 
relation to the loan rate available for soybeans, 
except in no event shall the rate for 
the oilseeds (other than cottonseed) be less 
than the rate established for soybeans on a 
per-pound basis for the same crop.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3209 
Strike section 104(b) and insert the following: 
‘‘(b) LOAN RATES.— 
‘‘(1) WHEAT.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for wheat shall be not 
less than 85 percent of the simple average 
price received by producers of wheat, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 
crops of wheat, excluding the year in which 
the average price was the highest and the 
year in which the average price was the lowest 
in the period. 
‘‘(B) REDUCTIONS.—If the Secretary estimates 
for any marketing year that the ratio 
of ending stocks of wheat to total use of the 
marketing year will be— 
‘‘(i) equal to or greater than 30 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for 

wheat for the corresponding crop by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent in any year; 

‘‘(ii) less than 30 percent but not less than 
15 percent, the Secretary may reduce the 
loan rate for wheat for the corresponding 
crop by an amount not to exceed 5 percent in 
any year, or 

‘‘(iii) less than 15 percent, the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for wheat for 
the corresponding crop. 

‘‘(C) FUTURE YEARS.—ANy reduction in the 
loan rate for wheat under subparagraph (B) 
shall not be considered in determining the 
loan rate for wheat for subsequent years. 

‘‘(2) FEED GRAINS.— 

‘‘(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for corn 
shall be not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
wheat, as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of corn, excluding the year 
in which the average price was the highest 
and the year in which the average price was 
the lowest in the period. 

‘‘(B) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for grain 
sorghum, barley, and oats, respectively, 
shall be established at such level as the Secretary 
determines is fair and reasonable in 
relation to the rate that loans are made 
available for corn, taking into consideration 
the feeding value of the commodity in relation 
to corn. 

‘‘(C) REDUCTIONS.—If the Secretary estimates 
for any marketing year that the ratio 
of ending stocks of corn to total use for the 
marketing year will be— 

‘‘(i) equal to or greater than 25 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for corn 
for the corresponding crop by an amount not 
to exceed 10 percent in any year; 

‘‘(ii) less than 25 percent but not less than 

12.5 percent, the Secretary may reduce the 
loan rate for corn for the corresponding crop 
by an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
‘‘(iii) less than 12.5, the Secretary may not 
reduce the loan rate for corn for the corresponding 
crop. 

‘‘(D) FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction in the 
loan rate for corn under subparagraph (B) 
shall not be considered in determining the 
loan rate for corn for subsequent years. 

‘‘(3) UPLAND COTTON.— 

‘‘(A) The loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for upland cotton shall be established 
by the Secretary at such loan rate, per 
pound, as will reflect for the base quality of 
upland cotton, as determined by the Secretary, 
at average locations in the United 
States a rate that is 85 percent of the average 
price (weighted by market and month) of 
the base quality of cotton as quoted in the 
designated United States spot markets during 
3 years of the 5-year period ending July 
31 in the year in which the loan rate is announced, 
excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period; or 

‘‘(B) 90 percent of the average, for the 15-
week period beginning July 1 of the year in 
which the loan rate is announced, of the 5 
lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted 
for Middling 13/32-inch cotton C.I.F. Northern 
Europe (adjusted downward by the average 
difference during the period April 15 through 
October 15 of the year in which the loan is 
announced between the average Northern 
European price quotation of such quality of 
cotton and the market quotations in the designated 
United States spot markets for the 
base quality of upland cotton), as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(4) EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON.—The loan 
rate for marketing assistance loan for extra 
loan staple cotton shall be not less than 85 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S757 

percent of the simple average price received 
by producers of extra long staple cotton, as 
determined by the Secretary, during 3 years 
of the 5 previous marketing years, excluding 
the year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period. 

‘‘(5) RICE.—The loan rate for the marketing 
assistance loan for rice shall be $6.50 per 
hundredweight. 

‘‘(6) OILSEEDS.— 

‘‘(A) SOYBEANS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for soybeans shall be 
$4.92 per bushel. 

‘‘(B) SUNFLOWERS SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND FLAXSEED.— 
The loan rates for a marketing assistance 
loan for sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, 
safflower, mustard seed, and flaxseed, individually, 
shall be $0.087 per pound. 

‘‘(C) OTHER OILSEEDS.—The loan rates for a 
marketing assistance loan for other oilseeds 
shall be established at such level as the Secretary 
determines is fair and reasonable in 
relation to the loan rate available for soybeans, 
except in no event shall the rate for 
the oilseeds (other than cottonseed) be less 
than the rate established for soybeans on a 
per-pound basis for the same crop.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3210 
Section 104(b) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(7) LOCAL LOAN RATES.—The Secretary 
may not adjust the national loan for a crop 
in a county by an amount in excess of 5 percent 
the national loan.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3211 
Section 104(b) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(7) LOCAL LOAN RATES.—The Secretary 
shall apply the national loan rate for a commodity 
to all marketing assistance loans established 
under this section.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3212 
Title V is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 

‘‘SEC. FUND FOR RURAL AMERICA. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall create 
an account called the Fund for Rural 
America for the purposes of providing funds 
for activities described in subsection (c). 

‘‘(b) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—In 
each of the 1996 through 2002 fiscal years, the 
Secretary shall transfer $250,000,000 into the 
Fund for Rural America. 

‘‘(c) PURPOSES.—Except as provided in subsection 
(d), the Secretary may use the funds 
in the Fund for Rural America for activities 
authorized under— 

‘‘(1) The Housing Act of 1949 for— 

‘‘(A) direct loans to low income borrowers 
pursuant to section 502; 

‘‘(B) loans for financial assistance for housing 
for domestic farm laborers pursuant to 
section 514; 

‘‘(C) financial assistance for housing of domestic 
farm labor pursuant to section 516; 

‘‘(D) grants and contracts for mutual and 
self help housing pursuant to section 
523(b)(1)(A); and 

‘‘(E) grants for Rural Housing Preservation 
pursuant to section 533; 

‘‘(2) The Food Security Act of 1985 for 
loans to intermediary borrowers under the 
Rural Development Loan Fund; 

‘‘(3) Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act for— 

‘‘(A) grants for Rural Business Enterprises 
pursuant to section 310B(c) and (j); 

‘‘(B) direct loans, loan guarantees and 
grants for water and waste water projects 
pursuant to section 306; 

‘‘(C) down payments assistance to farmers, 
section 310E; and 

‘‘(D) loans to socially disadvantaged farmers 
under section 355.’’ 

‘‘(d) LIMITATIONS.—No funds from the Fund 
for Rural America may be used to for an activity 
specified in subsection (c) if the current 
level of appropriations for the activity 
is less than 90 percent of the 1996 fiscal year 
appropriations for the activity adjusted for 
inflation.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3213 
Title V is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 

‘‘SEC. 507 FUND FOR RURAL AMERICA. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall create 
an account called the Fund for Rural 
America for the purposes of providing funds 
for activities described in subsection (c). 

‘‘(b) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—In 
each of the 1996 through 2002 fiscal years, the 
Secretary shall transfer $250,000,000 into the 
Fund for Rural America. 

‘‘(c) PURPOSES.—Except as provided in subsection 
(d), the Secretary may use the funds 
in the Fund for Rural America for activities 
authorized under— 

‘‘(1) The Housing Act of 1949 for— 

‘‘(A) direct loans to low income borrowers 
pursuant to section 502; 

‘‘(B) loans for financial assistance for housing 
for domestic farm laborers pursuant to 
section 514; 

‘‘(C) financial assistance for housing of domestic 
farm labor pursuant to section 516; 

‘‘(D) grants and contracts for mutual and 
self help housing pursuant to section 
523(b)(1)(A); and 

‘‘(E) grants for Rural Housing Preservation 
pursuant to section 533; 

‘‘(2) The Food Security Act of 1985 for 
loans to intermediary borrowers under the 
Rural Development Loan Fund; 

‘‘(3) Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act for— 

‘‘(A) grants for Rural Business Enterprises 
pursuant to section 310B(c) and (j); 

‘‘(B) direct loans, loan guarantees and 
grants for water and waste water projects 
pursuant to section 306; 

‘‘(C) down payments assistance to farmers, 
section 310E; and 

‘‘(D) loans to socially disadvantaged farmers 
under section 355.’’ 

‘‘(d) LIMITATIONS.—No funds from the Fund 
for Rural America may be used to for an activity 
specified in subsection (c) if the current 
level of appropriations for the activity 
is less than 90 percent of the 1996 fiscal year 
appropriations for the activity adjusted for 
inflation.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3214 
Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SEC. 101 SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Agricultural 
Extension Act of 1995’’. 

SEC. 102. AUTHORITY FOR 1996 AND 1997 AGRICULTURAL 
PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law except as provided in 
this Act and the amendments made by this 
Act, the provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment 
of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.), the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et 
seq.), the Food Security Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99–198), and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624) and each program that was authorized 
or reauthorized by any of the Acts, that 
were applicable on September 30, 1995, shall 
be applicable for 1996 and 1997. 
(b) FLEXIBILITY.—Amend section 504 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1464) by 
striking subsections (c), (d), and (e) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(c) NON-PAYMENT ACRES.—In the case of 
the 1996 and 1997 crops, any crop or con


serving crop listed in subsection (b)(1) may 
be planted on the acres of a crop acreage 
base not eligible for payment under this Act. 

‘‘(d) LOAN ELIGIBILITY.—In the case of the 
1996 and 1997 crops, producers on a farm with 
crop acreage base may plant any program 
crop on the crop acreage base and shall be eligible 
to receive purchases, loans, and loan 
deficiency payments for the program crop.’’. 

(c) FINLEY ADJUSTMENT.—Amend the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.)— 
(1) in section 105B(a)(3)— 
(A) by striking subparagraph (C); and 
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and 
(E) as subparagraphs (C) and (D). 
(2) in section 107B(a)(3)— 
(A) by striking subparagraph (C); and 
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and 
(E) as subparagraphs (C) and (D). 
(d) 1997 CROP PAYMENTS.— 
(1) REVENUE PAYMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of the 1997 
crops of wheat, feed grain, upland cotton, 
and rice in addition to payments authorized 
in subsection (a), the Secretary shall issue 
payments to producers who participate in 
price support programs authorized by subsection 
(a) in accordance with the formula 
described in subparagraph (B). 
(B) FORMULA.—In accordance with subparagraph 
(A), the Secretary shall provide a payment 
per acre equal to the amount in which 
the Average Revenue for the producer’s 
farm, described in clause (i) exceeds the Producers’ 
Revenue descried in clause (ii) for 
each of the producer’s payment acres. 
(i) AVERAGE REVENUE.—for the purposes of 
this subparagraph, ‘‘average revenue’’ means 
the five year Olympic average price for the 
county for the program multiplied by the 
producer’s program payment yield for the 
farm. 
(ii) PRODUCER’S REVENUE.—for the purposes 
of this paragraph, the term ‘‘producer’s revenue’’ 
means the per acre revenue received 
for production from: 
(I) Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) 
deficiency payments; 
(II) revenue from sales of the program crop 
in excess of any CCC price support loans received; 
(III) crop insurance indemnity payments; 
(IV) CCC price support loans; and 
(V) CCC loan deficiency payments. 
(2) GUARANTEED ADVANCED PAYMENTS FOR 
THE 1997 CROPS.—In the case of 1997 crops of 
wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice, 
the Secretary shall provide to producers who 
participate in programs authorized by subsection 
(a) a nonrefundable advanced deficiency 
payment subject to paragraph (3) 
which shall equal the greater of— 
(A) the advanced deficiency payment authorized 
by subsection (a); or 
(B) the payment authorized in section 
103(c)(1). 
(3) LIMITATION.—In calculating deficiency 
payments in accordance with programs authorized 
in subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall deduct any payments received by the 
producer under paragraph (2) from the producer’s 
deficiency payments. 
(e) ACREAGE REDUCTION PROGRAMS.—In the 
case of price support programs authorized by 
subsection (a) for the 1996 and 1997 crops of 
wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice, 
the Secretary shall set the acreage reduction 
level to be zero. 
SEC. 103. SPECIAL FUND FOR DEFICIENCY PAY


MENTS, CONSERVATION, AND RURAL 

AMERICA. 

(a) ACCOUNT.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Commodity Credit Corporation 
shall transfer $4.5 billion into a Deficiency 
Payment, Conservation, and Rural 
America Account (hereafter referred as ‘‘Account’’) 
which shall remain available until 
expended for the purposes specified in this 
subsection. 

S758 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(b) USE OF ACCOUNT.—Funds from the Account 
shall be used for the following purposes: 
(1) Advanced deficiency payments for 1996 
crops of wheat, feed grain, upland cotton, 
and rice authorized by paragraph (c); 
(2) Any deficiency payments authorized by 
the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et 
seq.) for 1995 crops of wheat, feed grains, upland 
cotton, and rice issued after date of enactment 
of this Act; and 
(3) Conservation and Fund for Rural America 
program payments authorized by paragraph 
(c). 
(c) PAYMENTS.— 
(1) 1996 CROP ADVANCED DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall issue 
nonfundable advanced deficiency payments 
for the 1996 crops of wheat, feed grains, upland 
cotton, and rice to producers who participate 
in price support programs authorized 
in section 102 from the Account in accordance 
with the formula specified in subparagraph 
(B). 
(B) FORMULA.—The advanced deficiency 
payment rate for wheat, feed grains, upland 
cotton, and rice shall be the greater of— 
(i) the 1995 advanced payment rate for the 
crop; or 
(ii) the 1996 advanced payment rate for the 
crop determined in accordance with section 
102. 
(2) CONSERVATION AND FUND FOR RURAL 
AMERICA PAYMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—If any funds remain in 
the Account after carrying out the provisions 
of paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
conduct programs described in this subparagraph. 
(B) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall divide 
the remaining funds in the Account equally 
for Conservation programs described in subparagraph 
(C) and for Fund for Rural America 
described in subparagraph (D). 
(C) CONSERVATION PROGRAMS.—The Secretary 
may conduct the Environmental 
Quality Incentive Program described in section 
1201 of S. 1357 (as passed by the Senate 
on October 27, 1995). 
(D) FUND FOR RURAL AMERICA.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may create 
the Fund for Rural America for the purposes 
of funding programs described in clause (ii). 
(ii) PROGRAMS.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary may 
transfer funds from the Fund for Rural 
America to— 
(I) rural development programs authorized 
by the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act; and 
(II) research programs authorized or reauthorized 
by Title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101–624) or by section 102 of this 
Act. 
CONRAD AMENDMENTS NOS. 3215– 
3220 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. CONRAD submitted six amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3215 
Beginning on page 3–14, strike line 24 and 
all that follows through page 3–15, line 4, and 
insert the following: 
‘‘(i) 700 dairy cattle; 
‘‘(ii) 1,000 beef cattle; 
‘‘(iii) 30,000 laying hens or broilers (if the 
facility has continuous overflow watering); 
‘‘(iv) 100,000 laying hens or broilers (if the 
facility has a liquid manure system); 

‘‘(v) 55,000 turkeys; 

‘‘(vi) 2,500 swine; or 

‘‘(vii) 10,000 sheep or lambs. 

The Secretary may reduce the number of 
animals specified in subparagraph (B) after 
consultation with State technical advisory 
committees. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3216 
On page 3–62, after line 22, insert the following: 


SEC. 356. WETLAND CONSERVATION EXEMPTION. 

Section 1222(b)(1) of the Food Security Act 
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3822(b)(1)) is amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘or’’ at 
the end; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(E) converted wetland, if— 
‘‘(i) the extent of the conversion is limited 
to the return of conditions that will be at 
least equivalent to the wetland functions 
and values that existed prior to implementation 
of the wetland restoration, enhancement, 
or creation action; 

‘‘(ii) technical determinations of the prior 
site conditions and the restoration, enhancement, 
or creation action have been adequately 
documented in a plan approved by 
the Natural Resources Conservation Service 
prior to implementation; and 

‘‘(iii) the conversion action proposed by 
the landowner is approved by the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service prior to implementation; 
or’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3217 
On page 3–9, line 14, strike the quotation 
marks and the following period and insert 
the following: 
‘‘(i) COST SHARE AGREEMENTS AND WETLAND 
STATUS.—Wetland restored on land 
under a cost share agreement funded under 
this section shall not be subject to section 
404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1341) or section 1221 of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3821) 
without the agreement of the landowner.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3218 
On page 3–15, line 10, strike the period and 
insert ‘‘and is the owner of any crop or livestock 
for which assistance is requested under 
this chapter.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3219 
Beginning on page 1–21, strike line 5 and 
all that follows through page 1–24, line 10, 
and insert the following: 

(1) WHEAT.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for wheat shall be— 
(A) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
wheat, as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of wheat, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(B) not more than $2.58 per bushel. 
(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for corn 
shall be— 
(i) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of corn, 
as determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately preceding 
5 crops of corn, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 
the year in which the average price was the 
lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not more than $1.89 per bushel. 
(B) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate for 
a marketing assistance loan for grain sorghum, 
barley, and oats, respectively, shall be 
established at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the rate that loans are made available for 
corn, taking into consideration the feeding 
value of the commodity in relation to corn. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3220 
Beginning on page 1–21, strike line 6 and 
all that follows through page 1–23, line 3, and 
insert the following: 

(A) LOAN RATE.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for wheat shall be not less than 85 percent 
of the simple average price received by 
producers of wheat, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceding 5 crops of wheat, 
excluding the year in which the average 
prices was the highest and the year in which 
the average price was the lowest in the period. 
(B) STOCKS TO USE RATIO ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary estimates for any marketing 
year that the ratio of ending stocks of wheat 
to total use for the marketing year will be— 
(i) equal to or greater than 30 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for 
wheat for the corresponding crop by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent in any year; 
(ii) less than 30 percent but not less than 15 
percent, the Secretary may reduce the loan 
rate for wheat for the corresponding crop by 
an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
(iii) less than 15 percent, the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for wheat for 
the corresponding crop. 
(C) NO EFFECT ON FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction 
in the loan rate for wheat under subparagraph 
(B) shall not be considered in determining 
the loan rate for wheat for subsequent 
years. 
(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for corn shall be no less than 
85 percent of the simple average price received 
by producers of corn, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 crops 
of corn, excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average prices was the lowest in 
the period. 
KOHL (AND OTHERS) AMENDMENT 

NO. 3221 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KOHL (for himself, Mr. FEINGOLD, 
Mr. WELLSTONE, Mr. PRESSLER, 
and Mr. LAUTENBERG) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
them to amendment No. 3184 proposed 
by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; 
as follows: 

Strike from line 12 on page 1–73 through 
line 7 on page 1–75. 

HATFIELD AMENDMENTS NOS. 

3222–3224 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HATFIELD submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3222 
At the appropriate place in the miscellaneous 
title, insert the following new section: 

SEC.ll. RURAL MANAGED CARE COOPERATIVES. 


Title XVII of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 300u et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end thereof the following new 
section: 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S759 

‘‘SEC. 1710. RURAL MANAGED CARE COOPERATIVES. 


‘‘(a) GRANTS.—The Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, acting through the Health 
Resources and Services Administration, and 
the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
the Rural Business and Cooperative Development 
Service (referred to jointly in this section 
as the ‘Secretaries’), may jointly award 
competitive grants to eligible entities to enable 
such entities to develop and administer 
cooperatives in rural areas that will establish 
an effective case management and reimbursement 
system designed to support the 
economic infrastructure and viability of essential 
public or private health services, facilities, 
health care systems and health care 
resources in such rural areas. 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—To be eligible to 
receive a grant under subsection (a) an entity 
shall— 

‘‘(1) prepare and submit to the Secretaries 
an application at such time, in such form 
and containing such information as the Secretaries 
may jointly require, including a description 
of the cooperative that the entity 
intends to develop and operate using grant 
funds; and 

‘‘(2) meet such other requirements as the 
Secretaries jointly determine to be appropriate. 


‘‘(c) COOPERATIVES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts provided under 
a grant awarded under subsection (a) shall be 
used to establish and operate a cooperative 
made up of all types of health care providers, 
hospitals, primary access hospitals, other alternate 
rural health care facilities, physicians, 
rural health clinics, rural nurse practitioners 
and physician assistant practitioners, 
public health departments and others 
located in, but not restricted to, the 
rural areas to be served by the cooperative. 

‘‘(2) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—A cooperative 
established under paragraph (1) shall be administered 
by a board of directors elected by 
the members of the cooperative. A majority 
of the members of the board shall represent 
rural providers, and other representatives, 
from the local community. The board shall 
include representatives of the agricultural 
community if possible. Members of the board 
shall serve at the pleasure of members of the 
cooperative. 

‘‘(3) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.—The members of 
a cooperative established under paragraph 

(1) shall elect an executive director who 
shall serve as the chief operating officer of 
the cooperative. The executive director shall 
be responsible for conducting the day to day 
operation of the cooperative including— 
‘‘(A) maintaining an accounting system for 
the cooperative; 

‘‘(B) maintaining the business records of 
the cooperative; 

‘‘(C) negotiating contracts with provider 
members of the cooperative; 

‘‘(D) coordinating the membership and programs 
of the cooperative; and 

‘‘(E) serving as a liaison between the cooperative 
and the rural agricultural community. 


‘‘(4) REIMBURSEMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) NEGOTIATIONS.—A cooperative established 
under paragraph (1) shall facilitate negotiations 
among member health care providers 
and third party payors concerning the 
rates at which such providers will be reimbursed 
for services provided to individuals 
for which such payors may be liable. 

‘‘(B) AGREEMENTS.—Agreements reached 
under subparagraph (A) shall be binding on 
the members of the cooperative. 

‘‘(C) EMPLOYERS.—Employer entities may 
become members of a cooperative established 
under paragraph (a) in order to provide, 
through a member third party payor, 
health insurance coverage for its employees. 

Deductibles shall only be charged to employees 
covered under such insurance if such employees 
receive health care services from a 
provider that is not a member of the cooperative 
if similar services would have been 
available from a member provider. 

‘‘(D) MALPRACTICE INSURANCE.—A cooperative 
established under subsection (a) shall be 
responsible for identifying and implementing 
an affordable malpractice insurance program 
that shall include a requirement that such 
cooperative assume responsibility for the 
payment of a portion of the malpractice insurance 
premium of providers members. 

‘‘(5) MANAGED CARE AND PRACTICE STANDARDS.—
A cooperative established under paragraph 
(1) shall establish joint case management 
and patient care practice standards 
programs that health care providers that are 
members of such cooperative must meet to 
be eligible to participate in agreements entered 
into under paragraph (4). Such standards 
shall be developed by such provider 
members and shall be subject to the approval 
of a majority of the board of directors. Such 
programs shall include cost and quality of 
care guidelines including a requirement that 
such providers make available preadmission 
screening, selective case management services, 
joint patient care practice standards 
development and compliance and joint utilization 
review. 

‘‘(6) CONFIDENTIALITY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Patients records, 
records of peer review, utilization review, 
and quality assurance proceedings conducted 
by the cooperative should be considered confidential 
and protected from release outside 
of the cooperative. The provider members of 
the cooperative shall be indemnified by the 
cooperative for the good faith participation 
by such members in such the required activities. 


‘‘(B) QUALITY DATA.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, quality data obtained 
by a hospital or other member of such a cooperative 
in the normal course of the operations 
of the hospital or member shall be immune 
from discovery regardless of whether 
such data is used for purposes other than 
peer review or is disclosed to other members 
of the cooperative involved. 

‘‘(d) LINKAGES.—Such a cooperative shall 
create linkages among member health care 
providers, employers, and payors for the 
joint consultation and formulation of the 
types, rates, costs, and quality of health care 
provided in rural areas served by the cooperative 
and for joint consideration of the impact 
that such types, rates, costs, and quality 
of health care will have on the agricultural 
community. 

‘‘(e) REPORTING.—Not less often than once 
every 2 years, the cooperative shall prepare 
and submit to the Secretaries a report that 
contains information on the status of the cooperative, 
the health status of the patients 
in the areas served by the cooperative, and 
the productivity of the relevant agricultural 
or other local industry. 

‘‘(f) MATCHING REQUIREMENT.—An entity 
that receives a grant under subsection (a) 
shall make available (directly or through donations 
from public or private entities), non-
Federal contributions towards the costs of 
the operations of the network in an amount 
equal to the amount of the grant. 

‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section, $15,000,000 for each of 
the fiscal years 1996 through 1999. 

‘‘(h) RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
provision of the antitrust laws, it shall not 
be considered a violation of the antitrust 
laws for entities to develop and operate cooperatives 
in accordance with this section. 

‘‘(2) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, 
the term ‘antitrust laws’ means— 

‘‘(A) the Act entitled ‘An Act to protect 
trade and commerce against unlawful restraints 
and monopolies’, approved July 2, 
1890, commonly known as the ‘Sherman Act’ 
(26 Stat. 209; chapter 647; 15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.); 

‘‘(B) the Federal Trade Commission Act, 
approved September 26, 1914 (38 Stat. 717; 
chapter 311; 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.); 

‘‘(C) the Act entitled ‘An Act to supplement 
existing laws against unlawful restraints 
and monopolies, and for other purposes’, 
approved October 15, 1914, commonly 
known as the ‘Clayton Act’ (38 Stat. 730; 
chapter 323; 15 U.S.C. 12 et seq.; 18 U.S.C. 402, 
660, 3285, 3691; 29 U.S.C. 52, 53); and 

‘‘(D) the Act of June 19, 1936, commonly 
known as the Robinson-Patman Anti-
discrimination Act (15 U.S.C. 13 et seq.); and 

‘‘(E) any State antitrust laws that would 
prohibit the activities described in paragraph 
(1).’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3223 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. WATERSHED PROTECTION AND FLOOD 
PREVENTION ACT AMENDMENTS. 

(a) DECLARATION OF POLICY.—The first section 
of the Watershed Protection and Flood 
Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001) is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘SECTION 1. DECLARATION OF POLICY. 

‘‘Erosion, flooding, sedimentation, and loss 
of natural habitats in the watersheds and 
waterways of the United States cause loss of 
life, damage to property, and a reduction in 
the quality of environment and life of citizens. 
It is therefore the sense of Congress 
that the Federal Government should join 
with States and their political subdivisions, 
public agencies, conservation districts, flood 
prevention or control districts, local citizens 
organizations, and Indian tribes for the purpose 
of conserving, protecting, restoring, and 
improving the land and water resources of 
the United States and the quality of the environment 
and life for watershed residents 
across the United States.’’. 

(b) DEFINITIONS.— 
(1) WORKS OF IMPROVEMENT.—Section 2 of 
the Act (16 U.S.C. 1002) is amended, with respect 
to the term ‘‘works of improvement’’— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, nonstructural,’’ 
after ‘‘structural’’; 
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or’’ at 
the end; 
(C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
(11); 
(D) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
new paragraphs: 
‘‘(3) a land treatment or other nonstructural 
practice, including the acquisition 
of easements or real property rights, to 
meet multiple watershed needs, 

‘‘(4) the restoration and monitoring of the 
chemical, biological, and physical structure, 
diversity, and functions of waterways and 
their associated ecological systems, 

‘‘(5) the restoration or establishment of 
wetland and riparian environments as part of 
a multi-objective management system that 
provides floodwater or storm water storage, 
detention, and attenuation, nutrient filtering, 
fish and wildlife habitat, and enhanced 
biological diversity, 

‘‘(6) the restoration of steam channel 
forms, functions, and diversity using the 
principles of biotechnical slope stabilization 
to reestablish a meandering, bankfull flow 
channels, riparian vegetation, and 
floodplains, 

‘‘(7) the establishment and acquisition of 
multi-objective riparian and adjacent flood 
prone lands, including greenways, for sediment 
storage and floodwater storage, 


S760 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(8) the protection, restoration, enhancement 
and monitoring of surface and groundwater 
quality, including measures to improve 
the quality of water emanating from 
agricultural lands and facilities, 

‘‘(9) the provision of water supply and municipal 
and industrial water supply for rural 
communities having a population of less 
than 55,000, according to the most recent decennial 
census of the United States, 

‘‘(10) outreach to and organization of local 
citizen organizations to participate in 
project design and implementation, and the 
training of project volunteers and participants 
in restoration and monitoring techniques, 
or’’; and 

(E) in paragraph (11) (as so redesignated)— 
(i) by inserting in the first sentence after 
‘‘proper utilization of land’’ the following: ‘‘, 
water, and related resources’’; and 
(ii) by striking the sentence that mandates 
that 20 percent of total project benefits be 
directly related to agriculture. 
(2) LOCAL ORGANIZATION.—Such section is 
further amended, with respect to the term 
‘‘local organization’’, by adding at the end 
the following new sentence: ‘‘The term includes 
any nonprofit organization (defined as 
having tax exempt status under section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) 
that has authority to carry out and maintain 
works of improvement or is developing and 
implementing a work of improvement in 
partnership with another local organization 
that has such authority.’’. 
(3) WATERWAY.—Such section is further 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new definition: 
‘‘WATERWAY.—The term ‘waterway’ means, 
on public or private land, any natural, degraded, 
seasonal, or created wetland on public 
or private land, including rivers, streams, 
riparian areas, marshes, ponds, bogs, 
mudflats, lakes, and estuaries. The term includes 
any natural or manmade watercourse 
which is culverted, channelized, or vegetatively 
cleared, including canals, irrigation 
ditches, drainage wages, and navigation, industrial, 
flood control and water supply 
channels.’’. 

(c) ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS.— 
Section 3 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1003) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after ‘‘(1)’’ 
the following ‘‘to provide technical assistance 
to help local organizations’’; 
(2) in paragraph (2)— 
(A) by inserting after ‘‘(2)’’ the following: 
‘‘to provide technical assistance to help local 
organizations’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘engineering’’ and inserting 
‘‘technical and scientific’’; and 
(3) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting 
the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(3) to make allocations of costs to the 
project or project components to determine 
whether the total of all environmental, social, 
and monetary benefits exceed costs;’’. 

(d) COST SHARE ASSISTANCE.— 
(1) AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE.—Section 3A of 
the Act (16 U.S.C. 1003a) is amended by striking 
subsection (b) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) NONSTRUCTURAL PRACTICES.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this Act, 
Federal cost share assistance to local organizations 
for the planning and implementation 
of nonstructural works of improvement may 
be provided using funds appropriated for the 
purposes of this Act for an amount not exceeding 
75 percent of the total installation 
costs. 

‘‘(c) STRUCTURAL PRACTICES.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this Act, 
Federal cost share assistance to local organizations 
for the planning and implementation 
of structural works of improvement may be 
provided using funds appropriated for the 

purposes of this Act for 50 percent of the 
total cost, including the cost of mitigating 
damage to fish and wildlife habitat and the 
value of any land or interests in land acquired 
for the work of improvement. 

‘‘(d) SPECIAL RULE FOR LIMITED RESOURCE 
COMMUNITIES.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, the Secretary may provide 
cost share assistance to a limited resource 
community for any works of improvement, 
using funds appropriated for the purposes 
of this Act, for an amount not to exceed 
90 percent of the total cost. 

‘‘(e) TREATMENT OF OTHER FEDERAL 
FUNDS.—Not more than 50 percent of the 
non-Federal cost share may be satisfied 
using funds from other Federal agencies.’’. 

(2) CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE.—Section 4(1) 
of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1004(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘, without cost to the Federal Government 
from funds appropriated for the purposes 
of this Act,’’. 
(e) BENEFIT COST ANALYSIS.—Section 5(1) 
of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1005(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘the benefits’’ and inserting ‘‘the 
total benefits, including environmental, social, 
and monetary benefits,’’. 
(f) PROJECT PRIORITIZATION.—The Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act is 
amended by inserting after section 5 (16 
U.S.C. 1005) the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 5A. FUNDING PRIORITIES. 

‘‘In making funding decisions under this 
Act, the Secretary shall give priority to 
projects with one or more of the following 
attributes: 

‘‘(1) Projects providing significant improvements 
in ecological values and functions 
in the project area. 

‘‘(2) Projects that enhance the long-term 
health of local economies or generate job or 
job training opportunities for local residents, 
including Youth Conservation and Service 
Corps participants and displaced resource 
harvesters. 

‘‘(3) Projects that provide protection to 
human health, safety, and property. 

‘‘(4) Projects that directly benefit economically 
disadvantaged communities and 
enhance participation by local residents of 
such communities. 

‘‘(5) Projects that restore or enhance fish 
and wildlife species of commercial, recreational, 
subsistence or scientific concern. 

‘‘(6) Projects or components of projects 
that can be planned, designed, and implemented 
within two years.’’. 

(g) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—The Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 
U.S.C. 1001–1010) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 14. TRANSFERS OF FUNDS. 

‘‘The Secretary may accept transfers of 
funds from other Federal departments and 
agencies in order to carry out projects under 
this Act.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3224 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANTS TO BROADCASTING 
SYSTEMS. 

Section 310B(j) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(j)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘SYSTEMS.—The’’ and 
inserting the following: ‘‘SYSTEMS.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF STATEWIDE.—In this subsection, 
the term ‘statewide’ means having a 
coverage area of not less than 90 percent of 
the population of a State and 90 percent of 
the rural land area of the State (as determined 
by the Secretary). 

‘‘(2) GRANTS.—The’’. 

SANTORUM (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 3225 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. SANTORUM (for himself, Mr. 
BRADLEY, Mr. BROWN, Mr. SMITH, Mr. 
GREGG, and Mr. KYL) submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
them to amendment No. 3184 proposed 
by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; 
as follows: 

Amend Section 106, Peanut Program, by: 

(a) Striking paragraph (2) in subsection (a), 
Quota Peanuts, and inserting the following: 

‘‘(2) SUPPORT RATES.— 

‘‘(A) MAXIMUM LEVELS.—The national average 
quota support rate for each of the 1995 
through 2000 crops of quota peanuts shall not 
be more than $610 per ton for the 1996 crop, 
$542 per ton for the 1997 crop, $509 per ton for 
the 1998 crop, $475 per ton for the 1999 and 
2000 crops. 

‘‘(B) DISBURSEMENT.—The Secretary shall 
initially disburse only 90 percent of the price 
support loan level required under this paragraph 
to producers for the 1996 and 1997 
crops, and 85 percent for the 1998 through 
2000 crops and provide for the disbursement 
to producers at maturity of any balances due 
the producers on the loans that may remain 
to be settled at maturity. The remainder of 
the loans for each crop shall be applied to 
offset losses in pools under subsection (d), if 
the losses exist, and shall be paid to producers 
only after the losses are offset.’’ 

‘‘(C) NON-RECOURSE LOANS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this Act, for 
the 2001 and 2002 crops of peanuts, the quota 
is eliminated and the Secretary shall offer to 
all peanut producers non-recourse loans at a 
level not to exceed 70 percent of the estimated 
market price anticipated peanut for 
each crop. 

‘‘(D) MARKET PRICE.—In estimating the 
market price for the 2001 and 2002 crops of 
peanuts, the Secretary shall consider the export 
prices of additional peanuts during the 
last 5 crop years for which price support was 
available for additional peanuts and prices 
for peanuts in overseas markets, but shall 
not base the non-recourse loan levels for 
2001–2002 on quota or additional support rates 
established under this Act. 

SANTORUM AMENDMENTS NOS. 
3226–3228 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. SANTORUM submitted three 
amendments intended to be proposed 
by him to amendment No. 3184 proposed 
by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, 
supra, as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3226 
Amend Section 106, Peanut Program, to 
read as follows: 

‘‘SEC. 106. ELIMINATION OF QUOTA AND PRICE 
SUPPORT PROGRAMS FOR PEANUTS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
and the Commodity Credit Corporation 
may not provide loans, purchases, payments, 
or other operations or take any other 
action to support the price, or adjust or control 
the production, of peanuts by using the 
funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
or under the authority of any law. 

‘‘(b) MARKETING QUOTAS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Part VI of subtitle B of 
title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act 
of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1357 et seq.) is repealed. 

‘‘(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—Section 301(b) of the 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1301(b)) is amended— 

‘‘(i) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ‘corn, 
rice and peanuts’ and inserting ‘corn and 
rice’; 

‘‘(ii) in paragraph (6), by striking subparagraph 
(C); 

‘‘(iii) in paragraph (10)(A)— 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S761 

‘‘(I) by striking ‘wheat, and peanuts’ and 
inserting ‘and wheat’; and 

‘‘(II) by striking ‘; 20 per centum in the 
case of wheat; and 15 per centum in the case 
of peanuts’ and inserting ‘; and 20 percent in 
the case of wheat’; 

‘‘(iv) in paragraph (13)— 

‘‘(I) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C); 
and 

‘‘(II) in subparagraph (G), by striking ‘or 
peanuts’ both places it appears; and 

‘‘(v) in paragraph (16)(A), by striking ‘rice, 
and peanuts’ and inserting ‘and rice’. 

‘‘(B) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.—Section 
361 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1361) is amended by 
striking ‘peanuts,’. 

‘‘(C) ADJUSTMENT OF QUOTAS.—Section 371 
of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1371) is amended— 

‘‘(i) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘peanuts’; and 

‘‘(ii) in the first sentence of subsection (b), 
by striking ‘peanuts’. 

‘‘(D) REPORTS AND RECORDS.—Section 373 of 
the Act (7 U.S.C. 1373) is amended— 

‘‘(i) in subsection (a), by striking the first 
sentence and inserting the following new 
sentence: ‘This subsection shall apply to 
warehousemen, processors, and common carriers 
of corn, wheat, cotton, rice, or tobacco, 
and all ginners of cotton, all persons engaged 
in the business of purchasing corn, wheat, 
cotton, rice, or tobacco from producers, and 
all persons engaged in the business of re-
drying, prizing, or stemming tobacco for producers.’; 
and 

‘‘(ii) in subsection (b), by striking ‘peanuts,’. 


‘‘(E) REGULATIONS.—Section 375(a) of the 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1375(a)) is amended by striking 
‘peanuts,’. 

‘‘(F) EMINENT DOMAIN.—The first sentence 
of section 378(c) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1378(c)) 
is amended by striking ‘cotton, tobacco, and 
peanuts,’’ and inserting ‘cotton and tobacco,’. 


‘‘(c) PRICE SUPPORT PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) PERMANENT PRICE SUPPORT.—Section 
101(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 

U.S.C. 1441 et seq.) is amended by striking 
‘and peanuts’. 
‘‘(2) TEMPORARY PRICE SUPPORT.—Section 
108, 108A, and 108B of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1445c 
through 1445c–3) are repealed. 

‘‘(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) Section 301 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1447) is 
amended by inserting after ‘nonbasic agricultural 
commodity’ the following: ‘(other 
than peanuts)’. 

‘‘(B) Section 408(c) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 
1428(c)) is amended by striking ‘peanuts,’. 

‘‘(C) Section 5(a) of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714c(a)) is 
amended by inserting after ‘agricultural 
commodities’ the following: ‘(other than peanuts)’. 


‘‘(d) LIABILITY.—A provision of this section 
or an amendment made by this section shall 
not affect the liability of any person under 
any provision of law as in effect before the 
application of the provision of this section or 
the amendment in accordance with subsection 
(d). 

‘‘(e) APPLICATION.—This section and the 
amendments made by this section shall 
apply beginning with the 1996 crop of peanuts.’’ 


AMENDMENT NO. 3227 
Amend Section 106, Peanut Program, to 
add a new subsection (j) to read as follows: 
‘‘(j) RESTORING THE DEMAND FOR U.S. PEANUTS.— 


(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary shall 
endeavor to restore the demand for domestically 
produced peanuts in accordance with 
this subsection. 
‘‘(2) DOMESTIC MARKETING GOALS FOR PEANUTS 
PRODUCED IN THE UNITED STATES.—In 
order to restore the domestic demand for 
peanuts produced in the United States, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall (i) permit increases 
in the quantity of non-quota peanuts 
grown in the United States to be sold for domestic 
human consumption; and (ii) reduce 
the national average quota price support 
level, whenever the Secretary estimates that 
the demand for domestically produced peanuts 
will fail to meet the following domestic 
peanut marketing goals: 

Marketing goals 
Marketing years for domestically 
produced peanuts 

1996/1997 ........................ 1.2 million tons 
1997/1998 ........................ 1.3 million tons 
1998/1999 ........................ 1.4 million tons 
1999/2000 ........................ 1.5 million tons 
2000/2001 ........................ 1.6 million tons 
2001/2002 ........................ 1.6 million tons 

‘‘(3) MARKETING NON-QUOTA PEANUTS.—In 
order to achieve the domestic marketing 
goals specified in paragraph (2), the Secretary 
shall, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, set the national poundage 
quota for peanuts for the 1996/1997 marketing 
year at 1.2 million tons and shall, under regulations 
issued pursuant to this Act, permit 
the use for human consumption in the 1996/ 
1997 marketing year of not less than 100,000 
tons of non-quota or additional peanuts produced 
in the United States; and the Secretary 
shall, before each marketing year 
thereafter, in the event the marketing goal 
specified in paragraph (2) is not expected to 
be met during the marketing year, permit 
that quantity of non-quota or additional peanuts 
grown in the United States to be used 
domestically for human consumption that 
the Secretary estimates will be needed in 
any such marketing year to meet the domestic 
marketing goals specified in paragraph 
(2). 

‘‘(4) ADJUSTMENT OF POUNDAGE QUOTAS AND 
NATIONAL AVERAGE QUOTA PRICE SUPPORT LEV-
ELS.—The national average quota support 
rate for quota peanuts shall be $610 per ton 
for the 1996 crop of quota peanuts. Whenever 
the Secretary establishes the national 
poundage quota for peanuts for the 1997 and 
ensuing crops covered by this Act, the Secretary 
shall (i) take into consideration the 
quantity of non-quota or additional peanuts 
produced in the United States to be used for 
human consumption under this Act to 
achieve the marketing goals specified in subsection 
(b), and shall for the 1997 crop of peanuts 
and each crop thereafter for which price 
support and marketing quotas are provided, 
reduce the national average level of price 
support for quota peanuts as the Secretary 
finds necessary to prevent losses to Commodity 
Credit Corporation in the event the 
Secretary estimates that the domestic marketing 
goals for the next marketing year 
will not be met. 

‘‘(5) FAILURE TO MEET MARKETING GOAL FOR 
DOMESTICALLY PRODUCED PEANUTS.—If the 
marketing goals for domestically produced 
peanuts are not achieved by the end of the 
last previous marketing year, the Secretary 

(i) shall, for the next succeeding marketing 
year, increase the quantity of non-quota or 
additional peanuts grown in the United 
States which he or she permitted to be used 
domestically for human consumption during 
the last previous marketing year by not less 
than a quantity of domestically produced 
non-quota or additional peanuts equal to the 
percentage by which the marketing goal for 
the last previous marketing year was not 
achieved; and (ii) shall also reduce the national 
average level of price support for 
quota peanuts by not less than a like percentage 
for the next succeeding crop of peanuts.’’ 


AMENDMENT NO. 3228 
At the end of the title relating to conservation, 
insert the following: 

SEC. 356. FARMLAND PROTECTION. 

(a) OPERATION OF PROGRAM THROUGH THE 
STATES.—Section 1231(a) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831(a)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Through 
the 1995 calendar year’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Through the 2002 calendar 
year’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) FARMLAND PROTECTION.—With respect 
to land described in subsection (b)(5), the 
Secretary shall carry out the program 
through the States.’’. 

(b) ELIGIBLE LAND.—Section 1231(b) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831(b)) 
is amended— 
(1) by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (4) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(5) land with prime, unique, or other productive 
soil that is subject to a pending offer 
from a State or local government for the 
purchase of a conservation easement or 
other interest in the land for the purpose of 
protecting topsoil by limiting nonagricultural 
uses of the land, but any highly 
erodible cropland shall be subject to the requirements 
of a conservation plan, including, 
if required by the Secretary, the conversion 
of the land to less intensive uses.’’. 

(c) ENROLLMENT LIMITATIONS.—Section 
1231(d) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3831(d)) is amended by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ‘‘, of 
which not less than 170,000 nor more than 
340,000 acres may be enrolled under subsection 
(b)(5)’’. 
(d) DUTIES OF OWNERS AND OPERATORS.— 
Section 1232 of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(16 U.S.C. 3832) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(f) LAND WITH PRIME, UNIQUE, OR OTHER 
PRODUCTIVE SOIL.—In the case of land enrolled 
in the conservation reserve under section 
1231(b)(5), an owner or operator shall be 
permitted to use the land for any lawful agricultural 
purpose, subject to the conservation 
easement or other interest in land purchased 
by the State or local government and 
to any conservation plan required by the 
Secretary.’’. 

(e) DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY WITH RESPECT 
TO PAYMENTS.—Section 1233 of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3833) is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(2); 
(2) by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (3) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) in the case of a contract relating to 
land enrolled under section 1231(b)(5), pay up 
to 50 percent of the cost of limiting the nonagricultural 
use of land to protect the topsoil 
from urban development.’’. 

(f) ANNUAL RENTAL PAYMENTS.—Section 
1234(c)(2) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3834(c)(2) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(A); 
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
subparagraph (C); and 
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
following: 
‘‘(B) in the case of a contract relating to 
land enrolled under section 1231(b)(5), determination 
of the fair market value of the conservation 
easement or other interest acquired 
multiplied by 50 percent.’’. 


S762 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

DOMENICI AMENDMENTS NOS. 3229– 

3230 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. DOMENICI submitted two 
amendments intended to be proposed 
by him to amendment No. 3184 proposed 
by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, 
supra; as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 3229 
On page 4–3, between lines 4 and 5, insert 
the following: 

(c) CARRIED-OVER FUNDS.—20 percent of 
any commodity supplemental food program 
food funds carried over under section 5 of the 
Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 
1973 (Public Law 93–86; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) 
shall be available for administrative expenses 
of the program. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3230 
At the end of the pending bill, insert the 
following new section: 
SEC.. CARRIED-OVER FUNDS.—20 percent of 
any commodity supplemental food program 
food funds carried over under section 5 of the 
Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 
1973 (Public Law 93–86; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) 
shall be available for administrative expenses 
of the program. 

BROWN AMENDMENTS NOS. 3231– 
3232 

(Order to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BROWN submitted two amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3231 
Beginning on page 1–58, strike line 7 and 
all that follows through page 1–60, line 25, 
and insert the following: 

(2) FIRST PURCHASERS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided under 
paragraphs (4) and (5), the first purchaser of 
peanuts shall— 
(i) collect from the producer a marketing 
assessment equal to the quantity of peanuts 
acquired multiplied by— 
(I) in the case of each of the 1994 and 1995 
crops, .55 percent of the applicable national 
average loan rate; 
(II) in the case of the 1996 crop, .6 percent 
of the applicable national average loan rate; 
and 
(III) in the case of each of the 1997 through 
2002 crops, .65 percent of the applicable national 
average loan rate; 
(ii) pay, in addition to the amount collected 
under clause (i), a marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to the quantity of 
peanuts acquired multiplied by .55 percent of 
the applicable national average loan rate; 
and 
(iii) remit the amounts required under 
clauses (i) and (ii) to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation in a manner specified by the 
Secretary. 
(B) DEFINITION OF FIRST PURCHASER.—In 
this subsection, the term ‘‘first purchaser’’ 
means a person acquiring peanuts from a 
producer except that in the case of peanuts 
forfeited by a producer to the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the term means the person 
acquiring the peanuts from the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 
(3) ADDITIONAL MARKETING ASSESSMENT TO 
COVER EXPENSES OF THE SECRETARY.—In addition 
to the marketing assessment required 
under the other provisions of this subsection, 
the Secretary shall charge producers a marketing 
assessment applicable to each crop of 
peanuts to cover the costs of the salaries of 
the employees, and the expenses, of the Consolidated 
Farm Service Agency in carrying 
out the program established under this section. 


(4) OTHER PRIVATE MARKETINGS.—In the 
case of a private marketing by a producer directly 
to a consumer through a retail or 
wholesale outlet or in the case of a marketing 
by the producer outside of the continental 
United States, the producer shall be 
responsible for the full amount of the assessment 
and shall remit the assessment by such 
time as is specified by the Secretary. 
(5) LOAN PEANUTS.—In the case of peanuts 
that are pledged as collateral for a loan 
made under this section, 1/2 of the assessment 
shall be deducted from the proceeds of the 
loan. The remainder of the assessment shall 
be paid by the first purchaser of the peanuts. 
For purposes of computing net gains on peanuts 
under this section, the reduction in 
loan proceeds shall be treated as having been 
paid to the producer. 
(6) PENALTIES.—If any person fails to collect 
or remit the reduction required by this 
subsection or fails to comply with the requirements 
for recordkeeping or otherwise as 
are required by the Secretary to carry out 
this subsection, the person shall be liable to 
the Secretary for a civil penalty up to an 
amount determined by multiplying— 
(A) the quantity of peanuts involved in the 
violation; by 
(B) the national average quota peanut rate 
for the applicable crop year. 
(7) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may enforce 
this subsection in the courts of the 
United States. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3232 
On page 1–48, strike line 3 and insert the 
following 104(e) of the Act. 
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON MAXIMUM INCOME.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—None of the funds made 
available pursuant to this Act may be used 
to make any payment described in paragraph 

(1) or (2) to— 
‘‘(i) an individual with an annual net taxable 
income of more than $120,000; or 
‘‘(ii) any other person with an annual net 
taxable income of more than $5,000,000. 
‘‘(B) CERTIFICATION.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall annually certify to the Committee 
on Agriculture of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate 
that no person receiving a payment referred 
to in subparagraph (A) had, in the previous 
tax year of the person, an annual net 
taxable income greater than the amount 
specified in subparagraph (A) with respect to 
the person.’’. 

BROWN AMENDMENTS NOS. 3233– 

3235 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BROWN submitted three amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 3233 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


(a) None of the funds appropriated or made 
available to the Federal Drug Administration 
shall be used to operate the Board of 
Tea Experts and related activities. 
(b) The Tea Importation Act (21 U.S.C. 41 
et seq.) is repealed. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3234 
At the appropriate place in title I, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . ADDITIONAL TOBACCO MARKETING AS


SESSMENT TO COVER EXPENSES OF 

THE SECRETARY. 

Section 315(g) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and redesignated 
by section 19(b)(1)(A) is amended— 

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) 
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL MARKETING ASSESSMENT TO 
COVER EXPENSES OF THE SECRETARY.—In addition 
to the marketing assessment required 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
charge producers, purchasers, and importers 
of tobacco a marketing assessment applicable 
to each crop of tobacco to cover the costs 
of the salaries of the employees, and the expenses, 
of the Consolidated Farm Service 
Agency in carrying out the program under 
this section.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3235 
At the appropriate place in this bill, insert 
the following: 
ADDITIONAL MARKETING ASSESSMENT TO 
COVER EXPENSES OF THE SECRETARY.—In addition 
to the marketing assessment required 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
charge producers, purchasers, and importers 
of tobacco a marketing assessment applicable 
to each crop of tobacco to cover the costs 
of the salaries of the employees, and the expenses, 
of the Consolidated Farm Services 
Agency in carrying out the program under 
this section. The cost of the tobacco program 
shall not be offset by any revenues raised 
though tariffs imposed under the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act (Public Law 103–465) 
on imports of tobacco or tobacco products 
into the United States. 

HELMS AMENDMENTS NOS. 3236– 

3238 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HELMS submitted three amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3236 
On page 1–55, strike lines 4 through 23 and 
insert the following: 

(3) OFFSET WITHIN AREA.—Further losses in 
an area quota pool shall be offset by any 
gains or profits from additional peanuts 
(other than separate type pools established 
under subsection (c)(2)(A) for Valencia peanuts 
produced in New Mexico) owned or controlled 
by the Commodity Credit Corporation 
in that area and sold for domestic edible 
use, in accordance with regulations issued by 
the Secretary. 
(4) USE OF MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall use funds collected under 
subsection (g) (except funds attributable to 
handlers) to offset further losses in area 
quota pools. The Secretary shall transfer to 
the Treasury those funds collected under 
subsection (g) and available for use under 
this subsection that the Secretary determines 
are not required to cover losses in 
area quota pools. 
(5) CROSS COMPLIANCE.—Further losses in 
area quota pools, other than losses incurred 
as a result of transfers from additional loan 
pools to quota loan pools under section 358– 
1(b)(8) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b)(8)), shall be offset by 
any gains or profits from quota pools in 
other production areas (other than separate 
type pools established under subsection 
(c)(2)(A) for Valencia peanuts produced in 
New Mexico) in such manner as the Secretary 
shall by regulation prescribe. 
(6) OFFSET GENERALLY.—If losses in an area 
quota pool have not been entirely offset 
under paragraph (3), further losses shall be 
offset by any gains or profits from additional 
peanuts (other than separate type pools established 
under subsection (c)(2)(A) for Valencia 
peanuts produced in New Mexico) 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S763 

owned or controlled by the Commodity Credit 
Corporation and sold for domestic edible 
use, in accordance with regulations issued by 
the Secretary. 

(7) INCREASED ASSESSMENTS.—If use of the 
AMENDMENT NO. 3237 
On page 1–50, between lines 21 and 22, insert 
the following: 

(5) REDUCTION FOR CERTAIN OFFERS FROM 
HANDLERS.—The Secretary shall reduce the 
loan rate for quota peanuts by 5 percent for 
any producer who had an offer from a handler, 
at the time and place of delivery, to 
purchase quota peanuts from the farm on 
which the peanuts were produced at a price 
equal to or greater than the applicable loan 
rate for quota peanuts. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3238 
On page 1–62, strike lines 4 and 5 and insert 
the following: 
‘‘through 2002 marketing years’’; 

(v) in subsection (b)(1), by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(D) CERTAIN FARMS INELIGIBLE FOR 
QUOTA.—Effective beginning with the 1997 
marketing year, the Secretary shall not establish 
a farm poundage quota under subparagraph 
(a) for a farm owned or controlled 
by— 

‘‘(i) a municipality, airport authority, 
school, college, refuge, or other public entity 
(other than a university used for research 
purposes); or 

‘‘(ii) a person who is not a producer and resides 
in another State.’’; 

(vi) in subsection (b)(2), by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(E) TRANSFER OF QUOTA FROM INELIGIBLE 
FARMS.—Any farm poundage quota held at 
the end of the 1996 marketing year by a farm 
described in paragraph (1)(D) shall be allocated 
to other farms in the same State on 
such basis as the Secretary may by regulation 
prescribe.’’; and 

(vii) in subsection (f), by striking 
PRESSLER AMENDMENT NO. 3239 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. PRESSLER submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


On page 1–8, line 13, after ‘‘was considered 
planted’’, insert the following: ‘‘(including, 
in the case of a beginning farmer (as defined 
by the Secretary), land that was used to 
build base acreage)’’. 

MOSELEY-BRAUN AMENDMENT NO. 

3240 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to amendment No. 3184 proposed by 
Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as 
follows: 

At the appropriate place insert the following: 


Amend language on oilseed loan rates as 
follows: 

(A) SOYBEANS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for soybeans shall 
be— 
(i) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of soybeans, 
as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of soybeans, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $4.92 or more than $5.26 
per bushel. 
(B) SUNFLOWER SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND FLAXSEED.— 
The loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, 
safflower, mustard seed, and flaxseed, individually, 
shall be— 
(i) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of these 
oilseeds, individually, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceding 5 crops of these 
oilseeds, individually, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 
the year in which the average prices was the 
lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $0.87 or more than $0.93 
per pound. 
(C) OTHER OILSEEDS.—The loan rates for a 
marketing assistance loan for other oilseeds 
shall be established to such level as the Secretary 
determines is fair and reasonable in 
relation to the loan rate available for soybeans, 
except in no event shall the rate for 
the oilseeds (other than cottonseed) be less 
than the rate established for soybeans on a 
per-pound basis for the same crop. 
HATCH AMENDMENT NO. 3241 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. HATCH submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
On page 73, line 12, strike all of sec. 108 
(page 75, line 7). 

KENNEDY AMENDMENT NO. 3242 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KENNEDY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

At the end of the amendment, add the following 
new title: 

TITLE ll—HEALTH INSURANCE REFORM 
SEC. ll01. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Health Insurance 
Reform Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. ll02. DEFINITIONS. 

As used in this title: 

(1) BENEFICIARY.—The term ‘‘beneficiary’’ 
has the meaning given such term under section 
3(8) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(8)). 
(2) EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘‘employee’’ has 
the meaning given such term under section 
3(6) of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(6)). 
(3) EMPLOYER.—The term ‘‘employer’’ has 
the meaning given such term under section 
3(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(5)), except 
that such term shall include only employers 
of two or more employees. 
(4) EMPLOYEE HEALTH BENEFIT PLAN.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘employee 
health benefit plan’’ means any employee 
welfare benefit plan, governmental plan, or 
church plan (as defined under paragraphs (1), 
(32), and (33) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
U.S.C. 1002 (1), (32), and (33))) that provides or 
pays for health benefits (such as provider 
and hospital benefits) for participants and 
beneficiaries whether— 
(i) directly; 
(ii) through a group health plan offered by 
a health plan issuer as defined in paragraph 
(8); or 
(iii) otherwise. 
(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—An employee 
health benefit plan shall not be construed to 
be a group health plan, an individual health 
plan, or a health plan issuer. 

(C) ARRANGEMENTS NOT INCLUDED.—Such 
term does not include the following, or any 
combination thereof: 
(i) Coverage only for accident, or disability 
income insurance, or any combination thereof. 
(ii) Medicare supplemental health insurance 
(as defined under section 1882(g)(1) of 
the Social Security Act). 
(iii) Coverage issued as a supplement to liability 
insurance. 
(iv) Liability insurance, including general 
liability insurance and automobile liability 
insurance. 
(v) Workers compensation or similar insurance. 
(vi) Automobile medical payment insurance. 
(vii) Coverage for a specified disease or illness. 
(viii) Hospital or fixed indemnity insurance. 
(ix) Short-term limited duration insurance. 
(x) Credit-only, dental-only, or vision-only 
insurance. 
(xi) A health insurance policy providing 
benefits only for long-term care, nursing 
home care, home health care, community-
based care, or any combination thereof. 
(5) FAMILY.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘family’’ means 
an individual, the individual’s spouse, and 
the child of the individual (if any). 
(B) CHILD.—For purposes of subparagraph 
(A), the term ‘‘child’’ means any individual 
who is a child within the meaning of section 
151(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 
(6) GROUP HEALTH PLAN.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘group health 
plan’’ means any contract, policy, certificate 
or other arrangement offered by a health 
plan issuer to a group purchaser that provides 
or pays for health benefits (such as provider 
and hospital benefits) in connection 
with an employee health benefit plan. 
(B) ARRANGEMENTS NOT INCLUDED.—Such 
term does not include the following, or any 
combination thereof: 
(i) Coverage only for accident, or disability 
income insurance, or any combination thereof. 
(ii) Medicare supplemental health insurance 
(as defined under section 1882(g)(1) of 
the Social Security Act). 
(iii) Coverage issued as a supplement to liability 
insurance. 
(iv) Liability insurance, including general 
liability insurance and automobile liability 
insurance. 
(v) Workers compensation or similar insurance. 
(vi) Automobile medical payment insurance. 
(vii) Coverage for a specified disease or illness. 
(viii) Hospital or fixed indemnity insurance. 
(ix) Short-term limited duration insurance. 
(x) Credit-only, dental-only, or vision-only 
insurance. 
(xi) A health insurance policy providing 
benefits only for long-term care, nursing 
home care, home health care, community-
based care, or any combination thereof. 
(7) GROUP PURCHASER.—The term ‘‘group 
purchaser’’ means any person (as defined 
under paragraph (9) of section 3 of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(9)) or entity that purchases 
or pays for health benefits (such as 
provider or hospital benefits) on behalf of 
two or more participants or beneficiaries in 
connection with an employee health benefit 
plan. A health plan purchasing cooperative 

S764 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

established under section ll41 shall not be 
considered to be a group purchaser. 

(8) HEALTH PLAN ISSUER.—The term 
‘‘health plan issuer’’ means any entity that 
is licensed (prior to or after the date of enactment 
of this Act) by a State to offer a 
group health plan or an individual health 
plan. 
(9) PARTICIPANT.—The term ‘‘participant’’ 
has the meaning given such term under section 
3(7) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(7)). 
(10) PLAN SPONSOR.—The term ‘‘plan sponsor’’ 
has the meaning given such term under 
section 3(16)(B) of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 
1002(16)(B)). 
(11) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’, 
unless specifically provided otherwise, 
means the Secretary of Labor. 
(12) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each 
of the several States, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin 
Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
Subtitle A—Health Care Access, Portability, 
and Renewability 
CHAPTER 1—GROUP MARKET RULES 
SEC. ll11. GUARANTEED AVAILABILITY OF 
HEALTH COVERAGE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) NONDISCRIMINATION.—Except as provided 
in subsection (b), section ll12 and section 
ll13— 
(A) a health plan issuer offering a group 
health plan may not decline to offer whole 
group coverage to a group purchaser desiring 
to purchase such coverage; and 
(B) an employee health benefit plan or a 
health plan issuer offering a group health 
plan may establish eligibility, continuation 
of eligibility, enrollment, or premium contribution 
requirements under the terms of 
such plan, except that such requirements 
shall not be based on health status, medical 
condition, claims experience, receipt of 
health care, medical history, evidence of insurability, 
or disability. 
(2) HEALTH PROMOTION AND DISEASE PREVENTION.—
Nothing in this subsection shall prevent 
an employee health benefit plan or a 
health plan issuer from establishing premium 
discounts or modifying otherwise applicable 
copayments or deductibles in return 
for adherence to programs of health promotion 
and disease prevention. 
(b) APPLICATION OF CAPACITY LIMITS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), a 
health plan issuer offering a group health 
plan may cease offering coverage to group 
purchasers under the plan if— 
(A) the health plan issuer ceases to offer 
coverage to any additional group purchasers; 
and 
(B) the health plan issuer can demonstrate 
to the applicable certifying authority (as defined 
in section ll52(d)), if required, that 
its financial or provider capacity to serve 
previously covered participants and beneficiaries 
(and additional participants and 
beneficiaries who will be expected to enroll 
because of their affiliation with a group purchaser 
or such previously covered participants 
or beneficiaries) will be impaired if the 
health plan issuer is required to offer coverage 
to additional group purchasers. 
Such health plan issuer shall be prohibited 
from offering coverage after a cessation in 
offering coverage under this paragraph for a 
6-month period or until the health plan 
issuer can demonstrate to the applicable certifying 
authority (as defined in section 
ll52(d)) that the health plan issuer has adequate 
capacity, whichever is later. 

(2) FIRST-COME-FIRST-SERVED.—A health 
plan issuer offering a group health plan is 
only eligible to exercise the limitations provided 
for in paragraph (1) if the health plan 
issuer offers coverage to group purchasers 
under such plan on a first-come-first-served 
basis or other basis established by a State to 
ensure a fair opportunity to enroll in the 
plan and avoid risk selection. 

(c) CONSTRUCTION.— 
(1) MARKETING OF GROUP HEALTH PLANS.— 
Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
prevent a State from requiring health plan 
issuers offering group health plans to actively 
market such plans. 
(2) INVOLUNTARY OFFERING OF GROUP 
HEALTH PLANS.—Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to require a health plan issuer 
to involuntarily offer group health plans in a 
particular market. For the purposes of this 
paragraph, the term ‘‘market’’ means either 
the large employer market or the small employer 
market (as defined under applicable 
State law, or if not so defined, an employer 
with not more than 50 employees). 
SEC. ll12. GUARANTEED RENEWABILITY OF 
HEALTH COVERAGE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) GROUP PURCHASER.—Subject to subsections 
(b) and (c), a group health plan shall 
be renewed or continued in force by a health 
plan issuer at the option of the group purchaser, 
except that the requirement of this 
subparagraph shall not apply in the case of— 
(A) the nonpayment of premiums or contributions 
by the group purchaser in accordance 
with the terms of the group health plan 
or where the health plan issuer has not received 
timely premium payments; 
(B) fraud or misrepresentation of material 
fact on the part of the group purchaser; 
(C) the termination of the group health 
plan in accordance with subsection (b); or 
(D) the failure of the group purchaser to 
meet contribution or participation requirements 
in accordance with paragraph (3). 
(2) PARTICIPANT.—Subject to subsections 
(b) and (c), coverage under an employee 
health benefit plan or group health plan 
shall be renewed or continued in force, if the 
group purchaser elects to continue to provide 
coverage under such plan, at the option 
of the participant (or beneficiary where such 
right exists under the terms of the plan or 
under applicable law), except that the requirement 
of this paragraph shall not apply 
in the case of— 
(A) the nonpayment of premiums or contributions 
by the participant or beneficiary 
in accordance with the terms of the employee 
health benefit plan or group health 
plan or where such plan has not received 
timely premium payments; 
(B) fraud or misrepresentation of material 
fact on the part of the participant or beneficiary 
relating to an application for coverage 
or claim for benefits; 
(C) the termination of the employee health 
benefit plan or group health plan; 
(D) loss of eligibility for continuation coverage 
as described in part 6 of subtitle B of 
title I of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1161 et seq.); 
or 
(E) failure of a participant or beneficiary 
to meet requirements for eligibility for coverage 
under an employee health benefit plan 
or group health plan that are not prohibited 
by this title. 
(3) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this subsection, nor in section ll11(a), shall 
be construed to— 
(A) preclude a health plan issuer from establishing 
employer contribution rules or 
group participation rules for group health 
plans as allowed under applicable State law; 
(B) preclude a plan defined in section 3(37) 
of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1102(37)) from establishing 
employer contribution rules or 
group participation rules; or 

(C) permit individuals to decline coverage 
under an employee health benefit plan if 
such right is not otherwise available under 
such plan. 
(b) TERMINATION OF GROUP HEALTH 
PLANS.— 
(1) PARTICULAR TYPE OF GROUP HEALTH 
PLAN NOT OFFERED.—In any case in which a 
health plan issuer decides to discontinue offering 
a particular type of group health plan, 
a group health plan of such type may be discontinued 
by the health plan issuer only if— 
(A) the health plan issuer provides notice 
to each group purchaser covered under a 
group health plan of this type (and participants 
and beneficiaries covered under such 
group health plan) of such discontinuation at 
least 90 days prior to the date of the discontinuation 
of such plan; 
(B) the health plan issuer offers to each 
group purchaser covered under a group 
health plan of this type, the option to purchase 
any other group health plan currently 
being offered by the health plan issuer; and 
(C) in exercising the option to discontinue 
a group health plan of this type and in offering 
one or more replacement plans, the 
health plan issuer acts uniformly without regard 
to the health status or insurability of 
participants or beneficiaries covered under 
the group health plan, or new participants or 
beneficiaries who may become eligible for 
coverage under the group health plan. 
(2) DISCONTINUANCE OF ALL GROUP HEALTH 
PLANS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which a 
health plan issuer elects to discontinue offering 
all group health plans in a State, a 
group health plan may be discontinued by 
the health plan issuer only if— 
(i) the health plan issuer provides notice to 
the applicable certifying authority (as defined 
in section ll52(d)) and to each group 
purchaser (and participants and beneficiaries 
covered under such group health plan) of 
such discontinuation at least 180 days prior 
to the date of the expiration of such plan; 
and 
(ii) all group health plans issued or delivered 
for issuance in the State are discontinued 
and coverage under such plans is not 
renewed. 
(B) APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.—The provisions 
of this paragraph and paragraph (3) 
may be applied separately by a health plan 
issuer— 
(i) to all group health plans offered to 
small employers (as defined under applicable 
State law, or if not so defined, an employer 
with not more than 50 employees); or 
(ii) to all other group health plans offered 
by the health plan issuer in the State. 
(3) PROHIBITION ON MARKET REENTRY.—In 
the case of a discontinuation under paragraph 
(2), the health plan issuer may not 
provide for the issuance of any group health 
plan in the market sector (as described in 
paragraph (2)(B)) in which issuance of such 
group health plan was discontinued in the 
State involved during the 5-year period beginning 
on the date of the discontinuation of 
the last group health plan not so renewed. 
(c) TREATMENT OF NETWORK PLANS.— 
(1) GEOGRAPHIC LIMITATIONS.—A network 
plan (as defined in paragraph (2)) may deny 
continued participation under such plan to 
participants or beneficiaries who neither 
live, reside, nor work in an area in which 
such network plan is offered, but only if such 
denial is applied uniformly, without regard 
to health status or the insurability of particular 
participants or beneficiaries. 
(2) NETWORK PLAN.—As used in paragraph 
(1), the term ‘‘network plan’’ means an employee 
health benefit plan or a group health 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S765 

plan that arranges for the financing and delivery 
of health care services to participants 
or beneficiaries covered under such plan, in 
whole or in part, through arrangements with 
providers. 

(d) COBRA COVERAGE.—Nothing in subsection 
(a)(2)(E) or subsection (c) shall be 
construed to affect any right to COBRA continuation 
coverage as described in part 6 of 
subtitle B of title I of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 
1161 et seq.). 
SEC. ll13. PORTABILITY OF HEALTH COVERAGE 
AND LIMITATION ON PREEXISTING 
CONDITION EXCLUSIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—An employee health benefit 
plan or a health plan issuer offering a 
group health plan may impose a limitation 
or exclusion of benefits relating to treatment 
of a preexisting condition based on the 
fact that the condition existed prior to the 
coverage of the participant or beneficiary 
under the plan only if— 
(1) the limitation or exclusion extends for 
a period of not more than 12 months after 
the date of enrollment in the plan; 
(2) the limitation or exclusion does not 
apply to an individual who, within 30 days of 
the date of birth or placement for adoption 
(as determined under section 609(c)(3)(B) of 
the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1169(c)(3)(B)), was covered 
under the plan; and 
(3) the limitation or exclusion does not 
apply to a pregnancy. 
(b) CREDITING OF PREVIOUS QUALIFYING 
COVERAGE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (4), 
an employee health benefit plan or a health 
plan issuer offering a group health plan shall 
provide that if a participant or beneficiary is 
in a period of previous qualifying coverage as 
of the date of enrollment under such plan, 
any period of exclusion or limitation of coverage 
with respect to a preexisting condition 
shall be reduced by 1 month for each month 
in which the participant or beneficiary was 
in the period of previous qualifying coverage. 
With respect to an individual described in 
subsection (a)(2) who maintains continuous 
coverage, no limitation or exclusion of benefits 
relating to treatment of a preexisting 
condition may be applied to a child within 
the child’s first 12 months of life or within 12 
months after the placement of a child for 
adoption. 
(2) DISCHARGE OF DUTY.—An employee 
health benefit plan shall provide documentation 
of coverage to participants and beneficiaries 
whose coverage is terminated under 
the plan. Pursuant to regulations promulgated 
by the Secretary, the duty of an employee 
health benefit plan to verify previous 
qualifying coverage with respect to a participant 
or beneficiary is effectively discharged 
when such employee health benefit plan provides 
documentation to a participant or beneficiary 
that includes the following information: 
(A) the dates that the participant or beneficiary 
was covered under the plan; and 
(B) the benefits and cost-sharing arrangement 
available to the participant or beneficiary 
under such plan. 
An employee health benefit plan shall retain 
the documentation provided to a participant 
or beneficiary under subparagraphs (A) and 

(B) for at least the 12-month period following 
the date on which the participant or beneficiary 
ceases to be covered under the plan. 
Upon request, an employee health benefit 
plan shall provide a second copy of such documentation 
to such participant or beneficiary 
within the 12-month period following 
the date of such ineligibility. 
(3) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section: 
(A) PREVIOUS QUALIFYING COVERAGE.—The 
term ‘‘previous qualifying coverage’’ means 
the period beginning on the date— 
(i) a participant or beneficiary is enrolled 
under an employee health benefit plan or a 
group health plan, and ending on the date 
the participant or beneficiary is not so enrolled; 
or 
(ii) an individual is enrolled under an individual 
health plan (as defined in section 
ll23) or under a public or private health 
plan established under Federal or State law, 
and ending on the date the individual is not 
so enrolled; 
for a continuous period of more than 30 days 
(without regard to any waiting period). 

(B) LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF BENEFITS 
RELATING TO TREATMENT OF A PREEXISTING 
CONDITION.—The term ‘‘limitation or exclusion 
of benefits relating to treatment of a 
preexisting condition’’ means a limitation or 
exclusion of benefits imposed on an individual 
based on a preexisting condition of 
such individual. 
(4) EFFECT OF PREVIOUS COVERAGE.—An employee 
health benefit plan or a health plan 
issuer offering a group health plan may impose 
a limitation or exclusion of benefits relating 
to the treatment of a preexisting condition, 
subject to the limits in subsection 
(a)(1), only to the extent that such service or 
benefit was not previously covered under the 
group health plan, employee health benefit 
plan, or individual health plan in which the 
participant or beneficiary was enrolled immediately 
prior to enrollment in the plan involved. 
(c) LATE ENROLLEES.—Except as provided 
in section ll14, with respect to a participant 
or beneficiary enrolling in an employee 
health benefit plan or a group health plan 
during a time that is other than the first opportunity 
to enroll during an enrollment period 
of at least 30 days, coverage with respect 
to benefits or services relating to the 
treatment of a preexisting condition in accordance 
with subsections (a) and (b) may be 
excluded, except the period of such exclusion 
may not exceed 18 months beginning on the 
date of coverage under the plan. 
(d) AFFILIATION PERIODS.—With respect to 
a participant or beneficiary who would otherwise 
be eligible to receive benefits under 
an employee health benefit plan or a group 
health plan but for the operation of a preexisting 
condition limitation or exclusion, if 
such plan does not utilize a limitation or exclusion 
of benefits relating to the treatment 
of a preexisting condition, such plan may impose 
an affiliation period on such participant 
or beneficiary not to exceed 60 days (or in 
the case of a late participant or beneficiary 
described in subsection (c), 90 days) from the 
date on which the participant or beneficiary 
would otherwise be eligible to receive benefits 
under the plan. An employee health benefit 
plan or a health plan issuer offering a 
group health plan may also use alternative 
methods to address adverse selection as approved 
by the applicable certifying authority 
(as defined in section ll52(d)). During such 
an affiliation period, the plan may not be required 
to provide health care services or benefits 
and no premium shall be charged to the 
participant or beneficiary. 
(e) PREEXISTING CONDITION.—For purposes 
of this section, the term ‘‘preexisting condition’’ 
means a condition, regardless of the 
cause of the condition, for which medical advice, 
diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended 
or received within the 6-month 
period ending on the day before the effective 
date of the coverage (without regard to any 
waiting period). 
(f) STATE FLEXIBILITY.—Nothing in this 
section shall be construed to preempt State 
laws that — 
(1) require health plan issuers to impose a 
limitation or exclusion of benefits relating 
to the treatment of a preexisting condition 
for periods that are shorter than those provided 
for under this section; or 
(2) allow individuals, participants, and 
beneficiaries to be considered to be in a period 
of previous qualifying coverage if such 
individual, participant, or beneficiary experiences 
a lapse in coverage that is greater 
than the 30-day period provided for under 
subsection (b)(3); 
unless such laws are preempted by section 
514 of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1144). 

SEC. ll14. SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PERIODS. 

In the case of a participant, beneficiary or 
family member who— 

(1) through marriage, separation, divorce, 
death, birth or placement of a child for adoption, 
experiences a change in family composition 
affecting eligibility under a group 
health plan, individual health plan, or employee 
health benefit plan; 
(2) experiences a change in employment 
status, as described in section 603(2) of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1163(2)), that causes the loss 
of eligibility for coverage, other than 
COBRA continuation coverage under a group 
health plan, individual health plan, or employee 
health benefit plan; or 
(3) experiences a loss of eligibility under a 
group health plan, individual health plan, or 
employee health benefit plan because of a 
change in the employment status of a family 
member; 
each employee health benefit plan and each 
group health plan shall provide for a special 
enrollment period extending for a reasonable 
time after such event that would permit the 
participant to change the individual or family 
basis of coverage or to enroll in the plan 
if coverage would have been available to 
such individual, participant, or beneficiary 
but for failure to enroll during a previous enrollment 
period. Such a special enrollment 
period shall ensure that a child born or 
placed for adoption shall be deemed to be 
covered under the plan as of the date of such 
birth or placement for adoption if such child 
is enrolled within 30 days of the date of such 
birth or placement for adoption. 

SEC. ll15. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION. 

(a) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION BY HEALTH 
PLAN ISSUERS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In connection with the offering 
of any group health plan to a small 
employer (as defined under applicable State 
law, or if not so defined, an employer with 
not more than 50 employees), a health plan 
issuer shall make a reasonable disclosure to 
such employer, as part of its solicitation and 
sales materials, of— 
(A) the provisions of such group health 
plan concerning the health plan issuer’s 
right to change premium rates and the factors 
that may affect changes in premium 
rates; 
(B) the provisions of such group health 
plan relating to renewability of coverage; 
(C) the provisions of such group health 
plan relating to any preexisting condition 
provision; and 
(D) descriptive information about the benefits 
and premiums available under all group 
health plans for which the employer is qualified. 
Information shall be provided to small employers 
under this paragraph in a manner determined 
to be understandable by the average 
small employer, and shall be sufficiently 
accurate and comprehensive to reasonably 
inform small employers, participants and 
beneficiaries of their rights and obligations 
under the group health plan. 


S766 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(2) EXCEPTION.—With respect to the requirement 
of paragraph (1), any information 
that is proprietary and trade secret information 
under applicable law shall not be subject 
to the disclosure requirements of such 
paragraph. 
(3) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection 
shall be construed to preempt State 
reporting and disclosure requirements to the 
extent that such requirements are not preempted 
under section 514 of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
U.S.C. 1144). 
(b) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO PARTICIPANTS 
AND BENEFICIARIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 104(b)(1) of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1024(b)(1)) is amended in the 
matter following subparagraph (B)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘102(a)(1),’’ and inserting 
‘‘102(a)(1) that is not a material reduction in 
covered services or benefits provided,’’; and 
(B) by adding at the end thereof the following 
new sentences: ‘‘If there is a modification 
or change described in section 
102(a)(1) that is a material reduction in covered 
services or benefits provided, a summary 
description of such modification or 
change shall be furnished to participants not 
later than 60 days after the date of the adoption 
of the modification or change. In the alternative, 
the plan sponsors may provide 
such description at regular intervals of not 
more than 90 days. The Secretary shall issue 
regulations within 180 days after the date of 
enactment of the Health Insurance Reform 
Act of 1996, providing alternative mechanisms 
to delivery by mail through which employee 
health benefit plans may notify participants 
of material reductions in covered 
services or benefits.’’. 
(2) PLAN DESCRIPTION AND SUMMARY.—Section 
102(b) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1022(b)) 
is amended— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘including the office or 
title of the individual who is responsible for 
approving or denying claims for coverage of 
benefits’’ after ‘‘type of administration of 
the plan’’; 
(B) by inserting ‘‘including the name of the 
organization responsible for financing 
claims’’ after ‘‘source of financing of the 
plan’’; and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘including the office, contact, 
or title of the individual at the Department 
of Labor through which participants 
may seek assistance or information regarding 
their rights under this Act and the 
Health Insurance Reform Act of 1996 with respect 
to health benefits that are not offered 
through a group health plan.’’ after ‘‘benefits 
under the plan’’. 
CHAPTER 2—INDIVIDUAL MARKET RULES 

SEC. ll20. INDIVIDUAL HEALTH PLAN PORTABILITY. 


(a) LIMITATION ON REQUIREMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to an individual 
desiring to enroll in an individual 
health plan, if such individual is in a period 
of previous qualifying coverage (as defined in 
section ll13(b)(3)(A)(i)) under one or more 
group health plans or employee health benefit 
plans that commenced 18 or more 
months prior to the date on which such individual 
desires to enroll in the individual 
plan, a health plan issuer described in paragraph 
(3) may not decline to offer coverage 
to such individual, impose a new period of 
exclusion or limitation of coverage with 
repsect to a preexisting condition (as defined 
in section ll13(e)), or deny enrollment to 
such individual based on the health status, 
medical condition, claims experience, receipt 
of health care, medical history, evidence of 
insurability, or disability of the individual, 
except as described in subsections (b) and (c). 
(2) HEALTH PROMOTION AND DISEASE PREVENTION.—
Nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to prevent a health plan issuer offering 
an individual health plan from establishing 
premium discounts or modifying otherwise 
applicable copayments or deductibles 
in return for adherence to programs of 
health promotion or disease prevention. 
(3) HEALTH PLAN ISSUER.—A health plan 
issuer described in this paragraph is a health 
plan issuer that issues or renews individual 
health plans. 
(4) PREMIUMS.—Nothing in this subsection 
shall be construed to affect the determination 
of a health plan issuer as to the amount 
of the premium payable under an individual 
health plan under applicable State law. 
(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR OTHER GROUP COVERAGE.—
The provisions of subsection (a) 
shall not apply to an individual who is eligible 
for coverage under a group health plan or 
an employee health benefit plan, or who has 
had coverage terminated under a group 
health plan or employee health benefit plan 
for failure to make required premium payments 
or contributions, or for fraud or misrepresentation 
of material fact, or who is 
otherwise eligible for continuation coverage 
as described in part 6 of subtitle B of title I 
of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1161 et seq.) or 
under an equivalent State program. 
(c) APPLICATION OF CAPACITY LIMITS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), a 
health plan issuer offering coverage to individuals 
under an individual health plan may 
cease enrolling individuals under the plan 
if— 
(A) the health plan issuer ceases to enroll 
any new individuals; and 
(B) the health plan issuer can demonstrate 
to the applicable certifying authority (as defined 
in section ll52(d)), if required, that 
its financial or provider capacity to serve 
previously covered individuals will be impaired 
if the health plan issuer is required to 
enroll additional individuals. 
Such a health plan issuer shall be prohibited 
from offering coverage after a cessation in 
offering coverage under this paragraph for a 
6-month period or until the health plan 
issuer can demonstrate to the applicable certifying 
authority (as defined in section 
ll52(d)) that the health plan issuer has adequate 
capacity, whichever is later. 

(2) FIRST-COME-FIRST-SERVED.—A health 
plan issuer offering coverage to individuals 
under an individual health plan is only eligible 
to exercise the limitations provided for 
in paragraph (1) if the health plan issuer provides 
for enrollment of individuals under 
such plan on a first-come-first-served basis 
or other basis established by a State to ensure 
a fair opportunity to enroll in the plan 
and avoid risk selection. 
(d) MARKET REQUIREMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of subsection 
(a) shall not be construed to require 
that a health plan issuer offering group 
health plans to group purchasers offer individual 
health plans to individuals. 
(2) CONVERSION POLICIES.—A health plan 
issuer offering group health plans to group 
purchasers under this title shall not be 
deemed to be a health plan issuer offering an 
individual health plan solely because such 
health plan issuer offers a conversion policy. 
(3) MARKETING OF PLANS.—Nothing in this 
section shall be construed to prevent a State 
from requiring health plan issuers offering 
coverage to individuals under an individual 
health plan to actively market such plan. 
SEC. ll21. GUARANTEED RENEWABILITY OF INDIVIDUAL 
HEALTH COVERAGE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsections (b) 
and (c), coverage for individuals under an individual 
health plan shall be renewed or continued 
in force by a health plan issuer at the 
option of the individual, except that the requirement 
of this subsection shall not apply 
in the case of— 

(1) the nonpayment of premiums or contributions 
by the individual in accordance 
with the terms of the individual health plan 
or where the health plan issuer has not received 
timely premium payments; 
(2) fraud or misrepresentation of material 
fact on the part of the individual; or 
(3) the termination of the individual health 
plan in accordance with subsection (b). 
(b) TERMINATION OF INDIVIDUAL HEALTH 
PLANS.— 
(1) PARTICULAR TYPE OF INDIVIDUAL HEALTH 
PLAN NOT OFFERED.—In any case in which a 
health plan issuer decides to discontinue offering 
a particular type of individual health 
plan to individuals, an individual health plan 
may be discontinued by the health plan 
issuer only if— 
(A) the health plan issuer provides notice 
to each individual covered under the plan of 
such discontinuation at least 90 days prior to 
the date of the expiration of the plan; 
(B) the health plan issuer offers to each individual 
covered under the plan the option to 
purchase any other individual health plan 
currently being offered by the health plan 
issuer to individuals; and 
(C) in exercising the option to discontinue 
the individual health plan and in offering 
one or more replacement plans, the health 
plan issuer acts uniformly without regard to 
the health status or insurability of particular 
individuals. 
(2) DISCONTINUANCE OF ALL INDIVIDUAL 
HEALTH PLANS.—In any case in which a 
health plan issuer elects to discontinue all 
individual health plans in a State, an individual 
health plan may be discontinued by 
the health plan issuer only if— 
(A) the health plan issuer provides notice 
to the applicable certifying authority (as defined 
in section ll52(d)) and to each individual 
covered under the plan of such discontinuation 
at least 180 days prior to the 
date of the discontinuation of the plan; and 
(B) all individual health plans issued or delivered 
for issuance in the State are discontinued 
and coverage under such plans is not 
renewed. 
(3) PROHIBITION ON MARKET REENTRY.—In 
the case of a discontinuation under paragraph 
(2), the health plan issuer may not 
provide for the issuance of any individual 
health plan in the State involved during the 
5-year period beginning on the date of the 
discontinuation of the last plan not so renewed. 
(c) TREATMENT OF NETWORK PLANS.— 
(1) GEOGRAPHIC LIMITATIONS.—A health 
plan issuer which offers a network plan (as 
defined in paragraph (2)) may deny continued 
participation under the plan to individuals 
who neither live, reside, nor work in an area 
in which the individual health plan is offered, 
but only if such denial is applied uniformly, 
without regard to health status or 
the insurability of particular individuals. 
(2) NETWORK PLAN.—As used in paragraph 
(1), the term ‘‘network plan’’ means an individual 
health plan that arranges for the financing 
and delivery of health care services 
to individuals covered under such health 
plan, in whole or in part, through arrangements 
with providers. 
SEC. ll22. STATE FLEXIBILITY IN INDIVIDUAL 
MARKET REFORMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to any State 
law with respect to which the Governor of 
the State notifies the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services that such State law will 
achieve the goals of sections ll20 and 
ll21, and that is in effect on, or enacted 
after, the date of enactment of this Act (such 
as laws providing for guaranteed issue, open 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S767 

enrollment by one or more health plan 
issuers, high-risk pools, or mandatory conversion 
policies), such State law shall apply 
in lieu of the standards described in sections 
ll20 and ll21 unless the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services determines, 
after considering the criteria described in 
subsection (b)(1), in consultation with the 
Governor and Insurance Commissioner or 
chief insurance regulatory official of the 
State, that such State law does not achieve 
the goals of providing access to affordable 
health care coverage for those individuals 
described in sections ll20 and ll21. 

(b) DETERMINATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In making a determination 
under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall only— 
(A) evaluate whether the State law or program 
provides guaranteed access to affordable 
coverage to individuals described in sections 
ll20 and ll21; 
(B) evaluate whether the State law or program 
provides coverage for preexisting conditions 
(as defined in section ll13(e)) that 
were covered under the individuals’ previous 
group health plan or employee health benefit 
plan for individuals described in sections 
ll20 and ll21; 
(C) evaluate whether the State law or program 
provides individuals described in sections 
ll20 and ll21 with a choice of health 
plans or a health plan providing comprehensive 
coverage; and 
(D) evaluate whether the application of the 
standards described in sections ll20 and 
ll21 will have an adverse impact on the 
number of individuals in such State having 
access to affordable coverage. 
(2) NOTICE OF INTENT.—If, within 6 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Governor of a State notifies the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services that the State 
intends to enact a law, or modify an existing 
law, described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services may 
not make a determination under such subsection 
until the expiration of the 12-month 
period beginning on the date on which such 
notification is made, or until January 1, 1997, 
whichever is later. With respect to a State 
that provides notice under this paragraph 
and that has a legislature that does not meet 
within the 12-month period beginning on the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall not make a determination under subsection 
(a) prior to January 1, 1998. 
(3) NOTICE TO STATE.—If the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services determines that 
a State law or program does not achieve the 
goals described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services shall 
provide the State with adequate notice and 
reasonable opportunity to modify such law 
or program to achieve such goals prior to 
making a final determination under subsection 
(a). 
(c) ADOPTION OF NAIC MODEL.—If, not later 
than 9 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act— 
(1) the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners (hereafter referred to as the 
‘‘NAIC’’), through a process which the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services determines 
has included consultation with representatives 
of the insurance industry and 
consumer groups, adopts a model standard or 
standards for reform of the individual health 
insurance market; and 
(2) the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services determines, within 30 days of the 
adoption of such NAIC standard or standards, 
that such standards comply with the 
goals of sections ll20 and ll21; 
a State that elects to adopt such model 
standards or substantially adopt such model 
standards shall be deemed to have met the 

requirements of sections ll20 and ll21 
and shall not be subject to a determination 
under subsection (a). 

SEC. ll23. DEFINITION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—As used in this subtitle, 
the term ‘‘individual health plan’’ means any 
contract, policy, certificate or other arrangement 
offered to individuals by a health 
plan issuer that provides or pays for health 
benefits (such as provider and hospital benefits) 
and that is not a group health plan 
under section ll02(6). 
(b) ARRANGEMENTS NOT INCLUDED.—Such 
term does not include the following, or any 
combination thereof: 
(1) Coverage only for accident, or disability 
income insurance, or any combination thereof. 
(2) Medicare supplemental health insurance 
(as defined under section 1882(g)(1) of 
the Social Security Act). 
(3) Coverage issued as a supplement to liability 
insurance. 
(4) Liability insurance, including general 
liability insurance and automobile liability 
insurance. 
(5) Workers’ compensation or similar insurance. 
(6) Automobile medical payment insurance. 
(7) Coverage for a specified disease or illness. 
(8) Hospital or fixed indemnity insurance. 
(9) Short-term limited duration insurance. 
(10) Credit-only, dental-only, or vision-only 
insurance. 
(11) A health insurance policy providing 
benefits only for long-term care, nursing 
home care, home health care, community-
based care, or any combination thereof. 
CHAPTER 3—COBRA CLARIFICATIONS 
SEC. ll31. COBRA CLARIFICATIONS. 

(a) PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.— 
(1) PERIOD OF COVERAGE.—Section 2202(2) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300bb–2(2)) is amended— 
(A) in subparagraph (A)— 
(i) by transferring the sentence immediately 
preceding clause (iv) so as to appear 
immediately following such clause (iv); and 
(ii) in the last sentence (as so transferred)— 
(I) by inserting ‘‘, or a beneficiary-family 
member of the individual,’’ after ‘‘an individual’’; 
and 
(II) by striking ‘‘at the time of a qualifying 
event described in section 2203(2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘at any time during the initial 18-
month period of continuing coverage under 
this title’’; 
(B) in subparagraph (D)(i), by inserting before 
‘‘, or’’ the following: ‘‘, except that the 
exclusion or limitation contained in this 
clause shall not be considered to apply to a 
plan under which a preexisting condition or 
exclusion does not apply to an individual 
otherwise eligible for continuation coverage 
under this section because of the provision of 
the Health Insurance Reform Act of 1996’’; 
and 
(C) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘at 
the time of a qualifying event described in 
section 2203(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘at any time 
during the initial 18-month period of continuing 
coverage under this title’’. 
(2) ELECTION.—Section 2205(1)(C) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300bb-
5(1)(C)) is amended— 
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the 
end thereof; 
(B) in clause (ii), by striking the period and 
inserting ‘‘, or’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end thereof the following 
new clause: 
‘‘(iii) in the case of an individual described 
in the last sentence of section 2202(2)(A), or 
a beneficiary-family member of the indi


vidual, the date such individual is determined 
to have been disabled.’’. 

(3) NOTICES.—Section 2206(3) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300bb–6(3)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘at the time of a qualifying 
event described in section 2203(2)’’ and 
inserting ‘‘at any time during the initial 18-
month period of continuing coverage under 
this title’’. 
(4) BIRTH OR ADOPTION OF A CHILD.—Section 
2208(3)(A) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 300bb–8(3)(A)) is amended by adding 
at the end thereof the following new 
flush sentence: 
‘‘Such term shall also include a child who is 
born to or placed for adoption with the covered 
employee during the period of continued 
coverage under this title.’’. 

(b) EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY 
ACT OF 1974.— 
(1) PERIOD OF COVERAGE.—Section 602(2) of 
the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1162(2)) is amended— 
(A) in the last sentence of subparagraph 
(A)— 
(i) by inserting ‘‘, or a beneficiary-family 
member of the individual,’’ after ‘‘an individual’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘at the time of a qualifying 
event described in section 603(2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘at any time during the initial 18-month 
period of continuing coverage under this 
part’’; 
(B) in subparagraph (D)(i), by inserting before 
‘‘, or’’ the following: ‘‘, except that the 
exclusion or limitation contained in this 
clause shall not be considered to apply to a 
plan under which a preexisting condition or 
exclusion does not apply to an individual 
otherwise eligible for continuation coverage 
under this section because of the provision of 
the Health Insurance Reform Act of 1996’’; 
and 
(C) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘at 
the time of a qualifying event described in 
section 603(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘at any time 
during the initial 18-month period of continuing 
coverage under this part’’. 
(2) ELECTION.—Section 605(1)(C) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1165(1)(C)) is amended— 
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the 
end thereof; 
(B) in clause (ii), by striking the period and 
inserting ‘‘, or’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end thereof the following 
new clause: 
‘‘(iii) in the case of an individual described 
in the last sentence of section 602(2)(A), or a 
beneficiary-family member of the individual, 
the date such individual is determined to 
have been disabled.’’. 

(3) NOTICES.—Section 606(3) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1166(3)) is amended by striking 
‘‘at the time of a qualifying event described 
in section 603(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘at any time 
during the initial 18-month period of continuing 
coverage under this part’’. 
(4) BIRTH OR ADOPTION OF A CHILD.—Section 
607(3)(A) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1167(3)) is 
amended by adding at the end thereof the 
following new flush sentence: 
‘‘Such term shall also include a child who is 
born to or placed for adoption with the covered 
employee during the period of continued 
coverage under this part.’’. 

(c) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986.— 
(1) PERIOD OF COVERAGE.—Section 
4980B(f)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended— 
(A) in the last sentence of clause (i) by 
striking ‘‘at the time of a qualifying event 
described in paragraph (3)(B)’’ and inserting 
‘‘at any time during the initial 18-month period 
of continuing coverage under this section’’; 

S768 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(B) in clause (iv)(I), by inserting before ‘‘, 
or’’ the following: ‘‘, except that the exclusion 
or limitation contained in this sub-
clause shall not be considered to apply to a 
plan under which a preexisting condition or 
exclusion does not apply to an individual 
otherwise eligible for continuation coverage 
under this subsection because of the provision 
of the Health Insurance Reform Act of 
1996’’; and 
(C) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘at the time 
of a qualifying event described in paragraph 
(3)(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘at any time during the 
initial 18-month period of continuing coverage 
under this section’’. 
(2) ELECTION.—Section 4980B(f)(5)(A)(iii) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— 
(A) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the 
end thereof; 
(B) in subclause (II), by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘, or’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end thereof the following 
new subclause: 
‘‘(III) in the case of an qualified beneficiary 
described in the last sentence of paragraph 
(2)(B)(i), the date such individual is determined 
to have been disabled.’’. 

(3) NOTICES.—Section 4980B(f)(6)(C) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
striking ‘‘at the time of a qualifying event 
described in paragraph (3)(B)’’ and inserting 
‘‘at any time during the initial 18-month period 
of continuing coverage under this section’’. 
(4) BIRTH OR ADOPTION OF A CHILD.—Section 
4980B(g)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
thereof the following new flush sentence: 
‘‘Such term shall also include a child who is 
born to or placed for adoption with the covered 
employee during the period of continued 
coverage under this section.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to qualifying 
events occurring on or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act for plan years beginning 
after December 31, 1996.
(e) NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES.—Not later 
than 60 days prior to the date on which this 
section becomes effective, each group health 
plan (covered under title XXII of the Public 
Health Service Act, part 6 of subtitle B of 
title I of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974, and section 4980B(f) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) shall notify 
each qualified beneficiary who has elected 
continuation coverage under such title, 
part or section of the amendments made by 
this section. 
CHAPTER 4—PRIVATE HEALTH PLAN 
PURCHASING COOPERATIVES 
SEC. ll41. PRIVATE HEALTH PLAN PURCHASING 

COOPERATIVES. 

(a) DEFINITION.—As used in this title, the 
term ‘‘health plan purchasing cooperative’’ 
means a group of individuals or employers 
that, on a voluntary basis and in accordance 
with this section, form a cooperative for the 
purpose of purchasing individual health 
plans or group health plans offered by health 
plan issuers. A health plan issuer, agent, 
broker or any other individual or entity engaged 
in the sale of insurance may not underwrite 
a cooperative. 
(b) CERTIFICATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—If a group described in 
subsection (a), desires to form a health plan 
purchasing cooperative in accordance with 
this section and such group appropriately 
notifies the State and the Secretary of such 
desire, the State, upon a determination that 
such group meets the requirements of this 
section, shall certify the group as a health 
plan purchasing cooperative. The State shall 
make a determination of whether such group 
meets the requirements of this section in a 
timely fashion. Each such cooperative shall 
also be registered with the Secretary. 
(2) STATE REFUSAL TO CERTIFY.—If a State 
fails to implement a program for certifying 
health plan purchasing cooperatives in accordance 
with the standards under this title, 
the Secretary shall certify and oversee the 
operations of such cooperatives in such 
State. 
(3) INTERSTATE COOPERATIVES.—For purposes 
of this section, a health plan purchasing 
cooperative operating in more than 
one State shall be certified by the State in 
which the cooperative is domiciled. States 
may enter into cooperative agreements for 
the purpose of certifying and overseeing the 
operation of such cooperatives. For purposes 
of this subsection, a cooperative shall be 
considered to be domiciled in the State in 
which most of the members of the cooperative 
reside. 
(c) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each health plan purchasing 
cooperative shall be governed by a 
Board of Directors that shall be responsible 
for ensuring the performance of the duties of 
the cooperative under this section. The 
Board shall be composed of a broad cross-section 
of representatives of employers, employees, 
and individuals participating in the 
cooperative. A health plan issuer, agent, 
broker or any other individual or entity engaged 
in the sale of individual health plans 
or group health plans may not hold or control 
any right to vote with respect to a cooperative. 
(2) LIMITATION ON COMPENSATION.—A health 
plan purchasing cooperative may not provide 
compensation to members of the Board of Directors. 
The cooperative may provide reimbursements 
to such members for the reasonable 
and necessary expenses incurred by the 
members in the performance of their duties 
as members of the Board. 
(3) CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—No member of 
the Board of Directors (or family members of 
such members) nor any management personnel 
of the cooperative may be employed 
by, be a consultant for, be a member of the 
board of directors of, be affiliated with an 
agent of, or otherwise be a representative of 
any health plan issuer, health care provider, 
or agent or broker. Nothing in the preceding 
sentence shall limit a member of the Board 
from purchasing coverage offered through 
the cooperative. This paragraph shall not 
apply to any management personnel who is 
not employed by, or getting any remuneration 
from, a health plan issuer offering a 
group health or individual health plan, but 
who, as a result of performing marketing 
functions as required under subsection 
(e)(1)(E), is mandated by State law to be licensed 
as an agent or broker.
(d) MEMBERSHIP AND MARKETING AREA.— 
(1) MEMBERSHIP.—A health plan purchasing 
cooperative may establish limits on the 
maximum size of employers who may become 
members of the cooperative, and may 
determine whether to permit individuals to 
become members. Upon the establishment of 
such membership requirements, the cooperative 
shall, except as provided in subparagraph 
(B), accept all employers (or individuals) 
residing within the area served by the 
cooperative who meet such requirements as 
members on a first come, first-served basis, 
or on another basis established by the State 
to ensure equitable access to the cooperative. 
(2) MARKETING AREA.—A State may establish 
rules regarding the geographic area that 
must be served by a health plan purchasing 
cooperative. With respect to a State that has 
not established such rules, a health plan purchasing 
cooperative operating in the State 
shall define the boundaries of the area to be 
served by the cooperative, except that such 
boundaries may not be established on the 
basis of health status or insurability of the 
populations that reside in the area. 
(e) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A health plan purchasing 
cooperative shall— 
(A) enter into agreements with multiple, 
unaffiliated health plan issuers, except that 
the requirement of this subparagraph shall 
not apply in regions (such as remote or frontier 
areas) in which compliance with such requirement 
is not possible; 
(B) enter into agreements with employers 
and individuals who become members of the 
cooperative; 
(C) participate in any program of risk-adjustment 
or reinsurance, or any similar program, 
that is established by the State; 
(D) prepare and disseminate comparative 
health plan materials (including information 
about cost, quality, benefits, and other information 
concerning group health plans and 
individual health plans offered through the 
cooperative); 
(E) actively market to all eligible employers 
and individuals residing within the service 
area; and 
(F) act as an ombudsman for group health 
plan or individual health plan enrollees. 
(2) PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES.—A health plan 
purchasing cooperative may perform such 
other functions as necessary to further the 
purposes of this title, including— 
(A) collecting and distributing premiums 
and performing other administrative functions; 
(B) collecting and analyzing surveys of enrollee 
satisfaction; 
(C) charging membership fee to enrollees 
(such fees may not be based on health status) 
and charging participation fees to health 
plan issuers; 
(D) cooperating with (or accepting as members) 
employers who provide health benefits 
directly to participants and beneficiaries 
only for the purpose of negotiating with providers; 
and 
(E) negotiating with health care providers 
and health plan issuers. 
(f) LIMITATIONS ON COOPERATIVE ACTIVITIES.—
A health plan purchasing cooperative 
shall not— 
(1) perform any activity relating to the licensing 
of health plan issuers; 
(2) assume financial risk directly or indirectly 
on behalf of members of a health plan 
purchasing cooperative relating to any group 
health plan or individual health plan; 
(3) establish eligibility, continuation of eligibility, 
enrollment, or premium contribution 
requirements for participants, beneficiaries, 
or individuals based on health status, 
medical condition, claims experience, 
receipt of health care, medical history, evidence 
of insurability, or disability; 
(4) operate on a for-profit or other basis 
where the legal structure of the cooperative 
permits profits to be made and not returned 
to the members of the cooperative, except 
that a for-profit health plan purchasing cooperative 
may be formed by a nonprofit organization 
or organizations— 
(A) in which membership in such organization 
is not based on health status, medical 
condition, claims experience, receipt of 
health care, medical history, evidence of insurability, 
or disability; and 
(B) that accepts as members all employers 
or individuals on a first-come, first-served 
basis, subject to any established limit on the 
maximum size of and employer that may become 
a member; or 
(5) perform any other activities that conflict 
or are inconsistent with the performance 
of its duties under this title. 
(g) LIMITED PREEMPTION OF CERTAIN STATE 
LAWS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a health 
plan purchasing cooperative that meets the 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S769 

requirements of this section, State fictitious 
group laws shall be preempted. 

(2) HEALTH PLAN ISSUERS.— 
(A) RATING.—With respect to a health plan 
issuer offering a group health plan or individual 
health plan through a health plan 
purchasing cooperative that meets the requirements 
of this section, State premium 
rating requirement laws, except to the extent 
provided under subparagraph (B), shall 
be preempted unless such laws permit premium 
rates negotiated by the cooperative to 
be less than rates that would otherwise be 
permitted under State law, if such rating differential 
is not based on differences in health 
status or demographic factors. 
(B) EXCEPTION.—State laws referred to in 
subparagraph (A) shall not be preempted if 
such laws— 
(i) prohibit the variance of premium rates 
among employers, plan sponsors, or individuals 
that are members of a health plan purchasing 
cooperative in excess of the amount 
of such variations that would be permitted 
under such State rating laws among employers, 
plan sponsors, and individuals that are 
not members of the cooperative; and 
(ii) prohibit a percentage increase in premium 
rates for a new rating period that is in 
excess of that which would be permitted 
under State rating laws. 
(C) BENEFITS.—Except as provided in subparagraph 
(D), a health plan issuer offering a 
group health plan or individual health plan 
through a health plan purchasing cooperative 
shall comply with all State mandated 
benefit laws that require the offering of any 
services, category or care, or services of any 
class or type of provider. 
(D) EXCEPTION.—In those States that have 
enacted laws authorizing the issuance of alternative 
benefit plans to small employers, 
health plan issuers may offer such alternative 
benefit plans through a health plan 
purchasing cooperative that meets the requirements 
of this section. 
(h) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this section shall be construed to— 
(1) require that a State organize, operate, 
or otherwise create health plan purchasing 
cooperatives; 
(2) otherwise require the establishment of 
health plan purchasing cooperatives; 
(3) require individuals, plan sponsors, or 
employers to purchase group health plans or 
individual health plans through a health 
plan purchasing cooperative; 
(4) require that a health plan purchasing 
cooperative be the only type of purchasing 
arrangement permitted to operate in a 
State; 
(5) confer authority upon a State that the 
State would not otherwise have to regulate 
health plan issuers or employee health benefits 
plans; or 
(6) confer authority upon a State (or the 
Federal Government) that the State (or Federal 
Government) would not otherwise have 
to regulate group purchasing arrangements, 
coalitions, association plans, or other similar 
entities that do not desire to become a 
health plan purchasing cooperative in accordance 
with this section. 
(i) APPLICATION OF ERISA.—For purposes 
of enforcement only, the requirements of 
parts 4 and 5 of subtitle B of title I of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1101) shall apply to a health 
plan purchasing cooperative as if such plan 
were an employee welfare benefit plan. 
Subtitle B—Application and Enforcement of 
Standards 
SEC. ll51. APPLICABILITY. 

(a) CONSTRUCTION.— 
(1) ENFORCEMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—A requirement or standard 
imposed under this title on a group 
health plan or individual health plan offered 
by a health plan issuer shall be deemed to be 
a requirement or standard imposed on the 
health plan issuer. Such requirements or 
standards shall be enforced by the State insurance 
commissioner for the State involved 
or the official or officials designated by the 
State to enforce the requirements of this 
title. In the case of a group health plan offered 
by a health plan issuer in connection 
with an employee health benefit plan, the requirements 
or standards imposed under this 
title shall be enforced with respect to the 
health plan issuer by the State insurance 
commissioner for the State involved or the 
official or officials designated by the State 
to enforce the requirements of this title. 

(B) LIMITATION.—Except as provided in subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall not enforce 
the requirements or standards of this title as 
they relate to health plan issuers, group 
health plans, or individual health plans. In 
no case shall a State enforce the requirements 
or standards of this title as they relate 
to employee health benefit plans. 
(2) PREEMPTION OF STATE LAW.—Nothing in 
this title shall be construed to prevent a 
State from establishing, implementing, or 
continuing in effect standards and requirements— 
(A) not prescribed in this title; or 
(B) related to the issuance, renewal, or 
portability of health insurance or the establishment 
or operation of group purchasing 
arrangements, that are consistent with, and 
are not in direct conflict with, this title and 
provide greater protection or benefit to participants, 
beneficiaries or individuals. 
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this title shall be construed to affect or modify 
the provisions of section 514 of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1144). 
(c) CONTINUATION.—Nothing in this title 
shall be construed as requiring a group 
health plan or an employee health benefit 
plan to provide benefits to a particular participant 
or beneficiary in excess of those provided 
under the terms of such plan. 
SEC. ll52. ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS. 

(a) HEALTH PLAN ISSUERS.—Each State 
shall require that each group health plan and 
individual health plan issued, sold, renewed, 
offered for sale or operated in such State by 
a health plan issuer meet the standards established 
under this title pursuant to an enforcement 
plan filed by the State with the 
Secretary. A State shall submit such information 
as required by the Secretary demonstrating 
effective implementation of the 
State enforcement plan. 
(b) EMPLOYEE HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS.— 
With respect to employee health benefit 
plans, the Secretary shall enforce the reform 
standards established under this title in the 
same manner as provided for under sections 
502, 504, 506, and 510 of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 
1132, 1134, 1136, and 1140). The civil penalties 
contained in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
502(c) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1132(c) (1) and 
(2)) shall apply to any information required 
by the Secretary to be disclosed and reported 
under this section. 
(c) FAILURE TO IMPLEMENT PLAN.—In the 
case of the failure of a State to substantially 
enforce the standards and requirements set 
forth in this title with respect to group 
health plans and individual health plans as 
provided for under the State enforcement 
plan filed under subsection (a), the Secretary, 
in consultation with the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, shall implement 
an enforcement plan meeting the standards 
of this title in such State. In the case of a 
State that fails to substantially enforce the 
standards and requirements set forth in this 
title, each health plan issuer operating in 
such State shall be subject to civil enforcement 
as provided for under sections 502, 504, 
506, and 510 of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1132, 
1134, 1136, and 1140). The civil penalties contained 
in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
502(c) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1132(c) (1) and 
(2)) shall apply to any information required 
by the Secretary to be disclosed and reported 
under this section. 

(d) APPLICABLE CERTIFYING AUTHORITY.—As 
used in this subtitle, the term ‘‘applicable 
certifying authority’’ means, with respect 
to— 
(1) health plan issuers, the State insurance 
commissioner or official or officials designated 
by the State to enforce the requirements 
of this title for the State involved; 
and 
(2) an employee health benefit plan, the 
Secretary. 
(e) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may promulgate 
such regulations as may be necessary 
or appropriate to carry out this title. 
(f) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 508 of 
the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1138) is amended by inserting 
‘‘and under the Health Insurance Reform 
Act of 1996’’ before the period. 
Subtitle C—Miscellaneous Provisions 

SEC. ll61. HMOS ALLOWED TO OFFER PLANS 
WITH DEDUCTIBLES TO INDIVIDUALS 
WITH MEDICAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1301(b) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300e(b)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(6)(A) If a member certifies that a medical 
savings account has been established for 
the benefit of such member, a health maintenance 
organization may, at the request of 
such member reduce the basic health services 
payment otherwise determined under 
paragraph (1) by requiring the payment of a 
deductible by the member for basic health 
services. 

‘‘(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the 
term ‘medical savings account’ means an account 
which, by its terms, allows the deposit 
of funds and the use of such funds and income 
derived from the investment of such 
funds for the payment of the deductible described 
in subparagraph (A).’’. 

(b) MEDICAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.—It is the 
sense of the Committee on Labor and Human 
Resources of the Senate that the establishment 
of medical savings accounts, including 
those defined in section 1301(b)(6)(B) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300e(b)(6)(B)), should be encouraged as part 
of any health insurance reform legislation 
passed by the Senate through the use of tax 
incentives relating to contributions to, the 
income growth of, and the qualified use of, 
such accounts. 
(c) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the Congress should take 
measures to further the purposes of this 
title, including any necessary changes to the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to encourage 
groups and individuals to obtain health coverage, 
and to promote access, equity, portability, 
affordability, and security of health 
benefits. 
SEC. ll62. HEALTH COVERAGE AVAILABILITY 
STUDY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, in consultation with 
the Secretary, representatives of State officials, 
consumers, and other representatives 
of individuals and entities that have expertise 
in health insurance and employee benefits, 
shall conduct a two-part study, and prepare 
and submit reports, in accordance with 
this section. 

S770 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(b) EVALUATION OF AVAILABILITY.—Not 
later than January 1, 1997, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall prepare 
and submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report, concerning— 
(1) an evaluation, based on the experience 
of States, expert opinions, and such additional 
data as may be available, of the various 
mechanisms used to ensure the availability 
of reasonably priced health coverage 
to employers purchasing group coverage and 
to individuals purchasing coverage on a non-
group basis; and 
(2) whether standards that limit the variation 
in premiums will further the purposes 
of this title. 
(c) EVALUATION OF EFFECTIVENESS.—Not 
later than January 1, 1998, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall prepare 
and submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report, concerning the effectiveness 
of the provisions of this title and the 
various State laws, in ensuring the availability 
of reasonably priced health coverage 
to employers purchasing group coverage and 
individuals purchasing coverage on a non-
group basis. 
SEC. ll63. SENSE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCERNING 
MEDICARE. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Committee on Labor 
and Human Resources of the Senate finds 
that the Public Trustees of Medicare concluded 
in their 1995 Annual Report that— 
(1) the Medicare program is clearly 
unsustainable in its present form; 
(2) ‘‘the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, 
which pays inpatient hospital expenses, will 
be able to pay benefits for only about 7 years 
and is severely out of financial balance in 
the long range’’; and 
(3) the Public Trustees ‘‘strongly recommend 
that the crisis presented by the financial 
condition of the Medicare trust fund 
be urgently addressed on a comprehensive 
basis, including a review of the programs’s 
financing methods, benefit provisions, and 
delivery mechanisms’’. 
(b) SENSE OF THE COMMITTEE.—It is the 
Sense of the Committee on Labor and 
Human Resources of the Senate that the 
Senate should take measures necessary to 
reform the Medicare program, to provide increased 
choice for seniors, and to respond to 
the findings of the Public Trustees by protecting 
the short-term solvency and long-
term sustainability of the Medicare program. 
SEC. ll64. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

Except as otherwise provided for in this 
title, the provisions of this title shall apply 
as follows: 

(1) With respect to group health plans and 
individual health plans, such provisions shall 
apply to plans offered, sold, issued, renewed, 
in effect, or operated on or after January 1, 
1997; and 
(b) With respect to employee health benefit 
plans, on the first day of the first plan year 
beginning on or after January 1, 1997. 
SEC. ll65. SEVERABILITY. 

If any provision of this title or the application 
of such provision to any person or circumstance 
is held to be unconstitutional, 
the remainder of this title and the application 
of the provisions of such to any person 
or circumstance shall not be affected thereby. 


PRESSLER AMENDMENT NO. 3243 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. PRESSLER submitted on amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

SEC. 1114. HONEY PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446 et seq.) (as 
amended by section 1101(b)(2)) is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 207. HONEY RECOURSE LOANS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For each of the 1996 
through 2002 crops of honey, the Secretary 
shall provide recourse loans of producers of 
honey at a level that is equal to 80 percent of 
the national average price of honey during 
the preceding crop year, as determined by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘(b) REPAYMENT.—A producer who receives 
a loan under subsection (a) shall be personally 
liable for repayment of the full amount 
of the loan, plus interest. 

‘‘(c) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this section through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 405A 
of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1425a) is repealed. 
GRASSLEY AMENDMENTS NOS. 

3244–3246 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. GRASSLEY submitted three 
amendments to amendment No. 3184 
proposed by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 
1541, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3244 
P. 1–17: 
Line 25, Insert period after ‘‘farm’’ and 
strike everything through p. 1–18, line 3. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3245 
P. 3–14: 
Line 25 strike ‘‘10,000’’ and replace with 
‘‘1000’’. 
P. 3–15: 
Line 3 strike ‘‘15,000’’ and replace with 
‘‘2500’’. 
P. 3–27: 
Line 11 insert period after ‘‘$10,000’’ and 
strike everything through line 12. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3246 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 
‘‘The Secretary of Agriculture shall fully 
utilize and aggressively implement the full 
range of agricultural export programs authorized 
in this Act and any other Act, in 
any combination, to help U.S. agriculture 
maintain and expand export markets, promote 
U.S. agricultural commodity and product 
exports, counter subsidized foreign competition, 
and capitalize on potential new 
market opportunities. Notwithstanding this 
Act or any other Act, and consistent with 

U.S. obligations under GATT, if the Secretary 
determines that funds available under 
one or more export subsidy programs can not 
be fully or effectively utilized for such programs, 
the Secretary may utilize such funds 
for other authorized agricultural export programs 
to achieve the above objectives and to 
further enhance the overall global competitiveness 
of U.S. agriculture. Funds so utilized 
shall be in addition to funds which may 
otherwise be authorized or appropriated for 
such other agricultural export programs.’’ 
LEAHY AMENDMENT NOS. 3247–3248 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. LEAHY submitted two amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by 
him to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3247 
Beginning on page 1–73, strike line 12 and 
all that follows through page 1–78, line 4, and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 108. MILK PROGRAM. 

(a) MILK PRICE SUPPORT PROGRAM.— 
(1) SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.—During the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act and ending December 31, 2002, the 
Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this 
section as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall support the 
price of milk produced in the 48 contiguous 
States through the purchase of cheese, butter, 
and nonfat dry milk produced from the 
milk. 
(2) RATE.—The price of milk shall be supported 
at the following rates per hundredweight 
for milk containing 3.67 percent butterfat: 
(A) During calendar year 1996, $10.10. 
(B) During calendar year 1997, $10.05. 
(C) During calendar year 1998, $9.95. 
(D) During calendar year 1999, $9.85. 
(E) During calendar year 2000, $9.75. 
(F) During calendar year 2001, $9.65. 
(G) During calendar year 2002, $9.55. 
(3) BID PRICES.—The support purchase 
prices under this subsection for each of the 
products of milk (butter, cheese, and nonfat 
dry milk) announced by the Secretary shall 
be the same for all of that product sold by 
persons offering to sell the product to the 
Secretary. The purchase prices shall be sufficient 
to enable plants of average efficiency 
to pay producers, on average, a price that is 
not less than the rate of price support for 
milk in effect under paragraph (2). 
(4) SPECIAL RULE FOR BUTTER AND NONFAT 
DRY MILK.— 
(A) ALLOCATION OF PURCHASE PRICES.—The 
Secretary may allocate the rate of price support 
between the purchase prices for nonfat 
dry milk and butter in a manner that will result 
in the lowest level of expenditures by 
the Commodity Credit Corporation or 
achieve such other objectives as the Secretary 
considers appropriate. The Secretary 
shall notify the Committee on Agriculture of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
of the Senate of the allocation. 
(B) TIMING OF PURCHASE PRICE ADJUSTMENTS.—
The Secretary may make any such 
adjustments in the purchase prices for nonfat 
dry milk and butter the Secretary considers 
to be necessary not more than twice in 
each calendar year. 
(5) REFUNDS OF 1995 AND 1996 ASSESSMENTS.— 
The Secretary shall provide for a refund of 
the entire reduction required under section 
204(h)(2) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1446e(h)(2)), as in effect on the day before 
the date of the enactment of this Act, in 
the price of milk received by a producer during 
calendar year 1995 or 1996, if the producer 
provides evidence that the producer did not 
increase marketings in calendar year 1995 or 
1996 when compared to calendar year 1994. A 
refund under this paragraph shall not be considered 
as any type of price support or payment 
for purposes of sections 1211 and 1221 of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 
and 3821). 
(6) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this subsection through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 
(7) PERIOD OF EFFECTIVENESS.—This subsection 
shall be effective only during the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act and ending on December 31, 2002. 
(b) CONSOLIDATION AND REFORM OF FEDERAL 
MILK MARKETING ORDERS.— 
(1) AMENDMENT OF ORDERS.—As soon as 
practicable after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall amend Federal 
milk marketing orders issued under section 
8c of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 
U.S.C. 608c), reenacted with amendments by 
the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act 
of 1937, to— 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S771 

(A) limit the number of Federal milk marketing 
orders to between 10 and 14 orders; 
and 
(B) provide for multiple basing points for 
the pricing of milk. 
(2) EXPEDITED PROCESS.—The amendments 
required under paragraph (1) shall be— 
(A) announced not later than December 31, 
1998; and 
(B) implemented not later than December 
31, 2000. 
(3) FUNDING.—Effective beginning January 
1, 2001, the Secretary shall not use any funds 
to administer more than 14 Federal milk 
marketing orders. 
(c) DAIRY EXPORT INCENTIVE PROGRAM.— 
(1) DURATION.—Section 153(a) of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (15 U.S.C. 713a–14) is 
amended by striking ‘‘2001’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(2) SOLE DISCRETION.—Section 153(b) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 is amended by inserting 
‘‘sole’’ before ‘‘discretion’’. 
(3) ELEMENTS OF PROGRAM.—Section 153(c) 
of the Food Security Act of 1985 is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(1); 
(B) by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (2) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(3) the maximum volume of dairy product 
exports allowable consistent with the obligations 
of the United States as a member of 
the World Trade Organization is exported 
under the program each year (minus the volume 
sold under section 1163 of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (Public Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 
1731 note) during that year), except to the 
extent that the export of such a volume 
under the program would, in the judgment of 
the Secretary, exceed the limitations on the 
value set forth in subsection (f); and 

‘‘(4) payments may be made under the program 
for exports to any destination in the 
world for the purpose of market development, 
except a destination in a country with 
respect to which shipments from the United 
States are otherwise restricted by law.’’. 

(4) MARKET DEVELOPMENT.—Section 
153(e)(1) of the Food Security Act of 1985 is 
amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ and inserting ‘‘the’’; 
and 
(B) by inserting before the period the following: 
‘‘, and any additional amount that 
may be required to assist in the development 
of world markets for United States dairy 
products’’. 
(5) MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE AMOUNTS.—Section 
153 of the Food Security Act of 1985 is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(f) REQUIRED FUNDING.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), the Commodity Credit Corporation 
shall in each year use money and 
commodities for the program under this section 
in the maximum amount consistent 
with the obligations of the United States as 
a member of the World Trade Organization, 
minus the amount expended under section 
1163 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Public 
Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 1731 note) during that 
year. 

‘‘(2) VOLUME LIMITATIONS.—The Commodity 
Credit Corporation may not exceed the limitations 
specified in subsection (c)(3) on the 
volume of allowable dairy product exports.’’. 

(d) EFFECT ON FLUID MILK STANDARDS IN 
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.—Nothing in this 
Act or any other provision of law prohibits 
or otherwise limits the applicability of requirements 
under any law (including any 
regulation) of the State of California regarding 
the percentage of milk solids or solids 
not fat in fluid milk products marketed in 
the State of California. 
(e) REPEAL OF MILK MANUFACTURING MARKETING 
ADJUSTMENT.—Section 102 of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 1446e–1) is repealed. 
(f) CONSENT TO NORTHEAST INTERSTATE 
DAIRY COMPACT.—Congress consents to the 
Northeast Interstate Dairy Compact entered 
into among the States of Vermont, New 
Hampshire, Maine, Connecticut, Rhode Island, 
and Massachusetts as specified in section 
1(b) of Senate Joint Resolution 28 of the 
104th Congress, as placed on the calendar of 
the Senate, subject to the following conditions: 
(1) COMPENSATION OF CCC.—Before the end 
of each fiscal year that a Compact price regulation 
is in effect, the Compact Commission 
shall compensate the Commodity Credit Corporation 
for the cost of any purchases of 
milk and milk products by the Corporation 
that result from projected fluid milk production 
for the fiscal year within the Compact 
region in excess of the national average rate 
of purchases of milk and milk products by 
the Corporation. 
(2) MILK MARKET ORDER ADMINISTRATOR.— 
By agreement among the States and the Secretary, 
the Administrator shall provide technical 
assistance to the Compact Commission, 
and be reimbursed for the assistance, with 
respect to the applicable milk marketing 
order issued under section 8c(5) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(5)), 
reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural 
Marketing Agreement Act of 1937. 
(3) LIMITATION OF MANUFACTURING PRICE 
REGULATION.—The Compact Commission may 
not regulate Class II, Class III, or Class III– 
A milk used for manufacturing purposes or 
any other milk, other than Class I, or fluid 
milk, as defined by a Federal milk marketing 
order issued under section 8c of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c), 
reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1937, unless both 
Houses of Congress have first consented to 
and approved the authority by a law enacted 
after the date of enactment of this Act. 
(4) TERMINATION AND RENEWAL.—The consent 
for the Compact— 
(A) shall terminate on the date that is 5 
years after the date of the issuance of an 
over order price regulation by the Compact 
Commission, subject to subparagraph (B); 
and 
(B) may be renewed by Congress, without 
prior re-ratification by the States’ legislatures. 
SEC. 109. ADMINISTRATION. 

(a) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.— 
(1) USE OF CORPORATION.—The Secretary 
shall carry out this title through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 
(2) SALARIES AND EXPENSES.—No funds of 
the Corporation shall be used for any salary 
or expense of any officer or employee of the 
Department of Agriculture. 
(b) DETERMINATIONS BY SECRETARY.—A determination 
made by the Secretary under 
this title or the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.) shall be 
final and conclusive. 
(c) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may 
issue such regulations as the Secretary determines 
necessary to carry out this title. 
SEC. 110. ELIMINATION OF PERMANENT PRICE 
SUPPORT AUTHORITY. 

(a) AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 
1938.—The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 is amended— 
(1) in title III— 
(A) in subtitle B— 
(i) by striking parts II through V (7 U.S.C. 
1326–1351); and 
(ii) in part VI— 
(I) by moving subsection (c) of section 358d 
(7 U.S.C. 1358d(c)) to appear after section 
301(b)(17) (7 U.S.C. 1301(b)(17)) and redesignating 
the subsection as paragraph (18); and 

(II) by striking sections 358, 358a, and 358d 
(7 U.S.C. 1358, 1358a, and 1359); and 
(B) by striking subtitle D (7 U.S.C. 1379a– 
1379j); and 
(2) by striking title IV (7 U.S.C. 1401–1407). 
(b) AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.— 
(1) TRANSFER OF CERTAIN SECTIONS.—The 
Agricultural Act of 1949 is amended— 
(A) by transferring sections 106, 106A, and 
106B (7 U.S.C. 1445, 1445–1, 1445–2) to appear 
after section 314A of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1314–1) and redesignating 
the transferred sections as sections 
315, 315A, and 315B, respectively; 
(B) by transferring sections 111 and 201(c) 
(7 U.S.C. 1445f and 1446(c)) to appear after 
section 304 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1304) and redesignating 
the transferred sections as sections 305 and 
306, respectively; and 
(C) by transferring sections 404 and 416 (7 
U.S.C. 1424 and 1431) to appear after section 
390 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1390) and redesignating the 
transferred sections as sections 390A and 
390B, respectively. 
(2) REPEAL.—The Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) (as amended by paragraph 
(1)) is repealed. 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 306 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and redesignated 
by subsection (b)(1)(B)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘section 204’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
108(a) of the Agricultural Market Transition 
Act’’. 
(2) Section 361 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1361) is amended by 
striking ‘‘, corn, wheat, cotton, peanuts, and 
rice, established’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3248 
On page 2 of the amendment, line 6, strike 
‘‘$10.10’’ and insert ‘‘$10.15’’. 

NICKLES AMENDMENT NO. 3249 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. NICKLES submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
Strike Section 103(j)(2)(ii) and insert in 
lieu thereof the following: 

(ii) CONTRACT COMMODITIES.—Contract 
acreage planted to a contract commodity 
during the crop year may be hayed or grazed 
without limitation. 
LUGAR AMENDMENT NO. 3250–3251 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. LUGAR submitted two amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3250 
In section 103(j)(2)(C)(i), before the period, 
insert the following: ‘‘, unless there is a history 
of double cropping of a contract commodity 
and fruits and vegetables’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3251 
On page 1–11, line 19, strike 
‘‘$17,000,000,000’’ and insert ‘‘$17,000,000’’. 

LUGAR AMENDMENT NO. 3252 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. LUGAR submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 


S772 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


Strike titles II through V and insert the 
following: 

TITLE II—AGRICULTURAL TRADE 
Subtitle A—Amendments to Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 and Related Statutes 
SEC. 201. FOOD AID TO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3 of the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act 
of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691a) is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘SEC. 3. FOOD AID TO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES. 

‘‘(a) POLICY.—In light of the Uruguay 
Round Agreement on Agriculture and the 
Ministerial Decision on Measures Concerning 
the Possible Negative Effects of the Reform 
Program on Least-Developed and Net-Food 
Importing Developing Countries, the United 
States reaffirms the commitment of the 
United States to providing food aid to developing 
countries. 

‘‘(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that— 

‘‘(1) the President should initiate consultations 
with other donor nations to consider 
appropriate levels of food aid commitments 
to meet the legitimate needs of developing 
countries; and 

‘‘(2) the United States should increase its 
contribution of bona fide food assistance to 
developing countries consistent with the 
Agreement on Agriculture.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 411 
of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 
U.S.C. 3611) is amended by striking subsection 
(e). 
SEC. 202. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE. 


Section 101 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1701) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘developing countries’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘developing 
countries and private entities’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘and entities’’ 
before the period at the end. 
SEC. 203. AGREEMENTS REGARDING ELIGIBLE 
COUNTRIES AND PRIVATE ENTITIES. 

Section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1702) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 102. AGREEMENTS REGARDING ELIGIBLE 
COUNTRIES AND PRIVATE ENTITIES. 

‘‘(a) PRIORITY.—In selecting agreements to 
be entered into under this title, the Secretary 
shall give priority to agreements providing 
for the export of agricultural commodities 
to developing countries that— 

‘‘(1) have the demonstrated potential to become 
commercial markets for competitively 
priced United States agricultural commodities; 


‘‘(2) are undertaking measures for economic 
development purposes to improve food 
security and agricultural development, alleviate 
poverty, and promote broad-based equitable 
and sustainable development; and 

‘‘(3) demonstrate the greatest need for 
food. 

‘‘(b) PRIVATE ENTITIES.—An agreement entered 
into under this title with a private entity 
shall require such security, or such 
other provisions as the Secretary determines 
necessary, to provide reasonable and adequate 
assurance of repayment of the financing 
extended to the private entity. 

‘‘(c) AGRICULTURAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT 
PLAN.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF AGRICULTURAL TRADE OR-
GANIZATION.—In this subsection, the term 
‘agricultural trade organization’ means a 
United States agricultural trade organization 
that promotes the export and sale of a 

United States agricultural commodity and 
that does not stand to profit directly from 
the specific sale of the commodity. 

‘‘(2) PLAN.—The Secretary shall consider a 
developing country for which an agricultural 
market development plan has been approved 
under this subsection to have the demonstrated 
potential to become a commercial 
market for competitively priced United 
States agricultural commodities for the purpose 
of granting a priority under subsection 
(a). 

‘‘(3) REQUIREMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—To be approved by the 
Secretary, an agricultural market development 
plan shall— 

‘‘(i) be submitted by a developing country 
or private entity, in conjunction with an agricultural 
trade organization; 

‘‘(ii) describe a project or program for the 
development and expansion of a United 
States agricultural commodity market in a 
developing country, and the economic development 
of the country, using funds derived 
from the sale of agricultural commodities received 
under an agreement described in section 
101; 

‘‘(iii) provide for any matching funds that 
are required by the Secretary for the project 
or program; 

‘‘(iv) provide for a results-oriented means 
of measuring the success of the project or 
program; and 

‘‘(v) provide for graduation to the use of 
non-Federal funds to carry out the project or 
program, consistent with requirements established 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) AGRICULTURAL TRADE ORGANIZATION.— 
The project or program shall be designed and 
carried out by the agricultural trade organization. 


‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—An agricultural 
market development plan shall contain 
such additional requirements as are determined 
necessary by the Secretary. 

‘‘(4) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall 
make funds made available to carry out this 
title available for the reimbursement of administrative 
expenses incurred by agricultural 
trade organizations in developing, implementing, 
and administering agricultural 
market development plans, subject to such 
requirements and in such amounts as the 
Secretary considers appropriate. 

‘‘(B) DURATION.—The funds shall be made 
available to agricultural trade organizations 
for the duration of the applicable agricultural 
market development plan. 

‘‘(C) TERMINATION.—The Secretary may 
terminate assistance made available under 
this subsection if the agricultural trade organization 
is not carrying out the approved 
agricultural market development plan.’’. 
SEC. 204. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SALES. 

Section 103 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1703) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)(2)(A)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘a recipient country to 
make’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘such country’’ and inserting 
‘‘the appropriate country’’; 
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘less than 
10 nor’’; and 
(3) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘recipient country’’ and inserting 
‘‘developing country or private entity’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘7’’ and inserting ‘‘5’’. 
SEC. 205. USE OF LOCAL CURRENCY PAYMENT. 

Section 104 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1704) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘recipient 
country’’ and inserting ‘‘developing country 
or private entity’’; and 
(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘recipient country’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘appropriate 
developing country’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘recipient 
countries’’ and inserting ‘‘appropriate developing 
countries’’. 
SEC. 206. VALUE-ADDED FOODS. 

Section 105 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1705) is repealed. 
SEC. 207. ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 202 of the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance 
Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1722) is amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(b) NONEMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may 
provide agricultural commodities for nonemergency 
assistance under this title 
through eligible organizations (as described 
in subsection (d)) that have entered into an 
agreement with the Administrator to use the 
commodities in accordance with this title. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—The Administrator may 
not deny a request for funds submitted under 
this subsection because the program for 
which the funds are requested— 

‘‘(A) would be carried out by the eligible 
organization in a foreign country in which 
the Agency for International Development 
does not have a mission, office, or other presence; 
or 

‘‘(B) is not part of a development plan for 
the country prepared by the Agency.’’; and 

(2) in subsection (e)— 
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
‘‘PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS AND 
COOPERATIVES’’ and inserting ‘‘ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS’’; 
(B) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘$13,500,000’’ and inserting 
‘‘$28,000,000’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘private voluntary organizations 
and cooperatives to assist such organizations 
and cooperatives’’ and inserting 
‘‘eligible organizations described in subsection 
(d), to assist the organizations’’; 
(C) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) REQUEST FOR FUNDS.—To receive funds 
made available under paragraph (1), a private 
voluntary organization or cooperative 
shall submit a request for the funds that is 
subject to approval by the Administrator.’’; 
and 

(D) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘a private 
voluntary organization or cooperative, the 
Administrator may provide assistance to 
that organization or cooperative’’ and inserting 
‘‘an eligible organization, the Administrator 
may provide assistance to the eligible 
organization’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 207 
of the Agricultural Trade Development and 
Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1726a) is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘a private 
voluntary organization or cooperative’’ and 
inserting ‘‘an eligible organization’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘private 
voluntary organizations and cooperatives’’ 
and inserting ‘‘eligible organizations’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘organizations, 
cooperatives,’’ and inserting ‘‘eligible 
organizations’’. 
SEC. 208. GENERATION AND USE OF FOREIGN 
CURRENCIES. 

Section 203 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1723) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, or in a 
country in the same region,’’ after ‘‘in the 
recipient country’’; 
(2) in subsection (b)— 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S773 

(A) by inserting ‘‘or in countries in the 
same region,’’ after ‘‘in recipient countries,’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘10 percent’’ and inserting 
‘‘15 percent’’; 
(3) in subsection (c), by inserting ‘‘or in a 
country in the same region,’’ after ‘‘in the 
recipient country,’’; and 
(4) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ‘‘or 
within a country in the same region’’ after 
‘‘within the recipient country’’. 
SEC. 209. GENERAL LEVELS OF ASSISTANCE 
UNDER PUBLIC LAW 480. 

Section 204(a) of the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1724(a)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘amount 
that’’ and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘amount that for 
each of fiscal years 1996 through 2002 is not 
less than 2,025,000 metric tons.’’; 
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘amount 
that’’ and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘amount that for 
each of fiscal years 1996 through 2002 is not 
less than 1,550,000 metric tons.’’; and 
(3) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end 
the following: ‘‘No waiver shall be made before 
the beginning of the applicable fiscal 
year.’’. 
SEC. 210. FOOD AID CONSULTATIVE GROUP. 

Section 205 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1725) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘private 
voluntary organizations, cooperatives and 
indigenous non-governmental organizations’’ 
and inserting ‘‘eligible organizations described 
in section 202(d)(1)’’; 
(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘for International 
Affairs and Commodity Programs’’ 
and inserting ‘‘of Agriculture for Farm and 
Foreign Agricultural Services’’; 
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(D) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(6) representatives from agricultural producer 
groups in the United States.’’; 

(3) in the second sentence of subsection (d), 
by inserting ‘‘(but at least twice per year)’’ 
after ‘‘when appropriate’’; and 
(4) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 211. SUPPORT OF NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 306(b) of the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance 
Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1727e(b)) is amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking 
‘‘INDIGENOUS NON-GOVERNMENTAL’’ and inserting 
‘‘NONGOVERNMENTAL’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘utilization of indigenous’’ 
and inserting ‘‘utilization of’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 402 
of the Agricultural Trade Development and 
Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1732) is 
amended by striking paragraph (6) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(6) NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION.— 
The term ‘nongovernmental organization’ 
means an organization that works at the 
local level to solve development problems in 
a foreign country in which the organization 
is located, except that the term does not include 
an organization that is primarily an 
agency or instrumentality of the government 
of the foreign country.’’. 
SEC. 212. COMMODITY DETERMINATIONS. 

Section 401 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1731) is amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (a) through (d) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) AVAILABILITY OF COMMODITIES.—No agricultural 
commodity shall be available for 

disposition under this Act if the Secretary 
determines that the disposition would reduce 
the domestic supply of the commodity below 
the supply needed to meet domestic requirements 
and provide adequate carryover (as determined 
by the Secretary), unless the Secretary 
determines that some part of the supply 
should be used to carry out urgent humanitarian 
purposes under this Act.’’; 

(2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) 
as subsections (b) and (c), respectively; and 
(3) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated), by 
striking ‘‘(e)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘(b)(1)’’. 
SEC. 213. GENERAL PROVISIONS. 

Section 403 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1733) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
‘‘CONSULTATIONS’’ and inserting ‘‘IMPACT ON 
LOCAL FARMERS AND ECONOMY’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘consult with’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘other donor organizations 
to’’; 
(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘from countries’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘for use’’ and inserting ‘‘or 
use’’; 
(3) in subsection (f)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or private entities, as appropriate,’’ 
after ‘‘from countries’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or private entities’’ after 
‘‘such countries’’; and 
(4) in subsection (i)(2), by striking subparagraph 
(C). 
SEC. 214. AGREEMENTS. 

Section 404 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1734) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘with 
foreign countries’’ after ‘‘Before entering 
into agreements’’; 
(2) in subsection (b)(2)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘with foreign countries’’ 
after ‘‘with respect to agreements entered 
into’’; and 
(B) by inserting before the semicolon at 
the end the following: ‘‘and broad-based economic 
growth’’; and 
(3) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph 
(1) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Agreements to provide 
assistance on a multi-year basis to recipient 
countries or to eligible organizations— 

‘‘(A) may be made available under titles I 
and III; and 
‘‘(B) shall be made available under title 
II.’’. 

SEC. 215. USE OF COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION. 


Section 406 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘shall’’ 
and inserting ‘‘may’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘titles II and III of’’ after 
‘‘commodities made available under’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(4) the vessel freight charges from United 
States ports or designated Canadian transshipment 
ports, as determined by the Secretary, 
to designated ports of entry abroad;’’. 
SEC. 216. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS. 

Section 407 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736a) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph(1), by inserting ‘‘or private 
entity that enters into an agreement 
under title I’’ after ‘‘importing country’’; 
and 
(B) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end 
the following: ‘‘Resulting contracts may contain 
such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
determines are necessary and appropriate.’’; 
(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ‘‘importer 
or’’ before ‘‘importing country’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘importer 
or’’ before ‘‘importing country’’; 
(3) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) FREIGHT PROCUREMENT.—Notwithstanding 
the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et 
seq.) or other similar provisions of law relating 
to the making or performance of Federal 
Government contracts, ocean transportation 
under titles II and III may be procured on 
the basis of such full and open competitive 
procedures. Resulting contracts may contain 
such terms and conditions, as the Administrator 
determines are necessary and appropriate.’’; 
and 

(B) by striking paragraph (4); 
(4) in subsection (g)(2)— 
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) an assessment of the progress towards 
achieving food security in each country receiving 
food assistance from the United 
States Government, with special emphasis 
on the nutritional status of the poorest populations 
in each country.’’; and 

(5) by striking subsection (h). 
SEC. 217. EXPIRATION DATE. 

Section 408 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736b) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 218. REGULATIONS. 

Section 409 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736c) is repealed. 
SEC. 219. INDEPENDENT EVALUATION OF PROGRAMS. 


Section 410 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736d) is repealed. 
SEC. 220. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

Section 412 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736f) is amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the 
President may direct that— 

‘‘(1) up to 15 percent of the funds available 
for any fiscal year for carrying out any title 
of this Act be used to carry out any other 
title of this Act; and 

‘‘(2) any funds available for title III be used 
to carry out title II.’’; and 

(2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) 
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively. 
SEC. 221. COORDINATION OF FOREIGN ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAMS. 

Section 413 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1736g) is amended by inserting ‘‘title 
III of’’ before ‘‘this Act’’ each place it appears. 
SEC. 222. MICRONUTRIENT FORTIFICATION 
PILOT PROGRAM. 

Title IV of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1731 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: 

‘‘SEC. 415. MICRONUTRIENT FORTIFICATION 
PILOT PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than September 
30, 1997, the Secretary, in consultation 
with the Administrator, shall establish 
a micronutrient fortification pilot program 
under this Act. The purposes of the program 
shall be to— 


S774 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(1) assist developing countries in correcting 
micronutrient dietary deficiencies 
among segments of the populations of the 
countries; and 

‘‘(2) encourage the development of technologies 
for the fortification of whole grains 
and other commodities that are readily 
transferable to developing countries. 

‘‘(b) SELECTION OF PARTICIPATING COUNTRIES.—
From among the countries eligible 
for assistance under this Act, the Secretary 
may select not more than 5 developing countries 
to participate in the pilot program. 

‘‘(c) FORTIFICATION.—Under the pilot program, 
whole grains and other commodities 
made available to a developing country selected 
to participate in the pilot program 
may be fortified with 1 or more micronutrients 
(including vitamin A, iron, and iodine) 
with respect to which a substantial portion 
of the population in the country are deficient. 
The commodity may be fortified in the 
United States or in the developing country. 

‘‘(d) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The authority 
to carry out the pilot program established 
under this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2002.’’. 

SEC. 223. USE OF CERTAIN LOCAL CURRENCY. 

Title IV of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1731 
et seq.) (as amended by section 222) is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘SEC. 416. USE OF CERTAIN LOCAL CURRENCY. 

‘‘Local currency payments received by the 
United States pursuant to agreements entered 
into under title I (as in effect on November 
27, 1990) may be utilized by the Secretary 
in accordance with section 108 (as in 
effect on November 27, 1990).’’. 

SEC. 224. LEVELS OF ASSISTANCE UNDER FARMER-
TO-FARMER PROGRAM. 

Section 501 of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1737) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (4) 
through (6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively; 
and 
(B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 
‘‘(4) assist the travel of farmers and other 
agricultural professionals from developing 
countries, middle income countries, and 
emerging democracies to the United States 
for educational purposes consistent with the 
objectives of this section;’’; and 

(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘1991 
through 1995’’ and inserting ‘‘1996 through 
2002’’. 
SEC. 225. FOOD SECURITY COMMODITY RESERVE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Agricultural 
Act of 1980 (7 U.S.C. 1736f–1 et seq.) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘TITLE III—FOOD SECURITY COMMODITY 
RESERVE 

‘‘SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE. 

‘‘This title may be cited as the ‘Food Security 
Commodity Reserve Act of 1996’. 

‘‘SEC. 302. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMODITY RESERVE. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—To provide for a reserve 
solely to meet emergency humanitarian food 
needs in developing countries, the Secretary 
of Agriculture (referred to in this title as the 
‘Secretary’) shall establish a reserve stock of 
wheat, rice, corn, or sorghum, or any combination 
of the commodities, totalling not 
more than 4,000,000 metric tons for use as described 
in subsection (c). 

‘‘(b) COMMODITIES IN RESERVE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The reserve established 
under this section shall consist of— 

‘‘(A) wheat in the reserve established under 
the Food Security Wheat Reserve Act of 1980 
as of the effective date of the Agricultural 
Reform and Improvement Act of 1996; 

‘‘(B) wheat, rice, corn, and sorghum (referred 
to in this section as ‘eligible commodities’) 
acquired in accordance with paragraph 

(2) to replenish eligible commodities released 
from the reserve, including wheat to replenish 
wheat released from the reserve established 
under the Food Security Wheat Reserve 
Act of 1980 but not replenished as of 
the effective date of the Agricultural Reform 
and Improvement Act of 1996; and 
‘‘(C) such rice, corn, and sorghum as the 
Secretary may, at such time and in such 
manner as the Secretary determines appropriate, 
acquire as a result of exchanging an 
equivalent value of wheat in the reserve established 
under this section. 

‘‘(2) REPLENISHMENT OF RESERVE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection 
(i), commodities of equivalent value to eligible 
commodities in the reserve established 
under this section may be acquired— 

‘‘(i) through purchases— 

‘‘(I) from producers; or 

‘‘(II) in the market, if the Secretary determines 
that the purchases will not unduly 
disrupt the market; or 

‘‘(ii) by designation by the Secretary of 
stocks of eligible commodities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 

‘‘(B) FUNDS.—Any use of funds to acquire 
eligible commodities through purchases from 
producers or in the market to replenish the 
reserve must be authorized in an appropriation 
Act. 

‘‘(c) RELEASE OF ELIGIBLE COMMODITIES.— 

‘‘(1) EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE.—Notwithstanding 
any other law, eligible commodities 
designated or acquired for the reserve 
established under this section may be 
released by the Secretary to provide, on a 
donation or sale basis, emergency food assistance 
to developing countries at such time 
as the domestic supply of the eligible commodities 
is so limited that quantities of the 
eligible commodities cannot be made available 
for disposition under the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.) (other than disposition 
for urgent humanitarian purposes under 
section 401 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1731)). 

‘‘(2) PROVISION OF URGENT HUMANITARIAN 
RELIEF.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph 
(1), eligible commodities may be released 
from the reserve established under 
this section for any fiscal year, without regard 
to the availability of domestic supply, 
for use under title II of the Agricultural 
Trade Development Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) in providing urgent humanitarian 
relief in any developing country 
suffering a major disaster (as determined by 
the Secretary) in accordance with this paragraph. 
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONAL NEED.—If the eligible 
commodities needed for relief cannot be 
made available for relief in a timely manner 
under the normal means of obtaining eligible 
commodities for food assistance because of 
circumstances of unanticipated and exceptional 
need, up to 500,000 metric tons of eligible 
commodities may be released under subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(C) FUNDS.—If the Secretary certifies that 
the funds made available for a fiscal year to 
carry out title II of the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) are not less than the 
funds made available for the previous fiscal 
year, up to 1,000,000 metric tons of eligible 
commodities may be released under subparagraph 
(A). 
‘‘(D) WAIVER OF MINIMUM TONNAGE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Nothing in this paragraph shall require 
the exercise of the waiver under section 
204(a)(3) of the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 5624(a)(3)) as a prerequisite for the release 
of eligible commodities under this 
paragraph. 

‘‘(E) LIMITATION.—The quantity of eligible 
commodities released under this paragraph 
may not exceed 1,000,000 metric tons in any 
fiscal year. 

‘‘(3) PROCESSING OF ELIGIBLE COMMODITIES.—
Eligible commodities that are released 
from the reserve established under 
this section may be processed in the United 
States and shipped to a developing country 
when conditions in the recipient country require 
processing. 

‘‘(4) EXCHANGE.—The Secretary may exchange 
an eligible commodity for another 
United States commodity of equal value, including 
powdered milk, pulses, and vegetable 
oil. 

‘‘(d) USE OF ELIGIBLE COMMODITIES.—Eligible 
commodities that are released from the 
reserve established under this section for the 
purpose of subsection (c) shall be made available 
under the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691 
et seq.) to meet famine or other urgent or extraordinary 
relief needs, except that section 
401 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1731), with respect to 
determinations of availability, shall not be 
applicable to the release. 

‘‘(e) MANAGEMENT OF ELIGIBLE COMMODITIES.—
The Secretary shall provide— 

‘‘(1) for the management of eligible commodities 
in the reserve established under 
this section as to location and quality of eligible 
commodities needed to meet emergency 
situations; and 

‘‘(2) for the periodic rotation or replacement 
of stocks of eligible commodities in the 
reserve to avoid spoilage and deterioration 
of the commodities. 

‘‘(f) TREATMENT OF RESERVE UNDER OTHER 
LAW.—Eligible commodities in the reserve 
established under this section shall not be— 

‘‘(1) considered a part of the total domestic 
supply (including carryover) for the purpose 
of subsection (c) or for the purpose of administering 
the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691 et 
seq.); and 

‘‘(2) subject to any quantitative limitation 
on exports that may be imposed under section 
7 of the Export Administration Act of 
1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2406). 

‘‘(g) USE OF COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the limitations 
provided in this section, the funds, facilities, 
and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation shall be used by the Secretary 
in carrying out this section, except 
that any restriction applicable to the acquisition, 
storage, or disposition of eligible 
commodities owned or controlled by the 
Commodity Credit Corporation shall not 
apply. 

‘‘(2) REIMBURSEMENT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall be reimbursed for the release 
of eligible commodities from funds 
made available to carry out the Agricultural 
Trade Development and Assistance Act of 
1954 (7 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.). 

‘‘(B) BASIS FOR REIMBURSEMENT.—The reimbursement 
shall be made on the basis of the 
lesser of— 

‘‘(i) the actual costs incurred by the Commodity 
Credit Corporation with respect to 
the eligible commodity; or 

‘‘(ii) the export market price of the eligible 
commodity (as determined by the Secretary) 
as of the time the eligible commodity is released 
from the reserve for the purpose. 

‘‘(C) SOURCE OF FUNDS.—The reimbursement 
may be made from funds appropriated 
for the purpose of reimbursement in subsequent 
fiscal years. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S775 

‘‘(h) FINALITY OF DETERMINATION.—Any determination 
by the Secretary under this section 
shall be final. 

‘‘(i) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The authority to replenish 
stocks of eligible commodities to maintain 
the reserve established under this section 
shall terminate on September 30, 2002. 

‘‘(2) DISPOSAL OF ELIGIBLE COMMODITIES.— 
Eligible commodities remaining in the reserve 
after September 30, 2002, shall be disposed 
of by release for use in providing for 
emergency humanitarian food needs in developing 
countries as provided in this section.’’. 


(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
208(d) of the Agriculture Trade Suspension 
Adjustment Act of 1980 (7 U.S.C. 4001(d)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.—
Subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g)(2) 
of section 302 of the Food Security Commodity 
Reserve Act of 1996 shall apply to 
commodities in any reserve established 
under paragraph (1), except that the references 
to ‘eligible commodities’ in the subsections 
shall be deemed to be references to 
‘agricultural commodities’.’’. 

SEC. 226. PROTEIN BYPRODUCTS DERIVED FROM 
ALCOHOL FUEL PRODUCTION. 

Section 1208 of the Agriculture and Food 
Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 1736n) is repealed. 

SEC. 227. FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM. 

The Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 
1736o) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(b)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘(b)’’; 
and 
(ii) in the first sentence, by inserting 
‘‘intergovernmental organizations’’ after 
‘‘cooperatives’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (2); 
(2) in subsection (e)(4), by striking ‘‘203’’ 
and inserting ‘‘406’’; 
(3) in subsection (f)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘in the 
case of the independent states of the former 
Soviet Union,’’; 
(B) by striking paragraph (2); 
(C) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘in each 
of fiscal years 1996 through 2002’’ after ‘‘may 
be used’’; and 
(D) by redesignating paragraphs (3) 
through (5) as paragraphs (2) through (4), respectively; 
(4) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(5) in subsection (j), by striking ‘‘shall’’ 
and inserting ‘‘may’’; 
(6) in subsection (k), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(7) in subsection (l)(1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘1991 through 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘1996 through 2002’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘, and to provide technical 
assistance for monetization programs,’’ after 
‘‘monitoring of food assistance programs’’; 
and 
(8) in subsection (m)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘with respect to the independent 
states of the former Soviet Union’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘private voluntary organizations 
and cooperatives’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘agricultural trade organizations, 
intergovernmental organizations, 
private voluntary organizations, and cooperatives’’; 
and 
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘in the 
independent states’’. 
SEC. 228. USE OF FOREIGN CURRENCY PRO


CEEDS FROM EXPORT SALES FI


NANCING. 

Section 402 of the Mutual Security Act of 
1954 (22 U.S.C. 1922) is repealed. 

SEC. 229. STIMULATION OF FOREIGN PRODUCTION. 


Section 7 of the Act of December 30, 1947 
(61 Stat. 947, chapter 526; 50 U.S.C. App. 1917) 
is repealed. 

Subtitle B—Amendments to Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 

SEC. 241. AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION 
STRATEGY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 103 of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5603) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 103. AGRICULTURAL EXPORT PROMOTION 
STRATEGY. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop 
a strategy for implementing Federal 
agricultural export promotion programs that 
takes into account the new market opportunities 
for agricultural products, including 
opportunities that result from— 

‘‘(1) the North American Free Trade Agreement 
and the Uruguay Round Agreements; 

‘‘(2) any accession to membership in the 
World Trade Organization; 

‘‘(3) the continued economic growth in the 
Pacific Rim; and 

‘‘(4) other developments. 

‘‘(b) PURPOSE OF STRATEGY.—The strategy 
developed under subsection (a) shall encourage 
the maintenance, development, and expansion 
of export markets for United States 
agricultural commodities and related products, 
including high-value and value-added 
products. 

‘‘(c) GOALS OF STRATEGY.—The strategy developed 
under subsection (a) shall have the 
following goals: 

‘‘(1) By September 30, 2002, increasing the 
value of annual United States agricultural 
exports to $60,000,000,000. 

‘‘(2) By September 30, 2002, increasing the 
United States share of world export trade in 
agricultural products significantly above the 
average United States share from 1993 
through 1995. 

‘‘(3) By September 30, 2002, increasing the 
United States share of world trade in high-
value agricultural products to 20 percent. 

‘‘(4) Ensuring that the value of United 
States exports of agricultural products increases 
at a faster rate than the rate of increase 
in the value of overall world export 
trade in agricultural products. 

‘‘(5) Ensuring that the value of United 
States exports of high-value agricultural 
products increases at a faster rate than the 
rate of increase in overall world export trade 
in high-value agricultural products. 

‘‘(6) Ensuring to the extent practicable 
that— 

‘‘(A) substantially all obligations undertaken 
in the Uruguay Round Agreement on 
Agriculture that provide significantly increased 
access for United States agricultural 
commodities are implemented to the extent 
required by the Uruguay Round Agreements; 
or 

‘‘(B) applicable United States trade laws 
are used to secure United States rights under 
the Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture. 


‘‘(d) PRIORITY MARKETS.— 

‘‘(1) IDENTIFICATION OF MARKETS.—In developing 
the strategy required under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall identify as priority 
markets— 

‘‘(A) those markets in which imports of agricultural 
products show the greatest potential 
for increase by September 30, 2002; and 

‘‘(B) those markets in which, with the assistance 
of Federal export promotion programs, 
exports of United States agricultural 
products show the greatest potential for increase 
by September 30, 2002. 

‘‘(2) IDENTIFICATION OF SUPPORTING OFFICES.—
The President shall identify annually 
in the budget of the United States Govern


ment submitted under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, each overseas office of 
the Foreign Agricultural Service that provides 
assistance to United States exporters 
in each of the priority markets identified 
under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(e) REPORT.—Not later than December 31, 
2001, the Secretary shall prepare and submit 
a report to Congress assessing progress in 
meeting the goals established by subsection 
(c). 

‘‘(f) FAILURE TO MEET GOALS.—Notwithstanding 
any other law, if the Secretary determines 
that more than 2 of the goals established 
by subsection (c) are not met by September 
30, 2002, the Secretary may not carry 
out agricultural trade programs under the 
Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5601 
et seq.) as of that date. 

‘‘(g) NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—This 
section shall not create any private right of 
action.’’. 

(b) CONTINUATION OF FUNDING.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary of Agriculture 
makes a determination under section 
103(f) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 
(as amended by subsection (a)), the Secretary 
shall utilize funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to promote United States 
agricultural exports in a manner consistent 
with the Commodity Credit Corporation 
Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) and obligations 
pursuant to the Uruguay Round Agreements. 
(2) FUNDING.—The amount of Commodity 
Credit Corporation funds used to carry out 
paragraph (1) during a fiscal year shall not 
exceed the total outlays for agricultural 
trade programs under the Agricultural Trade 
Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.) during fiscal 
year 2002. 
(c) ELIMINATION OF REPORT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 601 of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5711) is repealed. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The last sentence 
of section 603 of the Agricultural Trade 
Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5713) is amended by 
striking ‘‘, in a consolidated report,’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘section 601’’ and inserting 
‘‘or in a consolidated report’’. 
SEC. 242. EXPORT CREDITS. 

(a) EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAM.— 
Section 202 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 
1978 (7 U.S.C. 5622) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘GUARANTEES.—The’’ and 
inserting the following: ‘‘GUARANTEES.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The’’; and 

(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) SUPPLIER CREDITS.—In carrying out 
this section, the Commodity Credit Corporation 
may issue guarantees for the repayment 
of credit made available for a period of not 
more than 180 days by a United States exporter 
to a buyer in a foreign country.’’; 

(2) in subsection (f)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(f) RESTRICTIONS.—The’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(f) RESTRICTIONS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The’’; and 

(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) CRITERIA FOR DETERMINATION.—In 
making the determination required under 
paragraph (1) with respect to credit guarantees 
under subsection (b) for a country, the 
Secretary may consider, in addition to financial, 
macroeconomic, and monetary indicators— 


‘‘(A) whether an International Monetary 
Fund standby agreement, Paris Club rescheduling 
plan, or other economic restructuring 
plan is in place with respect to the 
country; 

‘‘(B) the convertibility of the currency of 
the country; 


S776 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(C) whether the country provides adequate 
legal protection for foreign investments; 


‘‘(D) whether the country has viable financial 
markets; 

‘‘(E) whether the country provides adequate 
legal protection for the private property 
rights of citizens of the country; and 

‘‘(F) any other factors that are relevant to 
the ability of the country to service the debt 
of the country.’’; 

(3) by striking subsection (h) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(h) UNITED STATES AGRICULTURAL COMPONENTS.—
The Commodity Credit Corporation 
shall finance or guarantee under this section 
only United States agricultural commodities.’’; 


(4) in subsection (i)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘INSTITUTIONS.—A financial’’ 
and inserting the following: ‘‘INSTITUTIONS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A financial’’; 

(B) by striking paragraph (1); 
(C) by striking ‘‘(2) is’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(A) is’’; 

(D) by striking ‘‘(3) is’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(B) is’’; and 

(E) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) THIRD COUNTRY BANKS.—The Commodity 
Credit Corporation may guarantee 
under subsections (a) and (b) the repayment 
of credit made available to finance an export 
sale irrespective of whether the obligor is located 
in the country to which the export sale 
is destined.’’; and 

(5) by striking subsection (k) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(k) PROCESSED AND HIGH-VALUE PRODUCTS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In issuing export credit 
guarantees under this section, the Commodity 
Credit Corporation shall, subject to 
paragraph (2), ensure that not less than 25 
percent for each of fiscal years 1996 and 1997, 
30 percent for each of fiscal years 1998 and 
1999, and 35 percent for each of fiscal years 
2000, 2001, and 2002, of the total amount of 
credit guarantees issued for a fiscal year is 
issued to promote the export of processed or 
high-value agricultural products and that 
the balance is issued to promote the export 
of bulk or raw agricultural commodities. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—The percentage requirement 
of paragraph (1) shall apply for a fiscal 
year to the extent that a reduction in the 
total amount of credit guarantees issued for 
the fiscal year is not required to meet the 
percentage requirement.’’. 

(b) FUNDING LEVELS.—Section 211(b) of the 
Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5641(b)) is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraph (2); 
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) of 
paragraph (1) as paragraph (2) and indenting 
the margin of paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
so as to align with the margin of 
paragraph (1); and 
(3) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEES.—The 
Commodity Credit Corporation shall make 
available for each of fiscal years 1996 through 
2002 not less than $5,500,000,000 in credit guarantees 
under subsections (a) and (b) of section 
202.’’. 

(c) DEFINITIONS.—Section 102(7) of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602(7)) is 
amended by striking subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(A) an agricultural commodity or product 
entirely produced in the United States; or 
‘‘(B) a product of an agricultural commodity— 


‘‘(i) 90 percent or more of which by weight, 
excluding packaging and water, is entirely 
produced in the United States; and 

‘‘(ii) that the Secretary determines to be a 
high value agricultural product.’’. 

(d) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days 
after the effective date of this title, the Secretary 
of Agriculture shall issue regulations 
to carry out the amendments made by this 
section. 
SEC. 243. MARKET PROMOTION PROGRAM. 

Effective October 1, 1995, section 211(c)(1) of 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5641(c)(1)) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ after ‘‘1991 through 
1993,’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘through 1997,’’ and inserting 
‘‘through 1995, and not more than 
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1996 
through 2002,’’. 
SEC. 244. EXPORT ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM. 

Effective October 1, 1995, section 301(e)(1) of 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5651(e)(1)) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall make available to carry 
out the program established under this section 
not more than— 

‘‘(A) $350,000,000 for fiscal year 1996; 

‘‘(B) $350,000,000 for fiscal year 1997; 

‘‘(C) $500,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; 

‘‘(D) $550,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; 

‘‘(E) $579,000,000 for fiscal year 2000; 

‘‘(F) $478,000,000 for fiscal year 2001; and 

‘‘(G) $478,000,000 for fiscal year 2002.’’. 
SEC. 245. ARRIVAL CERTIFICATION. 

Section 401 of the Agricultural Trade Act 
of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5662(a)) is amended by striking 
subsection (a) and inserting the following: 


‘‘(a) ARRIVAL CERTIFICATION.—With respect 
to a commodity provided, or for which financing 
or a credit guarantee or other assistance 
is made available, under a program 
authorized in section 201, 202, or 301, the 
Commodity Credit Corporation shall require 
the exporter of the commodity to maintain 
records of an official or customary commercial 
nature or other documents as the Secretary 
may require, and shall allow representatives 
of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
access to the records or documents 
as needed, to verify the arrival of the commodity 
in the country that was the intended 
destination of the commodity.’’. 
SEC. 246. COMPLIANCE. 

Section 402(a) of the Agricultural Trade 
Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5662(a)) is amended— 

(1) by striking paragraph (2); and 
(2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
(2). 
SEC. 247. REGULATIONS. 

Section 404 of the Agricultural Trade Act 
of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5664) is repealed. 

SEC. 248. TRADE COMPENSATION AND ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAMS. 

Title IV of the Agricultural Trade Act of 
1978 (7 U.S.C. 5661 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 

‘‘SEC. 417. TRADE COMPENSATION AND ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAMS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other law, if, after the effective date of this 
section, the President or any other member 
of the Executive branch causes exports from 
the United States to any country to be unilaterally 
suspended for reasons of national 
security or foreign policy, and if within 180 
days after the date on which the suspension 
is imposed on United States exports no other 
country agrees to participate in the suspension, 
the Secretary shall carry out a trade 
compensation and assistance program in accordance 
with this section (referred to in 
this section as a ‘program’). 

‘‘(b) PROVISION OF FUNDS.—Under a program, 
the Secretary shall make available for 

each fiscal year funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, in an amount calculated 
under subsection (c), to promote agricultural 
exports or provide agricultural commodities 
to developing countries, under any authorities 
available to the Secretary. 

‘‘(c) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF 
FUNDS.—For each fiscal year of a program, 
the amount of funds made available under 
subsection (b) shall be equal to 90 percent of 
the average annual value of United States 
agricultural exports to the country with respect 
to which exports are suspended during 
the most recent 3 years prior to the suspension 
for which data are available. 

‘‘(d) DURATION OF PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For each suspension of 
exports for which a program is implemented 
under this section, funds shall be made available 
under subsection (b) for each fiscal year 
or part of a fiscal year for which the suspension 
is in effect, but not to exceed 2 fiscal 
years. 

‘‘(2) PARTIAL-YEAR EMBARGOES.—Regardless 
of whether an embargo is in effect for only 
part of a fiscal year, the full amount of funds 
as calculated under subsection (c) shall be 
made available under a program for the fiscal 
year. If the Secretary determines that 
making the required amount of funds available 
in a partial fiscal year is impracticable, 
the Secretary may make all or part of the 
funds required to be made available in the 
partial fiscal year available in the following 
fiscal year (in addition to any funds otherwise 
required under a program to be made 
available in the following fiscal year).’’. 
SEC. 249. FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE. 

Section 503 of the Agricultural Trade Act 
of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5693) is amended to read as 
follows: 

‘‘SEC. 503. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL 
SERVICE. 

‘‘The Service shall assist the Secretary in 
carrying out the agricultural trade policy 
and international cooperation policy of the 
United States by— 

‘‘(1) acquiring information pertaining to 
agricultural trade; 

‘‘(2) carrying out market promotion and 
development activities; 

‘‘(3) providing agricultural technical assistance 
and training; and 

‘‘(4) carrying out the programs authorized 
under this Act, the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1691 et seq.), and other Acts.’’. 
SEC. 250. REPORTS. 

The first sentence of section 603 of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5713) is 
amended by striking ‘‘The’’ and inserting 
‘‘Subject to section 217 of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
U.S.C. 6917), the’’. 

Subtitle C—Miscellaneous 

SEC. 251. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATING 
TO TOBACCO. 

Section 214 of the Tobacco Adjustment Act 
of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 509) is repealed. 
SEC. 252. TRIGGERED EXPORT ENHANCEMENT. 

(a) READJUSTMENT OF SUPPORT LEVELS.— 
Section 1302 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–508; 7 
U.S.C. 1421 note) is repealed. 
(b) TRIGGERED MARKETING LOANS AND EXPORT 
ENHANCEMENT.—Section 4301 of the Omnibus 
Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 
(Public Law 100–418; 7 U.S.C. 1446 note) is repealed. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall be effective beginning 
with the 1996 crops of wheat, feed 
grains, upland cotton, and rice. 
SEC. 253. DISPOSITION OF COMMODITIES TO PREVENT 
WASTE. 

Section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1431) is amended— 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S777 

(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting after the 
first sentence the following: ‘‘The Secretary 
may use funds of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
to cover administrative expenses of 
the programs.’’; 
(B) in paragraph (7)(D)(iv), by striking 
‘‘one year of acquisition’’ and all that follows 
and inserting the following: ‘‘a reasonable 
length of time, as determined by the 
Secretary, except that the Secretary may 
permit the use of proceeds in a country other 
than the country of origin— 
‘‘(I) as necessary to expedite the transportation 
of commodities and products furnished 
under this subsection; or 

‘‘(II) if the proceeds are generated in a currency 
generally accepted in the other country.’’; 


(C) in paragraph (8), by striking subparagraph 
(C); and 
(D) by striking paragraphs (10), (11), and 
(12); and 
(2) by striking subsection (c). 
SEC. 254. DIRECT SALES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS. 

Section 106 of the Agriculture and Food 
Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 1446c-1) is repealed. 
SEC. 255. EXPORT SALES OF DAIRY PRODUCTS. 

Section 1163 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (Public Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 1731 note) is 
repealed. 

SEC. 256. DEBT-FOR-HEALTH-AND-PROTECTION 
SWAP. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1517 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 1706) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection 
(e)(3) of the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 
U.S.C. 1736o(e)(3)) is amended by striking 
‘‘section 106’’ and inserting ‘‘section 103’’. 
SEC. 257. POLICY ON EXPANSION OF INTERNATIONAL 
MARKETS. 

Section 1207 of the Agriculture and Food 
Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 1736m) is repealed. 

SEC. 258. POLICY ON MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT 
OF EXPORT MARKETS. 

Section 1121 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736p) is amended— 

(1) by striking subsection (a); and 
(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(b)’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) be the premier supplier of agricultural 
and food products to world markets and expand 
exports of high value products; 

‘‘(2) support the principle of free trade and 
the promotion of fair trade in agricultural 
commodities and products; 

‘‘(3) cooperate fully in all efforts to negotiate 
with foreign countries further reductions 
in tariff and nontariff barriers to trade, 
including sanitary and phytosanitary measures 
and trade-distorting subsidies; 

‘‘(4) aggressively counter unfair foreign 
trade practices as a means of encouraging 
fairer trade;’’. 
SEC. 259. POLICY ON TRADE LIBERALIZATION. 

Section 1122 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736q) is repealed. 
SEC. 260. AGRICULTURAL TRADE NEGOTIATIONS. 

Section 1123 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736r) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 1123. TRADE NEGOTIATIONS POLICY. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 

‘‘(1) on a level playing field, United States 
producers are the most competitive suppliers 
of agricultural products in the world; 

‘‘(2) exports of United States agricultural 
products will account for $53,000,000,000 in 
1995, contributing a net $24,000,000,000 to the 
merchandise trade balance of the United 
States and supporting approximately 
1,000,000 jobs; 

‘‘(3) increased agricultural exports are critical 
to the future of the farm, rural, and 

overall United States economy, but the opportunities 
for increased agricultural exports 
are limited by the unfair subsidies of 
the competitors of the United States, and a 
variety of tariff and nontariff barriers to 
highly competitive United States agricultural 
products; 

‘‘(4) international negotiations can play a 
key role in breaking down barriers to United 
States agricultural exports; 

‘‘(5) the Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture 
made significant progress in the attainment 
of increased market access opportunities 
for United States exports of agricultural 
products, for the first time— 

‘‘(A) restraining foreign trade-distorting 
domestic support and export subsidy programs; 
and 

‘‘(B) developing common rules for the application 
of sanitary and phytosanitary restrictions; 
that should result in increased exports of 
United States agricultural products, jobs, 
and income growth in the United States; 

‘‘(6) the Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture 
did not succeed in completely 
eliminating trade distorting domestic support 
and export subsidies by— 

‘‘(A) allowing the European Union to continue 
unreasonable levels of spending on export 
subsidies; and 

‘‘(B) failing to discipline monopolistic 
state trading entities, such as the Canadian 
Wheat Board, that use nontransparent and 
discriminatory pricing as a hidden de facto 
export subsidy; 

‘‘(7) during the period 1996 through 2002, 
there will be several opportunities for the 
United States to negotiate fairer trade in agricultural 
products, including further negotiations 
under the World Trade Organization, 
and steps toward possible free trade agreements 
of the Americas and Asian-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation (APEC); and 

‘‘(8) the United States should aggressively 
use these opportunities to achieve more open 
and fair opportunities for trade in agricultural 
products. 

‘‘(b) GOALS OF THE UNITED STATES IN AGRICULTURAL 
TRADE NEGOTIATIONS.—The objectives 
of the United States with respect to future 
negotiations on agricultural trade include— 


‘‘(1) increasing opportunities for United 
States exports of agricultural products by 
eliminating or substantially reducing tariff 
and nontariff barriers to trade; 

‘‘(2) leveling the playing field for United 
States producers of agricultural products by 
limiting per unit domestic production supports 
to levels that are no greater than those 
available in the United States; 

‘‘(3) ending the practice of export dumping 
by eliminating all trade distorting export 
subsidies and disciplining state trading entities 
so that they do not (except in cases of 
bona fide food aid) sell in foreign markets at 
below domestic market prices nor their full 
costs of acquiring and delivering agricultural 
products to the foreign markets; and 

‘‘(4) encouraging government policies that 
avoid price-depressing surpluses.’’. 
SEC. 261. POLICY ON UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES. 

Section 1164 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (Public Law 99–198; 99 Stat. 1499) is repealed. 


SEC. 262. AGRICULTURAL AID AND TRADE MISSIONS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The Agricultural Aid and 
Trade Missions Act (7 U.S.C. 1736bb et seq.) is 
repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 7 of 
Public Law 100–277 (7 U.S.C. 1736bb note) is 
repealed. 
SEC. 263. ANNUAL REPORTS BY AGRICULTURAL 
ATTACHES. 

Section 108(b)(1)(B) of the Agricultural Act 
of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1748(b)(1)(B)) is amended by 

striking ‘‘including fruits, vegetables, legumes, 
popcorn, and ducks’’. 

SEC. 264. WORLD LIVESTOCK MARKET PRICE INFORMATION. 


Section 1545 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 7 U.S.C. 1761 note) is repealed. 
SEC. 265. ORDERLY LIQUIDATION OF STOCKS. 

Sections 201 and 207 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1851 and 1857) are repealed. 


SEC. 266. SALES OF EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON. 


Section 202 of the Agricultural Act of 1956 
(7 U.S.C. 1852) is repealed. 
SEC. 267. REGULATIONS. 

Section 707 of the Freedom for Russia and 
Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open 
Markets Support Act of 1992 (Public Law 102– 
511; 7 U.S.C. 5621 note) is amended by striking 
subsection (d). 
SEC. 268. EMERGING MARKETS. 

(a) PROMOTION OF AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS 
TO EMERGING MARKETS.— 
(1) EMERGING MARKETS.—Section 1542 of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–624; 7 U.S.C. 5622 
note) is amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘EMERGING DEMOCRACIES’’ and inserting 
‘‘EMERGING MARKETS’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘emerging democracies’’ 
each place it appears in subsections (b), (d), 
and (e) and inserting ‘‘emerging markets’’; 
(C) by striking ‘‘emerging democracy’’ 
each place it appears in subsection (c) and 
inserting ‘‘emerging market’’; and 
(D) by striking subsection (f) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(f) EMERGING MARKET.—In this section 
and section 1543, the term ‘emerging market’ 
means any country that the Secretary determines— 


‘‘(1) is taking steps toward a market-oriented 
economy through the food, agriculture, 
or rural business sectors of the economy 
of the country; and 

‘‘(2) has the potential to provide a viable 
and significant market for United States agricultural 
commodities or products of United 
States agricultural commodities.’’. 

(2) FUNDING.—Section 1542 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 is amended by striking subsection (a) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) FUNDING.—The Commodity Credit Corporation 
shall make available for fiscal 
years 1996 through 2002 not less than 
$1,000,000,000 of direct credits or export credit 
guarantees for exports to emerging markets 
under section 201 or 202 of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5621 and 5622), in 
addition to the amounts acquired or authorized 
under section 211 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 
5641) for the program.’’. 

(3) AGRICULTURAL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.— 
Section 1542 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 is amended— 
(A) in subsection (b), by striking the last 
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘The 
Commodity Credit Corporation shall give 
priority under this subsection to— 
‘‘(A) projects that encourage the privatization 
of the agricultural sector or that benefit 
private farms or cooperatives in emerging 
markets; and 

‘‘(B) projects for which nongovernmental 
persons agree to assume a relatively larger 
share of the costs.’’; and 

(B) in subsection (d)— 
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
by striking ‘‘the Soviet Union’’ and inserting 
‘‘emerging markets’’; 
(ii) in paragraph (1)— 
(I) in subparagraph (A)(i)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 


S778 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(bb) by striking ‘‘those systems, and identify’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the systems, including 
potential reductions in trade barriers, and 
identify and carry out’’; 

(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
‘‘shall’’ and inserting ‘‘may’’; 
(III) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ‘‘(including 
the establishment of extension services)’’ 
after ‘‘technical assistance’’; 
(IV) by striking subparagraph (F); 
(V) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), 
(H), and (I) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and 
(H), respectively; and 
(VI) in subparagraph (H) (as redesignated 
by subclause (V)), by striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$20,000,000’’; 
(iii) in paragraph (2)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘the Soviet Union’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘emerging 
markets’’; 
(II) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘a 
free market food production and distribution 
system’’ and inserting ‘‘free market food 
production and distribution systems’’; 
(III) in subparagraph (B)— 
(aa) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘Government’’ 
and inserting ‘‘governments’’; 
(bb) in clause (iii)(II), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 

(cc) in clause (iii)(III), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(dd) by adding at the end of clause (iii) the 
following: 
‘‘(IV) to provide for the exchange of administrators 
and faculty members from agricultural 
and other institutions to strengthen 
and revise educational programs in agricultural 
economics, agribusiness, and agrarian 
law, to support change towards a free market 
economy in emerging markets.’’; 

(IV) by striking subparagraph (D); and 
(V) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as 
subparagraph (D); and 
(iv) by striking paragraph (3). 
(4) UNITED STATES AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY.—
Subsections (b) and (c) of section 
1542 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 are amended by striking 
‘‘section 101(6)’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘section 102(7)’’. 
(5) REPORT.—The first sentence of section 
1542(e)(2) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 is amended by 
striking ‘‘Not’’ and inserting ‘‘Subject to 
section 217 of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6917), 
not’’. 
(b) AGRICULTURAL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM 
FOR MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES, EMERGING 
DEMOCRACIES, AND EMERGING MARKETS.—Section 
1543 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 3293) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES AND 
EMERGING DEMOCRACIES’’ and inserting 
‘‘MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES, EMERGING 
DEMOCRACIES, AND EMERGING 
MARKETS’’; 
(2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(5) EMERGING MARKET.—Any emerging 
market, as defined in section 1542(f).’’; and 

(3) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘food 
needs’’ and inserting ‘‘food and fiber needs’’. 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 501 of the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 
U.S.C. 1737) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘emerging 
democracies’’ and inserting ‘‘emerging 
markets’’; and 
(B) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph 
(1) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) EMERGING MARKET.—The term ‘emerging 
market’ means any country that the Secretary 
determines— 

‘‘(A) is taking steps toward a market-oriented 
economy through the food, agriculture, 
or rural business sectors of the economy 
of the country; and 

‘‘(B) has the potential to provide a viable 
and significant market for United States agricultural 
commodities or products of United 
States agricultural commodities.’’. 

(2) Section 201(d)(1)(C)(ii) of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5621(d)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended by striking 
‘‘emerging democracies’’ and inserting 
‘‘emerging markets’’. 
(3) Section 202(d)(3)(B) of the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5622(d)(3)(B)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘emerging democracies’’ 
and inserting ‘‘emerging markets’’. 
SEC. 269. IMPORT ASSISTANCE FOR CBI BENE


FICIARY COUNTRIES AND THE PHIL


IPPINES. 

Section 583 of Public Law 100–202 (101 Stat. 
1329–182) is repealed. 

SEC. 270. STUDIES, REPORTS, AND OTHER PROVISIONS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Sections 1551 through 
1555, section 1559, and section 1560 of subtitle 
E of title XV of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 104 Stat. 3696) are repealed. 
(b) LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY.—Section 1556 
of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–624; 7 
U.S.C. 5694 note) is amended by striking subsection 
(c). 
SEC. 271. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMITMENTS 

UNDER URUGUAY ROUND AGREE


MENTS. 

Part III of subtitle A of title IV of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act (Public Law 
103–465; 108 Stat. 4964) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 427. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMITMENTS 

UNDER URUGUAY ROUND AGREE


MENTS. 

‘‘Not later than September 30 of each fiscal 
year, the Secretary of Agriculture shall determine 
whether the obligations undertaken 
by foreign countries under the Uruguay 
Round Agreement on Agriculture are being 
fully implemented. If the Secretary of Agriculture 
determines that any foreign country, 
by not implementing the obligations of the 
country, is significantly constraining an opportunity 
for United States agricultural exports, 
the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) submit to the United States Trade 
Representative a recommendation as to 
whether the President should take action 
under any provision of law; and 

‘‘(2) transmit a copy of the recommendation 
to the Committee on Agriculture, and 
the Committee on Ways and Means, of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, and 
the Committee on Finance, of the Senate.’’. 
SEC. 272. SENSE OF CONGRESS CONCERNING 

MULTILATERAL DISCIPLINES ON 

CREDIT GUARANTEES. 

It is the sense of Congress that— 

(1) in negotiations to establish multilateral 
disciplines on agricultural export credits 
and credit guarantees, the United States 
should not agree to any arrangement that is 
incompatible with the provisions of United 
States law that authorize agricultural export 
credits and credit guarantees; 
(2) in the negotiations (which are held 
under the auspices of the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development), 
the United States should not reach any 
agreement that fails to impose disciplines on 
the practices of foreign government trading 
entities such as the Australian Wheat Board 
and Canadian Wheat Board; and 
(3) the disciplines should include greater 
openness in the operations of the entities as 
long as the entities are subsidized by the foreign 
government or have monopolies for exports 
of a commodity that are sanctioned by 
the foreign government. 

TITLE III—CONSERVATION 
Subtitle A—Definitions 
SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS. 

Section 1201(a) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3801(a)) is amended— 

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through 
(16) as paragraphs (4) through (17), respectively; 
and 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: 
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION SYSTEM.—The term 
‘conservation system’ means the conservation 
measures and practices that are approved 
for application by a producer to a 
highly erodible field and that provide for 
cost effective and practical erosion reduction 
on the field based on local resource conditions 
and standards contained in the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service field office 
technical guide.’’. 

Subtitle B—Environmental Conservation 
Acreage Reserve Program 
SEC. 311. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION 
ACREAGE RESERVE PROGRAM. 

Section 1230 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3830) is amended to read as follows: 


‘‘SEC. 1230. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION 
ACREAGE RESERVE PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—During the 1996 through 
2002 calendar years, the Secretary shall establish 
an environmental conservation acreage 
reserve program (referred to in this section 
as ‘ECARP’) to be implemented through 
contracts and the acquisition of easements 
to assist owners and operators of farms and 
ranches to conserve and enhance soil, water, 
and related natural resources, including 
grazing land, wetland, and wildlife habitat. 

‘‘(2) MEANS.—The Secretary shall carry out 
the ECARP by— 

‘‘(A) providing for the long-term protection 
of environmentally sensitive land; and 

‘‘(B) providing technical and financial assistance 
to farmers and ranchers to— 

‘‘(i) improve the management and operation 
of the farms and ranches; and 

‘‘(ii) reconcile productivity and profitability 
with protection and enhancement of 
the environment. 

‘‘(3) PROGRAMS.—The ECARP shall consist 
of— 

‘‘(A) the conservation reserve program established 
under subchapter B; 

‘‘(B) the wetlands reserve program established 
under subchapter C; and 

‘‘(C) the environmental quality incentives 
program established under chapter 4. 

‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the 
ECARP, the Secretary shall enter into contracts 
with owners and operators and acquire 
interests in land through easements from 
owners, as provided in this chapter and chapter 
4. 

‘‘(2) PRIOR ENROLLMENTS.—Acreage enrolled 
in the conservation reserve or wetlands 
reserve program prior to the effective 
date of this paragraph shall be considered to 
be placed into the ECARP. 

‘‘(c) CONSERVATION PRIORITY AREAS.— 

‘‘(1) DESIGNATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall designate 
watersheds or regions of special environmental 
sensitivity, including the Chesapeake 
Bay Region (consisting of Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, and Virginia), the Great 
Lakes Region, and the Long Island Sound 
Region, as conservation priority areas that 
are eligible for enhanced assistance through 
the programs established under this chapter 
and chapter 4. 

‘‘(B) APPLICATION.—A designation shall be 
made under this paragraph if agricultural 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S779 

practices on land within the watershed or region 
pose a significant threat to soil, water, 
and related natural resources, as determined 
by the Secretary, and an application is made 
by— 

‘‘(i) a State agency in consultation with 
the State technical committee established 
under section 1261; or 

‘‘(ii) State agencies from several States 
that agree to form an interstate conservation 
priority area. 

‘‘(C) ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary shall designate 
a watershed or region of special environmental 
sensitivity as a conservation priority 
area to assist, to the maximum extent 
practicable, agricultural producers within 
the watershed or region to comply with 
nonpoint source pollution requirements 
under the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) and other Federal 
and State environmental laws. 

‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY.—The Secretary shall 
designate a watershed or region of special 
environmental sensitivity as a conservation 
priority area in a manner that conforms, to 
the maximum extent practicable, to the 
functions and purposes of the conservation 
reserve, wetlands reserve, and environmental 
quality incentives programs, as applicable, if 
participation in the program or programs is 
likely to result in the resolution or amelioration 
of significant soil, water, and related 
natural resource problems related to agricultural 
production activities within the watershed 
or region. 

‘‘(3) TERMINATION.—A conservation priority 
area designation shall terminate on the date 
that is 5 years after the date of the designation, 
except that the Secretary may— 

‘‘(A) redesignate the area as a conservation 
priority area; or 

‘‘(B) withdraw the designation of a watershed 
or region if the Secretary determines 
the area is no longer affected by significant 
soil,water, and related natural resource impacts 
related to agricultural production activities.’’. 


SEC. 312. CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1231 of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (d), by striking 
‘‘38,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘36,400,000’’. 
(b) DUTIES OF OWNERS AND OPERATORS.— 
Section 1232(c) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3832(c)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 313. WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM. 

(a) PURPOSES.—Section 1237(a) of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘to assist owners of eligible 
lands in restoring and protecting wetlands’’ 
and inserting ‘‘to protect wetlands for 
purposes of enhancing water quality and providing 
wildlife benefits while recognizing 
landowner rights’’. 
(b) ENROLLMENT.—Section 1237 of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837) is amended 
by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(b) MINIMUM ENROLLMENT.—The Secretary 
shall enroll into the wetlands reserve program— 


‘‘(1) during the 1996 through 2002 calendar 
years, a total of not more than 975,000 acres; 
and 

‘‘(2) beginning with offers accepted by the 
Secretary during calendar year 1997, to the 
maximum extent practicable, 1/3 of the acres 
in permanent easements, 1/3 of the acres in 
30-year easements, and 1/3 of the acres in restoration 
cost-share agreements.’’. 

(c) ELIGIBILITY.—Section 1237(c) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837(c)) 
is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘2000’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) by inserting ‘‘the land maximizes wildlife 
benefits and wetland values and functions 
and’’ after ‘‘determines that’’; 
(3) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘December 23, 1985’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 1996’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(4) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
(3); 
(5) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) enrollment of the land meets water 
quality goals through— 
‘‘(A) creation of tailwater pits or settlement 
ponds; or 
‘‘(B) enrollment of land that was enrolled 
(on the day before the effective date of this 
subparagraph) in the water bank program established 
under the Water Bank Act (16 

U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) at a rate not to exceed 
the rates in effect under the program;’’; 
(6) in paragraph (3) (as so redesignated), by 
striking the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘; and’’; and 
(7) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) enrollment of the land maintains or 
improves wildlife habitat.’’. 

(d) OTHER ELIGIBLE LANDS.—Section 1237(d) 
(16 U.S.C. 3837(d)) is amended by inserting 
after ‘‘subsection (c)’’ the following ‘‘, land 
that maximizes wildlife benefits and that 
is’’. 
(e) EASEMENTS.—Section 1237A of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837a) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ‘‘and 
agreements’’; 
(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(c) RESTORATION PLANS.—The development 
of a restoration plan, including any 
compatible use, under this section shall be 
made through the local Natural Resources 
Conservation Service representative, in consultation 
with the State technical committee.’’; 


(3) in subsection (f), by striking the third 
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘Compensation 
may be provided in not less than 5, 
nor more than 30, annual payments of equal 
or unequal size, as agreed to by the owner 
and the Secretary.’’; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(h) COST SHARE AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary 
may enroll land into the wetland reserve 
through agreements that require the 
landowner to restore wetlands on the land, if 
the agreement does not provide the Secretary 
with an easement.’’. 

(f) COST SHARE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
Section 1237C of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3837c) is amended by 
striking subsection (b) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) COST SHARE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
In the case of an easement entered 
into during the 1996 through 2002 calendar 
years, in making cost share payments under 
subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) in the case of a permanent easement, 
pay the owner an amount that is not less 
than 75 percent, but not more than 100 percent, 
of the eligible costs; 

‘‘(2) in the case of a 30-year easement or a 
cost-share agreement, pay the owner an 
amount that is not less than 50 percent, but 
not more than 75 percent, of the eligible 
costs; and 

‘‘(3) provide owners technical assistance to 
assist landowners in complying with the 
terms of easements and agreements.’’. 

SEC. 314. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM. 

Subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3830 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘CHAPTER 4—ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 

INCENTIVES PROGRAM 

‘‘SEC. 1238. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 

‘‘(1) farmers and ranchers cumulatively 
manage more than 1/2 of the private lands in 
the continental United States; 

‘‘(2) because of the predominance of agriculture, 
the soil, water, and related natural 
resources of the United States cannot be protected 
without cooperative relationships between 
the Federal Government and farmers 
and ranchers; 

‘‘(3) farmers and ranchers have made tremendous 
progress in protecting the environment 
and the agricultural resource base of 
the United States over the past decade because 
of not only Federal Government programs 
but also their spirit of stewardship 
and the adoption of effective technologies; 

‘‘(4) it is in the interest of the entire 
United States that farmers and ranchers 
continue to strive to preserve soil resources 
and make more efforts to protect water quality 
and wildlife habitat, and address other 
broad environmental concerns; 

‘‘(5) environmental strategies that stress 
the prudent management of resources, as opposed 
to idling land, will permit the maximum 
economic opportunities for farmers 
and ranchers in the future; 

‘‘(6) unnecessary bureaucratic and paperwork 
barriers associated with existing agricultural 
conservation assistance programs 
decrease the potential effectiveness of the 
programs; and 

‘‘(7) the recent trend of Federal spending 
on agricultural conservation programs suggests 
that assistance to farmers and ranchers 
in future years will, absent changes in 
policy, dwindle to perilously low levels. 

‘‘(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the environmental 
quality incentives program established 
by this chapter are to— 

‘‘(1) combine into a single program the 
functions of— 

‘‘(A) the agricultural conservation program 
authorized by sections 7 and 8 of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590g and 590h) (as in effect before 
the amendments made by section 
355(a)(1) of the Agricultural Reform and Improvement 
Act of 1996); 

‘‘(B) the Great Plains conservation program 
established under section 16(b) of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)) (as in effect before the 
amendment made by section 355(b)(1) of the 
Agricultural Reform and Improvement Act 
of 1996); and 

‘‘(C) the water quality incentives program 
established under chapter 2 (as in effect before 
the amendment made by section 355(k) 
of the Agricultural Reform and Improvement 
Act of 1996); and 

‘‘(C) the Colorado River Basin salinity control 
program established under section 202(c) 
of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)) (as in effect before the 
amendment made by section 355(c)(1) of the 
Agricultural Reform and Improvement Act 
of 1996); and 

‘‘(2) carry out the single program in a manner 
that maximizes environmental benefits 
per dollar expended, and that provides— 

‘‘(A) flexible technical and financial assistance 
to farmers and ranchers that face the 
most serious threats to soil, water, and related 
natural resources, including grazing 
lands, wetlands, and wildlife habitat; 

‘‘(B) assistance to farmers and ranchers in 
complying with this title and Federal and 
State environmental laws, and to encourage 
environmental enhancement; 

‘‘(C) assistance to farmers and ranchers in 
making beneficial, cost-effective changes to 


S780 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

cropping systems, grazing management, manure, 
nutrient, pest, or irrigation management, 
land uses, or other measures needed to 
conserve and improve soil, water, and related 
natural resources; and 

‘‘(D) for the consolidation and simplification 
of the conservation planning process to 
reduce administrative burdens on the owners 
and operators of farms and ranches. 
‘‘SEC. 1238A. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE.—The 
term ‘land management practice’ means nutrient 
or manure management, integrated 
pest management, irrigation management, 
tillage or residue management, grazing management, 
or another land management practice 
the Secretary determines is needed to 
protect soil, water, or related resources in 
the most cost effective manner. 

‘‘(2) LARGE CONFINED LIVESTOCK OPERATION.—
The term ‘large confined livestock 
operation’ means a farm or ranch that— 

‘‘(A) is a confined animal feeding operation; 
and 

‘‘(B) has more than— 

‘‘(i) 700 mature dairy cattle; 

‘‘(ii) 10,000 beef cattle; 

‘‘(iii) 150,000 laying hens or broilers; 

‘‘(iv) 55,000 turkeys; 

‘‘(v) 15,000 swine; or 

‘‘(vi) 10,000 sheep or lambs. 

‘‘(3) LIVESTOCK.—The term ‘livestock’ 
means mature dairy cows, beef cattle, laying 
hens, broilers, turkeys, swine, sheep, or 
lambs. 

‘‘(4) OPERATOR.—The term ‘operator’ 
means a person who is engaged in crop or 
livestock production (as defined by the Secretary). 


‘‘(5) STRUCTURAL PRACTICE.—The term 
‘structural practice’ means the establishment 
of an animal waste management facility, 
terrace, grassed waterway, contour grass 
strip, filterstrip, permanent wildlife habitat, 
or another structural practice that the Secretary 
determines is needed to protect soil, 
water, or related resources in the most cost 
effective manner. 
‘‘SEC. 1238B. ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRA


TION OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 

INCENTIVES PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—During the 1996 through 
2002 fiscal years, the Secretary shall provide 
technical assistance, cost-sharing payments, 
and incentive payments to operators, who 
enter into contracts with the Secretary, 
through an environmental quality incentives 
program in accordance with this chapter. 

‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE PRACTICES.— 

‘‘(A) STRUCTURAL PRACTICES.—An operator 
who implements a structural practice shall 
be eligible for technical assistance or cost-
sharing payments, or both. 

‘‘(B) LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.—An operator 
who performs a land management 
practice shall be eligible for technical assistance 
or incentive payments, or both. 

‘‘(b) APPLICATION AND TERM.—A contract 
between an operator and the Secretary under 
this chapter may— 

‘‘(1) apply to 1 or more structural practices 
or 1 or more land management practices, or 
both; and 

‘‘(2) have a term of not less than 5, nor 
more than 10, years, as determined appropriate 
by the Secretary, depending on the 
practice or practices that are the basis of the 
contract. 

‘‘(c) STRUCTURAL PRACTICES.— 

‘‘(1) COMPETITIVE OFFER.—The Secretary 
shall administer a competitive offer system 
for operators proposing to receive cost-sharing 
payments in exchange for the implementation 
of 1 or more structural practices by 
the operator. The competitive offer system 
shall consist of— 

‘‘(A) the submission of a competitive offer 
by the operator in such manner as the Secretary 
may prescribe; and 

‘‘(B) evaluation of the offer in light of the 
priorities established in section 1238C and 
the projected cost of the proposal, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) CONCURRENCE OF OWNER.—If the operator 
making an offer to implement a structural 
practice is a tenant of the land involved 
in agricultural production, for the 
offer to be acceptable, the operator shall obtain 
the concurrence of the owner of the land 
with respect to the offer. 

‘‘(d) LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.—The 
Secretary shall establish an application and 
evaluation process for awarding technical assistance 
or incentive payments, or both, to 
an operator in exchange for the performance 
of 1 or more land management practices by 
the operator. 

‘‘(e) COST-SHARING AND INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(1) COST-SHARING PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of 
cost-sharing payments to an operator proposing 
to implement 1 or more structural 
practices shall not be less than 75 percent of 
the projected cost of the practice, as determined 
by the Secretary, taking into consideration 
any payment received by the operator 
from a State or local government. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—An operator of a large 
confined livestock operation shall not be eligible 
for cost-sharing payments to construct 
an animal waste management facility. 

‘‘(C) OTHER PAYMENTS.—An operator shall 
not be eligible for cost-sharing payments for 
structural practices on eligible land under 
this chapter if the operator receives cost-
sharing payments or other benefits for the 
same land under chapter 1 or 3. 

‘‘(2) INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall make incentive payments in an amount 
and at a rate determined by the Secretary to 
be necessary to encourage an operator to 
perform 1 or more land management practices. 


‘‘(f) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall allocate 
funding under this chapter for the provision 
of technical assistance according to 
the purpose and projected cost for which the 
technical assistance is provided in a fiscal 
year. The allocated amount may vary according 
to the type of expertise required, 
quantity of time involved, and other factors 
as determined appropriate by the Secretary. 
Funding shall not exceed the projected cost 
to the Secretary of the technical assistance 
provided in a fiscal year. 

‘‘(2) OTHER AUTHORITIES.—The receipt of 
technical assistance under this chapter shall 
not affect the eligibility of the operator to 
receive technical assistance under other authorities 
of law available to the Secretary. 

‘‘(g) MODIFICATION OR TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.— 


‘‘(1) VOLUNTARY MODIFICATION OR TERMI-
NATION.—The Secretary may modify or terminate 
a contract entered into with an operator 
under this chapter if— 

‘‘(A) the operator agrees to the modification 
or termination; and 

‘‘(B) the Secretary determines that the 
modification or termination is in the public 
interest. 

‘‘(2) INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION.—The Secretary 
may terminate a contract under this 
chapter if the Secretary determines that the 
operator violated the contract. 

‘‘(h) NON-FEDERAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may request 
the services of a State water quality 
agency, State fish and wildlife agency, State 
forestry agency, or any other governmental 
or private resource considered appropriate to 
assist in providing the technical assistance 

necessary for the development and implementation 
of a structural practice or land 
management practice. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—No person 
shall be permitted to bring or pursue any 
claim or action against any official or entity 
based on or resulting from any technical assistance 
provided to an operator under this 
chapter to assist in complying with a Federal 
or State environmental law. 

‘‘SEC. 1238C. EVALUATION OF OFFERS AND PAYMENTS. 


‘‘(a) REGIONAL PRIORITIES.—The Secretary 
shall provide technical assistance, cost-sharing 
payments, and incentive payments to operators 
in a region, watershed, or conservation 
priority area under this chapter based 
on the significance of the soil, water, and related 
natural resource problems in the region, 
watershed, or area, and the structural 
practices or land management practices that 
best address the problems, as determined by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘(b) MAXIMIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In providing technical 
assistance, cost-sharing payments, and incentive 
payments to operators in regions, 
watersheds, or conservation priority areas 
under this chapter, the Secretary shall accord 
a higher priority to assistance and payments 
that maximize environmental benefits 
per dollar expended. 

‘‘(2) NATIONAL AND REGIONAL PRIORITY.— 
The prioritization shall be done nationally 
as well as within the conservation priority 
area, region, or watershed in which an agricultural 
operation is located. 

‘‘(3) CRITERIA.—To carry out this subsection, 
the Secretary shall establish criteria 
for implementing structural practices 
and land management practices that best 
achieve conservation goals for a region, watershed, 
or conservation priority area, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(c) STATE OR LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—The 
Secretary shall accord a higher priority to 
operators whose agricultural operations are 
located within watersheds, regions, or conservation 
priority areas in which State or 
local governments have provided, or will provide, 
financial or technical assistance to the 
operators for the same conservation or environmental 
purposes. 

‘‘(d) PRIORITY LANDS.—The Secretary shall 
accord a higher priority to structural practices 
or land management practices on lands 
on which agricultural production has been 
determined to contribute to, or create, the 
potential for failure to meet applicable 
water quality standards or other environmental 
objectives of a Federal or State law. 
‘‘SEC. 1238D. DUTIES OF OPERATORS. 

‘‘To receive technical assistance, cost-
sharing payments, or incentives payments 
under this chapter, an operator shall agree— 

‘‘(1) to implement an environmental quality 
incentives program plan that describes 
conservation and environmental goals to be 
achieved through a structural practice or 
land management practice, or both, that is 
approved by the Secretary; 

‘‘(2) not to conduct any practices on the 
farm or ranch that would tend to defeat the 
purposes of this chapter; 

‘‘(3) on the violation of a term or condition 
of the contract at any time the operator has 
control of the land, to refund any cost-sharing 
or incentive payment received with interest, 
and forfeit any future payments 
under this chapter, as determined by the 
Secretary; 

‘‘(4) on the transfer of the right and interest 
of the operator in land subject to the 
contract, unless the transferee of the right 
and interest agrees with the Secretary to assume 
all obligations of the contract, to refund 
all cost-sharing payments and incentive 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S781 

payments received under this chapter, as determined 
by the Secretary; 

‘‘(5) to supply information as required by 
the Secretary to determine compliance with 
the environmental quality incentives program 
plan and requirements of the program; 
and 

‘‘(6) to comply with such additional provisions 
as the Secretary determines are necessary 
to carry out the environmental quality 
incentives program plan. 

‘‘SEC. 1238E. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM PLAN. 

‘‘An environmental quality incentives program 
plan shall include (as determined by 
the Secretary)— 

‘‘(1) a description of the prevailing farm or 
ranch enterprises, cropping patterns, grazing 
management, cultural practices, or other information 
that may be relevant to conserving 
and enhancing soil, water, and related 
natural resources; 

‘‘(2) a description of relevant farm or ranch 
resources, including soil characteristics, 
rangeland types and condition, proximity to 
water bodies, wildlife habitat, or other relevant 
characteristics of the farm or ranch 
related to the conservation and environmental 
objectives set forth in the plan; 

‘‘(3) a description of specific conservation 
and environmental objectives to be achieved; 

‘‘(4) to the extent practicable, specific, 
quantitative goals for achieving the conservation 
and environmental objectives; 

‘‘(5) a description of 1 or more structural 
practices or 1 or more land management 
practices, or both, to be implemented to 
achieve the conservation and environmental 
objectives; 

‘‘(6) a description of the timing and sequence 
for implementing the structural 
practices or land management practices, or 
both, that will assist the operator in complying 
with Federal and State environmental 
laws; and 

‘‘(7) information that will enable evaluation 
of the effectiveness of the plan in 
achieving the conservation and environmental 
objectives, and that will enable evaluation 
of the degree to which the plan has 
been implemented. 
‘‘SEC. 1238F. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY. 

‘‘To the extent appropriate, the Secretary 
shall assist an operator in achieving the conservation 
and environmental goals of an environmental 
quality incentives program plan 
by— 

‘‘(1) providing an eligibility assessment of 
the farming or ranching operation of the operator 
as a basis for developing the plan; 

‘‘(2) providing technical assistance in developing 
and implementing the plan; 

‘‘(3) providing technical assistance, cost-
sharing payments, or incentive payments for 
developing and implementing 1 or more 
structural practices or 1 or more land management 
practices, as appropriate; 

‘‘(4) providing the operator with information, 
education, and training to aid in implementation 
of the plan; and 

‘‘(5) encouraging the operator to obtain 
technical assistance, cost-sharing payments, 
or grants from other Federal, State, local, or 
private sources. 
‘‘SEC. 1238G. ELIGIBLE LANDS. 

‘‘Agricultural land on which a structural 
practice or land management practice, or 
both, shall be eligible for technical assistance, 
cost-sharing payments, or incentive 
payments under this chapter include— 

‘‘(1) agricultural land (including cropland, 
rangeland, pasture, and other land on which 
crops or livestock are produced) that the 
Secretary determines poses a serious threat 
to soil, water, or related resources by reason 
of the soil types, terrain, climatic, soil, topographic, 
flood, or saline characteristics, or 
other factors or natural hazards; 

‘‘(2) an area that is considered to be critical 
agricultural land on which either crop or 
livestock production is carried out, as identified 
in a plan submitted by the State under 
section 319 of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1329) as having priority 
problems that result from an agricultural 
nonpoint source of pollution; 

‘‘(3) an area recommended by a State lead 
agency for protection of soil, water, and related 
resources, as designated by a Governor 
of a State; and 

‘‘(4) land that is not located within a designated 
or approved area, but that if permitted 
to continue to be operated under existing 
management practices, would defeat 
the purpose of the environmental quality incentives 
program, as determined by the Secretary. 


‘‘SEC. 1238H. LIMITATIONS ON PAYMENTS. 

‘‘(a) PAYMENTS.—The total amount of cost-
sharing and incentive payments paid to a 
person under this chapter may not exceed— 

‘‘(1) $10,000 for any fiscal year; or 

‘‘(2) $50,000 for any multiyear contract. 

‘‘(b) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall 
issue regulations that are consistent with 
section 1001 for the purpose of— 

‘‘(1) defining the term ‘person’ as used in 
subsection (a); and 

‘‘(2) prescribing such rules as the Secretary 
determines necessary to ensure a fair and 
reasonable application of the limitations 
contained in subsection (a).’’. 

Subtitle C—Conservation Funding 
SEC. 321. CONSERVATION FUNDING. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E of title XII of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841 
et seq.) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘Subtitle E—Funding 
‘‘SEC. 1241. FUNDING. 

‘‘(a) MANDATORY EXPENSES.—For each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002, the Secretary 
shall use the funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to carry out the programs authorized 
by— 

‘‘(1) subchapter B of chapter 1 of subtitle D 
(including contracts extended by the Secretary 
pursuant to section 1437 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101–624; 16 U.S.C. 3831 note)); 

‘‘(2) subchapter C of chapter 1 of subtitle D; 
and 

‘‘(3) chapter 4 of subtitle D. 

‘‘(b) ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For each of fiscal years 
1996 through 2002, $200,000,000 of the funds of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation shall be 
available for providing technical assistance, 
cost-sharing payments, and incentive payments 
under the environmental quality incentives 
program under chapter 4 of subtitle 
D. 

‘‘(2) LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION.—For each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002, 50 percent of 
the funding available for technical assistance, 
cost-sharing payments, and incentive 
payments under the environmental quality 
incentives program shall be targeted at practices 
relating to livestock production. 

‘‘(c) ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS TO CCC.— 
The Secretary may use the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to carry out 
chapter 3 of subtitle D, except that the Secretary 
may not use the funds of the Corporation 
unless the Corporation has received 
funds to cover the expenditures from appropriations 
made available to carry out chapter 
3 of subtitle D. 

‘‘SEC. 1242. ADMINISTRATION. 

‘‘(a) PLANS.—The Secretary shall, to the 
extent practicable, avoid duplication in— 

‘‘(1) the conservation plans required for— 

‘‘(A) highly erodible land conservation 
under subtitle B; 

‘‘(B) the conservation reserve program established 
under subchapter B of chapter 1 of 
subtitle D; and 

‘‘(C) the wetlands reserve program established 
under subchapter C of chapter 1 of 
subtitle D; and 

‘‘(2) the environmental quality incentives 
program established under chapter 4 of subtitle 
D. 

‘‘(b) ACREAGE LIMITATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall not 
enroll more than 25 percent of the cropland 
in any county in the programs administered 
under the conservation reserve and wetlands 
reserve programs established under sub-
chapters B and C, respectively, of chapter 1 
of subtitle D. Not more than 10 percent of 
the cropland in a county may be subject to 
an easement acquired under the subchapters. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary may exceed 
the limitations in paragraph (1) if the 
Secretary determines that— 

‘‘(A) the action would not adversely affect 
the local economy of a county; and 

‘‘(B) operators in the county are having 
difficulties complying with conservation 
plans implemented under section 1212. 

‘‘(3) SHELTERBELTS AND WINDBREAKS.—The 
limitations established under this subsection 
shall not apply to cropland that is subject to 
an easement under chapter 1 or 3 of subtitle 
D that is used for the establishment of 
shelterbelts and windbreaks. 

‘‘(c) TENANT PROTECTION.—Except for a 
person who is a tenant on land that is subject 
to a conservation reserve contract that 
has been extended by the Secretary, the Secretary 
shall provide adequate safeguards to 
protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers, 
including provision for sharing, on 
a fair and equitable basis, in payments under 
the programs established under subtitles B 
through D. 

‘‘(d) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 90 days 
after the effective date of this subsection, 
the Secretary shall issue regulations to implement 
the conservation reserve and wetlands 
reserve programs established under 
chapter 1 of subtitle D.’’. 

Subtitle D—National Natural Resources 
Conservation Foundation 

SEC. 331. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘National 
Natural Resources Conservation 
Foundation Act’’. 

SEC. 332. DEFINITIONS. 

In this subtitle (unless the context otherwise 
requires): 

(1) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the 
Board of Trustees established under section 
334. 
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’ 
means the United States Department of Agriculture. 
(3) FOUNDATION.—The term ‘‘Foundation’’ 
means the National Natural Resources Conservation 
Foundation established by section 
333(a). 
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
SEC. 333. NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION 
FOUNDATION. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—A National Natural 
Resources Conservation Foundation is established 
as a charitable and nonprofit corporation 
for charitable, scientific, and educational 
purposes specified in subsection (b). 
The Foundation is not an agency or instrumentality 
of the United States. 
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Foundation 
are to— 
(1) promote innovative solutions to the 
problems associated with the conservation of 
natural resources on private lands, particularly 
with respect to agriculture and soil and 
water conservation; 

S782 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(2) promote voluntary partnerships between 
government and private interests in 
the conservation of natural resources; 
(3) conduct research and undertake educational 
activities, conduct and support 
demonstration projects, and make grants to 
State and local agencies and nonprofit organizations; 
(4) provide such other leadership and support 
as may be necessary to address conservation 
challenges, such as the prevention 
of excessive soil erosion, enhancement of soil 
and water quality, and the protection of wetlands, 
wildlife habitat, and strategically important 
farmland subject to urban conversion 
and fragmentation; 
(5) encourage, accept, and administer private 
gifts of money and real and personal 
property for the benefit of, or in connection 
with, the conservation and related activities 
and services of the Department, particularly 
the Natural Resources Conservation Service; 
(6) undertake, conduct, and encourage educational, 
technical, and other assistance, and 
other activities, that support the conservation 
and related programs administered by 
the Department (other than activities carried 
out on National Forest System lands), 
particularly the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service, except that the Foundation 
may not enforce or administer a regulation 
of the Department; and 
(7) raise private funds to promote the purposes 
of the Foundation. 
(c) LIMITATIONS AND CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS.— 
(1) POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.—The Foundation 
shall not participate or intervene in a political 
campaign on behalf of any candidate for 
public office. 
(2) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.—No director, 
officer, or employee of the Foundation shall 
participate, directly or indirectly, in the 
consideration or determination of any question 
before the Foundation affecting— 
(A) the financial interests of the director, 
officer, or employee; or 
(B) the interests of any corporation, partnership, 
entity, organization, or other person 
in which the director, officer, or employee— 
(i) is an officer, director, or trustee; or 
(ii) has any direct or indirect financial interest. 
(3) LEGISLATION OR GOVERNMENT ACTION OR 
POLICY.—No funds of the Foundation may be 
used in any manner for the purpose of influencing 
legislation or government action or 
policy. 
(4) LITIGATION.—No funds of the Foundation 
may be used to bring or join an action 
against the United States or any State. 
SEC. 334. COMPOSITION AND OPERATION. 

(a) COMPOSITION.—The Foundation shall be 
administered by a Board of Trustees that 
shall consist of 9 voting members, each of 
whom shall be a United States citizen and 
not a Federal officer. The Board shall be 
composed of— 
(1) individuals with expertise in agricultural 
conservation policy matters; 
(2) a representative of private sector organizations 
with a demonstrable interest in 
natural resources conservation; 
(3) a representative of statewide conservation 
organizations; 
(4) a representative of soil and water conservation 
districts; 
(5) a representative of organizations outside 
the Federal Government that are dedicated 
to natural resources conservation education; 
and 
(6) a farmer or rancher. 
(b) NONGOVERNMENTAL EMPLOYEES.—Service 
as a member of the Board shall not constitute 
employment by, or the holding of, an 
office of the United States for the purposes 
of any Federal law. 
(c) MEMBERSHIP.— 
(1) INITIAL MEMBERS.—The Secretary shall 
appoint 9 persons who meet the criteria established 
under subsection (a) as the initial 
members of the Board and designate 1 of the 
members as the initial chairperson for a 2-
year term. 
(2) TERMS OF OFFICE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—A member of the Board 
shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that 
the members appointed to the initial Board 
shall serve, proportionately, for terms of 1, 2, 
and 3 years, as determined by the Secretary. 
(B) LIMITATION ON TERMS.—No individual 
may serve more than 2 consecutive 3-year 
terms as a member. 
(3) SUBSEQUENT MEMBERS.—The initial 
members of the Board shall adopt procedures 
in the constitution of the Foundation for the 
nomination and selection of subsequent 
members of the Board. The procedures shall 
require that each member, at a minimum, 
meets the criteria established under subsection 
(a) and shall provide for the selection 
of an individual, who is not a Federal officer 
or a member of the Board. 
(d) CHAIRPERSON.—After the appointment 
of an initial chairperson under subsection 
(c)(1), each succeeding chairperson of the 
Board shall be elected by the members of the 
Board for a 2-year term. 
(e) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the Board 
shall be filled by the Board not later than 60 
days after the occurrence of the vacancy. 
(f) COMPENSATION.—A member of the Board 
shall receive no compensation from the 
Foundation for the service of the member on 
the Board. 
(g) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—While away from 
the home or regular place of business of a 
member of the Board in the performance of 
services for the Board, the member shall be 
allowed travel expenses paid by the Foundation, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, 
at the same rate as a person employed 
intermittently in the Government service 
would be allowed under section 5703 of title 5, 
United States Code. 
SEC. 335. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Board may— 
(1) appoint, hire, and discharge the officers 
and employees of the Foundation, other than 
the appointment of the initial Executive Director 
of the Foundation; 
(2) adopt a constitution and bylaws for the 
Foundation that are consistent with the purposes 
of the Foundation and this subtitle; 
and 
(3) undertake any other activities that 
may be necessary to carry out this subtitle. 
(b) OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.— 
(1) APPOINTMENT AND HIRING.—An officer or 
employee of the Foundation— 
(A) shall not, by virtue of the appointment 
or employment of the officer or employee, be 
considered a Federal employee for any purpose, 
including the provisions of title 5, 
United States Code, governing appointments 
in the competitive service, except that such 
an individual may participate in the Federal 
employee retirement system as if the individual 
were a Federal employee; and 
(B) may not be paid by the Foundation a 
salary in excess of $125,000 per year. 
(2) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.— 
(A) INITIAL DIRECTOR.—The Secretary shall 
appoint an individual to serve as the initial 
Executive Director of the Foundation who 
shall serve, at the direction of the Board, as 
the chief operating officer of the Foundation. 
(B) SUBSEQUENT DIRECTORS.—The Board 
shall appoint each subsequent Executive Director 
of the Foundation who shall serve, at 
the direction of the Board, as the chief operating 
officer of the Foundation. 
(C) QUALIFICATIONS.—The Executive Director 
shall be knowledgeable and experienced 
in matters relating to natural resources conservation. 


SEC. 336. CORPORATE POWERS AND OBLIGATIONS 
OF THE FOUNDATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Foundation— 
(1) may conduct business throughout the 
United States and the territories and possessions 
of the United States; and 
(2) shall at all times maintain a designated 
agent who is authorized to accept service of 
process for the Foundation, so that the serving 
of notice to, or service of process on, the 
agent, or mailed to the business address of 
the agent, shall be considered as service on 
or notice to the Foundation. 
(b) SEAL.—The Foundation shall have an 
official seal selected by the Board that shall 
be judicially noticed. 
(c) POWERS.—To carry out the purposes of 
the Foundation under section 333(b), the 
Foundation shall have, in addition to the 
powers otherwise provided under this subtitle, 
the usual powers of a corporation, including 
the power— 
(1) to accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, 
and use any gift, devise, or bequest, either 
absolutely or in trust, of real or personal 
property or any income from, or other 
interest in, the gift, devise, or bequest; 
(2) to acquire by purchase or exchange any 
real or personal property or interest in property, 
except that funds provided under section 
310 may not be used to purchase an interest 
in real property; 
(3) unless otherwise required by instrument 
of transfer, to sell, donate, lease, invest, 
reinvest, retain, or otherwise dispose of 
any property or income from property; 
(4) to borrow money from private sources 
and issue bonds, debentures, or other debt instruments, 
subject to section 339, except that 
the aggregate amount of the borrowing and 
debt instruments outstanding at any time 
may not exceed $1,000,000; 
(5) to sue and be sued, and complain and 
defend itself, in any court of competent jurisdiction, 
except that a member of the 
Board shall not be personally liable for an 
action in the performance of services for the 
Board, except for gross negligence; 
(6) to enter into a contract or other agreement 
with an agency of State or local government, 
educational institution, or other 
private organization or person and to make 
such payments as may be necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Foundation; and 
(7) to do any and all acts that are necessary 
to carry out the purposes of the Foundation. 
(d) INTEREST IN PROPERTY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Foundation may acquire, 
hold, and dispose of lands, waters, or 
other interests in real property by donation, 
gift, devise, purchase, or exchange. 
(2) INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY.—For purposes 
of this subtitle, an interest in real 
property shall be treated, among other 
things, as including an easement or other 
right for the preservation, conservation, protection, 
or enhancement of agricultural, natural, 
scenic, historic, scientific, educational, 
inspirational, or recreational resources. 
(3) GIFTS.—A gift, devise, or bequest may 
be accepted by the Foundation even though 
the gift, devise, or bequest is encumbered, restricted, 
or subject to a beneficial interest of 
a private person if any current or future interest 
in the gift, devise, or bequest is for the 
benefit of the Foundation. 
SEC. 337. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES AND SUPPORT. 


For each of fiscal years 1996 through 1998, 
the Secretary may provide, without reimbursement, 
personnel, facilities, and other 
administrative services of the Department to 
the Foundation. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S783 

SEC. 338. AUDITS AND PETITION OF ATTORNEY 
GENERAL FOR EQUITABLE RELIEF. 

(a) AUDITS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The accounts of the Foundation 
shall be audited in accordance with 
Public Law 88–504 (36 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), including 
an audit of lobbying and litigation 
activities carried out by the Foundation. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The first section 
of Public Law 88–504 (36 U.S.C. 1101) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(77) The National Natural Resources Conservation 
Foundation.’’. 

(b) RELIEF WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN FOUNDATION 
ACTS OR FAILURE TO ACT.—The Attorney 
General may petition in the United 
States District Court for the District of Columbia 
for such equitable relief as may be 
necessary or appropriate, if the Foundation— 
(1) engages in, or threatens to engage in, 
any act, practice, or policy that is inconsistent 
with this subtitle; or 
(2) refuses, fails, neglects, or threatens to 
refuse, fail, or neglect, to discharge the obligations 
of the Foundation under this subtitle. 
SEC. 339. RELEASE FROM LIABILITY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The United States shall 
not be liable for any debt, default, act, or 
omission of the Foundation. The full faith 
and credit of the United States shall not extend 
to the Foundation. 
(b) STATEMENT.—An obligation issued by 
the Foundation, and a document offering an 
obligation, shall include a prominent statement 
that the obligation is not directly or 
indirectly guaranteed, in whole or in part, by 
the United States (or an agency or instrumentality 
of the United States). 
SEC. 340. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Department to be made available to the 
Foundation $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1997 through 1999 to initially establish and 
carry out activities of the Foundation. 

Subtitle E—Miscellaneous 
SEC. 351. FLOOD RISK REDUCTION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—During fiscal years 1996 
through 2002, the Secretary of Agriculture 
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Secretary’’) 
may enter into a contract with contract 
acreage under title I on a farm with 
land that is frequently flooded. 
(b) DUTIES OF PRODUCERS.—Under the 
terms of the contract, with respect to acres 
that are subject to the contract, the producer 
must agree to— 
(1) the termination of any contract acreage; 
(2) forgo loans for contract commodities, 
oilseeds, and extra long staple cotton; 
(3) not apply for crop insurance issued or 
reinsured by the Secretary; 
(4) comply with applicable wetlands and 
high erodible land conservation compliance 
requirements established under title XII of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3801 
et seq.); 
(5) not apply for any conservation program 
payments from the Secretary; 
(6) not apply for disaster program benefits 
provided by the Secretary; and 
(7) refund the payments, with interest, 
issued under the flood risk reduction contract 
to the Secretary, if the producer violates 
the terms of the contract or if the producer 
transfers the property to another person 
who violates the contract. 
(c) DUTIES OF SECRETARY.—In return for a 
flood risk reduction contract entered into by 
a producer under this section, the Secretary 
shall agree to pay the producer for the 1996 
through 2002 crops not more than 95 percent 
of the projected contract payments under 
title I, and not more than 95 percent of the 
projected payments and subsidies from the 
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. 
(d) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this section through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 
SEC. 352. FORESTRY. 

(a) FORESTRY INCENTIVES PROGRAM.—Section 
4 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance 
Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103) is amended by 
striking subsection (k). 
(b) OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL FORESTRY.— 
Section 2405 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6704) is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized each fiscal year such 
sums as are necessary to carry out this section.’’. 


SEC. 353. STATE TECHNICAL COMMITTEES. 

Section 1261(c) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3861(c)) is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in paragraph (8), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(9) agricultural producers.’’. 
SEC. 354. CONSERVATION OF PRIVATE GRAZING 
LAND. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) privately owned grazing land constitutes 
nearly 1/2 of the non-Federal land of 
the United States and is basic to the environmental, 
social, and economic stability of 
rural communities; 
(2) privately owned grazing land contains a 
complex set of interactions among soil, 
water, air, plants, and animals; 
(3) grazing land constitutes the single largest 
watershed cover type in the United 
States and contributes significantly to the 
quality and quantity of water available for 
all of the many uses of the land; 
(4) private grazing land constitutes the 
most extensive wildlife habitat in the United 
States; 
(5) private grazing land can provide opportunities 
for improved nutrient management 
from land application of animal manures and 
other by-product nutrient resources; 
(6) owners and managers of private grazing 
land need to continue to recognize conservation 
problems when the problems arise and 
receive sound technical assistance to improve 
or conserve grazing land resources to 
meet ecological and economic demands; 
(7) new science and technology must continually 
be made available in a practical 
manner so owners and managers of private 
grazing land may make informed decisions 
concerning vital grazing land resources; 
(8) agencies of the Department of Agriculture 
with private grazing land responsibilities 
are the agencies that have the expertise 
and experience to provide technical 
assistance, education, and research to owners 
and managers of private grazing land for 
the long-term productivity and ecological 
health of grazing land; 
(9) although competing demands on private 
grazing land resources are greater than ever 
before, assistance to private owners and 
managers of private grazing land is currently 
limited and does not meet the demand and 
basic need for adequately sustaining or enhancing 
the private grazing lands resources; 
and 
(10) privately owned grazing land can be 
enhanced to provide many benefits to all 
Americans through voluntary cooperation 
among owners and managers of the land, 
local conservation districts, and the agencies 
of the Department of Agriculture responsible 
for providing assistance to owners and managers 
of land and to conservation districts. 
(b) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this section 
to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture 
to provide a coordinated technical, 
educational, and related assistance program 
to conserve and enhance private grazing land 
resources and provide related benefits to all 
citizens of the United States by— 

(1) establishing a coordinated and cooperative 
Federal, State, and local grazing conservation 
program for management of private 
grazing land; 
(2) strengthening technical, educational, 
and related assistance programs that provide 
assistance to owners and managers of private 
grazing land; 
(3) conserving and improving wildlife habitat 
on private grazing land; 
(4) conserving and improving fish habitat 
and aquatic systems through grazing land 
conservation treatment; 
(5) protecting and improving water quality; 
(6) improving the dependability and consistency 
of water supplies; 
(7) identifying and managing weed, noxious 
weed, and brush encroachment problems on 
private grazing land; and 
(8) integrating conservation planning and 
management decisions by owners and managers 
of private grazing land, on a voluntary 
basis. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) PRIVATE GRAZING LAND.—The term ‘‘private 
grazing land’’ means privately owned, 
State-owned, tribally-owned, and any other 
non-federally owned rangeland, pastureland, 
grazed forest land, and hay land. 
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting 
through the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service. 
(d) PRIVATE GRAZING LAND CONSERVATION 
ASSISTANCE.— 
(1) ASSISTANCE TO GRAZING LANDOWNERS 
AND OTHERS.—Subject to the availability of 
appropriations, the Secretary shall establish 
a voluntary program to provide technical, 
educational, and related assistance to owners 
and managers of private grazing land and 
public agencies, through local conservation 
districts, to enable the landowners, managers, 
and public agencies to voluntarily 
carry out activities that are consistent with 
this section, including— 
(A) maintaining and improving private 
grazing land and the multiple values and 
uses that depend on private grazing land; 
(B) implementing grazing land management 
technologies; 
(C) managing resources on private grazing 
land, including— 
(i) planning, managing, and treating private 
grazing land resources; 
(ii) ensuring the long-term sustainability 
of private grazing land resources; 
(iii) harvesting, processing, and marketing 
private grazing land resources; and 
(iv) identifying and managing weed, noxious 
weed, and brush encroachment problems; 
(D) protecting and improving the quality 
and quantity of water yields from private 
grazing land; 
(E) maintaining and improving wildlife and 
fish habitat on private grazing land; 
(F) enhancing recreational opportunities 
on private grazing land; 
(G) maintaining and improving the aesthetic 
character of private grazing lands; and 
(H) identifying the opportunities and encouraging 
the diversification of private grazing 
land enterprises. 
(2) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.— 
(A) FUNDING.—The program under paragraph 
(1) shall be funded through a specific 
line-item in the annual appropriations for 
the Natural Resources Conservation Service. 
(B) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND EDUCATION.—
Personnel of the Department of Agriculture 
trained in pasture and range management 
shall be made available under the 

S784 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

program to deliver and coordinate technical 
assistance and education to owners and managers 
of private grazing land, at the request 
of the owners and managers. 

(e) GRAZING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SELF-
HELP.— 
(1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(A) there is a severe lack of technical assistance 
for grazing producers; 
(B) the Federal budget precludes any significant 
expansion, and may force a reduction 
of, current levels of technical support; 
and 
(C) farmers and ranchers have a history of 
cooperatively working together to address 
common needs in the promotion of their 
products and in the drainage of wet areas 
through drainage districts. 
(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF GRAZING DEMONSTRATION.—
The Secretary may establish 2 grazing 
management demonstration districts at the 
recommendation of the Grazing Lands Conservation 
Initiative Steering Committee. 
(3) PROCEDURE.— 
(A) PROPOSAL.—Within a reasonable time 
after the submission of a request of an organization 
of farmers or ranchers engaged in 
grazing, the Secretary shall propose that a 
grazing management district be established. 
(B) FUNDING.—The terms and conditions of 
the funding and operation of the grazing 
management district shall be proposed by 
the producers. 
(C) APPROVAL.—The Secretary shall approve 
the proposal if the Secretary determines 
that the proposal— 
(i) is reasonable; 
(ii) will promote sound grazing practices; 
and 
(iii) contains provisions similar to the provisions 
contained in the promotion orders in 
effect on the effective date of this section. 
(D) AREA INCLUDED.—The area proposed to 
be included in a grazing management district 
shall be determined by the Secretary on 
the basis of a petition by farmers or ranchers. 
(E) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary may 
use authority under the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted 
with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937, to operate, on 
a demonstration basis, a grazing management 
district. 
(F) ACTIVITIES.—The activities of a grazing 
management district shall be scientifically 
sound activities, as determined by the Secretary 
in consultation with a technical advisory 
committee composed of ranchers, farmers, 
and technical experts. 
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section— 
(1) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1996; 
(2) $40,000,000 for fiscal year 1997; and 
(3) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 1998 and each 
subsequent fiscal year. 
SEC. 355. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS. 

(a) AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION PROGRAM.— 
(1) ELIMINATION.— 
(A) Section 8 of the Soil Conservation and 
Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h) is 
amended— 
(i) in subsection (b)— 
(I) by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM.—The Secretary shall provide technical 
assistance, cost share payments, and 
incentive payments to operators through the 
environmental quality incentives program in 
accordance with chapter 2 of subtitle D of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3838 
et seq.).’’; and 

(II) by striking paragraphs (6) through (8); 
and 
(ii) by striking subsections (d), (e), and (f). 
(B) The first sentence of section 11 of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590k) is amended by striking 
‘‘performance: Provided further,’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘or other law’’ and inserting 
‘‘performance’’. 
(C) Section 14 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 590n) is 
amended— 
(i) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘or 8’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking the second sentence. 
(D) Section 15 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 590o) is 
amended— 
(i) in the first undesignated paragraph— 
(I) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘sections 
7 and 8’’ and inserting ‘‘section 7’’; and 
(II) by striking the third sentence; and 
(ii) by striking the second undesignated 
paragraph. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(A) Paragraph (1) of the last proviso of the 
matter under the heading ‘‘CONSERVATION RESERVE 
PROGRAM’’ under the heading ‘‘SOIL 
BANK PROGRAMS’’ of title I of the Department 
of Agriculture and Farm Credit Administration 
Appropriation Act, 1959 (72 Stat. 
195; 7 U.S.C. 1831a) is amended by striking 
‘‘Agricultural Conservation Program’’ and 
inserting ‘‘environmental quality incentives 
program established under chapter 2 of subtitle 
D of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
U.S.C. 3838 et seq.)’’. 
(B) Section 4 of the Cooperative Forestry 
Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103) is 
amended by striking ‘‘as added by the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 
1973’’ each place it appears in subsections (d) 
and (i) and inserting ‘‘as in effect before the 
amendment made by section 355(a)(1) of the 
Agricultural Reform and Improvement Act 
of 1996’’. 
(C) Section 226(b)(4) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
U.S.C. 6932(b)(4)) is amended by striking 
‘‘and the agricultural conservation program 
under the Soil Conservation and Domestic 
Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590g et seq.)’’. 
(D) Section 246(b)(8) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
U.S.C. 6962(b)(8)) is amended by striking 
‘‘and the agricultural conservation program 
under the Soil Conservation and Domestic 
Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590g et seq.)’’. 
(E) Section 1271(c)(3)(C) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(16 U.S.C. 2106a(c)(3)(C)) is amended by striking 
‘‘Agricultural Conservation Program established 
under section 16(b) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 
U.S.C. 590h, 590l, or 590p)’’ and inserting ‘‘environmental 
quality incentives program established 
under chapter 2 of subtitle D of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3838 et 
seq.)’’. 
(F) Section 126(a)(5) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(5) The environmental quality incentives 
program established under chapter 2 of subtitle 
D of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 

U.S.C. 3838 et seq.).’’. 
(G) Section 304(a) of the Lake Champlain 
Special Designation Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–596; 33 U.S.C. 1270 note) is amended— 
(i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
‘‘SPECIAL PROJECT AREA UNDER THE AGRICULTURAL 
CONSERVATION PROGRAM’’ and inserting 
‘‘A PRIORITY AREA UNDER THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
QUALITY INCENTIVES PROGRAM’’; and 
(ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘special 
project area under the Agricultural Conservation 
Program established under section 
8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic 
Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b))’’ and inserting 
‘‘priority area under the environmental 
quality incentives program established 
under chapter 2 of subtitle D of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3838 et 
seq.)’’. 

(H) Section 6 of the Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1956 (70 Stat. 1033) is 
amended by striking subsection (b). 
(b) GREAT PLAINS CONSERVATION PROGRAM.— 
(1) ELIMINATION.—Section 16 of the Soil 
Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act 
(16 U.S.C. 590p) is repealed. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(A) The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 is amended by striking ‘‘Great Plains 
program’’ each place it appears in sections 
344(f)(8) and 377 (7 U.S.C. 1344(f)(8) and 1377) 
and inserting ‘‘environmental quality incentives 
program established under chapter 2 of 
subtitle D of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(16 U.S.C. 3838 et seq.)’’. 
(B) Section 246(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 
6962(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (2). 
(C) Section 126(a) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended— 
(i) by striking paragraph (6); and 
(ii) by redesignating paragraphs (7) 
through (10) as paragraphs (6) through (9), respectively. 
(c) COLORADO RIVER BASIN SALINITY CONTROL 
PROGRAM.— 
(1) ELIMINATION.—Section 202 of the Colorado 
River Basin Salinity Control Act (43 
U.S.C. 1592) is amended by striking subsection 
(c). 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
246(b) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization 
Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6962(b)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (6). 
(d) RURAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION 
PROGRAM.— 
(1) ELIMINATION.—Title X of the Agricultural 
Act of 1970 (16 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is repealed. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
246(b) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization 
Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6962(b)) is 
amended— 
(A) by striking paragraph (1); and 
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) 
through (8) as paragraphs (1) through (7), respectively. 
(e) OTHER CONSERVATION PROVISIONS.—Subtitle 
F of title XII of the Food Security Act 
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 2005a and 2101 note) is repealed. 
(f) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION CHARTER 
ACT.—Section 5(g) of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 
714c(g)) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(g) Carry out conservation functions and 
programs.’’. 

(g) RESOURCE CONSERVATION.— 
(1) ELIMINATION.—Subtitles A, B, D, E, F, 
G, and J of title XV of the Agriculture and 
Food Act of 1981 (95 Stat. 1328; 16 U.S.C. 3401 
et seq.) are repealed. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 739 
of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1982 (7 U.S.C. 2272a), 
is repealed. 
(h) ENVIRONMENTAL EASEMENT PROGRAM.— 
Section 1239(a) of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839(a)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1991 through 1995’’ and inserting ‘‘1996 
through 2002’’. 
(i) RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM.—Section 1538 of the Agriculture 
and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3461) 
is amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 
(j) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—The first sentence 
of the matter under the heading ‘‘Commodity 
Credit Corporation’’ of Public Law 
99–263 (100 Stat. 59; 16 U.S.C. 3841 note) is 
amended by striking ‘‘: Provided further,’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘Acts’’. 
(k) AGRICULTURAL WATER QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM.—Chapter 2 of subtitle D of 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S785 

title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 

U.S.C. 3838 et seq.) is repealed. 
TITLE IV—CREDIT 
Subtitle A—Agricultural Credit 
CHAPTER 1—FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS 
SEC. 401. LIMITATION ON DIRECT FARM OWNER


SHIP LOANS. 

Section 302 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1922) is 
amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(b) DIRECT LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3), 
the Secretary may only make a direct loan 
under this subtitle to a farmer or rancher 
who has operated a farm or ranch for not less 
than 3 years and— 

‘‘(A) is a qualified beginning farmer or 
rancher; 

‘‘(B) has not received a previous direct 
farm ownership loan made under this subtitle; 
or 

‘‘(C) has not received a direct farm ownership 
loan under this subtitle more than 10 
years before the date the new loan would be 
made. 

‘‘(2) YOUTH LOANS.—The operation of an 
enterprise by a youth under section 311(b) 
shall not be considered the operation of a 
farm or ranch for purposes of paragraph (1). 

‘‘(3) TRANSITION RULE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs 
(B) and (C), paragraph (1) shall not 
apply to a farmer or rancher who has a direct 
loan outstanding under this subtitle on 
the date of enactment of this paragraph. 

‘‘(B) LESS THAN 5 YEARS.—If, as of the date 
of enactment of this paragraph, a farmer or 
rancher has had a direct loan outstanding 
under this subtitle for less than 5 years, the 
Secretary shall not make another loan to 
the farmer or rancher under this subtitle 
after the date that is 10 years after the date 
of enactment of this paragraph. 

‘‘(C) 5 YEARS OR MORE.—If, as of the date of 
enactment of this paragraph, a farmer or 
rancher has had a direct loan outstanding 
under this subtitle for 5 years or more, the 
Secretary shall not make another loan to 
the farmer or rancher under this subtitle 
after the date that is 5 years after the date 
of enactment of this paragraph.’’. 
SEC. 402. PURPOSES OF LOANS. 

Section 303 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1923) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 303. PURPOSES OF LOANS. 

‘‘(a) ALLOWED PURPOSES.— 

‘‘(1) DIRECT LOANS.—A farmer or rancher 
may use a direct loan made under this subtitle 
only for— 

‘‘(A) acquiring or enlarging a farm or 
ranch; 

‘‘(B) making capital improvements to a 
farm or ranch; 

‘‘(C) paying loan closing costs related to 
acquiring, enlarging, or improving a farm or 
ranch; or 

‘‘(D) paying for activities to promote soil 
and water conservation and protection under 
section 304 on the farm or ranch. 

‘‘(2) GUARANTEED LOANS.—A farmer or 
rancher may use a loan guaranteed under 
this subtitle only for— 

‘‘(A) acquiring or enlarging a farm or 
ranch; 

‘‘(B) making capital improvements to a 
farm or ranch; 

‘‘(C) paying loan closing costs related to 
acquiring, enlarging, or improving a farm or 
ranch; 

‘‘(D) paying for activities to promote soil 
and water conservation and protection under 
section 304 on the farm or ranch; or 

‘‘(E) refinancing indebtedness. 

‘‘(b) PREFERENCES.—In making or guaranteeing 
a loan for farm or ranch purchase, the 

Secretary shall give a preference to a person 

who— 

‘‘(1) has a dependent family; 

‘‘(2) to the extent practicable, is able to 
make an initial down payment; or 

‘‘(3) is an owner of livestock or farm or 
ranch equipment that is necessary to successfully 
carry out farming or ranching operations. 


‘‘(c) HAZARD INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may not 
make a loan to a farmer or rancher under 
this subtitle unless the farmer or rancher 
has, or agrees to obtain, hazard insurance on 
any real property to be acquired or improved 
with the loan. 

‘‘(2) DETERMINATION.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this subsection, 
the Secretary shall determine the 
appropriate level of insurance to be required 
under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(3) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.—Paragraph 

(1) shall not apply until the Secretary makes 
the determination required under paragraph 
(2).’’. 
SEC. 403. SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION AND 
PROTECTION. 

Section 304 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1924) is 
amended— 

(1) by striking subsections (b) and (c); 
(2) by striking ‘‘SEC. 304. (a)(1) Loans’’ and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘SEC. 304. SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION AND 
PROTECTION. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Loans’’; 

(3) by striking ‘‘(2) In making or insuring’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) PRIORITY.—In making or guaranteeing’’; 


(4) by striking ‘‘(3) The Secretary’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(c) LOAN MAXIMUM.—The Secretary’’; 

(5) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
through (F) of subsection (a) (as amended by 
paragraph (2)) as paragraphs (1) through (6), 
respectively; and 
(6) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) of subsection (c) (as amended by paragraph 
(4)) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively. 
SEC. 404. INTEREST RATE REQUIREMENTS. 

Section 307(a)(3) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1927(a)(3)) is amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘subparagraph 
(D) and in’’ after ‘‘Except as provided 
in’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) JOINT FINANCING ARRANGEMENT.—If a 
direct farm ownership loan is made under 
this subtitle as part of a joint financing arrangement 
and the amount of the direct 
farm ownership loan does not exceed 50 percent 
of the total principal amount financed 
under the arrangement, the interest rate on 
the direct farm ownership loan shall be 4 percent 
annually.’’. 

SEC. 405. INSURANCE OF LOANS. 

Section 308 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1928) is 
amended to read as follows: 

‘‘SEC. 308. FULL FAITH AND CREDIT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A contract of insurance 
or guarantee executed by the Secretary 
under this title shall be an obligation supported 
by the full faith and credit of the 
United States. 

‘‘(b) CONTESTABILITY.—A contract of insurance 
or guarantee executed by the Secretary 
under this title shall be incontestable except 
for fraud or misrepresentation that the lender 
or any holder— 

‘‘(1) has actual knowledge of at the time 
the contract or guarantee is executed; or 

‘‘(2) participates in or condones.’’. 

SEC. 406. LOANS GUARANTEED. 

Section 309(h) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1929(h)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following: 


‘‘(4) MAXIMUM GUARANTEE OF 90 PERCENT.— 
Except as provided in paragraph (5), a loan 
guarantee under this title shall be for not 
more than 90 percent of the principal and interest 
due on the loan. 

‘‘(5) REFINANCED LOANS GUARANTEED AT 95 
PERCENT.—The Secretary shall guarantee 95 
percent of— 

‘‘(A) in the case of a loan that solely refinances 
a direct loan made under this title, 
the principal and interest due on the loan on 
the date of the refinancing; or 

‘‘(B) in the case of a loan that is used for 
multiple purposes, the portion of the loan 
that refinances the principal and interest 
due on a direct loan made under this title 
that is outstanding on the date the loan is 
guaranteed. 

‘‘(6) BEGINNING FARMER LOANS GUARANTEED 
UP TO 95 PERCENT.—The Secretary may guarantee 
up to 95 percent of— 

‘‘(A) a farm ownership loan for acquiring a 
farm or ranch to a borrower who is participating 
in the down payment loan program 
under section 310E; or 

‘‘(B) an operating loan to a borrower who is 
participating in the down payment loan program 
under section 310E that is made during 
the period that the borrower has a direct 
loan for acquiring a farm or ranch.’’. 

CHAPTER 2—OPERATING LOANS 

SEC. 411. LIMITATION ON DIRECT OPERATING 
LOANS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 311 of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1941) is amended by striking subsection 
(c) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(c) DIRECT LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3), 
the Secretary may only make a direct loan 
under this subtitle to a farmer or rancher 
who— 

‘‘(A) is a qualified beginning farmer or 
rancher who has not operated a farm or 
ranch, or who has operated a farm or ranch 
for not more than 5 years; 

‘‘(B) has not had a previous direct operating 
loan under this subtitle; or 

‘‘(C) has not had a previous direct operating 
loan under this subtitle for more than 
7 years. 

‘‘(2) YOUTH LOANS.—In this subsection, the 
term ‘direct operating loan’ shall not include 
a loan made to a youth under subsection (b). 

‘‘(3) TRANSITION RULE.—If, as of the date of 
enactment of this paragraph, a farmer or 
rancher has received a direct operating loan 
under this subtitle during each of 4 or more 
previous years, the borrower shall be eligible 
to receive a direct operating loan under this 
subtitle during 3 additional years after the 
date of enactment of this paragraph.’’. 

(b) YOUTH ENTERPRISES NOT FARMING OR 
RANCHING.—Section 311(b) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 
U.S.C. 1941(b)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(4) YOUTH ENTERPRISES NOT FARMING OR 
RANCHING.—The operation of an enterprise by 
a youth under this subsection shall not be 
considered the operation of a farm or ranch 
under this title.’’. 
SEC. 412. PURPOSES OF OPERATING LOANS. 

Section 312 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1942) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 312. PURPOSES OF LOANS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A direct loan may be 
made under this subtitle only for— 

‘‘(1) paying the costs incident to reorganizing 
a farming or ranching system for 
more profitable operation; 


S786 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(2) purchasing livestock, poultry, or farm 
or ranch equipment; 

‘‘(3) purchasing feed, seed, fertilizer, insecticide, 
or farm or ranch supplies, or to meet 
other essential farm or ranch operating expenses, 
including cash rent; 

‘‘(4) financing land or water development, 
use, or conservation; 

‘‘(5) paying loan closing costs; 

‘‘(6) assisting a farmer or rancher in effecting 
an addition to, or alteration of, the 
equipment, facilities, or methods of operation 
of a farm or ranch to comply with a 
standard promulgated under section 6 of the 
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 
(29 U.S.C. 655) or a standard adopted by a 
State under a plan approved under section 18 
of the Act (29 U.S.C. 667), if the Secretary determines 
that without assistance under this 
paragraph the farmer or rancher is likely to 
suffer substantial economic injury due to 
compliance with the standard; 

‘‘(7) training a limited-resource borrower 
receiving a loan under section 310D in maintaining 
records of farming and ranching operations; 


‘‘(8) training a borrower under section 359; 

‘‘(9) refinancing the indebtedness of a borrower 
if the borrower— 

‘‘(A) has refinanced a loan under this subtitle 
not more than 4 times previously; and 

‘‘(B)(i) is a direct loan borrower under this 
title at the time of the refinancing and has 
suffered a qualifying loss because of a natural 
disaster declared by the Secretary under 
this title or a major disaster or emergency 
designated by the President under the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.); 
or 

‘‘(ii) is refinancing a debt obtained from a 
creditor other than the Secretary; or 

‘‘(10) providing other farm, ranch, or home 
needs, including family subsistence. 

‘‘(b) GUARANTEED LOANS.—A loan may be 
guaranteed under this subtitle only for— 

‘‘(1) paying the costs incident to reorganizing 
a farming or ranching system for 
more profitable operation; 

‘‘(2) purchasing livestock, poultry, or farm 
or ranch equipment; 

‘‘(3) purchasing feed, seed, fertilizer, insecticide, 
or farm or ranch supplies, or to meet 
other essential farm or ranch operating expenses, 
including cash rent; 

‘‘(4) financing land or water development, 
use, or conservation; 

‘‘(5) refinancing indebtedness; 

‘‘(6) paying loan closing costs; 

‘‘(7) assisting a farmer or rancher in effecting 
an addition to, or alteration of, the 
equipment, facilities, or methods of operation 
of a farm or ranch to comply with a 
standard promulgated under section 6 of the 
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 
(29 U.S.C. 655) or a standard adopted by a 
State under a plan approved under section 18 
of the Act (29 U.S.C. 667), if the Secretary determines 
that without assistance under this 
paragraph the farmer or rancher is likely to 
suffer substantial economic injury due to 
compliance with the standard; 

‘‘(8) training a borrower under section 359; 
or 

‘‘(9) providing other farm, ranch, or home 
needs, including family subsistence. 

‘‘(c) HAZARD INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may not 
make a loan to a farmer or rancher under 
this subtitle unless the farmer or rancher 
has, or agrees to obtain, hazard insurance on 
any property to be acquired with the loan. 

‘‘(2) DETERMINATION.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this 
paragraph, the Secretary shall determine the 
appropriate level of insurance to be required 
under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(3) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.—Paragraph 

(1) shall not apply until the Secretary makes 
the determination required under paragraph 
(2). 
‘‘(d) PRIVATE RESERVE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this title, the Secretary 
may reserve the lesser of 10 percent or $5,000 
of the amount of a direct loan made under 
this subtitle, to be placed in a nonsupervised 
bank account that may be used at the discretion 
of the borrower for any necessary family 
living need or purpose that is consistent 
with any farming or ranching plan agreed to 
by the Secretary and the borrower prior to 
the date of the loan. 

‘‘(2) ADJUSTMENT OF RESERVE.—If a borrower 
exhausts the amount of funds reserved 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary may— 

‘‘(A) review and adjust the farm or ranch 
plan referred to in paragraph (1) with the 
borrower and reschedule the loan; 

‘‘(B) extend additional credit; 
‘‘(C) use income proceeds to pay necessary 
farm, ranch, home, or other expenses; or 
‘‘(D) provide additional available loan servicing.’’. 


SEC. 413. PARTICIPATION IN LOANS. 

Section 315 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1945) is repealed. 


SEC. 414. LINE-OF-CREDIT LOANS. 

Section 316 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1946) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(c) LINE-OF-CREDIT LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A loan made or guaranteed 
by the Secretary under this subtitle 
may be in the form of a line-of-credit loan. 

‘‘(2) TERM.—A line-of-credit loan under 
paragraph (1) shall terminate not later than 
5 years after the date that the loan is made 
or guaranteed. 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY.—For purposes of determining 
eligibility for a farm operating loan, 
each year in which a farmer or rancher takes 
an advance or draws on a line-of-credit loan 
the farmer or rancher shall be considered to 
have received an operating loan for 1 year.’’. 
SEC. 415. INSURANCE OF OPERATING LOANS. 

Section 317 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1947) is repealed. 


SEC. 416. SPECIAL ASSISTANCE FOR BEGINNING 
FARMERS AND RANCHERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 318 of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1948) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 310F 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1936) is repealed. 
SEC. 417. LIMITATION ON PERIOD FOR WHICH 

BORROWERS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR 

GUARANTEED ASSISTANCE. 

Section 319 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1949) is 
amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(b) LIMITATION ON PERIOD BORROWERS ARE 
ELIGIBLE FOR GUARANTEED ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) GENERAL RULE.—Subject to paragraph 
(2), the Secretary shall not guarantee a loan 
under this subtitle for a borrower for any 
year after the 15th year that a loan is made 
to, or a guarantee is provided with respect 
to, the borrower under this subtitle. 

‘‘(2) TRANSITION RULE.—If, as of October 28, 
1992, a farmer or rancher has received a direct 
or guaranteed operating loan under this 
subtitle during each of 10 or more previous 
years, the borrower shall be eligible to receive 
a guaranteed operating loan under this 
subtitle during 5 additional years after October 
28, 1992.’’. 

CHAPTER 3—EMERGENCY LOANS 
SEC. 421. HAZARD INSURANCE REQUIREMENT. 

Section 321 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961) is 

amended by striking subsection (b) and in


serting the following: 

‘‘(b) HAZARD INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may not 
make a loan to a farmer or rancher under 
this subtitle to cover a property loss unless 
the farmer or rancher had hazard insurance 
that insured the property at the time of the 
loss. 

‘‘(2) DETERMINATION.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this 
paragraph, the Secretary shall determine the 
appropriate level of insurance to be required 
under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(3) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.—Paragraph 

(1) shall not apply until the Secretary makes 
the determination required under paragraph 
(2).’’. 
SEC. 422. MAXIMUM EMERGENCY LOAN INDEBTEDNESS. 


Section 324 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1964) is 
amended by striking ‘‘SEC. 324. (a) No loan’’ 
and all that follows through the end of subsection 
(a) and inserting the following: 

‘‘SEC. 324. TERMS OF LOANS. 

‘‘(a) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF LOAN.—The Secretary 
may not make a loan under this subtitle 
that— 

‘‘(1) exceeds the actual loss caused by a disaster; 
or 

‘‘(2) would cause the total indebtedness of 
the borrower under this subtitle to exceed 
$500,000.’’. 

SEC. 423. INSURANCE OF EMERGENCY LOANS. 

Section 328 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1968) is repealed. 


CHAPTER 4—ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROVISIONS 

SEC. 431. USE OF COLLECTION AGENCIES. 

Section 331 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1981) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(d) PRIVATE COLLECTION AGENCY.—The 
Secretary may use a private collection agency 
to collect a claim or obligation described 
in subsection (b)(5).’’. 

SEC. 432. NOTICE OF LOAN SERVICE PROGRAMS. 

Section 331D(a) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1981d(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘180 days delinquent 
in’’ and inserting ‘‘90 days past due 
on’’. 

SEC. 433. SALE OF PROPERTY. 

Section 335 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1985) is 
amended— 

(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘subsection 
(e)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsections (c) 
and (e)’’; 
(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(c) SALE OF PROPERTY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to this subsection 
and subsection (e)(1)(A), the Secretary 
shall offer to sell real property that is 
acquired by the Secretary under this title in 
the following order and method of sale: 

‘‘(A) ADVERTISEMENT.—Not later than 15 
days after acquiring real property, the Secretary 
shall publicly advertise the property 
for sale. 

‘‘(B) BEGINNING FARMER OR RANCHER.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 75 days 
after acquiring real property, the Secretary 
shall attempt to sell the property to a qualified 
beginning farmer or rancher at current 
market value based on a current appraisal. 

‘‘(ii) RANDOM SELECTION.—If more than 1 
qualified beginning farmer or rancher offers 
to purchase the property, the Secretary shall 
select between the qualified applicants on a 
random basis. 

‘‘(iii) APPEAL OF RANDOM SELECTION.—A 
random selection or denial by the Secretary 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S787 

of a beginning farmer or rancher for farm inventory 
property under this subparagraph 
shall be final and not administratively appealable. 


‘‘(C) PUBLIC SALE.—If no acceptable offer is 
received from a qualified beginning farmer 
or rancher under subparagraph (B) within 75 
days of acquiring the real property, the Secretary 
shall, within 30 days, sell the property 
after public notice at a public sale, and, if no 
acceptable bid is received, by negotiated 
sale, at the best price obtainable. 

‘‘(2) TRANSITIONAL RULES.— 

‘‘(A) PREVIOUS LEASE.—In the case of real 
property acquired prior to the date of enactment 
of this subparagraph that the Secretary 
leased prior to the date of enactment 
of this subparagraph, the Secretary shall 
offer to sell the property according to paragraph 
(1) not later than 60 days after the 
lease expires. 

‘‘(B) PREVIOUSLY IN INVENTORY.—In the 
case of real property acquired prior to the 
date of enactment of this subparagraph that 
the Secretary has not leased, the Secretary 
shall offer to sell the property according to 
paragraph (1) not later than 60 days after the 
date of enactment of this subparagraph. 

‘‘(3) INTEREST.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), any conveyance under this subsection 
shall include all of the interest of the United 
States, including mineral rights. 

‘‘(B) CONSERVATION.—The Secretary may 
for conservation purposes grant or sell an 
easement, restriction, development right, or 
similar legal right to a State, a political subdivision 
of a State, or a private nonprofit organization 
separately from the underlying 
fee or other rights owned by the Secretary. 

‘‘(4) OTHER LAW.—This title shall not be 
subject to the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et 
seq.). 

‘‘(5) LEASE OF PROPERTY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the Secretary may not lease any real 
property acquired under this title. 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.— 

‘‘(i) BEGINNING FARMER OR RANCHER.—Notwithstanding 
paragraph (1), the Secretary 
may lease or contract to sell a farm or ranch 
acquired by the Secretary under this title to 
a beginning farmer or rancher if the beginning 
farmer or rancher qualifies for a credit 
sale or direct farm ownership loan but credit 
sale authority for loans or direct farm ownership 
funds, respectively, are not available. 

‘‘(ii) TERM.—A lease or contract to sell to 
a beginning farmer or rancher under clause 

(i) shall be until the earlier of— 
‘‘(I) the date that is 18 months after the 
date of the lease or sale; or 
‘‘(II) the date that direct farm ownership 
loan funds or credit sale authority for loans 
become available to the beginning farmer or 
rancher. 

‘‘(iii) INCOME-PRODUCING CAPABILITY.—In 
determining the rental rate on real property 
leased under this subparagraph, the Secretary 
shall consider the income-producing 
capability of the property during the term 
that the property is leased. 

‘‘(6) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(A) EXPEDITED REVIEW.—On the request of 
an applicant, the Secretary shall provide 
within 30 days of denial of the applicant’s application 
for an expedited review by the appropriate 
State Director of whether the applicant 
is a beginning farmer or rancher for 
the purpose of acquiring farm inventory 
property. 

‘‘(B) APPEAL.—The results of a review conducted 
by a State Director under subparagraph 
(A) shall be final and not administratively 
appealable. 

‘‘(C) EFFECTS OF REVIEW.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall 
maintain statistical data on the number and 
results of reviews conducted under subparagraph 
(A) and whether the reviews adversely 
impact on— 

‘‘(I) selling farm inventory property to beginning 
farmers and ranchers; and 

‘‘(II) disposing of real property in inventory. 


‘‘(ii) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary shall 
notify the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
the Senate if the Secretary determines that 
reviews under subparagraph (A) are adversely 
impacting the selling of farm inventory 
property to beginning farmers or ranchers 
or on disposing of real property in inventory.’’; 
and 

(3) in subsection (e)— 
(A) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking subparagraphs (A) through 
(C); 
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) 
through (G) as subparagraphs (A) through 
(D), respectively; 
(iii) in subparagraph (A) (as redesignated 
by clause (ii))— 
(I) in clause (i)— 
(aa) in the matter preceding subclause (I), 
by striking ‘‘(G)’’ and inserting ‘‘(D)’’; 
(bb) by striking subclause (I) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(I) the Secretary acquires property under 
this title that is located within an Indian 
reservation; and’’; 

(cc) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘, and’’ at 
the end and inserting a semicolon; and 
(dd) by striking subclause (III); and 

(II) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘The Secretary 
shall’’ and all that follows through 
‘‘of subparagraph (A),’’ and inserting ‘‘Not 
later than 90 days after acquiring the property, 
the Secretary shall’’; and 
(iv) in subparagraph (D) (as redesignated 
by clause (ii))— 
(I) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘(D)’’ in the 
matter following subclause (IV) and inserting 
‘‘(A)’’; 
(II) in clause (iii)(I), by striking ‘‘subparagraphs 
(C)(i), (C)(ii), and (D)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subparagraph (A)’’; and 
(III) by striking clause (v) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(v) FORECLOSURE PROCEDURES.— 

‘‘(I) NOTICE TO BORROWER.—If a borrower-
owner does not voluntarily convey to the 
Secretary real property described in clause 
(i), not less than 30 days before a foreclosure 
sale of the property the Secretary shall provide 
the Indian borrower-owner with the option 
of— 

‘‘(aa) requiring the Secretary to assign the 
loan and security instruments to the Secretary 
of the Interior, provided the Secretary 
of the Interior agrees to the assignment, 
releasing the Secretary of Agriculture 
from all further responsibility for collection 
of any amounts with regard to the loan secured 
by the real property; or 

‘‘(bb) requiring the Secretary to assign the 
loan and security instruments to the tribe 
having jurisdiction over the reservation in 
which the real property is located, provided 
the tribe agrees to the assignment. 

‘‘(II) NOTICE TO TRIBE.—If a borrower-owner 
does not voluntarily convey to the Secretary 
real property described in clause (i), not less 
than 30 days before a foreclosure sale of the 
property the Secretary shall provide written 
notice to the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction 
over the reservation in which the real 
property is located of— 

‘‘(aa) the sale; 
‘‘(bb) the fair market value of the property; 
and 
‘‘(cc) the requirements of this subparagraph. 


‘‘(III) ASSUMED LOANS.—If an Indian tribe 
assumes a loan under subclause (I)— 

‘‘(aa) the Secretary shall not foreclose the 
loan because of any default that occurred 
prior to the date of the assumption; 

‘‘(bb) the loan shall be for the lesser of the 
outstanding principal and interest of the 
loan or the fair market value of the property; 
and 

‘‘(cc) the loan shall be treated as though 
the loan was made under Public Law 91–229 
(25 U.S.C. 488 et seq.).’’; 

(B) by striking paragraph (3); 
(C) in paragraph (4)— 
(i) by striking subparagraph (B); 
(ii) in subparagraph (A)— 
(I) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘(i)’’; and 
(II) by redesignating clause (ii) as subparagraph 
(B); and 
(iii) in subparagraph (B) (as redesignated 
by clause (ii)(II)), by striking ‘‘clause (i)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (A)’’; 
(D) by striking paragraph (5); 
(E) by striking paragraph (6); 
(F) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
(3); and 
(G) by redesignating paragraphs (7) 
through (10) as paragraphs (4) through (7), respectively. 
SEC. 434. DEFINITIONS. 

Section 343(a) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(a)) 
is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (11)— 
(A) in the text preceding subparagraph (A), 
by striking ‘‘applicant—’’ and inserting ‘‘applicant, 
regardless of whether participating 
in a program under section 310E—’’; and 
(B) in subparagraph (F)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘15 percent’’ and inserting 
‘‘35 percent’’; and 
(ii) by inserting before the semicolon at 
the end the following: ‘‘, except that this 
subparagraph shall not apply to loans under 
subtitle B’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(12) DEBT FORGIVENESS.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘debt forgiveness’ 
means reducing or terminating a farm 
loan made or guaranteed under this title, in 
a manner that results in a loss to the Secretary, 
through— 

‘‘(i) writing-down or writing-off a loan 
under section 353; 

‘‘(ii) compromising, adjusting, reducing, or 
charging-off a debt or claim under section 
331; 

‘‘(iii) paying a loss on a guaranteed loan 
under section 357; or 

‘‘(iv) discharging a debt as a result of 
bankruptcy. 

‘‘(B) LOAN RESTRUCTURING.—The term ‘debt 
forgiveness’ does not include consolidation, 
rescheduling, reamortization, or deferral.’’. 
SEC. 435. AUTHORIZATION FOR LOANS. 

Section 346 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1994) is 
amended— 

(1) in the second sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘with or without’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘administration’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘without authority for 
the Secretary to transfer amounts between 
the categories’’; and 
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION FOR LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may make 
or guarantee loans under subtitles A and B 
from the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund 
established under section 309 in not more 
than the following amounts: 

‘‘(A) FISCAL YEAR 1996.—For fiscal year 1996, 
$3,085,000,000, of which— 
‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 
‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 


S788 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,500,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $600,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $1,900,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(B) FISCAL YEAR 1997.—For fiscal year 1997, 
$3,165,000,000, of which— 

‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 

‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,580,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $630,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $1,950,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(C) FISCAL YEAR 1998.—For fiscal year 1998, 
$3,245,000,000, of which— 

‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 

‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,660,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $660,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $2,000,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(D) FISCAL YEAR 1999.—For fiscal year 1999, 
$3,325,000,000, of which— 

‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 

‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,740,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $690,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $2,050,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(E) FISCAL YEAR 2000.—For fiscal year 2000, 
$3,435,000,000, of which— 

‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 

‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,850,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $750,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $2,100,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(F) FISCAL YEAR 2001.—For fiscal year 2001, 
$3,435,000,000, of which— 

‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 

‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,850,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $750,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $2,100,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(G) FISCAL YEAR 2002.—For fiscal year 2002, 
$3,435,000,000, of which— 

‘‘(i) $585,000,000 shall be for direct loans, of 
which— 

‘‘(I) $85,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $500,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B; and 

‘‘(ii) $2,850,000,000 shall be for guaranteed 
loans, of which— 

‘‘(I) $750,000,000 shall be for farm ownership 
loans under subtitle A; and 

‘‘(II) $2,100,000,000 shall be for operating 
loans under subtitle B. 

‘‘(2) BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS.— 

‘‘(A) DIRECT LOANS.— 

‘‘(i) FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS.—Of the 
amounts made available under paragraph (1) 
for direct farm ownership loans, the Secretary 
shall reserve 70 percent of available 
funds for qualified beginning farmers and 
ranchers. 

‘‘(ii) OPERATING LOANS.—Of the amounts 
made available under paragraph (1) for direct 
operating loans, the Secretary shall reserve 
for qualified beginning farmers and ranchers— 


‘‘(I) for fiscal year 1996, 25 percent; 

‘‘(II) for fiscal year 1997, 25 percent; 

‘‘(III) for fiscal year 1998, 25 percent; 

‘‘(IV) for fiscal year 1999, 30 percent; and 

‘‘(V) for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2002, 35 percent. 

‘‘(iii) FUNDS RESERVED UNTIL SEPTEMBER 
1.—Funds reserved for beginning farmers or 
ranchers under this subparagraph shall be reserved 
only until September 1 of each fiscal 
year. 

‘‘(B) GUARANTEED LOANS.— 

‘‘(i) FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS.—Of the 
amounts made available under paragraph (1) 
for guaranteed farm ownership loans, the 
Secretary shall reserve 25 percent for qualified 
beginning farmers and ranchers. 

‘‘(ii) OPERATING LOANS.—Of the amounts 
made available under paragraph (1) for guaranteed 
operating loans, the Secretary shall 
reserve 40 percent for qualified beginning 
farmers and ranchers. 

‘‘(iii) FUNDS RESERVED UNTIL APRIL 1.— 
Funds reserved for beginning farmers or 
ranchers under this subparagraph shall be reserved 
only until April 1 of each fiscal year. 

‘‘(C) RESERVED FUNDS FOR ALL QUALIFIED 
BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS.—If a 
qualified beginning farmer or rancher meets 
the eligibility criteria for receiving a direct 
or guaranteed loan under section 302, 310E, or 
311, the Secretary shall make or guarantee 
the loan if sufficient funds reserved under 
this paragraph are available to make or 
guarantee the loan. 

‘‘(3) TRANSFER FOR DOWN PAYMENT LOANS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(a), subject to subparagraph (B)— 

‘‘(i) beginning on August 1 of each fiscal 
year, the Secretary shall use available unsubsidized 
guaranteed farm operating loan 
funds to fund approved direct farm ownership 
loans to beginning farmers and ranchers 
under the down payment loan program established 
under section 310E; and 

‘‘(ii) beginning on September 1 of each fiscal 
year, the Secretary shall use available 
unsubsidized guaranteed farm operating loan 
funds to fund approved direct farm ownership 
loans to beginning farmers and ranchers. 


‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—The Secretary shall 
limit the transfer of funds under subparagraph 
(A) so that all guaranteed farm operating 
loans that have been approved, or will 
be approved, during the fiscal year shall be 
funded to extent of appropriated amounts. 

‘‘(4) TRANSFER FOR CREDIT SALES OF FARM 
INVENTORY PROPERTY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(a), subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
(C), beginning on September 1 of each fiscal 
year, the Secretary may use available emergency 
disaster loan funds appropriated for 
the fiscal year to fund the credit sale of farm 
real estate in the inventory of the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS.—The 
transfer authority provided under subparagraph 
(A) does not include any emergency 
disaster loan funds made available to the 
Secretary for any fiscal year as a result of a 

supplemental appropriation made by Congress. 


‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—The Secretary shall 
limit the transfer of funds under subparagraph 
(A) so that all emergency disaster 
loans that have been approved, or will be approved, 
during the fiscal year shall be funded 
to extent of appropriated amounts.’’. 

SEC. 436. LIST OF CERTIFIED LENDERS AND IN


VENTORY PROPERTY DEMONSTRA


TION PROJECT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 351 of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1999) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (f)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Each Farmers Home Administration 
county supervisor’’ and inserting 
‘‘The Secretary’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘approved lenders’’ and inserting 
‘‘lenders’’; and 
(C) by striking ‘‘the Farmers Home Administration’’; 
and 
(2) by striking subsection (h). 
(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1320 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (Public Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 1999 note) is 
amended by striking ‘‘Effective only’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘1995, the’’ and inserting 
‘‘The’’. 
(2) Section 351(a) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1999) is 
amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘SEC. 351. (a) The’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘SEC. 351. INTEREST RATE REDUCTION PROGRAM. 


‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The’’; and 

(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The authority 
provided by this subsection shall terminate 
on September 30, 2002.’’. 

SEC. 437. HOMESTEAD PROPERTY. 

Section 352(c) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2000(c)) 
is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘90’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘30’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘Within 
30’’ and all that follows through ‘‘title,’’ and 
insert ‘‘Not later than the date of acquisition 
of the property securing a loan made 
under this title (or, in the case of real property 
in inventory on the effective date of the 
Agricultural Reform and Improvement Act 
of 1996, not later than 5 days after the date 
of enactment of the Act),’’ and by striking 
the second sentence. 
SEC. 438. RESTRUCTURING. 

Section 353 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2001) is 
amended— 

(1) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in paragraph (3) by striking subparagraph 
(C) and inserting the following: 

‘‘(C) CASH FLOW MARGIN.— 

‘‘(i) ASSUMPTION.—For the purpose of assessing 
under subparagraph (A) the ability of 
a borrower to meet debt obligations and continue 
farming operations, the Secretary 
shall assume that the borrower needs up to 
110 percent of the amount indicated for payment 
of farm operating expenses, debt service 
obligations, and family living expenses. 

‘‘(ii) AVAILABLE INCOME.—If an amount up 
to 110 percent of the amount determined 
under subparagraph (A) is available, the Secretary 
shall consider the income of the borrower 
to be adequate to meet all expenses, 
including the debt obligations of the borrower.’’; 
and 

(B) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(6) TERMINATION OF LOAN OBLIGATIONS.— 
The obligations of a borrower to the Secretary 
under a loan shall terminate if— 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S789 

‘‘(A) the borrower satisfies the requirements 
of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
(b); 

‘‘(B) the value of the restructured loan is 
less than the recovery value; and 

‘‘(C) not later than 90 days after receipt of 
the notification described in paragraph 
(4)(B), the borrower pays (or obtains third-
party financing to pay) the Secretary an 
amount equal to the current market value.’’; 

(2) by striking subsection (k); and 
(3) by redesignating subsections (l) through 
(p) as subsections (k) through (o), respectively. 
SEC. 439. TRANSFER OF INVENTORY LANDS. 

Section 354 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2002) is 
amended— 

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
by striking ‘‘The Secretary, without reimbursement,’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection 
(b), the Secretary’’; 

(2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) that is eligible to be disposed of in accordance 
with section 335; and’’; and 

(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b) CONDITIONS.—The Secretary may not 
transfer any property or interest under subsection 
(a) unless— 

‘‘(1) at least 2 public notices are given of 
the transfer; 

‘‘(2) if requested, at least 1 public meeting 
is held prior to the transfer; and 

‘‘(3) the Governor and at least 1 elected 
county official are consulted prior to the 
transfer.’’. 

SEC. 440. IMPLEMENTATION OF TARGET PARTICIPATION 
RATES. 

Section 355 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2003) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(f) IMPLEMENTATION CONSISTENT WITH SUPREME 
COURT HOLDING.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this subsection, 
the Secretary shall ensure that the 
implementation of this section is consistent 
with the holding of the Supreme Court in 
Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Federico Pena, 
Secretary of Transportation, 63 U.S.L.W. 4523 
(U.S. June 12, 1995).’’. 

SEC. 441. DELINQUENT BORROWERS AND CREDIT 
STUDY. 

The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 372. PAYMENT OF INTEREST AS A CONDI


TION OF LOAN SERVICING FOR BOR


ROWERS. 

‘‘The Secretary may not reschedule or re-
amortize a loan for a borrower under this 
title who has not requested consideration 
under section 331D(e) unless the borrower 
pays a portion, as determined by the Secretary, 
of the interest due on the loan. 

‘‘SEC. 373. LOAN AND LOAN SERVICING LIMITATIONS 


‘‘(a) DELINQUENT BORROWERS PROHIBITED 
FROM OBTAINING DIRECT OPERATING LOANS.— 
The Secretary may not make a direct operating 
loan under subtitle B to a borrower 
who is delinquent on any loan made or guaranteed 
under this title. 

‘‘(b) LOANS PROHIBITED FOR BORROWERS 
THAT HAVE RECEIVED DEBT FORGIVENESS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), the Secretary may not make 
or guarantee a loan under this title to a borrower 
who received debt forgiveness under 
this title. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary may make 
a direct or guaranteed farm operating loan 
for paying annual farm or ranch operating 
expenses to a borrower who was restructured 
with debt write-down under section 353. 

‘‘(c) NO MORE THAT 1 DEBT FORGIVENESS 
FOR A BORROWER ON A DIRECT LOAN.—The 

Secretary may not provide debt forgiveness 
to a borrower on a direct loan made under 
this title if the borrower has received debt 
forgiveness on another direct loan under this 
title. 

‘‘SEC. 374. CREDIT STUDY. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall perform a study and report to 
the Committee on Agriculture in the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry in the 
Senate on the demand for and availability of 
credit in rural areas for agriculture, rural 
housing, and rural development. 

‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the study is 
to ensure that Congress has current and 
comprehensive information to consider as 
Congress deliberates on the credit needs of 
rural America and the availability of credit 
to satisfy the needs of rural America. 

‘‘(c) ITEMS IN STUDY.—The study should be 
based on the most current available data and 
should include— 

‘‘(1) rural demand for credit from the Farm 
Credit System, the ability of the Farm Credit 
System to meet the demand, and the extent 
to which the Farm Credit System provided 
loans to satisfy the demand; 

‘‘(2) rural demand for credit from the nation’s 
banking system, the ability of banks 
to meet the demand, and the extent to which 
banks provided loans to satisfy the demand; 

‘‘(3) rural demand for credit from the Secretary, 
the ability of the Secretary to meet 
the demand, and the extent to which the 
Secretary provided loans to satisfy the demand; 


‘‘(4) rural demand for credit from other 
Federal agencies, the ability of the agencies 
to meet the demand, and the extent to which 
the agencies provided loans to satisfy the demand; 


‘‘(5) what measure or measures exist to 
gauge the overall demand for rural credit 
and the extent to which rural demand for 
credit is satisfied, and what the measures 
have shown; 

‘‘(6) a comparison of the interest rates and 
terms charged by the Farm Credit System 
Farm Credit Banks, production credit associations, 
and banks for cooperatives with the 
rates and terms charged by the nation’s 
banks for credit of comparable risk and maturity; 


‘‘(7) the advantages and disadvantages of 
the modernization and expansion proposals 
of the Farm Credit System on the Farm 
Credit System, the nation’s banking system, 
rural users of credit, local rural communities, 
and the Federal Government, including— 


‘‘(A) any added risk to the safety and 
soundness of the Farm Credit System that 
may result from approval of a proposal; and 

‘‘(B) any positive or adverse impacts on 
competition between the Farm Credit System 
and the nation’s banks in providing 
credit to rural users; 

‘‘(8) the nature and extent of the 
unsatisfied rural credit need that the Farm 
Credit System proposal are supposed to address 
and what aspects of the present Farm 
Credit System prevent the Farm Credit System 
from meeting the need; 

‘‘(9) the advantages and disadvantages of 
the proposal by commercial bankers to allow 
banks access to the Farm Credit System as 
a funding source on the Farm Credit System, 
the nation’s banking system, rural users of 
credit, local rural communities, and the Federal 
Government, including— 

‘‘(A) any added risk to the safety and 
soundness of the Farm Credit System that 
may result from approval of the proposal; 
and 

‘‘(B) any positive or adverse impacts on 
competition between the Farm Credit Sys


tem and the nation’s banks in providing 
credit to rural users; and 

‘‘(10) problems that commercial banks 
have in obtaining capital for lending in rural 
areas, how access to Farm Credit System 
funds would improve the availability of capital 
in rural areas in ways that cannot be 
achieved in the present system, and the possible 
effects on the viability of the Farm 
Credit System of granting banks access to 
Farm Credit System funds. 

‘‘(d) INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.—In completing 
the study, the Secretary shall use, 
among other things, data and information 
obtained by the interagency task force on 
rural credit.’’. 

CHAPTER 5—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
SEC. 451. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS. 

(a) Section 307(a) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1927(a)) 
is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘304(b), 
306(a)(1), and 310B’’ and inserting ‘‘306(a)(1) 
and 310B’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (6)(B)— 
(A) by striking clauses (i), (ii), and (vii); 
(B) in clause (v), by adding ‘‘and’’ at the 
end; 
(C) in clause (vi), by striking ‘‘, and’’ at the 
end and inserting a period; and 
(D) by redesignating clauses (iii) through 
(vi) as clauses (i) through (iv), respectively. 
(b) The second sentence of section 309(g)(1) 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1929(g)(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘section 308,’’. 
(c) Section 309A of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1929a) 
is amended— 
(1) in the second sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘304(b), 306(a)(1), 306(a)(14), 310B, 
and 312(b)’’ and inserting ‘‘306(a)(1), 
306(a)(14), and 310B’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘and section 
308’’. 
(d) Section 310B(d) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932(d)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘sections 304(b), 310B, and 
312(b)’’ each place it appears in paragraphs 
(2), (3), and (4) and inserting ‘‘this section’’; 
and 
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘this section, 
section 304, or section 312’’ and inserting 
‘‘this section’’. 
(e) The first sentence of section 310D(a) of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1934(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 
303(a), or subparagraphs (A) through (E) 
of section 304(a)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
303(a), or paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 
304(b)’’. 
(f) Section 311(b)(1) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1941(b)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘and for 
the purposes specified in section 312’’. 
(g) Section 316(a) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1946(a)) 
is amended by striking paragraph (3). 
(h) Section 343 of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991) is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)(10), by striking ‘‘recreation 
loan (RL) under section 304,’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
by striking ‘‘351(h),’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(4) PRESERVATION LOAN SERVICE PROGRAM.—
The term ‘‘preservation loan service 
program’’ means homestead retention as authorized 
under section 352.’’. 

(i) The first sentence of section 344 of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1992) is amended by striking 

S790 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘304(b), 306(a)(1), 310B, 312(b), or 312(c)’’ and 
inserting ‘‘306(a)(1), 310B, or 312(c)’’. 

(j) Section 353(l) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (as redesignated 
by section 438(3)) is further amended by 
striking ‘‘and subparagraphs (A)(i) and (C)(i) 
of section 335(e)(1),’’. 
Subtitle B—Farm Credit System 
CHAPTER 1—AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE 
SECONDARY MARKET 
SEC. 461. DEFINITION OF REAL ESTATE. 

Section 8.0(1)(B)(ii) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa(1)(B)(ii)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘with a purchase price’’ and inserting 
‘‘, excluding the land to which the 
dwelling is affixed, with a value’’. 

SEC. 462. DEFINITION OF CERTIFIED FACILITY. 

Section 8.0(3) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa(3)) is amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘a secondary 
marketing agricultural loan’’ and inserting 
‘‘an agricultural mortgage marketing’’; 
and 
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘, but 
only’’ and all that follows through ‘‘(9)(B)’’. 
SEC. 463. DUTIES OF FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL 
MORTGAGE CORPORATION. 

Section 8.1(b) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–1(b)) is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) purchase qualified loans and issue securities 
representing interests in, or obligations 
backed by, the qualified loans, guaranteed 
for the timely repayment of principal 
and interest.’’. 

SEC. 464. POWERS OF THE CORPORATION. 

Section 8.3(c) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–3(c)) is amended— 

(1) by redesignating paragraphs (13) and 
(14) as paragraphs (14) and (15), respectively; 
and 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following: 
‘‘(13) To purchase, hold, sell, or assign a 
qualified loan, to issue a guaranteed security, 
representing an interest in, or an obligation 
backed by, the qualified loan, and to 
perform all the functions and responsibilities 
of an agricultural mortgage marketing facility 
operating as a certified facility under 
this title.’’. 

SEC. 465. FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AS DEPOSITARIES 
AND FISCAL AGENTS. 

Section 8.3 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279aa–3) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘may act 
as depositories for, or’’ and inserting ‘‘shall 
act as depositories for, and’’; and 
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘Secretary 
of the Treasury may authorize the 
Corporation to use’’ and inserting ‘‘Corporation 
shall have access to’’. 
SEC. 466. CERTIFICATION OF AGRICULTURAL 
MORTGAGE MARKETING FACILITIES. 

Section 8.5 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279aa–5) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(other 
than the Corporation)’’ after ‘‘agricultural 
mortgage marketing facilities’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘(other 
than the Corporation)’’ after ‘‘agricultural 
mortgage marketing facility’’; and 
(2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ‘‘(other 
than the Corporation)’’. 
SEC. 467. GUARANTEE OF QUALIFIED LOANS. 

Section 8.6 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279aa–6) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)(1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Corporation shall guarantee’’ 
and inserting the following: ‘‘Corporation— 
‘‘(A) shall guarantee’’; 

(B) by striking the period at the end and 
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) may issue a security, guaranteed as to 
the timely payment of principal and interest, 
that represents an interest solely in, or 
an obligation fully backed by, a pool consisting 
of qualified loans that— 

‘‘(i) meet the standards established under 
section 8.8; and 
‘‘(ii) have been purchased and held by the 
Corporation.’’; 

(2) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by striking paragraph (4); and 
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), 
and (7) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively; 
and 
(3) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ‘‘section 
8.0(9)(B))’’ and inserting ‘‘section 8.0(9))’’. 
SEC. 468. MANDATORY RESERVES AND SUBORDI


NATED PARTICIPATION INTERESTS 

ELIMINATED. 

(a) GUARANTEE OF QUALIFIED LOANS.—Section 
8.6 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 
U.S.C. 2279aa–6) is amended by striking subsection 
(b). 
(b) RESERVES AND SUBORDINATED PARTICIPATION 
INTERESTS.—Section 8.7 of the Farm 
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–7) is repealed. 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 8.0(9)(B)(i) of the Farm Credit 
Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa(9)(B)(i)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘8.7, 8.8,’’ and inserting 
‘‘8.8’’. 
(2) Section 8.6(a)(2) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–6(a)(2)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘subject to the provisions of subsection 
(b)’’. 
SEC. 469. STANDARDS REQUIRING DIVERSIFIED 
POOLS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 8.6 of the Farm 
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–6) (as 
amended by section 468) is amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (c); and 
(2) by redesignating subsections (d) 
through (g) as subsections (b) through (e), respectively. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 8.0(9)(B)(i) of the Farm Credit 
Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa(9)(B)(i)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘(f)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(d)’’. 
(2) Section 8.13(a) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–13(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘sections 8.6(b) and’’ in each place it 
appears and inserting ‘‘section’’. 
(3) Section 8.32(b)(1)(C) of the Farm Credit 
Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279bb–1(b)(1)(C)) is 
amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘shall’’ and inserting 
‘‘may’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘(as in effect before the 
date of the enactment of the Agricultural 
Reform and Improvement Act of 1996)’’ before 
the semicolon. 
(4) Section 8.6(b) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–6(b)) (as redesignated 
by subsection (a)(2)) is amended— 
(A) by striking paragraph (4) (as redesignated 
by section 467(2)(B)); and 
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) 
(as redesignated by section 467(2)(B)) as paragraphs 
(4) and (5), respectively. 
SEC. 470. SMALL FARMS. 

Section 8.8(e) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa–8(e)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ‘‘The Board 
shall promote and encourage the inclusion of 
qualified loans for small farms and family 
farmers in the agricultural mortgage secondary 
market.’’. 

SEC. 471. DEFINITION OF AN AFFILIATE. 

Section 8.11(e) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (21 U.S.C. 2279aa–11(e)) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘a certified facility or’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘paragraphs (3) and (7), respectively, 
of section 8.0’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
8.0(7)’’. 
SEC. 472. STATE USURY LAWS SUPERSEDED. 

Section 8.12 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279aa–12) is amended by striking 
subsection (d) and inserting the following: 

‘‘(d) STATE USURY LAWS SUPERSEDED.—A 
provision of the Constitution or law of any 
State shall not apply to an agricultural loan 
made by an originator or a certified facility 
in accordance with this title for sale to the 
Corporation or to a certified facility for inclusion 
in a pool for which the Corporation 
has provided, or has committed to provide, a 
guarantee, if the loan, not later than 180 
days after the date the loan was made, is 
sold to the Corporation or included in a pool 
for which the Corporation has provided a 
guarantee, if the provision— 

‘‘(1) limits the rate or amount of interest, 
discount points, finance charges, or other 
charges that may be charged, taken, received, 
or reserved by an agricultural lender 
or a certified facility; or 

‘‘(2) limits or prohibits a prepayment penalty 
(either fixed or declining), yield maintenance, 
or make-whole payment that may be 
charged, taken, or received by an agricultural 
lender or a certified facility in connection 
with the full or partial payment of the 
principal amount due on a loan by a borrower 
in advance of the scheduled date for 
the payment under the terms of the loan, 
otherwise known as a prepayment of the 
loan principal.’’. 

SEC. 473. EXTENSION OF CAPITAL TRANSITION 
PERIOD. 

Section 8.32 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279bb–1) is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘Not later than the expiration of 
the 2-year period beginning on December 13, 
1991,’’ and inserting ‘‘Not sooner than the expiration 
of the 3-year period beginning on 
the date of enactment of the Agricultural 
Reform and Improvement Act of 1996,’’; 
(2) in the first sentence of subsection (b)(2), 
by striking ‘‘5-year’’ and inserting ‘‘8-year’’; 
and 
(3) in subsection (d)— 
(A) in the first sentence— 
(i) by striking ‘‘The regulations establishing’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The regulations establishing’’; 
and 

(ii) by striking ‘‘shall contain’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘shall— 
‘‘(A) be issued by the Director for public 
comment in the form of a notice of proposed 
rulemaking, to be first published after the 
expiration of the period referred to in subsection 
(a); and 

‘‘(B) contain’’; and 

(B) in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘The regulations shall’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(2) SPECIFICITY.—The regulations referred 
to in paragraph (1) shall’’. 
SEC. 474. MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVEL. 

Section 8.33 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279bb–2) is amended to read as follows: 


‘‘SEC. 8.33. MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVEL. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subsection (b), for purposes of this subtitle, 
the minimum capital level for the Corporation 
shall be an amount of core capital equal 
to the sum of— 

‘‘(1) 2.75 percent of the aggregate on-balance 
sheet assets of the Corporation, as determined 
in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles; and 

‘‘(2) 0.75 percent of the aggregate off-balance 
sheet obligations of the Corporation, 
which, for the purposes of this subtitle, shall 
include— 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S791 

‘‘(A) the unpaid principal balance of outstanding 
securities that are guaranteed by 
the Corporation and backed by pools of 
qualified loans; 

‘‘(B) instruments that are issued or guaranteed 
by the Corporation and are substantially 
equivalent to instruments described in 
subparagraph (A); and 

‘‘(C) other off-balance sheet obligations of 

the Corporation.

‘‘(b) TRANSITION PERIOD.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this subtitle, 
the minimum capital level for the Corporation— 


‘‘(A) prior to January 1, 1997, shall be the 
amount of core capital equal to the sum of— 

‘‘(i) 0.45 percent of aggregate off-balance 
sheet obligations of the Corporation; 

‘‘(ii) 0.45 percent of designated on-balance 
sheet assets of the Corporation, as determined 
under paragraph (2); and 

‘‘(iii) 2.50 percent of on-balance sheet assets 
of the Corporation other than assets 
designated under paragraph (2); 

‘‘(B) during the 1-year period ending December 
31, 1997, shall be the amount of core 
capital equal to the sum of— 

‘‘(i) 0.55 percent of aggregate off-balance 
sheet obligations of the Corporation; 

‘‘(ii) 1.20 percent of designated on-balance 
sheet assets of the Corporation, as determined 
under paragraph (2); and 

‘‘(iii) 2.55 percent of on-balance sheet assets 
of the Corporation other than assets 
designated under paragraph (2); 

‘‘(C) during the 1-year period ending December 
31, 1998, shall be the amount of core 
capital equal to— 

‘‘(i) if the Corporation’s core capital is not 
less than $25,000,000 on January 1, 1998, the 
sum of— 

‘‘(I) 0.65 percent of aggregate off-balance 
sheet obligations of the Corporation; 

‘‘(II) 1.95 percent of designated on-balance 
sheet assets of the Corporation, as determined 
under paragraph (2); and 

‘‘(III) 2.65 percent of on-balance sheet assets 
of the Corporation other than assets 
designated under paragraph (2); or 

‘‘(ii) if the Corporation’s core capital is 
less than $25,000,000 on January 1, 1998, the 
amount determined under subsection (a); and 

‘‘(D) on and after January 1, 1999, shall be 
the amount determined under subsection (a). 

‘‘(2) DESIGNATED ON-BALANCE SHEET ASSETS.—
For purposes of this subsection, the 
designated on-balance sheet assets of the 
Corporation shall be— 

‘‘(A) the aggregate on-balance sheet assets 
of the Corporation acquired under section 
8.6(e); and 

‘‘(B) the aggregate amount of qualified 
loans purchased and held by the Corporation 
under section 8.3(c)(13).’’. 

SEC. 475. CRITICAL CAPITAL LEVEL. 

Section 8.34 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279bb–3) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 8.34. CRITICAL CAPITAL LEVEL. 

‘‘For purposes of this subtitle, the critical 
capital level for the Corporation shall be an 
amount of core capital equal to 50 percent of 
the total minimum capital amount determined 
under section 8.33.’’. 
SEC. 476. ENFORCEMENT LEVELS. 

Section 8.35(e) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279bb–4(e)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘during the 30-month period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this 
section,’’ and inserting ‘‘during the period 
beginning on December 13, 1991, and ending 
on the effective date of the risk based capital 
regulation issued by the Director under section 
8.32,’’. 

SEC. 477. RECAPITALIZATION OF THE CORPORATION. 


Title VIII of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279aa et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 

‘‘SEC. 8.38. RECAPITALIZATION OF THE CORPORATION. 


‘‘(a) MANDATORY RECAPITALIZATION.—The 
Corporation shall increase the core capital of 
the Corporation to an amount equal to or 
greater than $25,000,000, not later than the 
earlier of— 

‘‘(1) the date that is 2 years after the date 
of enactment of this section; or 

‘‘(2) the date that is 180 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter that the aggregate 
on-balance sheet assets of the Corporation, 
plus the outstanding principal of the 
off-balance sheet obligations of the Corporation, 
equal or exceed $2,000,000,000. 

‘‘(b) RAISING CORE CAPITAL.—In carrying 
out this section, the Corporation may issue 
stock under section 8.4 and otherwise employ 
any recognized and legitimate means of raising 
core capital in the power of the Corporation 
under section 8.3. 

‘‘(c) LIMITATION ON GROWTH OF TOTAL AS-
SETS.—During the 2-year period beginning on 
the date of enactment of this section, the aggregate 
on-balance sheet assets of the Corporation 
plus the outstanding principal of 
the off-balance sheet obligations of the Corporation 
may not exceed $3,000,000,000 if the 
core capital of the Corporation is less than 
$25,000,000. 

‘‘(d) ENFORCEMENT.—If the Corporation 
fails to carry out subsection (a) by the date 
required under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection 
(a), the Corporation may not purchase 
a new qualified loan or issue or guarantee 
a new loan-backed security until the 
core capital of the Corporation is increased 
to an amount equal to or greater than 
$25,000,000.’’. 
SEC. 478. LIQUIDATION OF THE FEDERAL AGRI


CULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORA


TION. 

Title VIII of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2279aa et seq.) (as amended by section 
477) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: 

‘‘Subtitle C—Receivership, Con-

servatorship, and Liquidation of the Fed


eral Agricultural Mortgage Corporation 

‘‘SEC. 8.41. CONSERVATORSHIP; LIQUIDATION; 
RECEIVERSHIP. 

‘‘(a) VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION.—The Corporation 
may voluntarily liquidate only with 
the consent of, and in accordance with a plan 
of liquidation approved by, the Farm Credit 
Administration Board. 

‘‘(b) INVOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Farm Credit Administration 
Board may appoint a conservator 
or receiver for the Corporation under the circumstances 
specified in section 4.12(b). 

‘‘(2) APPLICATION.—In applying section 
4.12(b) to the Corporation under paragraph 
(1)— 

‘‘(A) the Corporation shall also be considered 
insolvent if the Corporation is unable to 
pay its debts as they fall due in the ordinary 
course of business; 

‘‘(B) a conservator may also be appointed 
for the Corporation if the authority of the 
Corporation to purchase qualified loans or 
issue or guarantee loan-backed securities is 
suspended; and 

‘‘(C) a receiver may also be appointed for 
the Corporation if— 

‘‘(i)(I) the authority of the Corporation to 
purchase qualified loans or issue or guarantee 
loan-backed securities is suspended; or 

‘‘(II) the Corporation is classified under 
section 8.35 as within level III or IV and the 
alternative actions available under subtitle 
B are not satisfactory; and 

‘‘(ii) the Farm Credit Administration determines 
that the appointment of a conservator 
would not be appropriate. 

‘‘(3) NO EFFECT ON SUPERVISORY ACTIONS.— 
The grounds for appointment of a conservator 
for the Corporation under this sub


section shall be in addition to those in section 
8.37. 

‘‘(c) APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.— 


‘‘(1) QUALIFICATIONS.—Notwithstanding 
section 4.12(b), if a conservator or receiver is 
appointed for the Corporation, the conservator 
or receiver shall be— 

‘‘(A) the Farm Credit Administration or 
any other governmental entity or employee, 
including the Farm Credit System Insurance 
Corporation; or 

‘‘(B) any person that— 

‘‘(i) has no claim against, or financial interest 
in, the Corporation or other basis for 
a conflict of interest as the conservator or 
receiver; and 

‘‘(ii) has the financial and management expertise 
necessary to direct the operations 
and affairs of the Corporation and, if necessary, 
to liquidate the Corporation. 

‘‘(2) COMPENSATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A conservator or receiver 
for the Corporation and professional 
personnel (other than a Federal employee) 
employed to represent or assist the conservator 
or receiver may be compensated for activities 
conducted as, or for, a conservator or 
receiver. 

‘‘(B) LIMIT ON COMPENSATION.—Compensation 
may not be provided in amounts greater 
than the compensation paid to employees of 
the Federal Government for similar services, 
except that the Farm Credit Administration 
may provide for compensation at higher 
rates that are not in excess of rates prevailing 
in the private sector if the Farm 
Credit Administration determines that compensation 
at higher rates is necessary in 
order to recruit and retain competent personnel. 


‘‘(C) CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS.—The 
conservator or receiver may contract with 
any governmental entity, including the 
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, 
to make personnel, services, and facilities of 
the entity available to the conservator or receiver 
on such terms and compensation arrangements 
as shall be mutually agreed, and 
each entity may provide the same to the 
conservator or receiver. 

‘‘(3) EXPENSES.—A valid claim for expenses 
of the conservatorship or receivership (including 
compensation under paragraph (2)) 
and a valid claim with respect to a loan 
made under subsection (f) shall— 

‘‘(A) be paid by the conservator or receiver 
from funds of the Corporation before any 
other valid claim against the Corporation; 
and 

‘‘(B) may be secured by a lien, on such 
property of the Corporation as the conservator 
or receiver may determine, that shall 
have priority over any other lien. 

‘‘(4) LIABILITY.—If the conservator or receiver 
for the Corporation is not a Federal 
entity, or an officer or employee of the Federal 
Government, the conservator or receiver 
shall not be personally liable for damages in 
tort or otherwise for an act or omission performed 
pursuant to and in the course of the 
conservatorship or receivership, unless the 
act or omission constitutes gross negligence 
or any form of intentional tortious conduct 
or criminal conduct. 

‘‘(5) INDEMNIFICATION.—The Farm Credit 
Administration may allow indemnification 
of the conservator or receiver from the assets 
of the conservatorship or receivership 
on such terms as the Farm Credit Administration 
considers appropriate. 

‘‘(d) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF APPOINTMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(i)(1), not later than 30 days after a 


S792 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

conservator or receiver is appointed under 
subsection (b), the Corporation may bring an 
action in the United States District Court 
for the District of Columbia for an order requiring 
the Farm Credit Administration 
Board to remove the conservator or receiver. 
The court shall, on the merits, dismiss the 
action or direct the Farm Credit Administration 
Board to remove the conservator or receiver. 


‘‘(2) STAY OF OTHER ACTIONS.—On the commencement 
of an action under paragraph (1), 
any court having jurisdiction of any other 
action or enforcement proceeding authorized 
under this Act to which the Corporation is a 
party shall stay the action or proceeding 
during the pendency of the action for removal 
of the conservator or receiver. 

‘‘(e) GENERAL POWERS OF CONSERVATOR OR 
RECEIVER.—The conservator or receiver for 
the Corporation shall have such powers to 
conduct the conservatorship or receivership 
as shall be provided pursuant to regulations 
adopted by the Farm Credit Administration 
Board. Such powers shall be comparable to 
the powers available to a conservator or receiver 
appointed pursuant to section 4.12(b). 

‘‘(f) BORROWINGS FOR WORKING CAPITAL.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the conservator or receiver 
of the Corporation determines that it 
is likely that there will be insufficient funds 
to pay the ongoing administrative expenses 
of the conservatorship or receivership or 
that there will be insufficient liquidity to 
fund maturing obligations of the conservatorship 
or receivership, the conservator 
or receiver may borrow funds in such 
amounts, from such sources, and at such 
rates of interest as the conservator or receiver 
considers necessary or appropriate to 
meet the administrative expenses or liquidity 
needs of the conservatorship or receivership. 


‘‘(2) WORKING CAPITAL FROM FARM CREDIT 
BANKS.—A Farm Credit bank may loan funds 
to the conservator or receiver for a loan authorized 
under paragraph (1) or, in the event 
of receivership, a Farm Credit bank may purchase 
assets of the Corporation. 

‘‘(g) AGREEMENTS AGAINST INTERESTS OF 
CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—No agreement 
that tends to diminish or defeat the right, 
title, or interest of the conservator or receiver 
for the Corporation in any asset acquired 
by the conservator or receiver as conservator 
or receiver for the Corporation shall 
be valid against the conservator or receiver 
unless the agreement— 

‘‘(1) is in writing; 

‘‘(2) is executed by the Corporation and 
any person claiming an adverse interest 
under the agreement, including the obligor, 
contemporaneously with the acquisition of 
the asset by the Corporation; 

‘‘(3) is approved by the Board or an appropriate 
committee of the Board, which approval 
shall be reflected in the minutes of 
the Board or committee; and 

‘‘(4) has been, continuously, from the time 
of the agreement’s execution, an official 
record of the Corporation. 

‘‘(h) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.—On a determination 
by the receiver for the Corporation 
that there are insufficient assets of the receivership 
to pay all valid claims against the 
receivership, the receiver shall submit to the 
Secretary of the Treasury, the Committee on 
Agriculture of the House of Representatives, 
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate a report on 
the financial condition of the receivership. 

‘‘(i) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITIES.— 

‘‘(1) CORPORATION.—The charter of the Corporation 
shall be canceled, and the authority 
provided to the Corporation by this title 
shall terminate, on such date as the Farm 
Credit Administration Board determines is 
appropriate following the placement of the 

Corporation in receivership, but not later 
than the conclusion of the receivership and 
discharge of the receiver. 

‘‘(2) OVERSIGHT.—The Office of Secondary 
Market Oversight established under section 

8.11 shall be abolished, and section 8.11(a) 
and subtitle B shall have no force or effect, 
on such date as the Farm Credit Administration 
Board determines is appropriate following 
the placement of the Corporation in 
receivership, but not later than the conclusion 
of the receivership and discharge of the 
receiver.’’. 
CHAPTER 2—REGULATORY RELIEF 
SEC. 481. COMPENSATION OF ASSOCIATION PERSONNEL. 


Section 1.5(13) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2013(13)) is amended by striking 
‘‘, and the appointment and compensation 
of the chief executive officer thereof,’’. 

SEC. 482. USE OF PRIVATE MORTGAGE INSURANCE. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1.10(a)(1) of the 
Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2018(a)(1)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) PRIVATE MORTGAGE INSURANCE.—A 
loan on which private mortgage insurance is 
obtained may exceed 85 percent of the appraised 
value of the real estate security to 
the extent that the loan amount in excess of 
such 85 percent is covered by the insurance.’’. 


(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
1.10(a)(1)(A) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2018(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking 
‘‘paragraphs (2) and (3)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subparagraphs (C) and (D)’’. 
SEC. 483. REMOVAL OF CERTAIN BORROWER REPORTING 
REQUIREMENT. 

Section 1.10(a) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2018(a)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (5). 

SEC. 484. REFORM OF REGULATORY LIMITATIONS 
ON DIVIDEND, MEMBER BUSINESS, 
AND VOTING PRACTICES OF ELIGIBLE 
FARMER-OWNED COOPERATIVES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3.8(a) of the Farm 
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2129(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Any such association that has received a 
loan from a bank for cooperatives shall, 
without regard to the requirements of paragraphs 
(1) through (4), continue to be eligible 
for so long as more than 50 percent (or such 
higher percentage as is established by the 
bank board) of the voting control of the association 
is held by farmers, producers or harvesters 
of aquatic products, or eligible cooperative 
associations.’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
3.8(b)(1)(D) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 
U.S.C. 2129(b)(1)(D)) is amended by striking 
‘‘and (4) of subsection (a)’’ and inserting 
‘‘and (4), or under the last sentence, of subsection 
(a)’’. 
SEC. 485. REMOVAL OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR 
CERTAIN PRIVATE SECTOR 
FINANCINGS. 

Section 3.8(b)(1)(A) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2129(b)(1)(A)) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘have been certified by the 
Administrator of the Rural Electrification 
Administration to be eligible for such’’ and 
inserting ‘‘are eligible under the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) 
for’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘loan guarantee, and’’ and 
inserting ‘‘loan guarantee from the Administration 
or the Bank (or a successor of the 
Administration or the Bank), and’’. 
SEC. 486. BORROWER STOCK. 

Section 4.3A of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 
(12 U.S.C. 2154a) is amended— 

(1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) 
as subsections (g) and (h), respectively; and 
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following: 
‘‘(f) LOANS DESIGNATED FOR SALE OR SOLD 
INTO THE SECONDARY MARKET.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2) 
and notwithstanding any other provision of 
this section, the bylaws adopted by a bank or 
association under subsection (b) may provide— 


‘‘(A) in the case of a loan made on or after 
the date of enactment of this paragraph that 
is designated, at the time the loan is made, 
for sale into a secondary market, that no 
voting stock or participation certificate purchase 
requirement shall apply to the borrower 
for the loan; and 

‘‘(B) in the case of a loan made before the 
date of enactment of this paragraph that is 
sold into a secondary market, that all outstanding 
voting stock or participation certificates 
held by the borrower with respect 
to the loan shall, subject to subsection (d)(1), 
be retired. 

‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this section, in the case of 
a loan sold to a secondary market under title 
VIII, paragraph (1) shall apply regardless of 
whether the bank or association retains a 
subordinated participation interest in a loan 
or pool of loans or contributes to a cash reserve. 


‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 

(B) and notwithstanding any other provision 
of this section, if a loan designated for sale 
under paragraph (1)(A) is not sold into a secondary 
market during the 180-day period 
that begins on the date of the designation, 
the voting stock or participation certificate 
purchase requirement that would otherwise 
apply to the loan in the absence of a bylaw 
provision described in paragraph (1)(A) shall 
be effective. 
‘‘(B) RETIREMENT.—The bylaws adopted by 
a bank or association under subsection (b) 
may provide that if a loan described in subparagraph 
(A) is sold into a secondary market 
after the end of the 180-day period described 
in the subparagraph, all outstanding 
voting stock or participation certificates 
held by the borrower with respect to the loan 
shall, subject to subsection (d)(1), be retired.’’. 


SEC. 487. DISCLOSURE RELATING TO ADJUSTABLE 
RATE LOANS. 

Section 4.13(a)(4) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2199(a)(4)) is amended by inserting 
before the semicolon at the end the 
following: ‘‘, and notice to the borrower of a 
change in the interest rate applicable to the 
loan of the borrower may be made within a 
reasonable time after the effective date of an 
increase or decrease in the interest rate’’. 

SEC. 488. BORROWERS’ RIGHTS. 

(a) DEFINITION OF LOAN.—Section 
4.14A(a)(5) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 
U.S.C. 2202a(a)(5)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(5) LOAN.—The’’ and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(5) LOAN.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 

(B), the’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION FOR LOANS DESIGNATED FOR 
SALE INTO SECONDARY MARKET.— 
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clause (ii), the term ‘loan’ does not include a 
loan made on or after the date of enactment 
of this subparagraph that is designated, at 
the time the loan is made, for sale into a secondary 
market. 

‘‘(ii) UNSOLD LOANS.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subclause (II), if a loan designated for sale 
under clause (i) is not sold into a secondary 
market during the 180-day period that begins 
on the date of the designation, the provisions 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S793 

of this section and sections 4.14, 4.14B, 4.14C, 
4.14D, and 4.36 that would otherwise apply to 
the loan in the absence of the exclusion described 
in clause (i) shall become effective 
with respect to the loan. 

‘‘(II) LATER SALE.—If a loan described in 
subclause (I) is sold into a secondary market 
after the end of the 180-day period described 
in subclause (I), subclause (I) shall not apply 
with respect to the loan beginning on the 
date of the sale.’’. 

(b) BORROWERS’ RIGHTS FOR POOLED 
LOANS.—The first sentence of section 8.9(b) 
of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 
2279aa–9(b)) is amended by inserting ‘‘(as defined 
in section 4.14A(a)(5))’’ after ‘‘application 
for a loan’’. 
SEC. 489. FORMATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE 
ENTITIES. 

Part E of title IV of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 is amended by inserting after section 

4.28 (12 U.S.C. 2214) the following: 
‘‘SEC. 4.28A. DEFINITION OF BANK. 

‘‘In this part, the term ‘bank’ includes 
each association operating under title II.’’. 

SEC. 490. JOINT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS. 

The first sentence of section 5.17(a)(2)(A) of 
the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 
2252(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘or 
management agreements’’. 

SEC. 491. DISSEMINATION OF QUARTERLY REPORTS. 


Section 5.17(a)(8) of the Farm Credit Act of 
1971 (12 U.S.C. 2252(a)(8)) is amended by inserting 
after ‘‘except that’’ the following: 
‘‘the requirements of the Farm Credit Administration 
governing the dissemination to 
stockholders of quarterly reports of System 
institutions may not be more burdensome or 
costly than the requirements applicable to 
national banks, and’’. 

SEC. 492. REGULATORY REVIEW. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) the Farm Credit Administration, in the 
role of the Administration as an arms-length 
safety and soundness regulator, has made 
considerable progress in reducing the regulatory 
burden on Farm Credit System institutions; 
(2) the efforts of the Farm Credit Administration 
described in paragraph (1) have resulted 
in cost savings for Farm Credit System 
institutions; and 
(3) the cost savings described in paragraph 
(2) ultimately benefit the farmers, ranchers, 
agricultural cooperatives, and rural residents 
of the United States. 
(b) CONTINUATION OF REGULATORY REVIEW.—
The Farm Credit Administration 
shall continue the comprehensive review of 
regulations governing the Farm Credit System 
to identify and eliminate, consistent 
with law, safety, and soundness, all regulations 
that are unnecessary, unduly burdensome 
or costly, or not based on law. 
SEC. 493. EXAMINATION OF FARM CREDIT SYSTEM 
INSTITUTIONS. 

The first sentence of section 5.19(a) of the 
Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2254(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘each year’’ and inserting 
‘‘during each 18-month period’’. 

SEC. 494. CONSERVATORSHIPS AND RECEIVERSHIPS. 


(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 5.51 of the Farm 
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a) is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraph (5); and 
(2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
(5). 
(b) GENERAL CORPORATE POWERS.—Section 
5.58 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 
2277a–7) is amended by striking paragraph (9) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(9) CONSERVATOR OR RECEIVER.—The Corporation 
may act as a conservator or receiver.’’. 


SEC. 495. FARM CREDIT INSURANCE FUND OPERATIONS. 


(a) ADJUSTMENT OF PREMIUMS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 5.55(a) of the 
Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a–4(a)) 
is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Until the 
aggregate of amounts in the Farm Credit Insurance 
Fund exceeds the secure base 
amount, the annual premium due from any 
insured System bank for any calendar year’’ 
and inserting the following: ‘‘If at the end of 
any calendar year the aggregate of amounts 
in the Farm Credit Insurance Fund does not 
exceed the secure base amount, subject to 
paragraph (2), the annual premium due from 
any insured System bank for the calendar 
year’’; 
(B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
(3); and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) REDUCED PREMIUMS.—The Corporation, 
in the sole discretion of the Corporation, 
may reduce by a percentage uniformly applied 
to all insured System banks the annual 
premium due from each insured System bank 
during any calendar year, as determined 
under paragraph (1).’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(A) Section 5.55(b) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a–4(b)) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘Insurance Fund’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘Farm Credit 
Insurance Fund’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘for the following calendar 
year’’; and 
(iii) by striking ‘‘subsection (a)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (a)(1)’’. 
(B) Section 5.56(a) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a–5(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘section 5.55(a)(2)’’ each place it appears 
in paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting 
‘‘section 5.55(a)(3)’’. 
(C) Section 1.12(b) (12 U.S.C. 2020(b)) is 
amended— 

(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(as defined 
in section 5.55(a)(3))’’ after ‘‘government-
guaranteed loans’’; and 
(ii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘(as so 
defined)’’ after ‘‘government-guaranteed 
loans’’ each place such term appears. 
(b) ALLOCATION TO INSURED SYSTEM BANKS 
AND OTHER SYSTEM INSTITUTIONS OF EXCESS 
AMOUNTS IN THE FARM CREDIT INSURANCE 
FUND.—Section 5.55 of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a–4) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) ALLOCATION TO SYSTEM INSTITUTIONS 
OF EXCESS RESERVES.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF ALLOCATED INSURANCE 
RESERVES ACCOUNTS.—There is hereby 
established in the Farm Credit Insurance 
Fund an Allocated Insurance Reserves Account— 


‘‘(A) for each insured System bank; and 

‘‘(B) subject to paragraph (6)(C), for all 
holders, in the aggregate, of Financial Assistance 
Corporation stock. 

‘‘(2) TREATMENT.—Amounts in any Allocated 
Insurance Reserves Account shall be 
considered to be part of the Farm Credit Insurance 
Fund. 

‘‘(3) ANNUAL ALLOCATIONS.—If, at the end of 
any calendar year, the aggregate of the 
amounts in the Farm Credit Insurance Fund 
exceeds the average secure base amount for 
the calendar year (as calculated on an average 
daily balance basis), the Corporation 
shall allocate to the Allocated Insurance Reserves 
Accounts the excess amount less the 
amount that the Corporation, in its sole discretion, 
determines to be the sum of the estimated 
operating expenses and estimated insurance 
obligations of the Corporation for 
the immediately succeeding calendar year. 

‘‘(4) ALLOCATION FORMULA.—From the total 
amount required to be allocated at the end of 
a calendar year under paragraph (3)— 

‘‘(A) 10 percent of the total amount shall 
be credited to the Allocated Insurance Reserves 
Account established under paragraph 
(1)(B), subject to paragraph (6)(C); and 

‘‘(B) there shall be credited to the Allocated 
Insurance Reserves Account of each insured 
System bank an amount that bears the 
same ratio to the total amount (less any 
amount credited under subparagraph (A)) as 
the average principal outstanding for the 3-
year period ending on the end of the calendar 
year on loans made by the bank that are in 
accrual status bears to the average principal 
outstanding for the 3-year period ending on 
the end of the calendar year on loans made 
by all insured System banks that are in accrual 
status (excluding, in each case, the 
guaranteed portions of government-guaranteed 
loans described in subsection (a)(1)(C)). 

‘‘(5) USE OF FUNDS IN ALLOCATED INSURANCE 
RESERVES ACCOUNTS.—To the extent that the 
sum of the operating expenses of the Corporation 
and the insurance obligations of the 
Corporation for a calendar year exceeds the 
sum of operating expenses and insurance obligations 
determined under paragraph (3) for 
the calendar year, the Corporation shall 
cover the expenses and obligations by— 

‘‘(A) reducing each Allocated Insurance Reserves 
Account by the same proportion; and 

‘‘(B) expending the amounts obtained 
under subparagraph (A) before expending 
other amounts in the Fund. 

‘‘(6) OTHER DISPOSITION OF ACCOUNT 
FUNDS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable 
during each calendar year beginning more 
than 8 years after the date on which the aggregate 
of the amounts in the Farm Credit 
Insurance Fund exceeds the secure base 
amount, but not earlier than January 1, 2005, 
the Corporation may— 

‘‘(i) subject to subparagraphs (D) and (F), 
pay to each insured System bank, in a manner 
determined by the Corporation, an 
amount equal to the lesser of— 

‘‘(I) 20 percent of the balance in the insured 
System bank’s Allocated Insurance Reserves 
Account as of the preceding December 31; or 

‘‘(II) 20 percent of the balance in the bank’s 
Allocated Insurance Reserves Account on the 
date of the payment; and 

‘‘(ii) subject to subparagraphs (C), (E), and 
(F), pay to each System bank and association 
holding Financial Assistance Corporation 
stock a proportionate share, determined 
by dividing the number of shares of Financial 
Assistance Corporation stock held by 
the institution by the total number of shares 
of Financial Assistance Corporation stock 
outstanding, of the lesser of— 

‘‘(I) 20 percent of the balance in the Allocated 
Insurance Reserves Account established 
under paragraph (1)(B) as of the preceding 
December 31; or 

‘‘(II) 20 percent of the balance in the Allocated 
Insurance Reserves Account established 
under paragraph (1)(B) on the date of 
the payment. 

‘‘(B) AUTHORITY TO ELIMINATE OR REDUCE 
PAYMENTS.—The Corporation may eliminate 
or reduce payments during a calendar year 
under subparagraph (A) if the Corporation 
determines, in its sole discretion, that the 
payments, or other circumstances that 
might require use of the Farm Credit Insurance 
Fund, could cause the amount in the 
Farm Credit Insurance Fund during the calendar 
year to be less than the secure base 
amount. 

‘‘(C) REIMBURSEMENT FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
CORPORATION STOCK.— 


S794 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(i) SUFFICIENT FUNDING.—Notwithstanding 
paragraph (4)(A), on provision by the Corporation 
for the accumulation in the Account 
established under paragraph (1)(B) of 
funds in an amount equal to $56,000,000 (in 
addition to the amounts described in subparagraph 
(F)(ii)), the Corporation shall not 
allocate any further funds to the Account except 
to replenish the Account if funds are diminished 
below $56,000,000 by the Corporation 
under paragraph (5). 

‘‘(ii) WIND DOWN AND TERMINATION.— 

‘‘(I) FINAL DISBURSEMENTS.—On disbursement 
of $53,000,000 (in addition to the 
amounts described in subparagraph (F)(ii)) 
from the Allocated Insurance Reserves Account, 
the Corporation shall disburse the remaining 
amounts in the Account, as determined 
under subparagraph (A)(ii), without 
regard to the percentage limitations in subclauses 
(I) and (II) of subparagraph (A)(ii). 

‘‘(II) TERMINATION OF ACCOUNT.—On disbursement 
of $56,000,000 (in addition to the 
amounts described in subparagraph (F)(ii)) 
from the Allocated Insurance Reserves Account, 
the Corporation shall close the Account 
established under paragraph (1)(B) and 
transfer any remaining funds in the Account 
to the remaining Allocated Insurance Reserves 
Accounts in accordance with paragraph 
(4)(B) for the calendar year in which 
the transfer occurs. 

‘‘(D) DISTRIBUTION OF PAYMENTS RE-
CEIVED.—Not later than 60 days after receipt 
of a payment made under subparagraph 
(A)(i), each insured System bank, in consultation 
with affiliated associations of the 
insured System bank, and taking into account 
the direct or indirect payment of insurance 
premiums by the associations, shall 
develop and implement an equitable plan to 
distribute payments received under subparagraph 
(A)(i) among the bank and associations 
of the bank. 

‘‘(E) EXCEPTION FOR PREVIOUSLY REIMBURSED 
ASSOCIATIONS.—For purposes of subparagraph 
(A)(ii), in any Farm Credit district 
in which the funding bank has reimbursed 
1 or more affiliated associations of 
the bank for the previously unreimbursed 
portion of the Financial Assistance Corporation 
stock held by the associations, the funding 
bank shall be deemed to be the holder of 
the shares of Financial Assistance Corporation 
stock for which the funding bank has 
provided the reimbursement. 

‘‘(F) INITIAL PAYMENT.—Notwithstanding 
subparagraph (A), the initial payment made 
to each payee under subparagraph (A) shall 
be in such amount determined by the Corporation 
to be equal to the sum of— 

‘‘(i) the total of the amounts that would 
have been paid if payments under subparagraph 
(A) had been authorized to begin, 
under the same terms and conditions, in the 
first calendar year beginning more than 5 
years after the date on which the aggregate 
of the amounts in the Farm Credit Insurance 
Fund exceeds the secure base amount, and to 
continue through the 2 immediately subsequent 
years; 

‘‘(ii) interest earned on any amounts that 
would have been paid as described in clause 

(i) from the date on which the payments 
would have been paid as described in clause 
(i); and 
‘‘(iii) the payment to be made in the initial 
year described in subparagraph (A), based on 
the amount in each Account after subtracting 
the amounts to be paid under 
clauses (i) and (ii).’’ 

(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 
5.55(d) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 
U.S.C. 2277a–4(d)) is amended— 
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘subsections (a) and (c)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘subsections (a), (c), and (e)’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘a Farm Credit Bank’’ and 
inserting ‘‘an insured System bank’’; and 
(2) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), by striking 
‘‘Farm Credit Bank’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘insured System bank’’. 
SEC. 496. EXAMINATIONS BY THE FARM CREDIT 
SYSTEM INSURANCE CORPORATION. 

Section 5.59(b)(1)(A) of the Farm Credit Act 
of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a–8(b)(1)(A)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ‘‘Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this Act, 
on cancellation of the charter of a System 
institution, the Corporation shall have authority 
to examine the system institution in 
receivership. An examination shall be performed 
at such intervals as the Corporation 
shall determine.’’. 

SEC. 497. POWERS WITH RESPECT TO TROUBLED 
INSURED SYSTEM BANKS. 

(a) LEAST-COST RESOLUTION.—Section 
5.61(a)(3) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 
U.S.C. 2277a–10(a)) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
subparagraph (F); and 
(2) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(A) LEAST-COST RESOLUTION.—Assistance 
may not be provided to an insured System 
bank under this subsection unless the means 
of providing the assistance is the least costly 
means of providing the assistance by the 
Farm Credit Insurance Fund of all possible 
alternatives available to the Corporation, including 
liquidation of the bank (including 
paying the insured obligations issued on behalf 
of the bank). Before making a least-cost 
determination under this subparagraph, the 
Corporation shall accord such other insured 
System banks as the Corporation determines 
to be appropriate the opportunity to submit 
information relating to the determination. 

‘‘(B) DETERMINING LEAST COSTLY AP-
PROACH.—In determining the least costly alternative 
under subparagraph (A), the Corporation 
shall— 

‘‘(i) evaluate alternatives on a present-
value basis, using a reasonable discount rate; 

‘‘(ii) document the evaluation and the assumptions 
on which the evaluation is based; 
and 

‘‘(iii) retain the documentation for not less 
than 5 years. 

‘‘(C) TIME OF DETERMINATION.— 

‘‘(i) GENERAL RULE.—For purposes of this 
subsection, the determination of the costs of 
providing any assistance under any provision 
of this section with respect to any insured 
System bank shall be made as of the date on 
which the Corporation makes the determination 
to provide the assistance to the institution 
under this section. 

‘‘(ii) RULE FOR LIQUIDATIONS.—For purposes 
of this subsection, the determination of the 
costs of liquidation of any insured System 
bank shall be made as of the earliest of— 

‘‘(I) the date on which a conservator is appointed 
for the insured System bank; 

‘‘(II) the date on which a receiver is appointed 
for the insured System bank; or 

‘‘(III) the date on which the Corporation 
makes any determination to provide any assistance 
under this section with respect to 
the insured System bank. 

‘‘(D) RULE FOR STAND-ALONE ASSISTANCE.— 
Before providing any assistance under paragraph 
(1), the Corporation shall evaluate the 
adequacy of managerial resources of the insured 
System bank. The continued service of 
any director or senior ranking officer who 
serves in a policymaking role for the assisted 
insured System bank, as determined by the 
Corporation, shall be subject to approval by 
the Corporation as a condition of assistance. 

‘‘(E) DISCRETIONARY DETERMINATIONS.—Any 
determination that the Corporation makes 
under this paragraph shall be in the sole discretion 
of the Corporation.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
5.61(a) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 
U.S.C. 2277a–10(a)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘IN GENERAL.—’’ 
and inserting ‘‘STAND-ALONE ASSISTANCE.—’’; 
and 
(2) in paragraph (2)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘ENUMERATED POWERS.—’’ 
and inserting ‘‘FACILITATION OF MERGERS OR 
CONSOLIDATION.—’’; and 
(B) in subparagraph (A) by striking ‘‘FACILITATION 
OF MERGERS OR CONSOLIDATION.—’’ 
and inserting ‘‘IN GENERAL.—’’. 
SEC. 498. OVERSIGHT AND REGULATORY AC


TIONS BY THE FARM CREDIT SYS


TEM INSURANCE CORPORATION. 

The Farm Credit Act of 1971 is amended by 
inserting after section 5.61 (12 U.S.C. 2279a– 

10) the following: 
‘‘SEC. 5.61A. OVERSIGHT ACTIONS BY THE CORPORATION. 


‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the term 
‘institution’ means— 

‘‘(1) an insured System bank; and 

‘‘(2) a production credit association or 
other association making loans under section 
7.6 with a direct loan payable to the 
funding bank of the association that comprises 
20 percent or more of the funding 
bank’s total loan volume net of nonaccrual 
loans. 

‘‘(b) CONSULTATION REGARDING PARTICIPATION 
OF UNDERCAPITALIZED BANKS IN 
ISSUANCE OF INSURED OBLIGATIONS.—The 
Farm Credit Administration shall consult 
with the Corporation prior to approving an 
insured obligation that is to be issued by or 
on behalf of, or participated in by, any insured 
System bank that fails to meet the 
minimum level for any capital requirement 
established by the Farm Credit Administration 
for the bank. 

‘‘(c) CONSULTATION REGARDING APPLICATIONS 
FOR MERGERS AND RESTRUCTURINGS.— 

‘‘(1) CORPORATION TO RECEIVE COPY OF 
TRANSACTION APPLICATIONS.—On receiving an 
application for a merger or restructuring of 
an institution, the Farm Credit Administration 
shall forward a copy of the application 
to the Corporation. 

‘‘(2) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—If the proposed 
merger or restructuring involves an institution 
that fails to meet the minimum 
level for any capital requirement established 
by the Farm Credit Administration applicable 
to the institution, the Farm Credit Administration 
shall allow 30 days within 
which the Corporation may submit the views 
and recommendations of the Corporation, including 
any conditions for approval. In determining 
whether to approve or disapprove 
any proposed merger or restructuring, the 
Farm Credit Administration shall give due 
consideration to the views and recommendations 
of the Corporation. 

‘‘SEC. 5.61B. AUTHORITY TO REGULATE GOLDEN 

PARACHUTE AND INDEMNIFICATION 

PAYMENTS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) GOLDEN PARACHUTE PAYMENT.—The 
term ‘golden parachute payment’— 

‘‘(A) means a payment (or any agreement 
to make a payment) in the nature of compensation 
for the benefit of any institution-
related party under an obligation of any 
Farm Credit System institution that— 

‘‘(i) is contingent on the termination of the 
party’s relationship with the institution; and 

‘‘(ii) is received on or after the date on 
which— 

‘‘(I) the institution is insolvent; 

‘‘(II) a conservator or receiver is appointed 
for the institution; 

‘‘(III) the institution has been assigned by 
the Farm Credit Administration a composite 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S795 

CAMEL rating of 4 or 5 under the Farm Credit 
Administration Rating System, or an 
equivalent rating; or 

‘‘(IV) the Corporation otherwise determines 
that the institution is in a troubled 
condition (as defined in regulations issued by 
the Corporation); and 

‘‘(B) includes a payment that would be a 
golden parachute payment but for the fact 
that the payment was made before the date 
referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) if the payment 
was made in contemplation of the occurrence 
of an event described in any sub-
clause of subparagraph (A); but 

‘‘(C) does not include— 

‘‘(i) a payment made under a retirement 
plan that is qualified (or is intended to be 
qualified) under section 401 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 or other nondiscriminatory 
benefit plan; 

‘‘(ii) a payment made under a bona fide 
supplemental executive retirement plan, deferred 
compensation plan, or other arrangement 
that the Corporation determines, by 
regulation or order, to be permissible; or 

‘‘(iii) a payment made by reason of the 
death or disability of an institution-related 
party. 

‘‘(2) INDEMNIFICATION PAYMENT.—The term 
‘indemnification payment’ means a payment 
(or any agreement to make a payment) by 
any Farm Credit System institution for the 
benefit of any person who is or was an institution-
related party, to pay or reimburse the 
person for any liability or legal expense with 
regard to any administrative proceeding or 
civil action instituted by the Farm Credit 
Administration that results in a final order 
under which the person— 

‘‘(A) is assessed a civil money penalty; or 

‘‘(B) is removed or prohibited from participating 
in the conduct of the affairs of the institution. 


‘‘(3) INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY.—The 
term ‘institution-related party’ means— 

‘‘(A) a director, officer, employee, or agent 
for a Farm Credit System institution or any 
conservator or receiver of such an institution; 


‘‘(B) a stockholder (other than another 
Farm Credit System institution), consultant, 
joint venture partner, or any other person 
determined by the Farm Credit Administration 
to be a participant in the conduct of 
the affairs of a Farm Credit System institution; 
and 

‘‘(C) an independent contractor (including 
any attorney, appraiser, or accountant) that 
knowingly or recklessly participates in any 
violation of any law or regulation, any 
breach of fiduciary duty, or any unsafe or 
unsound practice that caused or is likely to 
cause more than a minimal financial loss to, 
or a significant adverse effect on, the Farm 
Credit System institution. 

‘‘(4) LIABILITY OR LEGAL EXPENSE.—The 
term ‘liability or legal expense’ means— 

‘‘(A) a legal or other professional expense 
incurred in connection with any claim, proceeding, 
or action; 

‘‘(B) the amount of, and any cost incurred 
in connection with, any settlement of any 
claim, proceeding, or action; and 

‘‘(C) the amount of, and any cost incurred 
in connection with, any judgment or penalty 
imposed with respect to any claim, proceeding, 
or action. 

‘‘(5) PAYMENT.—The term ‘payment’ 
means— 

‘‘(A) a direct or indirect transfer of any 
funds or any asset; and 

‘‘(B) any segregation of any funds or assets 
for the purpose of making, or under an agreement 
to make, any payment after the date 
on which the funds or assets are segregated, 
without regard to whether the obligation to 
make the payment is contingent on— 

‘‘(i) the determination, after that date, of 
the liability for the payment of the amount; 
or 

‘‘(ii) the liquidation, after that date, of the 
amount of the payment. 

‘‘(b) PROHIBITION.—The Corporation may 
prohibit or limit, by regulation or order, any 
golden parachute payment or indemnification 
payment by a Farm Credit System institution 
(including any conservator or receiver 
of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) in troubled condition (as defined 
in regulations issued by the Corporation). 


‘‘(c) FACTORS TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.— 
The Corporation shall prescribe, by regulation, 
the factors to be considered by the Corporation 
in taking any action under subsection 
(b). The factors may include— 

‘‘(1) whether there is a reasonable basis to 
believe that an institution-related party has 
committed any fraudulent act or omission, 
breach of trust or fiduciary duty, or insider 
abuse with regard to the Farm Credit System 
institution involved that has had a material 
effect on the financial condition of the 
institution; 

‘‘(2) whether there is a reasonable basis to 
believe that the institution-related party is 
substantially responsible for the insolvency 
of the Farm Credit System institution, the 
appointment of a conservator or receiver for 
the institution, or the institution’s troubled 
condition (as defined in regulations prescribed 
by the Corporation); 

‘‘(3) whether there is a reasonable basis to 
believe that the institution-related party has 
materially violated any applicable law or 
regulation that has had a material effect on 
the financial condition of the institution; 

‘‘(4) whether there is a reasonable basis to 
believe that the institution-related party has 
violated or conspired to violate— 

‘‘(A) section 215, 657, 1006, 1014, or 1344 of 
title 18, United States Code; or 

‘‘(B) section 1341 or 1343 of title 18, United 
States Code, affecting a Farm Credit System 
institution; 

‘‘(5) whether the institution-related party 
was in a position of managerial or fiduciary 
responsibility; and 

‘‘(6) the length of time that the party was 
related to the Farm Credit System institution 
and the degree to which— 

‘‘(A) the payment reasonably reflects compensation 
earned over the period of employment; 
and 

‘‘(B) the compensation represents a reasonable 
payment for services rendered. 

‘‘(d) CERTAIN PAYMENTS PROHIBITED.—No 
Farm Credit System institution may prepay 
the salary or any liability or legal expense of 
any institution-related party if the payment 
is made— 

‘‘(1) in contemplation of the insolvency of 
the institution or after the commission of an 
act of insolvency; and 

‘‘(2) with a view to, or with the result of— 

‘‘(A) preventing the proper application of 
the assets of the institution to creditors; or 

‘‘(B) preferring 1 creditor over another 
creditor. 

‘‘(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this section— 

‘‘(1) prohibits any Farm Credit System institution 
from purchasing any commercial 
insurance policy or fidelity bond, so long as 
the insurance policy or bond does not cover 
any legal or liability expense of an institution 
described in subsection (a)(2); or 

‘‘(2) limits the powers, functions, or responsibilities 
of the Farm Credit Administration.’’. 
SEC. 499. FARM CREDIT SYSTEM INSURANCE 

CORPORATION BOARD OF DIREC


TORS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5.53 of the Farm 
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2277a–2) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 5.53. BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Corporation 
shall be managed by a Board of Directors 
that shall consist of the members of the 
Farm Credit Administration Board. 

‘‘(b) CHAIRMAN.—The Board of Directors 
shall be chaired by any Board member other 
than the Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration 
Board.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 5314 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘Chairperson, 
Board of Directors of the Farm Credit System 
Insurance Corporation.’’. 
(2) Section 5315 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘Members, 
Board of Directors of the Farm Credit System 
Insurance Corporation.’’. 
SEC. 499A. LIABILITY FOR MAKING CRIMINAL REFERRALS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Any institution of the 
Farm Credit System, or any director, officer, 
employee, or agent of a Farm Credit System 
institution, that discloses to a Government 
authority information proffered in good faith 
that may be relevant to a possible violation 
of any law or regulation shall not be liable 
to any person under any law of the United 
States or any State— 
(1) for the disclosure; or 
(2) for any failure to notify the person involved 
in the possible violation. 
(b) NO PROHIBITION ON DISCLOSURE.—Any 
institution of the Farm Credit System, or 
any director, officer, employee, or agent of a 
Farm Credit System institution, may disclose 
information to a Government authority 
that may be relevant to a possible violation 
of any law or regulation. 
TITLE V—RURAL DEVELOPMENT 
Subtitle A—Amendments to the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 
CHAPTER 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
SEC. 501. RURAL INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2310(c)(1) of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2007(c)(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
The first sentence of section 2313(d) of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2007c) is amended by 
striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘$4,700,000 for 
each of fiscal years 1996 through 2002’’. 
SEC. 502. WATER AND WASTE FACILITY FINANCING. 


Section 2322 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
1926–1) is repealed. 

SEC. 503. RURAL WASTEWATER CIRCUIT RIDER 
PROGRAM. 

Section 2324 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 7 U.S.C. 1926 note) is repealed. 

SEC. 504. TELEMEDICINE AND DISTANCE LEARNING 
SERVICES IN RURAL AREAS. 

Chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XXIII of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq.) is amended 
to read as follows: 

‘‘CHAPTER 1—TELEMEDICINE AND DIS


TANCE LEARNING SERVICES IN RURAL 

AREAS 

‘‘SEC. 2331. PURPOSE. 

‘‘The purpose of the financing programs established 
under this chapter is to encourage 
and improve telemedicine services and distance 
learning services in rural areas 
through the use of telecommunications, 
computer networks, and related advanced 
technologies by students, teachers, medical 
professionals, and rural residents. 

‘‘SEC. 2332. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 


S796 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(1) CONSTRUCT.—The term ‘construct’ 
means to construct, acquire, install, improve, 
or extend a facility or system. 

‘‘(2) COST OF MONEY LOAN.—The term ‘cost 
of money loan’ means a loan made under this 
chapter bearing interest at a rate equal to 
the then current cost to the Federal Government 
of loans of similar maturity. 

‘‘(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
‘‘SEC. 2333. TELEMEDICINE AND DISTANCE 

LEARNING SERVICES IN RURAL 

AREAS. 

‘‘(a) SERVICES TO RURAL AREAS.—The Secretary 
is authorized to provide financial assistance 
for the purpose of financing the construction 
of facilities and systems to provide 
telemedicine services and distance learning 
services to persons and entities in rural 
areas. 

‘‘(b) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Financial assistance 
shall consist of grants or cost of money 
loans, or both. 

‘‘(2) FORM.—The Secretary shall determine 
the portion of the financial assistance provided 
to a recipient that consists of grants 
and that consists of cost of money loans so 
as to result in the maximum feasible repayment 
to the Federal Government of the financial 
assistance, based on the ability to 
repay of the recipient and full utilization of 
funds made available to carry out this chapter. 


‘‘(c) RECIPIENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may provide 
financial assistance under this chapter 
to— 

‘‘(A) entities using telemedicine services or 
distance learning services, or both; and 

‘‘(B) entities providing or proposing to provide 
telemedicine service or distance learning 
service, or both, to other persons at rates 
reflecting the benefit of the financial assistance. 


‘‘(2) ELECTRIC OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS BORROWERS.— 


‘‘(A) LOANS TO BORROWERS.—Subject to 
subparagraph (B), the Secretary may provide 
a cost of money loan under this chapter to a 
borrower of an electric or telecommunications 
loan under the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.). A borrower 
receiving a cost of money loan under this 
paragraph shall— 

‘‘(i) make the funds provided available to 
entities that qualify under paragraph (1) for 
projects satisfying the requirements of this 
chapter; 

‘‘(ii) use the funds provided to acquire, install, 
improve, or extend a system for the 
purposes of this chapter; or 

‘‘(iii) use the funds provided to install, improve, 
or extend a facility for the purposes of 
this chapter. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS.—A borrower of an electric 
or telecommunications loan under the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 shall— 

‘‘(i) make a system or facility funded under 
subparagraph (A) available to entities that 
qualify under paragraph (1); and 

‘‘(ii) neither retain from the proceeds of a 
loan provided under subparagraph (A), nor 
assess a qualifying entity under paragraph 
(1), any amount except as may be required to 
pay the actual costs incurred in administering 
the loan funds or making the system 
or facility available. 

‘‘(3) ASSISTANCE TO PROVIDE OR IMPROVE 
SERVICES.—Financial assistance may be provided 
under this chapter for a facility regardless 
of the location of the facility if the 
Secretary determines that the assistance is 
necessary to provide or improve telemedicine 
services or distance learning services in 
a rural area. 

‘‘(d) PRIORITY.—The Secretary shall establish 
procedures to prioritize financial assist


ance provided under this chapter considering— 


‘‘(1) the need for the assistance in the affected 
rural area; 

‘‘(2) the financial need of the applicant; 

‘‘(3) the population sparsity of the affected 
rural area; 

‘‘(4) the local involvement in the project 
serving the affected rural area; 

‘‘(5) geographic diversity among the recipients 
of financial assistance; 

‘‘(6) the utilization of the telecommunications 
facilities of the existing telecommunications 
provider; 

‘‘(7) the portion of total project financing 
provided by the applicant from the funds of 
the applicant; 

‘‘(8) the portion of project financing provided 
by the applicant with funds obtained 
from non-Federal sources; 

‘‘(9) the joint utilization of facilities financed 
by other financial assistance; 

‘‘(10) the coordination of the proposed 
project with regional projects or networks; 

‘‘(11) service to the widest practical number 
of persons within the general geographic 
area covered by the financial assistance; 

‘‘(12) conformity with the State strategic 
plan as prepared under section 381D of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act; and 

‘‘(13) other factors determined appropriate 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(e) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE TO 
INDIVIDUAL RECIPIENTS.—The Secretary may 
establish the maximum amount of financial 
assistance to be made available to an individual 
recipient for each fiscal year under 
this chapter by publishing notice in the Federal 
Register. The notice shall be published 
not more than 45 days after funds are made 
available to carry out this chapter during a 
fiscal year. 

‘‘(f) USE OF FUNDS.—Financial assistance 
provided under this chapter shall be used 
for— 

‘‘(1) the development and acquisition of instructional 
programming; 

‘‘(2) the development and acquisition, 
through lease or purchase, of computer hardware 
and software, audio and visual equipment, 
computer network components, telecommunications 
terminal equipment, telecommunications 
transmission facilities, 
data terminal equipment, or interactive 
video equipment, and other facilities that 
would further telemedicine services or distance 
learning services, or both; 

‘‘(3) providing technical assistance and instruction 
for the development or use of the 
programming, equipment, or facilities referred 
to in paragraphs (1) and (2); or 

‘‘(4) other uses that are consistent with 
this chapter, as determined by the Secretary. 


‘‘(g) SALARIES AND EXPENSES.—Notwithstanding 
subsection (f), financial assistance 
provided under this chapter shall not be used 
for paying salaries of employees or administrative 
expenses. 

‘‘(h) EXPEDITING COORDINATED TELEPHONE 
LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may establish 
and carry out procedures to ensure 
that expedited consideration and determination 
is given to applications for loans and advances 
of funds submitted by local exchange 
carriers under this chapter and the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 et 
seq.) to enable the exchange carriers to provide 
advanced telecommunications services 
in rural areas in conjunction with any other 
projects carried out under this chapter. 

‘‘(2) DEADLINE IMPOSED ON SECRETARY.—Not 
later than 45 days after the receipt of a completed 
application for an expedited telephone 
loan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
respond to the application. The Secretary 

shall notify the applicant in writing of the 
decision of the Secretary regarding each expedited 
loan application. 

‘‘(i) NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER.— 


‘‘(1) APPLICANTS.—Each applicant for a 
grant for a telemedicine or distance learning 
project established under this chapter shall 
notify the appropriate local telephone exchange 
carrier regarding the application 
filed with the Secretary for the grant. 

‘‘(2) SECRETARY.—The Secretary shall— 

‘‘(A) publish notice of applications received 
for grants under this chapter for telemedicine 
or distance learning projects; and 

‘‘(B) make the applications available for 
inspection. 

‘‘SEC. 2334. ADMINISTRATION. 

‘‘(a) NONDUPLICATION.—The Secretary shall 
ensure that facilities constructed using financial 
assistance provided under this chapter 
do not duplicate adequate established 
telemedicine services or distance learning 
services. 

‘‘(b) LOAN MATURITY.—The maturities of 
cost of money loans shall be determined by 
the Secretary, based on the useful life of the 
facility being financed, except that the loan 
shall not be for a period of more than 10 
years. 

‘‘(c) LOAN SECURITY AND FEASIBILITY.—The 
Secretary shall make a cost of money loan 
only after determining that the security for 
the loan is reasonably adequate and that the 
loan will be repaid within the period of the 
loan. 

‘‘(d) ENCOURAGING CONSORTIA.—The Secretary 
shall encourage the development of 
consortia to provide telemedicine services or 
distance learning services, or both, through 
telecommunications in rural areas served by 
a telecommunications provider. 

‘‘(e) COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.— 
The Secretary shall cooperate, to the extent 
practicable, with other Federal and State 
agencies with similar grant or loan programs 
to pool resources for funding meritorious 
proposals in rural areas. 

‘‘(f) INFORMATIONAL EFFORTS.—The Secretary 
shall establish and implement procedures 
to carry out informational efforts to 
advise potential end users located in rural 
areas of each State about the program authorized 
by this chapter. 

‘‘SEC. 2335. REGULATIONS. 

‘‘Not later than 180 days after the effective 
date of the Agricultural Reform and Improvement 
Act of 1996, the Secretary shall 
issue regulations to carry out this chapter. 

‘‘SEC. 2335A. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 


‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out this chapter $100,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’. 

SEC. 505. LIMITATION ON AUTHORIZATION OF AP


PROPRIATIONS FOR RURAL TECH


NOLOGY GRANTS. 

Section 2347 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 104 Stat. 4034) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—’’; and 
(2) by striking subsection (b). 
SEC. 506. MONITORING THE ECONOMIC 
PROGRESS OF RURAL AMERICA. 

Section 2382 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 13 U.S.C. 141 note) is repealed. 

SEC. 507. ANALYSIS BY OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY 
ASSESSMENT. 

Section 2385 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 7 U.S.C. 950aaa–4 note) is repealed. 

SEC. 508. RURAL HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT. 


Section 2391 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 7 U.S.C. 2662 note) is repealed. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S797 

SEC. 509. CENSUS OF AGRICULTURE. 

Section 2392 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 
101–624; 104 Stat. 4057) is repealed. 

CHAPTER 2—ALTERNATIVE AGRICUL


TURAL RESEARCH AND COMMER


CIALIZATION 

SEC. 521. DEFINITIONS. 

Section 1657(c) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5901(c)) is amended— 

(1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4); 
(2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph 
(3); 
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through 
(12) as paragraphs (7) through (13), respectively; 
and 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (3) (as re-
designated by paragraph (2)) the following: 
‘‘(4) CORPORATE BOARD.—The term ‘Corporate 
Board’ means the Board of Directors 
of the Corporation described in section 1659. 

‘‘(5) CORPORATION.—The term ‘Corporation’ 
means the Alternative Agricultural Research 
and Commercialization Corporation established 
under section 1658. 

‘‘(6) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Executive 
Director’ means the Executive Director 
of the Corporation appointed under section 
1659(d)(2).’’. 

SEC. 522. ALTERNATIVE AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH AND COMMERCIALIZATION 

CORPORATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1658 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 5902) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 1658. ALTERNATIVE AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH AND COMMERCIALIZATION 

CORPORATION. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—To carry out this 
subtitle, there is created a body corporate to 
be known as the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Corporation, 
which shall be an agency of the United 
States, within the Department of Agriculture, 
subject to the general supervision 
and direction of the Secretary, except as specifically 
provided for in this subtitle. 

‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Corporation 
is to— 

‘‘(1) expedite the development and market 
penetration of industrial, nonfood, nonfeed 
products from agricultural and forestry materials; 
and 

‘‘(2) assist the private sector in bridging 
the gap between research results and the 
commercialization of the research. 

‘‘(c) PLACE OF INCORPORATION.—The Corporation 
shall be located in the District of 
Columbia. 

‘‘(d) CENTRAL OFFICE.—The Secretary shall 
provide facilities for the principal office of 
the Corporation within the Washington, D.C. 
metropolitan area. 

‘‘(e) WHOLLY-OWNED GOVERNMENT CORPORATION.—
The Corporation shall be considered a 
wholly-owned government corporation for 
purposes of chapter 91 of title 31, United 
States Code. 

‘‘(f) GENERAL POWERS.—In addition to any 
other powers granted to the Corporation 
under this subtitle, the Corporation— 

‘‘(1) shall have succession in its corporate 
name; 

‘‘(2) may adopt, alter, and rescind any 
bylaw and adopt and alter a corporate seal, 
which shall be judicially noticed; 

‘‘(3) may enter into any agreement or contract 
with a person or private or governmental 
agency, except that the Corporation 
shall not provide any financial assistance 
unless specifically authorized under this subtitle; 


‘‘(4) may lease, purchase, accept a gift or 
donation of, or otherwise acquire, use, own, 
hold, improve, or otherwise deal in or with, 

and sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, 
or otherwise dispose of, any property, 
real, personal, or mixed, or any interest 
in property, as the Corporation considers 
necessary in the transaction of the business 
of the Corporation, except that this paragraph 
shall not provide authority for carrying 
out a program of real estate investment; 


‘‘(5) may sue and be sued in the corporate 
name of the Corporation, except that— 

‘‘(A) no attachment, injunction, garnishment, 
or similar process shall be issued 
against the Corporation or property of the 
Corporation; and 

‘‘(B) exclusive original jurisdiction shall 
reside in the district courts of the United 
States, but the Corporation may intervene in 
any court in any suit, action, or proceeding 
in which the Corporation has an interest; 

‘‘(6) may independently retain legal representation; 


‘‘(7) may provide for and designate such 
committees, and the functions of the committees, 
as the Corporate Board considers 
necessary or desirable, 

‘‘(8) may indemnify the Executive Director 
and other officers of the Corporation, as the 
Corporate Board considers necessary and desirable, 
except that the Executive Director 
and officers shall not be indemnified for an 
act outside the scope of employment; 

‘‘(9) may, with the consent of any board, 
commission, independent establishment, or 
executive department of the Federal Government, 
including any field service, use information, 
services, facilities, officials, and employees 
in carrying out this subtitle, and pay 
for the use, which payments shall be credited 
to the applicable appropriation that incurred 
the expense; 

‘‘(10) may obtain the services and fix the 
compensation of any consultant and otherwise 
procure temporary and intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code; 

‘‘(11) may use the United States mails on 
the same terms and conditions as the Executive 
agencies of the Federal Government; 

‘‘(12) shall have the rights, privileges, and 
immunities of the United States with respect 
to the right to priority of payment with respect 
to debts due from bankrupt, insolvent, 
or deceased creditors; 

‘‘(13) may collect or compromise any obligations 
assigned to or held by the Corporation, 
including any legal or equitable rights 
accruing to the Corporation; 

‘‘(14) shall determine the character of, and 
necessity for, obligations and expenditures of 
the Corporation and the manner in which the 
obligations and expenditures shall be incurred, 
allowed, and paid, subject to provisions 
of law specifically applicable to Government 
corporations; 

‘‘(15) may make final and conclusive settlement 
and adjustment of any claim by or 
against the Corporation or a fiscal officer of 
the Corporation; 

‘‘(16) may sell assets, loans, and equity interests 
acquired in connection with the financing 
of projects funded by the Corporation; 
and 

‘‘(17) may exercise all other lawful powers 
necessarily or reasonably related to the establishment 
of the Corporation to carry out 
this subtitle and the powers, purposes, functions, 
duties, and authorized activities of the 
Corporation. 

‘‘(g) SPECIFIC POWERS.—To carry out this 
subtitle, the Corporation shall have the authority 
to— 

‘‘(1) make grants to, and enter into cooperative 
agreements and contracts with, eligible 
applicants for research, development, and 
demonstration projects in accordance with 
section 1660; 

‘‘(2) make loans and interest subsidy payments 
and invest venture capital in accordance 
with section 1661; 

‘‘(3) collect and disseminate information 
concerning State, regional, and local commercialization 
projects; 

‘‘(4) search for new nonfood, nonfeed products 
that may be produced from agricultural 
commodities and for processes to produce 
the products; 

‘‘(5) administer, maintain, and dispense 
funds from the Alternative Agricultural Research 
and Commercialization Revolving 
Fund to facilitate the conduct of activities 
under this subtitle; and 

‘‘(6) engage in other activities incident to 
carrying out the functions of the Corporation.’’. 


(b) WHOLLY OWNED GOVERNMENT CORPORATION.—
Section 9101(3) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended— 
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (N) (relating 
to the Uranium Enrichment Corporation) 
as subparagraph (O); and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(P) the Alternative Agricultural Research 
and Commercialization Corporation.’’. 

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
211(b)(5) of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 
6911(b)(5)) is amended by striking ‘‘Alternative 
Agricultural Research and Commercialization 
Board’’ and inserting ‘‘Corporate 
Board of the Alternative Agricultural Research 
and Commercialization Corporation’’. 
SEC. 523. BOARD OF DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, 
AND FACILITIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1659 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 5903) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 1659. BOARD OF DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, 
AND FACILITIES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The powers of the Corporation 
shall be vested in a Corporate 
Board. 

‘‘(b) MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATE BOARD.— 
The Corporate Board shall consist of 10 members 
as follows: 

‘‘(1) The Under Secretary of Agriculture 
for Rural Economic and Community Development. 


‘‘(2) The Under Secretary of Agriculture 
for Research, Education, and Economics. 

‘‘(3) 4 members appointed by the Secretary, 
of whom— 

‘‘(A) at least 1 member shall be a representative 
of the leading scientific disciplines 
relevant to the activities of the Corporation; 


‘‘(B) at least 1 member shall be a producer 
or processor of agricultural commodities; 
and 

‘‘(C) at least 1 member shall be a person 
who is privately engaged in the commercialization 
of new nonfood, nonfeed products 
from agricultural commodities. 

‘‘(4) 2 members appointed by the Secretary 
who— 

‘‘(A) have expertise in areas of applied research 
relating to the development or commercialization 
of new nonfood, nonfeed products; 
and 

‘‘(B) shall be appointed from a group of at 
least 4 individuals nominated by the Director 
of the National Science Foundation if the 
nominations are made within 60 days after 
the date a vacancy occurs. 

‘‘(5) 2 members appointed by the Secretary 
who— 

‘‘(A) have expertise in financial and managerial 
matters; and 

‘‘(B) shall be appointed from a group of at 
least 4 individuals nominated by the Secretary 
of Commerce if the nominations are 
made within 60 days after the date a vacancy 
occurs. 


S798 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(c) RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CORPORATE 
BOARD.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Corporate Board 
shall— 

‘‘(A) be responsible for the general supervision 
of the Corporation and Regional Centers 
established under section 1663; 

‘‘(B) determine (in consultation with Regional 
Centers) high priority commercialization 
areas to receive assistance under section 
1663; 

‘‘(C) review any grant, contract, or cooperative 
agreement to be made or entered into 
by the Corporation under section 1660 and 
any financial assistance to be provided under 
section 1661; 

‘‘(D) make the final decision, by majority 
vote, on whether and how to provide assistance 
to an applicant; and 

‘‘(E) using the results of the hearings and 
other information and data collected under 
paragraph (2), develop and establish a budget 
plan and a long-term operating plan to carry 
out this subtitle. 

‘‘(2) AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall vacate 
and remand to the Board for reconsideration 
any decision made pursuant to paragraph 
(1)(D) if the Secretary determines that 
there has been a violation of subsection (j), 
or any conflict of interest provisions of the 
bylaws of the Board, with respect to the decision. 


‘‘(B) REASONS.—In the case of any violation 
and referral of a funding decision to the 
Board, the Secretary shall inform the Board 
of the reasons for any remand pursuant to 
subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(d) CHAIRPERSON.—The members of the 
Corporate Board shall select a Chairperson 
from among the members of the Corporate 
Board. The term of office of the Chairperson 
shall be 2 years. The members referred to in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) may 
not serve as Chairperson. 

‘‘(e) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Executive Director 
of the Corporation shall be the chief executive 
officer of the Corporation, with such 
power and authority as may be conferred by 
the Corporate Board. The Executive Director 
shall be appointed by the Corporate Board. 
The appointment shall be subject to the approval 
of the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) COMPENSATION.—The Executive Director 
shall receive basic pay at the rate provided 
for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
Code. 

‘‘(f) OFFICERS.—The Corporate Board shall 
establish the offices and appoint the officers 
of the Corporation, including a Secretary, 
and define the duties of the officers in a 
manner consistent with this subtitle. 

‘‘(g) MEETINGS.—The Corporate Board shall 
meet at least 3 times each fiscal year at the 
call of the Chairperson or at the request of 
the Executive Director. The location of the 
meetings shall be subject to approval of the 
Executive Director. A quorum of the Corporate 
Board shall consist of a majority of 
the members. The decisions of the Corporate 
Board shall be made by majority vote. 

‘‘(h) TERM; VACANCIES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term of office of a 
member of the Corporate Board shall be 4 
years, except that the members initially appointed 
shall be appointed to serve staggered 
terms. A member appointed to fill a vacancy 
for an unexpired term may be appointed only 
for the remainder of the term. A vacancy on 
the Corporate Board shall be filled in the 
same manner as the original appointment. 
The Secretary shall not remove a member of 
the Corporate Board except for cause. 

‘‘(2) TRANSITION MEASURE.—An individual 
who is serving on the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization Board 

on the day before the effective date of the 
Agricultural Reform and Improvement Act 
of 1996 may be appointed to the Corporate 
Board by the Secretary for a term that does 
not exceed the term of the individual on the 
Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization 
Board if the Act had not been 
enacted. 

‘‘(i) COMPENSATION.—A member of the Corporate 
Board who is an officer or employee of 
the United States shall not receive any additional 
compensation by reason of service on 
the Corporate Board. Any other member 
shall receive, for each day (including travel 
time) the member is engaged in the performance 
of the functions of the Corporate Board, 
compensation at a rate not to exceed the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate in effect 
for Level IV of the Executive Schedule. A 
member of the Corporate Board shall be reimbursed 
for travel, subsistence, and other 
necessary expenses incurred by the member 
in the performance of the duties of the member. 


‘‘(j) CONFLICT OF INTEREST; FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.— 


‘‘(1) CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—Except as provided 
in paragraph (3), no member of the Corporate 
Board shall vote on any matter respecting 
any application, contract, claim, or 
other particular matter pending before the 
Corporation, in which, to the knowledge of 
the member, the member, spouse, or child of 
the member, partner, or organization in 
which the member is serving as officer, director, 
trustee, partner, or employee, or any 
person or organization with whom the member 
is negotiating or has any arrangement 
concerning prospective employment, has a 
financial interest. 

‘‘(2) VIOLATIONS.—Action by a member of 
the Corporate Board that is contrary to the 
prohibition contained in paragraph (1) shall 
be cause for removal of the member, but 
shall not impair or otherwise affect the validity 
of any otherwise lawful action by the 
Corporation in which the member participated. 


‘‘(3) EXCEPTIONS.—The prohibitions contained 
in paragraph (1) shall not apply if a 
member of the Corporate Board advises the 
Corporate Board of the nature of the particular 
matter in which the member proposes 
to participate, and if the member makes a 
full disclosure of the financial interest, prior 
to any participation, and the Corporate 
Board determines, by majority vote, that the 
financial interest is too remote or too inconsequential 
to affect the integrity of the 
member’s services to the Corporation in that 
matter. The member involved shall not vote 
on the determination. 

‘‘(4) FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.—A Board member 
shall be subject to the financial disclosure 
requirements applicable to a special 
Government employee (as defined in section 
202(a) of title 18, United States Code). 

‘‘(k) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Corporate Board 
may, by resolution, delegate to the Chairperson, 
the Executive Director, or any other 
officer or employee any function, power, or 
duty assigned to the Corporation under this 
subtitle, other than a function, power, or 
duty expressly vested in the Corporate Board 
by subsections (c) through (n). 

‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION.—Notwithstanding 
any other law, the Secretary and 
any other officer or employee of the United 
States shall not make any delegation to the 
Corporate Board, the Chairperson, the Executive 
Director, or the Corporation of any 
power, function, or authority not expressly 
authorized by this subtitle, unless the delegation 
is made pursuant to an authority in 
law that expressly makes reference to this 
section. 

‘‘(3) REORGANIZATION ACT.—Notwithstanding 
any other law, the President 
(through authorities provided under chapter 
9, title 5, United States Code) may not authorize 
the transfer to the Corporation of 
any power, function, or authority in addition 
to powers, functions, and authorities provided 
by law. 

‘‘(l) BYLAWS.—Notwithstanding section 
1658(f)(2), the Corporate Board shall adopt, 
and may from time to time amend, any 
bylaw that is necessary for the proper management 
and functioning of the Corporation. 
The Corporate Board shall not adopt any 
bylaw that has not been reviewed and approved 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(m) ORGANIZATION.—The Corporate Board 
shall provide a system of organization to fix 
responsibility and promote efficiency. 

‘‘(n) PERSONNEL AND FACILITIES OF CORPORATION.— 


‘‘(1) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF 
PERSONNEL.—The Corporation may select and 
appoint officers, attorneys, employees, and 
agents, who shall be vested with such powers 
and duties as the Corporation may determine. 


‘‘(2) USE OF FACILITIES AND SERVICES OF THE 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, to perform 
the responsibilities of the Corporation 
under this subtitle, the Corporation may 
partially or jointly utilize the facilities of 
and the services of employees of the Department 
of Agriculture, without cost to the 
Corporation. 

‘‘(3) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT LAWS.—An 
officer or employee of the Corporation shall 
be subject to all laws of the United States relating 
to governmental employment.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 5315 
of title V, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Executive Director of the Alternative Agricultural 
Research and Commercialization 
Corporation.’’. 
SEC. 524. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

GRANTS, CONTRACTS, AND AGREE


MENTS. 

Section 1660 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5904) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘Center’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘Corporation’’; 
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘Board’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Corporate Board’’; and 
(3) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘non-Center’’ 
and inserting ‘‘non-Corporation’’. 
SEC. 525. COMMERCIALIZATION ASSISTANCE. 

Section 1661 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5905) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘Center’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘Corporation’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘Board’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘Corporate Board’’; 
(3) by striking subsection (c); 
(4) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), 
and (f) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively; 
and 
(5) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)— 
(A) in the subsection heading of paragraph 
(1), by striking ‘‘DIRECTOR’’ and inserting 
‘‘EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘Director’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘Executive Director’’. 
SEC. 526. GENERAL RULES REGARDING THE PROVISION 
OF ASSISTANCE. 

Section 1662 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5906) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘Center’’ each place it appears 
(except in subsection (b)) and inserting 
‘‘Corporation’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘Board’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘Corporate Board’’; and 
(3) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘Board, a Regional Center, or the Advisory 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S799 

Council’’ and inserting ‘‘Board or a Regional 
Center’’; and 

(B) by striking the third sentence. 
SEC. 527. REGIONAL CENTERS. 

Section 1663 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5907) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘Board’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘Corporate Board’’; 
(2) in subsection (e)(8), by striking ‘‘Center’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Corporation’’; and 
(3) in subsection (f)— 
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘in consultation 
with the Advisory Council appointed 
under section 1661(c)’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4) and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(3) RECOMMENDATION.—The Regional Director, 
based on the comments of the reviewers, 
shall make and submit a recommendation 
to the Board. A recommendation submitted 
by a Regional Director shall not be 
binding on the Board.’’. 
SEC. 528. ALTERNATIVE AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH AND COMMERCIALIZATION 

REVOLVING FUND. 

Section 1664 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5908) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 1664. ALTERNATIVE AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH AND COMMERCIALIZATION 

REVOLVING FUND. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established 
in the Treasury of the United States a revolving 
fund to be known as the Alternative 
Agricultural Research and Commercialization 
Revolving Fund. The Fund shall be 
available to the Corporation, without fiscal 
year limitation, to carry out the authorized 
programs and activities of the Corporation 
under this subtitle. 

‘‘(b) CONTENTS OF FUND.—There shall be deposited 
in the Fund— 

‘‘(1) such amounts as may be appropriated 
or transferred to support programs and activities 
of the Corporation; 

‘‘(2) payments received from any source for 
products, services, or property furnished in 
connection with the activities of the Corporation; 


‘‘(3) fees and royalties collected by the Corporation 
from licensing or other arrangements 
relating to commercialization of products 
developed through projects funded in 
whole or part by grants, contracts, or cooperative 
agreements executed by the Corporation; 


‘‘(4) proceeds from the sale of assets, loans, 
and equity interests made in furtherance of 
the purposes of the Corporation; 

‘‘(5) donations or contributions accepted by 
the Corporation to support authorized programs 
and activities; and 

‘‘(6) any other funds acquired by the Corporation. 


‘‘(c) FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.—Funding of 
projects and activities under this subtitle 
shall be subject to the following restrictions: 

‘‘(1) Of the total amount of funds made 
available for a fiscal year under this subtitle— 


‘‘(A) not more than the lesser of 15 percent 
or $3,000,000 may be set aside to be used for 
authorized administrative expenses of the 
Corporation in carrying out the functions of 
the Corporation; 

‘‘(B) not more than 1 percent may be set 
aside to be used for generic studies and specific 
reviews of individual proposals for financial 
assistance; and 

‘‘(C) except as provided in subsection (e), 
not less than 84 percent shall be set aside to 
be awarded to qualified applicants who file 
project applications with, or respond to requests 
for proposals from, the Corporation 
under sections 1660 and 1661. 

‘‘(2) Any funds remaining uncommitted at 
the end of a fiscal year shall be credited to 

the Fund and added to the total program 
funds available to the Corporation for the 
next fiscal year. 

‘‘(d) AUTHORIZED ADMINISTRATIVE EX-
PENSES.—For the purposes of this section, 
authorized administrative expenses shall include 
all ordinary and necessary expenses, 
including all compensation for personnel and 
consultants, expenses for computer usage, or 
space needs of the Corporation and similar 
expenses. Funds authorized for administrative 
expenses shall not be available for the 
acquisition of real property. 

‘‘(e) PROJECT MONITORING.—The Board may 
establish, in the bylaws of the Board, a percent 
of funds provided under subsection (c), 
not to exceed 1 percent per project award, for 
any commercialization project to be expended 
from project awards that shall be 
used to ensure that project funds are being 
utilized in accordance with the project 
agreement. 

‘‘(f) TERMINATION OF THE FUND.—On expiration 
of the authority provided by this subtitle, 
all assets (after payment of all outstanding 
obligations) of the Fund shall revert 
to the general fund of the Treasury. 

‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; 
CAPITALIZATION.— 

‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATION.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Fund $75,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1996 through 2002. 

‘‘(2) CAPITALIZATION.—The Executive Director 
may pay as capital of the Corporation, 
from amounts made available through annual 
appropriations, $75,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002. On the payment 
of capital by the Executive Director, 
the Corporation shall issue an equivalent 
amount of capital stock to the Secretary of 
the Treasury. 

‘‘(3) TRANSFER.—All obligations, assets, 
and related rights and responsibilities of the 
Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization 
Center established under section 
1658 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5902) (as 
in effect on the day before the effective date 
of the Agricultural Reform and Improvement 
Act of 1996) are transferred to the Corporation.’’. 
SEC. 529. PROCUREMENT PREFERENCES FOR 

PRODUCTS RECEIVING CORPORA


TION ASSISTANCE. 

Subtitle G of title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(7 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 1665. PROCUREMENT OF ALTERNATIVE AG


RICULTURAL RESEARCH AND COM


MERCIALIZATION PRODUCTS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF EXECUTIVE AGENCY.—In 
this section, the term ‘executive agency’ has 
the meaning provided the term in section 
4(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(1)). 

‘‘(b) PROCUREMENT.—To further the 
achievement of the purposes specified in section 
1657(b), an executive agency may, for 
any procurement involving the acquisition of 
property, establish set-asides and preferences 
for property that has been commercialized 
with assistance provided under this 
subtitle. 

‘‘(c) SET-ASIDES.—Procurements solely for 
property may be set-aside exclusively for 
products developed with commercialization 
assistance provided under section 1661. 

‘‘(d) PREFERENCES.—Preferences for property 
developed with assistance provided 
under this subtitle in procurements involving 
the acquisition of property may be— 

‘‘(1) a price preference, if the procurement 
is solely for property, of not greater than a 
percentage to be determined within the sole 
discretion of the head of the procuring agency; 
or 

‘‘(2) a technical evaluation preference included 
as an award factor or subfactor as determined 
within the sole discretion of the 
head of the procuring agency. 

‘‘(e) NOTICE.—Each competitive solicitation 
or invitation for bids selected by an executive 
agency for a set-aside or preference 
under this section shall contain a provision 
notifying offerors where a list of products eligible 
for the set aside or preference may be 
obtained. 

‘‘(f) ELIGIBILITY.—Offerors shall receive the 
set aside or preference required under this 
section if, in the case of products developed 
with financial assistance under— 

‘‘(1) section 1660, less than 10 years have 
elapsed since the expiration of the grant, cooperative 
agreement, or contract; 

‘‘(2) paragraph (1) or (2) of section 1661(a), 
less than 5 years have elapsed since the date 
the loan was made or insured; 

‘‘(3) section 1661(a)(3), less than 5 years 
have elapsed since the date of sale of any remaining 
government equity interest in the 
company; or 

‘‘(4) section 1661(a)(4), less than 5 years 
have elapsed since the date of the final payment 
on the repayable grant.’’. 

SEC. 530. BUSINESS PLAN AND FEASIBILITY 
STUDY AND REPORT. 

(a) BUSINESS PLAN.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Alternative Agricultural Research and 
Commercialization Corporation established 
under section 1658 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5902) shall— 
(1) develop a 5-year business plan pursuant 
to section 1659(c)(1)(E) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(as amended by section 523); and 
(2) submit the plan to the Secretary of Agriculture, 
the Committee on Agriculture of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
of the Senate. 
(b) FEASIBILITY STUDY AND REPORT.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall conduct a study of and prepare a report 
on the continued feasibility of the Alternative 
Agricultural Research and Commercialization 
Corporation. In conducting the 
study, the Secretary shall examine options 
for privatizing the Corporation and converting 
the Corporation to a Government 
sponsored enterprise. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than December 31, 
2001, the Secretary shall transmit the report 
to the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
the Senate. 
Subtitle B—Amendments to the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
CHAPTER 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
SEC. 541. WATER AND WASTE FACILITY LOANS 
AND GRANTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 306(a) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1926(a)) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence of paragraph (2), by 
striking ‘‘$500,000,000’’ and inserting 
‘‘$590,000,000’’; 
(2) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(7) DEFINITION OF RURAL AND RURAL 
AREAS.—For the purpose of water and waste 
disposal grants and direct and guaranteed 
loans provided under paragraphs (1) and (2), 
the terms ‘rural’ and ‘rural area’ shall mean 
a city, town, or unincorporated area that has 
a population of no more than 10,000 inhabitants.’’; 


(3) by striking paragraphs (9), (10), and (11) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(9) CONFORMITY WITH STATE DRINKING 
WATER STANDARDS.—No Federal funds shall 


S800 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

be made available under this section unless 
the Secretary determines that the water system 
seeking funding will make significant 
progress toward meeting the standards established 
under title XIV of the Public 
Health Service Act (commonly known as the 
‘Safe Drinking Water Act’) (42 U.S.C. 300f et 
seq.). 

‘‘(10) CONFORMITY WITH FEDERAL AND STATE 
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL STANDARDS.—In 
the case of a water treatment discharge or 
waste disposal system seeking funding, no 
Federal funds shall be made available under 
this section unless the Secretary determines 
that the effluent from the system conforms 
with applicable Federal and State water pollution 
control standards. 

‘‘(11) RURAL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
GRANTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
make grants, not to exceed $1,500,000 annually, 
to public bodies, private nonprofit community 
development corporations or entities, 
or such other agencies as the Secretary 
may select to enable the recipients— 

‘‘(i) to identify and analyze business opportunities, 
including opportunities in export 
markets, that will use local rural economic 
and human resources; 

‘‘(ii) to identify, train, and provide technical 
assistance to existing or prospective 
rural entrepreneurs and managers; 

‘‘(iii) to establish business support centers 
and otherwise assist in the creation of new 
rural businesses, the development of methods 
of financing local businesses, and the enhancement 
of the capacity of local individuals 
and entities to engage in sound economic 
activities; 

‘‘(iv) to conduct regional, community, and 
local economic development planning and 
coordination, and leadership development; 
and 

‘‘(v) to establish centers for training, technology, 
and trade that will provide training 
to rural businesses in the utilization of 
interactive communications technologies to 
develop international trade opportunities 
and markets. 

‘‘(B) CRITERIA.—In awarding the grants, 
the Secretary shall consider, among other 
criteria to be established by the Secretary— 

‘‘(i) the extent to which the applicant provides 
development services in the rural service 
area of the applicant; and 

‘‘(ii) the capability of the applicant to 
carry out the purposes of this section. 

‘‘(C) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall 
ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, 
that assistance provided under this paragraph 
is coordinated with and delivered in 
cooperation with similar services or assistance 
provided to rural residents by the Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service or other Federal agencies. 

‘‘(D) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this paragraph $7,500,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’; 

(4) by striking paragraphs (14) and (15); and 
(5) in paragraph (16)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(16)(A) The’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(16) RURAL WATER AND WASTEWATER TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The’’; 

(B) in subparagraph (A)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(i) identify’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(i) identify’’; 

(ii) by striking ‘‘(ii) prepare’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(ii) prepare’’; and 

(iii) by striking ‘‘(iii) improve’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(iii) improve’’; 

(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘(B) 
In’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) SELECTION PRIORITY.—In’’; and 

(D) in subparagraph (C)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(C) Not’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(C) FUNDING.—Not’’; and 

(ii) by striking ‘‘2 per centum of any funds 
provided in Appropriations Acts’’ and inserting 
‘‘3 percent of any funds appropriated’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 307(a)(6)(B) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1927(a)(6)(B)) (as amended by section 
451(a)(2)) is further amended— 
(A) by striking clause (ii); and 
(B) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as 
clauses (ii) and (iii), respectively. 
(2) The second sentence of section 309A(a) 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1929a(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘, 306(a)(14),’’. 
SEC. 542. EMERGENCY COMMUNITY WATER ASSISTANCE 
GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
SMALL COMMUNITIES. 

Section 306A of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926a) is 
amended— 

(1) in subsection (e)— 
(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) MAXIMUM INCOME.—No grant provided 
under this section may be used to assist any 
rural area or community that has a median 
household income in excess of the State non-
metropolitan median household income according 
to the most recent decennial census 
of the United States.’’; and 

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘5,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘3,000’’; and 
(2) by striking subsection (i) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section $35,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’. 

SEC. 543. EMERGENCY COMMUNITY WATER ASSISTANCE 
GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
SMALLEST COMMUNITIES. 

Section 306B of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926b) is repealed. 


SEC. 544. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSURANCE 
FUND. 

Section 309(f) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1929(f)) 
is amended— 

(1) by striking paragraph (1); and 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through 
(6) as paragraphs (1) through (5), respectively. 
SEC. 545. RURAL DEVELOPMENT INSURANCE 
FUND. 

Section 309A(g) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1929a(g)) is amended— 

(1) by striking paragraph (1); and 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through 
(8) as paragraphs (1) through (7), respectively. 
SEC. 546. INSURED WATERSHED AND RESOURCE 
CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
LOANS. 

Section 310A of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1931) is repealed. 


SEC. 547. RURAL INDUSTRIALIZATION ASSISTANCE. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1932) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘(b)(1)’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘(2) The’’ and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT GRANTS.— 
The’’; 

(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(c)(1) The’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(c) RURAL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE 
GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The’’; 

(B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(including 
nonprofit entities)’’ after ‘‘private business 
enterprises’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(2) The’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(2) PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES 
OR FACILITIES.—The’’; and 

(ii) by striking ‘‘make grants’’ and inserting 
‘‘award grants on a competitive basis’’; 
and 
(3) by striking subsections (e), (g), (h), and 
(i); 
(4) by redesignating subsections (f) and (j) 
as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; 
(5) by striking subsection (e) (as so redesignated) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(e) RURAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT 
GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection: 

‘‘(A) NONPROFIT INSTITUTION.—The term 
‘nonprofit institution’ means any organization 
or institution, including an accredited 
institution of higher education, no part of 
the net earnings of which inures, or may 
lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private 
shareholder or individual. 

‘‘(B) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘United 
States’ means the several States, the District 
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, 
American Samoa, and the other territories 
and possessions of the United States. 

‘‘(2) GRANTS.—The Secretary shall make 
grants under this subsection to nonprofit institutions 
for the purpose of enabling the institutions 
to establish and operate centers 
for rural cooperative development. 

‘‘(3) GOALS.—The goals of a center funded 
under this subsection shall be to facilitate 
the creation of jobs in rural areas through 
the development of new rural cooperatives, 
value added processing, and rural businesses. 

‘‘(4) APPLICATION.—Any nonprofit institution 
seeking a grant under paragraph (2) 
shall submit to the Secretary an application 
containing a plan for the establishment and 
operation by the institution of a center or 
centers for cooperative development. The 
Secretary may approve the application if the 
plan contains the following: 

‘‘(A) A provision that substantiates that 
the center will effectively serve rural areas 
in the United States. 

‘‘(B) A provision that the primary objective 
of the center will be to improve the economic 
condition of rural areas through cooperative 
development. 

‘‘(C) A description of the activities that 
the center will carry out to accomplish the 
objective. The activities may include the following: 


‘‘(i) Programs for applied research and feasibility 
studies that may be useful to individuals, 
cooperatives, small businesses, and 
other similar entities in rural areas served 
by the center. 

‘‘(ii) Programs for the collection, interpretation, 
and dissemination of information 
that may be useful to individuals, cooperatives, 
small businesses, and other similar entities 
in rural areas served by the center. 

‘‘(iii) Programs providing training and instruction 
for individuals, cooperatives, small 
businesses, and other similar entities in 
rural areas served by the center. 

‘‘(iv) Programs providing loans and grants 
to individuals, cooperatives, small businesses, 
and other similar entities in rural 
areas served by the center. 

‘‘(v) Programs providing technical assistance, 
research services, and advisory services 
to individuals, cooperatives, small businesses, 
and other similar entities in rural 
areas served by the center. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S801 

‘‘(vi) Programs providing for the coordination 
of services and sharing of information 
among the center. 

‘‘(D) A description of the contributions 
that the activities are likely to make to the 
improvement of the economic conditions of 
the rural areas for which the center will provide 
services. 

‘‘(E) Provisions that the center, in carrying 
out the activities, will seek, where appropriate, 
the advice, participation, expertise, 
and assistance of representatives of 
business, industry, educational institutions, 
the Federal Government, and State and local 
governments. 

‘‘(F) Provisions that the center will take 
all practicable steps to develop continuing 
sources of financial support for the center, 
particularly from sources in the private sector. 


‘‘(G) Provisions for— 

‘‘(i) monitoring and evaluating the activities 
by the nonprofit institution operating 
the center; and 

‘‘(ii) accounting for money received by the 
institution under this section. 

‘‘(5) AWARDING GRANTS.—Grants made 
under paragraph (2) shall be made on a competitive 
basis. In making grants under paragraph 
(2), the Secretary shall give preference 
to grant applications providing for the establishment 
of centers for rural cooperative development 
that— 

‘‘(A) demonstrate a proven track record in 
administering a nationally coordinated, regionally 
or State-wide operated project; 

‘‘(B) demonstrate previous expertise in providing 
technical assistance in rural areas; 

‘‘(C) demonstrate the ability to assist in 
the retention of existing businesses, facilitate 
the establishment of new cooperatives 
and new cooperative approaches, and generate 
new employment opportunities that 
will improve the economic conditions of 
rural areas; 

‘‘(D) demonstrate the ability to create horizontal 
linkages among businesses within 
and among various sectors in rural America 
and vertical linkages to domestic and international 
markets; 

‘‘(E) commit to providing technical assistance 
and other services to underserved and 
economically distressed areas in rural America; 
and 

‘‘(F) commit to providing greater than a 25 
percent matching contribution with private 
funds and in-kind contributions. 

‘‘(6) TWO-YEAR GRANTS.—The Secretary 
shall evaluate programs receiving assistance 
under this subsection and, if the Secretary 
determines it to be in the best interest of the 
Federal Government, the Secretary may approve 
grants under this subsection for up to 
2 years. 

‘‘(7) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO PREVENT EXCESSIVE 
UNEMPLOYMENT OR 
UNDEREMPLOYMENT.—In carrying out this 
subsection, the Secretary may provide technical 
assistance to alleviate or prevent conditions 
of excessive unemployment, underemployment, 
outmigration, or low employment 
growth in economically distressed 
rural areas that the Secretary determines 
have a substantial need for the assistance. 
The assistance may include planning and 
feasibility studies, management and operational 
assistance, and studies evaluating 
the need for development potential of 
projects that increase employment and improve 
economic growth in the areas. 

‘‘(8) GRANTS TO DEFRAY ADMINISTRATIVE 
COSTS.—The Secretary may make grants to 
defray not to exceed 75 percent of the costs 
incurred by organizations and public bodies 
to carry out projects for which grants or 
loans are made under this subsection. For 
purposes of determining the non-Federal 
share of the costs, the Secretary shall con


sider contributions in cash and in kind, fairly 
evaluated, including premises, equipment, 
and services. 

‘‘(9) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this subsection $50,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’; and 

(6) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(g) LOAN GUARANTEES FOR THE PURCHASE 
OF COOPERATIVE STOCK.— 
‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF FARMER.—In this subsection, 
the term ‘farmer’ means any farmer 
that meets the family farmer definition, as 
determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) LOAN GUARANTEES.—The Secretary 
may guarantee loans under this section to 
individual farmers for the purpose of purchasing 
capital stock of a farmer cooperative 
established for the purpose of processing an 
agricultural commodity. 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible for a loan 
guarantee under this subsection, a farmer 
must produce the agricultural commodity 
that will be processed by the cooperative. 

‘‘(4) COLLATERAL.—To be eligible for a loan 
guarantee under this subsection for the establishment 
of a cooperative, the borrower of 
the loan must pledge collateral to secure at 
least 25 percent of the amount of the loan.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Clause (iii) of section 307(a)(6)(B) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1927(a)(6)(B)) (as redesignated 
by section 541(b)(1)(B)) is amended by striking 
‘‘subsections (d) and (e) of section 310B’’ 
and inserting ‘‘section 310B(d)’’. 
(2) Section 232(c)(2) of the Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 
U.S.C. 6942(c)(2)) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘310B(b)(2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘310B(b)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘1932(b)(2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘1932(b)’’. 
(3) Section 233(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 
6943(b)) is amended— 
(A) by striking paragraph (2); and 
(B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
(2). 
SEC. 548. ADMINISTRATION. 

Section 331(b)(4) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1981(b)(4)) is amended— 

(1) by inserting after ‘‘claims’’ the following: 
‘‘(including debts and claims arising 
from loan guarantees)’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘Farmers Home Administration 
or’’ and inserting ‘‘Consolidated 
Farm Service Agency, Rural Utilities Service, 
Rural Housing and Community Development 
Service, Rural Business and Cooperative 
Development Service, or a successor 
agency, or’’; and 
(3) by inserting after ‘‘activities under the 
Housing Act of 1949.’’ the following: ‘‘In the 
case of a security instrument entered into 
under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 901 et seq.), the Secretary shall notify 
the Attorney General of the intent of the 
Secretary to exercise the authority of the 
Secretary under this paragraph.’’. 
SEC. 549. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 338 of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1988) is amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (b), (c), (d), and 
(e); and 
(2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection 
(b). 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) The first sentence of section 309(g)(1) of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1929(g)(1)) is amended by 
inserting after ‘‘section 338(c)’’ the following: 
‘‘(before the amendment made by section 
447(a)(1) of the Agricultural Reform and Improvement 
Act of 1996)’’. 
(2) Section 343(b) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(b)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘338(f),’’ and inserting 
‘‘338(b),’’. 
SEC. 550. TESTIMONY BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL 
COMMITTEES. 

Section 345 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1993) is repealed. 


SEC. 551. PROHIBITION ON USE OF LOANS FOR 
CERTAIN PURPOSES. 

Section 363 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2006e) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘This section shall not apply to a loan made 
or guaranteed under this title for a utility 
line.’’. 

SEC. 552. RURAL DEVELOPMENT CERTIFIED 
LENDERS PROGRAM. 

The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act is amended by inserting after section 
363 (7 U.S.C. 2006e) the following: 

‘‘SEC. 364. RURAL DEVELOPMENT CERTIFIED 
LENDERS PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) CERTIFIED LENDERS PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may establish 
a program under which the Secretary 
may guarantee a loan for any rural development 
program that is made by a lender certified 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—The 
Secretary may certify a lender if the lender 
meets such criteria as the Secretary may 
prescribe in regulations, including the ability 
of the lender to properly make, service, 
and liquidate the guaranteed loans of the 
lender. 

‘‘(3) CONDITION OF CERTIFICATION.—As a 
condition of certification, the Secretary may 
require the lender to undertake to service 
the guaranteed loan using standards that are 
not less stringent than generally accepted 
banking standards concerning loan servicing 
that are used by prudent commercial or cooperative 
lenders. 

‘‘(4) GUARANTEE.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary may 
guarantee not more than 80 percent of a loan 
made by a certified lender described in paragraph 
(1), if the borrower of the loan meets 
the eligibility requirements and such other 
criteria for the loan guarantee that are established 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(5) CERTIFICATIONS.—With respect to loans 
to be guaranteed, the Secretary may permit 
a certified lender to make appropriate certifications 
(as provided in regulations issued 
by the Secretary) — 

‘‘(A) relating to issues such as creditworthiness, 
repayment ability, adequacy of 
collateral, and feasibility of the operation; 
and 

‘‘(B) that the borrower is in compliance 
with all requirements of law, including regulations 
issued by the Secretary. 

‘‘(6) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—
This subsection shall not affect the 
responsibility of the Secretary to determine 
eligibility, review financial information, and 
otherwise assess an application. 

‘‘(b) PREFERRED CERTIFIED LENDERS PROGRAM.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may establish 
a preferred certified lenders program 
for lenders who establish their— 

‘‘(A) knowledge of, and experience under, 
the program established under subsection 
(a); 

‘‘(B) knowledge of the regulations concerning 
the particular guaranteed loan program; 
and 

‘‘(C) proficiency related to the certified 
lender program requirements. 

‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL LENDING INSTITUTIONS.— 
The Secretary may certify any lending institution 
as a preferred certified lender if the 
institution meets such additional criteria as 
the Secretary may prescribe by regulation. 


S802 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(3) REVOCATION OF DESIGNATION.—The designation 
of a lender as a preferred certified 
lender shall be revoked if the Secretary determines 
that the lender is not adhering to 
the rules and regulations applicable to the 
program or if the loss experiences of a preferred 
certified lender are greater than other 
preferred certified lenders, except that the 
suspension or revocation shall not affect any 
outstanding guarantee. 

‘‘(4) CONDITION OF CERTIFICATION.—As a 
condition of the preferred certification, the 
Secretary shall require the lender to undertake 
to service the loan guaranteed by the 
Secretary under this subsection using generally 
accepted banking standards concerning 
loan servicing employed by prudent 
commercial or cooperative lenders. The Secretary 
shall, at least annually, monitor the 
performance of each preferred certified lender 
to ensure that the conditions of the certification 
are being met. 

‘‘(5) EFFECT OF PREFERRED LENDER CERTIFI-
CATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary may— 

‘‘(A) guarantee not more than 80 percent of 
any approved loan made by a preferred certified 
lender as described in this subsection, 
if the borrower meets the eligibility requirements 
and such other criteria as may be applicable 
to loans guaranteed by the Secretary; 
and 

‘‘(B) permit preferred certified lenders to 
make all decisions, with respect to loans to 
be guaranteed by the Secretary under this 
subsection relating to creditworthiness, the 
closing, monitoring, collection, and liquidation 
of loans, and to accept appropriate certifications, 
as provided in regulations issued 
by the Secretary, that the borrower is in 
compliance with all requirements of law and 
regulations issued by the Secretary.’’. 

SEC. 553. SYSTEM FOR DELIVERY OF CERTAIN 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 365 of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 2008) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 2310 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
2007) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘or the 
program established in sections 365 and 366 of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (as added by chapter 3 of this subtitle)’’; 
(B) in subsection (b)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘STATES.—’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘PARTNERSHIPS.—The’’ in paragraph 
(1) and inserting ‘‘STATES.—The’’; and 
(ii) by striking paragraph (2); 
(C) in subsection (c)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘PROJECTS.—’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘PARTNERSHIPS.—Chapter’’ 
in paragraph (1) and inserting ‘‘PROJECTS.— 
Chapter’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘subsection (b)(1)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (b)’’; and 
(iii) by striking paragraph (2); and 
(D) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘and sections 
365, 366, 367, and 368(b) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (as 
added by chapter 3 of this subtitle)’’. 
(2) Section 2375 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6613) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘, as defined 
in section 365(b)(2) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act,’’; and 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(g) DEFINITION OF DESIGNATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM.—In this section, the 
term ‘designated rural development program’ 
means a program carried out under 
section 304(b), 306(a), or 310B(e) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1924(b), 1926(a), and 1932(e)), or 
under section 1323 of the Food Security Act 

of 1985 (Public Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 1932 note), 
for which funds are available at any time 
during the fiscal year under the section.’’. 

(3) Paragraph (2) of section 233(b) of the Department 
of Agriculture Reorganization Act 
of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6943(b)) (as redesignated by 
section 547(b)(3)(B)) is amended by striking 
‘‘sections 365 through 369 of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
2008-2008d)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 369 of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2008d)’’. 
SEC. 554. STATE RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
REVIEW PANEL. 

Section 366 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008a) is repealed. 


SEC. 555. LIMITED TRANSFER AUTHORITY OF 
LOAN AMOUNTS. 

Section 367 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008b) is repealed. 


SEC. 556. ALLOCATION AND TRANSFER OF LOAN 
GUARANTEE AUTHORITY. 

Section 368 of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008c) is repealed. 


SEC. 557. NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT 
CENTER. 

The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (as amended by section 441) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘SEC. 375. NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT 
CENTER. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) BOARD.—The term ‘Board’ means the 
Board of Directors established under subsection 
(f). 

‘‘(2) CENTER.—The term ‘Center’ means the 
National Sheep Industry Improvement Center 
established under subsection (b). 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible 
entity’ means an entity that promotes the 
betterment of the United States lamb or 
wool industry and that is— 

‘‘(A) a public, private, or cooperative organization; 


‘‘(B) an association, including a corporation 
not operated for profit; 

‘‘(C) a federally recognized Indian Tribe; or 

‘‘(D) a public or quasi-public agency. 

‘‘(4) FUND.—The term ‘Fund’ means the 
Natural Sheep Improvement Center Revolving 
Fund established under subsection (e). 

‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTER.—The Secretary 
shall establish a National Sheep Industry 
Improvement Center. 

‘‘(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Center 
shall be to— 

‘‘(1) promote strategic development activities 
and collaborative efforts by private and 
State entities to maximize the impact of 
Federal assistance to strengthen and enhance 
the production and marketing of lamb 
and wool in the United States; 

‘‘(2) optimize the use of available human 
capital and resources within the sheep industry; 


‘‘(3) provide assistance to meet the needs of 
the sheep industry for infrastructure development, 
business development, production, 
resource development, and market and environmental 
research; 

‘‘(4) advance activities that empower and 
build the capacity of the United States sheep 
industry to design unique responses to the 
special needs of the lamb and wool industries 
on both a regional and national basis; and 

‘‘(5) adopt flexible and innovative approaches 
to solving the long-term needs of 
the United States sheep industry. 

‘‘(d) STRATEGIC PLAN.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Center shall submit 
to the Secretary an annual strategic plan for 
the delivery of financial assistance provided 
by the Center. 

‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—A strategic plan shall 
identify— 

‘‘(A) goals, methods, and a benchmark for 
measuring the success of carrying out the 
plan and how the plan relates to the national 
and regional goals of the Center; 

‘‘(B) the amount and sources of Federal 
and non-Federal funds that are available for 
carrying out the plan; 

‘‘(C) funding priorities; 

‘‘(D) selection criteria for funding; and 

‘‘(E) a method of distributing funding. 

‘‘(e) REVOLVING FUND.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established 
in the Treasury the Natural Sheep Improvement 
Center Revolving Fund. The Fund shall 
be available to the Center, without fiscal 
year limitation, to carry out the authorized 
programs and activities of the Center under 
this section. 

‘‘(2) CONTENTS OF FUND.—There shall be deposited 
in the Fund— 

‘‘(A) such amounts as may be appropriated, 
transferred, or otherwise made available to 
support programs and activities of the Center; 


‘‘(B) payments received from any source 
for products, services, or property furnished 
in connection with the activities of the Center; 


‘‘(C) fees and royalties collected by the 
Center from licensing or other arrangements 
relating to commercialization of products 
developed through projects funded, in whole 
or part, by grants, contracts, or cooperative 
agreements executed by the Center; 

‘‘(D) proceeds from the sale of assets, 
loans, and equity interests made in furtherance 
of the purposes of the Center;; 

‘‘(E) donations or contributions accepted 
by the Center to support authorized programs 
and activities; and 

‘‘(F) any other funds acquired by the Center. 


‘‘(3) USE OF FUND.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Center may use 
amounts in the Fund to make grants and 
loans to eligible entities in accordance with 
a strategic plan submitted under subsection 
(d). 

‘‘(B) CONTINUED EXISTENCE.—The Center 
shall manage the Fund in a manner that ensures 
that sufficient amounts are available 
in the Fund to carry out subsection (c). 

‘‘(C) DIVERSE AREA.—The Center shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, use the 
Fund to serve broad geographic areas and regions 
of diverse production. 

‘‘(D) VARIETY OF LOANS AND GRANTS.—The 
Center shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
use the Fund to provide a variety of 
intermediate-and long-term grants and 
loans. 

‘‘(E) ADMINISTRATION.—The Center may not 
use more than 3 percent of the amounts in 
the Fund for a fiscal year for the administration 
of the Center. 

‘‘(F) INFLUENCING LEGISLATION.—None of 
the amounts in the Fund may be used to influence 
legislation. 

‘‘(G) ACCOUNTING.—To be eligible to receive 
amounts from the Fund, an entity must 
agree to account for the amounts using generally 
accepted accounting principles. 

‘‘(H) USES OF FUND.—The Center may use 
amounts in the Fund to— 

‘‘(i) participate with Federal and State 
agencies in financing activities that are in 
accordance with a strategic plan submitted 
under subsection (d), including participation 
with several States in a regional effort; 

‘‘(ii) participate with other public and private 
funding sources in financing activities 
that are in accordance with the strategic 
plan, including participation in a regional effort; 


‘‘(iii) provide security for, or make principle 
or interest payments on, revenue or 
general obligation bonds issued by a State, if 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S803 

the proceeds from the sale of the bonds are 

deposited in the Fund; 

‘‘(iv) accrue interest; 

‘‘(v) guarantee or purchase insurance for 
local obligations to improve credit market 
access or reduce interest rates for a project 
that is in accordance with the strategic plan; 
or 

‘‘(vi) sell assets, loans, and equity interests 
acquired in connection with the financing of 
projects funded by the Center. 

‘‘(4) LOANS.— 

‘‘(A) RATE.—A loan from the Fund may be 
made at an interest rate that is below the 
market rate or may be interest free. 

‘‘(B) TERM.—The term of a loan may not 
exceed the shorter of— 

‘‘(i) the useful life of the activity financed; 
or 

‘‘(ii) 40 years. 

‘‘(C) SOURCE OF REPAYMENT.—The Center 
may not make a loan from the Fund unless 
the recipient establishes an assured source of 
repayment. 

‘‘(D) PROCEEDS.—All payments of principal 
and interest on a loan made from the Fund 
shall be deposited into the Fund. 

‘‘(5) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—The Center 
shall use the Fund only to supplement and 
not to supplant Federal, State, and private 
funds expended for rural development. 

‘‘(6) FUNDING.— 

‘‘(A) DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.—All Federal and 
non-Federal amounts received by the Center 
to carry out this section shall be deposited 
in the Fund. 

‘‘(B) MANDATORY FUNDS.—Out of any moneys 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
provide to the Center not to exceed 
$20,000,000 to carry out this section. 

‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—In addition to 
any funds provided under subparagraph (B), 
there is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section $30,000,000 to carry out 
this section. 

‘‘(D) PRIVATIZATION.—Federal funds shall 
not be used to carry out this section beginning 
on the earlier of— 

‘‘(i) the date that is 10 years after the effective 
date of this section; or 

‘‘(ii) the day after a total of $50,000,000 is 
made available under subparagraphs (B) and 

(C) to carry out this section. 
‘‘(f) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The management of the 
Center shall be vested in a Board of Directors. 


‘‘(2) POWERS.—The Board shall— 

‘‘(A) be responsible for the general supervision 
of the Center; 

‘‘(B) review any grant, loan, contract, or 
cooperative agreement to be made or entered 
into by the Center and any financial assistance 
provided to the Center; 

‘‘(C) make the final decision, by majority 
vote, on whether and how to provide assistance 
to an applicant; and 

‘‘(D) develop and establish a budget plan 
and a long-term operating plan to carry out 
the goals of the Center. 

‘‘(3) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be 
composed of— 

‘‘(A) 7 voting members, of whom— 

‘‘(i) 4 members shall be active producers of 
sheep in the United States; 

‘‘(ii) 2 members shall have expertise in finance 
and management; and 

‘‘(iii) 1 member shall have expertise in 
lamb and wool marketing; and 

‘‘(B) 2 nonvoting members, of whom— 

‘‘(i) 1 member shall be the Under Secretary 
of Agriculture for Rural Economic and Community 
Development; and 

‘‘(ii) 1 member shall be the Under Secretary 
of Agriculture for Research, Education, 
and Economics. 

‘‘(4) ELECTION.—A voting member of the 
Board shall be chosen in an election of the 
members of a national organization selected 
by the Secretary that— 

‘‘(A) consists only of sheep producers in 
the United States; and 

‘‘(B) has as the primary interest of the organization 
the production of lamb and wool 
in the United States. 

‘‘(5) TERM OF OFFICE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the term of office of a voting member of 
the Board shall be 3 years. 

‘‘(B) STAGGERED INITIAL TERMS.—The initial 
voting members of the Board (other than 
the chairperson of the initially established 
Board) shall serve for staggered terms of 1, 2, 
and 3 years, as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(C) REELECTION.—A voting member may 
be reelected for not more than 1 additional 
term. 

‘‘(6) VACANCY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A vacancy on the Board 
shall be filled in the same manner as the 
original Board. 

‘‘(B) REELECTION.—A member elected to fill 
a vacancy for an unexpired term may be reelected 
for 1 full term. 

‘‘(7) CHAIRPERSON.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall select a 
chairperson from among the voting members 
of the Board. 

‘‘(B) TERM.—The term of office of the 
chairperson shall be 2 years. 

‘‘(8) ANNUAL MEETING.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall meet 
not less than once each fiscal year at the call 
of the chairperson or at the request of the 
executive director appointed under subsection 
(g)(1). 

‘‘(B) LOCATION.—The location of a meeting 
of the Board shall be established by the 
Board. 

‘‘(9) VOTING.— 

‘‘(A) QUORUM.—A quorum of the Board 
shall consist of a majority of the voting 
members. 

‘‘(B) MAJORITY VOTE.—A decision of the 
Board shall be made by a majority of the 
voting members of the Board. 

‘‘(10) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A member of the Board 
shall not vote on any matter respecting any 
application, contract, claim, or other particular 
matter pending before the Board in 
which, to the knowledge of the member, an 
interest is held by— 

‘‘(i) the member; 

‘‘(ii) any spouse of the member; 

‘‘(iii) any child of the member; 

‘‘(iv) any partner of the member; 

‘‘(v) any organization in which the member 
is serving as an officer, director, trustee, 
partner, or employee; or 

‘‘(vi) any person with whom the member is 
negotiating or has any arrangement concerning 
prospective employment or with 
whom the member has a financial interest. 

‘‘(B) REMOVAL.—Any action by a member 
of the Board that violates subparagraph (A) 
shall be cause for removal from the Board. 

‘‘(C) VALIDITY OF ACTION.—An action by a 
member of the Board that violates subparagraph 
(A) shall not impair or otherwise affect 
the validity of any otherwise lawful action 
by the Board. 

‘‘(D) DISCLOSURE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a member of the Board 
makes a full disclosure of an interest and, 
prior to any participation by the member, 
the Board determines, by majority vote, that 
the interest is too remote or too inconsequential 
to affect the integrity of any participation 
by the member, the member may 
participate in the matter relating to the interest. 


‘‘(ii) VOTE.—A member that discloses an 
interest under clause (i) shall not vote on a 

determination of whether the member may 
participate in the matter relating to the interest. 


‘‘(E) REMANDS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may vacate 
and remand to the Board for reconsideration 
any decision made pursuant to subsection 
(e)(3)(H) if the Secretary determines 
that there has been a violation of this paragraph 
or any conflict of interest provision of 
the bylaws of the Board with respect to the 
decision. 

‘‘(ii) REASONS.—In the case of any violation 
and remand of a funding decision to the 
Board under clause (i), the Secretary shall 
inform the Board of the reasons for the remand. 


‘‘(11) COMPENSATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A member of the Board 
shall not receive any compensation by reason 
of service on the Board. 

‘‘(B) EXPENSES.—A member of the Board 
shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, 
and other necessary expenses incurred by the 
member in the performance of a duty of the 
member. 

‘‘(12) BYLAWS.—The Board shall adopt, and 
may from time to time amend, any bylaw 
that is necessary for the proper management 
and functioning of the Center. 

‘‘(13) PUBLIC HEARINGS.—Not later than 1 
year after the effective date of this section, 
the Board shall hold public hearings on policy 
objectives of the program established 
under this section. 

‘‘(14) ORGANIZATIONAL SYSTEM.—The Board 
shall provide a system of organization to fix 
responsibility and promote efficiency in carrying 
out the functions of the Board. 

‘‘(15) USE OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRI-
CULTURE.—The Board may, with the consent 
of the Secretary, utilize the facilities of and 
the services of employees of the Department 
of Agriculture, without cost to the Center. 

‘‘(g) OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.— 

‘‘(1) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall appoint 
an executive director to be the chief executive 
officer of the Center. 

‘‘(B) TENURE.—The executive director shall 
serve at the pleasure of the Board. 

‘‘(C) COMPENSATION.—Compensation for the 
executive director shall be established by the 
Board. 

‘‘(2) OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.—The 
Board may select and appoint officers, attorneys, 
employees, and agents who shall be 
vested with such powers and duties as the 
Board may determine. 

‘‘(3) DELEGATION.—The Board may, by resolution, 
delegate to the chairperson, the executive 
director, or any other officer or employee 
any function, power, or duty of the 
Board other than voting on a grant, loan, 
contract, agreement, budget, or annual strategic 
plan. 

‘‘(h) CONSULTATION.—To carry out this section, 
the Board may consult with— 

‘‘(1) State departments of agriculture; 

‘‘(2) Federal departments and agencies; 

‘‘(3) nonprofit development corporations; 

‘‘(4) colleges and universities; 

‘‘(5) banking and other credit-related agencies; 


‘‘(6) agriculture and agribusiness organizations; 
and 

‘‘(7) regional planning and development organizations. 


‘‘(i) OVERSIGHT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall review 
and monitor compliance by the Board 
and the Center with this section. 

‘‘(2) SANCTIONS.—If, following notice and 
opportunity for a hearing, the Secretary 
finds that the Board or the Center is not in 
compliance with this section, the Secretary 
may— 

‘‘(A) cease making deposits to the Fund; 


S804 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(B) suspend the authority of the Center to 
withdraw funds from the Fund; or 

‘‘(C) impose other appropriate sanctions, 
including recoupment of money improperly 
expended for purposes prohibited or not authorized 
by this Act and disqualification 
from receipt of financial assistance under 
this section. 

‘‘(3) REMOVING SANCTIONS.—The Secretary 
shall remove sanctions imposed under paragraph 
(2) on a finding that there is no longer 
any failure by the Board or the Center to 
comply with this section or that the noncompliance 
shall be promptly corrected.’’. 

CHAPTER 2—RURAL COMMUNITY 
ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM 

SEC. 561. RURAL COMMUNITY ADVANCEMENT 
PROGRAM. 

The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘Subtitle E—Rural Community Advancement 
Program 

‘‘SEC. 381A. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this subtitle: 

‘‘(1) RURAL AND RURAL AREA.—The terms 
‘rural’ and ‘rural area’ mean, subject to section 
306(a)(7), a city, town, or unincorporated 
area that has a population of 50,000 inhabitants 
or less, other than an urbanized area 
immediately adjacent to a city, town, or unincorporated 
area that has a population in 
excess of 50,000 inhabitants. 

‘‘(2) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each 
of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, 
the Virgin Islands of the United States, 
American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the 
Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory 
of the Pacific Islands, and the Federated 
States of Micronesia. 

‘‘SEC. 381B. ESTABLISHMENT. 

‘‘The Secretary shall establish a rural 
community advancement program to provide 
grants, loans, loan guarantees, and other assistance 
to meet the rural development 
needs of local communities in States and 
federally recognized Indian tribes. 

‘‘SEC. 381C. NATIONAL OBJECTIVES. 

‘‘The national objectives of the program 
established under this subtitle shall be to— 

‘‘(1) promote strategic development activities 
and collaborative efforts by State and 
local communities, and federally recognized 
Indian tribes, to maximize the impact of 
Federal assistance; 

‘‘(2) optimize the use of resources; 

‘‘(3) provide assistance in a manner that 
reflects the complexity of rural needs, including 
the needs for business development, 
health care, education, infrastructure, cultural 
resources, the environment, and housing; 


‘‘(4) advance activities that empower, and 
build the capacity of, State and local communities 
to design unique responses to the 
special needs of the State and local communities, 
and federally recognized Indian 
tribes, for rural development assistance; and 

‘‘(5) adopt flexible and innovative approaches 
to solving rural development problems. 


‘‘SEC. 381D. STRATEGIC PLANS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall direct 
each of the Directors of Rural Economic 
and Community Development State Offices 
to prepare a strategic plan for each State for 
the delivery of assistance under this subtitle 
within the State. 

‘‘(b) ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Financial assistance for 
rural development allocated for a State 
under this subtitle shall be used only for orderly 
community development that is consistent 
with the strategic plan of the State. 

‘‘(2) RURAL AREA.—Assistance under this 
subtitle may only be provided in a rural 
area. 

‘‘(3) SMALL COMMUNITIES.—In carrying out 
this subtitle within a State, the Secretary 
shall give priority to communities with the 
smallest populations and lowest per capita 
income. 

‘‘(c) REVIEW.—The Secretary shall review 
the strategic plan of a State at least once 
every 5 years. 

‘‘(d) CONTENTS.—A strategic plan of a State 
under this section shall be a plan that— 

‘‘(1) coordinates economic, human, and 
community development plans and related 
activities proposed for an affected area; 

‘‘(2) provides that the State and an affected 
community (including local institutions and 
organizations that have contributed to the 
planning process) shall act as full partners in 
the process of developing and implementing 
the plan; 

‘‘(3) identifies goals, methods, and benchmarks 
for measuring the success of carrying 
out the plan and how the plan relates to 
local or regional ecosystems; 

‘‘(4) provides for the involvement, in the 
preparation of the plan, of State, local, private, 
and public persons, State rural development 
councils, federally-recognized Indian 
tribes, and community-based organizations; 

‘‘(5) identifies the amount and source of 
Federal and non-Federal resources that are 
available for carrying out the plan; and 

‘‘(6) includes such other information as 
may be required by the Secretary. 

‘‘SEC. 381E. ACCOUNTS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for each fiscal year, 
the Secretary shall consolidate into 3 accounts, 
corresponding to the 3 function categories 
established under subsection (c), the 
amounts made available for programs included 
in each function category. 

‘‘(b) ALLOCATION WITHIN ACCOUNT.—The 
Secretary shall allocate the amounts in each 
account for such program purposes authorized 
for the corresponding function category 
among the States, as the Secretary may determine 
in accordance with this subtitle. 

‘‘(c) FUNCTION CATEGORIES.—For purposes 
of subsection (a): 

‘‘(1) RURAL HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVEL-
OPMENT.—The rural housing and community 
development category shall include funds 
made available for— 

‘‘(A) community facility direct and guaranteed 
loans provided under section 306(a)(1); 

‘‘(B) community facility grants provided 
under section 306(a)(21); and 

‘‘(C) rental housing loans for new housing 
provided under section 515 of the Housing 
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485). 

‘‘(2) RURAL UTILITIES.—The rural utilities 
category shall include funds made available 
for— 

‘‘(A) water and waste disposal grants and 
direct and guaranteed loans provided under 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 306(a); 

‘‘(B) rural water and wastewater technical 
assistance and training grants provided 
under section 306(a)(16); 

‘‘(C) emergency community water assistance 
grants provided under section 306A; and 

‘‘(D) solid waste management grants provided 
under section 310B(b). 

‘‘(3) RURAL BUSINESS AND COOPERATIVE DE-
VELOPMENT.—The rural business and cooperative 
development category shall include 
funds made available for— 

‘‘(A) rural business opportunity grants provided 
under section 306(a)(11)(A); 

‘‘(B) business and industry guaranteed 
loans provided under section 310B(a)(1); 

‘‘(C) rural business enterprise grants and 
rural educational network grants provided 
under section 310B(c); and 

‘‘(D) grants to broadcasting systems provided 
under section 310B(f). 

‘‘(d) OTHER PROGRAMS.—Subject to subsection 
(e), in addition to any other appropriated 
amounts, the Secretary may transfer 
amounts allocated for a State for any of the 
3 function categories for a fiscal year under 
subsection (c) to— 

‘‘(1) mutual and self-help housing grants 
provided under section 523 of the Housing 
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c); 

‘‘(2) rural rental housing loans for existing 
housing provided under section 515 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485); and 

‘‘(3) rural cooperative development grants 
provided under section 310B(e). 

‘‘(e) TRANSFER.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
the Secretary may transfer within each 
State up to 25 percent of the total amount 
allocated for a State under each function 
category referred to in subsection (c) for 
each fiscal year under this section to any 
other function category, or to a program referred 
to in subsection (d), but excluding 
State grants under section 381G. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—Not more than 10 percent 
of the total amount (excluding grants to 
States under section 381G) made available 
for any fiscal year for the programs covered 
by each of the 3 function categories referred 
to in subsection (c), and the programs referred 
to in subsection (d), shall be available 
for the transfer. 

‘‘(f) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—The Secretary 
may make available funds appropriated 
for the programs referred to in subsection 
(c) to defray the cost of any subsidy 
associated with a guarantee provided under 
section 381H, except that not more than 5 
percent of the funds provided under subsection 
(c) may be made available within a 
State. 

‘‘SEC. 381F. ALLOCATION. 

‘‘(a) NATIONAL RESERVE.—The Secretary 
may use not more than 10 percent of the 
total amount of funds made available for a 
fiscal year under section 381E to establish a 
national reserve for rural development that 
may be used by the Secretary in rural areas 
during the fiscal year to— 

‘‘(1) meet situations of exceptional need; 

‘‘(2) provide incentives to promote or reward 
superior performance; or 

‘‘(3) carry out performance-oriented demonstration 
projects. 

‘‘(b) INDIAN TRIBES.— 

‘‘(1) RESERVATION.—The Secretary shall reserve 
not less than 3 percent of the total 
amounts made available for a fiscal year 
under section 381E to carry out rural development 
programs specified in subsections (c) 
and (d) of section 381D for federally recognized 
Indian tribes. 

‘‘(2) ALLOCATION.—The Secretary shall establish 
a formula for allocating the reserve 
and shall administer the reserve through the 
appropriate Director of the Rural Economic 
and Cooperative Development State office. 

‘‘(c) STATE ALLOCATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall allocate 
among all the States the amounts made 
available under section 381E in a fair, reasonable, 
and appropriate manner that takes into 
consideration rural population, levels of income, 
unemployment, and other relevant 
factors, as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) MINIMUM ALLOCATION.—In making the 
allocations for each of fiscal years 1996 
through 2002, the Secretary shall ensure that 
the percentage allocation for each State is 
equal to the percentage of the average of the 
total funds made available to carry out the 
programs referred to in section 381E(c) that 
were obligated in the State for each of fiscal 
years 1993 and 1994. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S805 

‘‘SEC. 381G. GRANTS TO STATES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall grant to any eligible 
State from which a request is received for a 
fiscal year 5 percent of the amount allocated 
for the State for the fiscal year under section 
381F(c). 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to receive 
a grant under this section, the Secretary 
shall require that the State maintain the 
grant funds received and any non-Federal 
matching funds to carry out this subtitle in 
a separate account, to remain available until 
expended. 

‘‘(c) MATCHING FUNDS.—For any fiscal year, 
if non-Federal matching funds are provided 
for a State in an amount that is equal to 200 
percent or more of an amount equal to 5 percent 
of the amount allocated for the State 
for the fiscal year under section 381F(c), the 
Secretary shall pay to the State the grant 
provided under this subsection in an amount 
equal to 5 percent of the amount allocated 
for the State for the fiscal year under section 
381F(c). 

‘‘(d) USE OF FUNDS.—The Secretary shall 
require that funds provided to a State under 
this section be used in rural areas to achieve 
the purposes of the programs referred to in 
section 381E(c) in accordance with the strategic 
plan referred to in section 381D. 

‘‘(e) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—The State 
shall provide assurances that funds received 
under this section will be used only to supplement, 
not to supplant, the amount of Federal, 
State, and local funds otherwise expended 
for rural development assistance in 
the State. 

‘‘(f) APPEALS.—The Secretary shall provide 
to a State an opportunity for an appeal of 
any action taken under this section. 

‘‘(g) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Federal funds 
shall not be used for any administrative 
costs incurred by a State in carrying out 
this subtitle. 

‘‘(h) SPENDING OF FUNDS BY STATE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Payments to a State 
from a grant under this section for a fiscal 
year shall be obligated by the State in the 
fiscal year or in the succeeding fiscal year. A 
State shall obligate funds under this section 
to provide assistance to rural areas pursuant, 
to the maximum extent practicable, to 
applications received from the rural areas. 

‘‘(2) FAILURE TO OBLIGATE.—If a State fails 
to obligate payments in accordance with 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall make a 
corresponding reduction in the amount of 
payments provided to the State under this 
section for the subsequent fiscal year. 

‘‘(3) NONCOMPLIANCE.— 

‘‘(A) REVIEW.—The Secretary shall review 
and monitor State compliance with this section. 


‘‘(B) PENALTY.—If the Secretary finds that 
there has been misuse of grant funds provided 
under this section, or noncompliance 
with any of the terms and conditions of a 
grant, after reasonable notice and opportunity 
for a hearing— 

‘‘(i) the Secretary shall notify the State of 
the finding; and 

‘‘(ii) no further payments to the State 
shall be made with respect to the programs 
funded under this section until the Secretary 
is satisfied that there is no longer any failure 
to comply or that the noncompliance 
will be promptly corrected. 

‘‘(C) OTHER SANCTIONS.—In the case of a 
finding of noncompliance made pursuant to 
subparagraph (B), the Secretary may, in addition 
to, or in lieu of, imposing the sanctions 
described in subparagraph (B), impose 
other appropriate sanctions, including 
recoupment of money improperly expended 
for purposes prohibited or not authorized by 
this section and disqualification from the receipt 
of financial assistance under this section. 


‘‘(i) NO ENTITLEMENT TO CONTRACT, GRANT, 
OR ASSISTANCE.—Nothing in this subtitle— 

‘‘(1) entitles any person to assistance or a 
contract or grant; or 

‘‘(2) limits the right of a State to impose 
additional limitations or conditions on assistance 
or a contract or grant under this 
section. 

‘‘SEC. 381H. GUARANTEE AND COMMITMENT TO 
GUARANTEE LOANS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE PUBLIC ENTI-
TY.—In this section, the term ‘eligible public 
entity’ means any unit of general local government. 


‘‘(b) GUARANTEE AND COMMITMENT.—The 
Secretary is authorized, on such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, 
to guarantee and make commitments to 
guarantee the notes or other obligations 
issued by eligible public entities, or by public 
agencies designated by the eligible public 
entities, for the purposes of financing rural 
development assistance activities authorized 
and funded under section 381G. 

‘‘(c) PREREQUISITES.—No guarantee or commitment 
to guarantee shall be made with respect 
to any note or other obligation if the 
issuer’s total outstanding notes or obligations 
guaranteed under this section (excluding 
any amount repaid under the contract 
entered into under subsection (e)(1)(A)) 
would exceed an amount equal to 5 times the 
amount of the grant approval for the issuer 
pursuant to section 381G. 

‘‘(d) PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL, INTEREST, AND 
COSTS.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this subtitle, grants allocated to an 
issuer pursuant to this subtitle (including 
program income derived from the grants) 
shall be authorized for use in the payment of 
principal and interest due (including such 
servicing, underwriting, or other costs as 
may be specified in regulations of the Secretary) 
on the notes or other obligations 
guaranteed pursuant to this section. 

‘‘(e) REPAYMENT CONTRACT; SECURITY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To ensure the repayment 
of notes or other obligations and charges incurred 
under this section and as a condition 
for receiving the guarantees, the Secretary 
shall require the issuer to— 

‘‘(A) enter into a contract, in a form acceptable 
to the Secretary, for repayment of 
notes or other obligations guaranteed under 
this section; 

‘‘(B) pledge any grant for which the issuer 
may become eligible under this subtitle; and 

‘‘(C) furnish, at the discretion of the Secretary, 
such other security as may be considered 
appropriate by the Secretary in making 
the guarantees. 

‘‘(2) SECURITY.—To assist in ensuring the 
repayment of notes or other obligations and 
charges incurred under this section, a State 
shall pledge any grant for which the State 
may become eligible under this subtitle as 
security for notes or other obligations and 
charges issued under this section by any unit 
of general local government in the State. 

‘‘(f) PLEDGED GRANTS FOR REPAYMENTS.— 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
subtitle, the Secretary is authorized to apply 
grants pledged pursuant to paragraphs (1)(B) 
and (2) of subsection (e) to any repayments 
due the United States as a result of the guarantees. 


‘‘(g) OUTSTANDING OBLIGATIONS.—The total 
amount of outstanding obligations guaranteed 
on a cumulative basis by the Secretary 
pursuant to subsection (b) shall not at any 
time exceed such amount as may be authorized 
to be appropriated for any fiscal year. 

‘‘(h) PURCHASE OF GUARANTEED OBLIGATIONS 
BY FEDERAL FINANCING BANK.—Notes 
or other obligations guaranteed under this 
section may not be purchased by the Federal 
Financing Bank. 

‘‘(i) FULL FAITH AND CREDIT.—The full 
faith and credit of the United States is 

pledged to the payment of all guarantees 
made under this section. Any such guarantee 
made by the Secretary shall be conclusive 
evidence of the eligibility of the obligations 
for the guarantee with respect to principal 
and interest. The validity of the guarantee 
shall be incontestable in the hands of a holder 
of the guaranteed obligations. 

‘‘SEC. 381I. LOCAL INVOLVEMENT. 

‘‘The Secretary shall require that an applicant 
for assistance under this subtitle demonstrate 
evidence of significant community 
support. 

‘‘SEC. 381J. STATE-TO-STATE COLLABORATION. 

‘‘The Secretary shall permit the establishment 
of voluntary pooling arrangements 
among States, and regional fund-sharing 
agreements, to carry out this subtitle. 

‘‘SEC. 381K. RURAL VENTURE CAPITAL DEMONSTRATION 
PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall designate 
up to 10 community development venture 
capital organizations to demonstrate 
the utility of guarantees to attract increased 
private investment in rural private business 
enterprises. 

‘‘(b) RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT POOL.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—To be eligible to participate 
in the demonstration program, an 
organization referred to in subsection (a) 
shall establish a rural business private investment 
pool (referred to in this subsection 
as a ‘pool’) for the purpose of making equity 
investments in rural private business enterprises. 


‘‘(2) GUARANTEE.—From funds allocated for 
the national reserve under section 381F(a), 
the Secretary shall guarantee the funds in a 
pool against loss, except that the guarantee 
shall not exceed an amount equal to 30 percent 
of the total funds in the pool. 

‘‘(3) AMOUNT.—The Secretary shall issue 
guarantees covering not more than 
$15,000,000 of obligations for each of fiscal 
years 1996 through 2002. 

‘‘(4) TERM.—The term of a guarantee provided 
under this subsection shall not exceed 
10 years. 

‘‘(5) SUBMISSION OF PLAN.—To be eligible to 
participate in the demonstration program, 
an organization referred to in subsection (a) 
shall submit a plan that describes— 

‘‘(A) potential sources and uses of the pool 
to be established by the organization; 

‘‘(B) the utility of the guarantee authority 
in attracting capital for the pool; and 

‘‘(C) on selection, mechanisms for notifying 
State, local, and private nonprofit 
business development organizations and 
businesses of the existence of the pool. 

‘‘(6) COMPETITION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
a competition for the designation and 
establishment of pools. 

‘‘(B) PRIORITY.—In conducting the competition, 
the Secretary shall give priority to organizations 
that— 

‘‘(i) have a demonstrated record of performance 
or have a board and executive director 
with experience in venture capital, 
small business equity investments, or community 
development finance; 

‘‘(ii) propose to serve low-income communities; 


‘‘(iii) propose to maintain an average investment 
of not more than $500,000 from the 
pool of the organization; 

‘‘(iv) invest funds statewide or in a multi-
county region; and 

‘‘(v) propose to target job opportunities resulting 
from the investments primarily to 
economically disadvantaged individuals. 

‘‘(C) GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY.—To the extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall select organizations 
in diverse geographic areas. 


S806 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘SEC. 381L. ANNUAL REPORT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in collaboration 
with public, State, local, and private 
entities, State rural development councils, 
and community-based organizations, 
shall prepare an annual report that contains 
evaluations, assessments, and performance 
outcomes concerning the rural community 
advancement programs carried out under 
this subtitle. 

‘‘(b) SUBMISSION.—Not later than March 1 
of each year, the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) submit the report required under subsection 
(a) to Congress and the chief executives 
of States participating in the program 
established under this subtitle; and 

‘‘(2) make the report available to State and 
local participants. 

‘‘SEC. 381M. RURAL DEVELOPMENT INTERAGENCY 
WORKING GROUP. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
leadership within the Executive branch 
for, and assume responsibility for, establishing 
an interagency working group 
chaired by the Secretary. 

‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The working group shall establish 
policy, provide coordination, make 
recommendations, and evaluate the performance 
of or for all Federal rural development 
efforts. 

‘‘SEC. 381N. DUTIES OF RURAL ECONOMIC AND 

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT STATE 

OFFICES. 

‘‘In carrying out this subtitle, the Director 
of a Rural Economic and Community Development 
State Office shall— 

‘‘(1) to the maximum extent practicable, 
ensure that the State strategic plan is implemented; 


‘‘(2) coordinate community development 
objectives within the State; 

‘‘(3) establish links between local, State, 
and field office program administrators of 
the Department of Agriculture; 

‘‘(4) ensure that recipient communities 
comply with applicable Federal and State 
laws and requirements; and 

‘‘(5) integrate State development programs 
with assistance under this subtitle. 

‘‘SEC. 381O. ELECTRONIC TRANSFER. 

‘‘The Secretary shall transfer funds in accordance 
with this subtitle through electronic 
transfer as soon as practicable after 
the effective date of this subtitle.’’. 

SEC. 562. COMMUNITY FACILITIES GRANT PROGRAM. 


Section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following: 


‘‘(21) COMMUNITY FACILITIES GRANT PROGRAM.— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
make grants, in a total amount not to exceed 
$10,000,000 for any fiscal year, to associations, 
units of general local government, 
nonprofit corporations, and federally recognized 
Indian tribes to provide the Federal 
share of the cost of developing specific essential 
community facilities in rural areas. 

‘‘(B) FEDERAL SHARE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clauses (ii) and (iii), the Secretary shall, by 
regulation, establish the amount of the Federal 
share of the cost of the facility under 
this paragraph. 

‘‘(ii) MAXIMUM AMOUNT.—The amount of a 
grant provided under this paragraph shall 
not exceed 75 percent of the cost of developing 
a facility. 

‘‘(iii) GRADUATED SCALE.—The Secretary 
shall provide for a graduated scale for the 
amount of the Federal share provided under 
this paragraph, with higher Federal shares 
for facilities in communities that have lower 
community population and income levels, as 
determined by the Secretary.’’. 

Subtitle C—Amendments to the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 

SEC. 571. PURPOSES; INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS. 


Section 2 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 902) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘SEC. 2. (a) The Secretary of 
Agriculture is’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘SEC. 2. GENERAL AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY 
OF AGRICULTURE. 

‘‘(a) LOANS.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
(referred to in this Act as the ‘Secretary’) 
is’’; 

(2) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and the furnishing’’ the 
first place it appears and all that follows 
through ‘‘central station service’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘systems; to make’’ and all 
that follows through the period at the end of 
the subsection and inserting ‘‘systems’’; and 
(3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(b) INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS.—The 
Secretary may make, or cause to be made, 
studies, investigations, and reports regarding 
matters, including financial, technological, 
and regulatory matters, affecting 
the condition and progress of electric, telecommunications, 
and economic development 
in rural areas and publish and disseminate 
information with respect to the matters.’’. 
SEC. 572. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 903) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as are necessary to carry out this 
Act.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 301(a) of the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 931(a)) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(a)’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘notwithstanding 
section 3(a) of title I,’’. 
(2) Section 302(b)(2) of the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 932(b)(2)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘pursuant to section 
3(a) of this Act’’. 
(3) The last sentence of section 406(a) of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 
946(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘pursuant to 
section 3(a) of this Act’’. 
SEC. 573. LOANS FOR ELECTRICAL PLANTS AND 
TRANSMISSION LINES. 

Section 4 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 904) is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘for the furnishing of’’ and 
all that follows through ‘‘central station 
service and’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘the provisions of sections 
3(d) and 3(e) but without regard to the 25 per 
centum limitation therein contained,’’ and 
inserting ‘‘section 3,’’; 
(2) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘: 
Provided further, That all’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘loan: And provided further, 
That’’ and inserting ‘‘, except that’’; and 
(3) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘and 
section 5’’. 
SEC. 574. LOANS FOR ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING 
EQUIPMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 905) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
12(a) of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
(7 U.S.C. 912(a)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘: Provided, however, That’’ 
and inserting ‘‘, except that,’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘, and with respect to any 
loan made under section 5,’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘section 3’’. 
SEC. 575. TESTIMONY ON BUDGET REQUESTS. 

Section 6 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 906) is amended by striking 
the second sentence. 

SEC. 576. TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS OF ADMINISTRATION 
CREATED BY EXECUTIVE 
ORDER. 

Section 8 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 908) is repealed. 

SEC. 577. ANNUAL REPORT. 

Section 10 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 910) is repealed. 

SEC. 578. PROHIBITION ON RESTRICTING WATER 
AND WASTE FACILITY SERVICES TO 
ELECTRIC CUSTOMERS. 

The Rural Electrification Act of 1936 is 
amended by inserting after section 16 (7 

U.S.C. 916) the following: 
‘‘SEC. 17. PROHIBITION ON RESTRICTING WATER 
AND WASTE FACILITY SERVICES TO 
ELECTRIC CUSTOMERS. 

‘‘The Secretary shall establish rules and 
procedures that prohibit borrowers under 
title III or under the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) 
from conditioning or limiting access to, or 
the use of, water and waste facility services 
financed under the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act if the conditioning 
or limiting is based on whether individuals 
or entities in the area served or proposed to 
be served by the facility receive, or will accept, 
electric service from the borrower.’’. 

SEC. 579. TELEPHONE LOAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS. 


Section 309 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 939) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(a) IN 
GENERAL.—’’; and 
(2) by striking subsection (b). 
SEC. 580. PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM. 

Section 311 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 940a) is repealed. 

SEC. 581. RURAL BUSINESS INCUBATOR FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 502 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950aa–1) 
is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 501 
of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 950aa) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘; and’’ at 
the end and inserting a period; and 
(3) by striking paragraph (7). 
Subtitle D—Miscellaneous Rural 
Development Provisions 
SEC. 591. INTEREST RATE FORMULA. 

(a) BANKHEAD-JONES FARM TENANT ACT.— 
Section 32(e) of the Bankhead-Jones Farm 
Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011) is amended by 
striking the fifth sentence and inserting the 
following: ‘‘A loan under this subsection 
shall be made under a contract that provides, 
under such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary considers appropriate, for the 
repayment of the loan in not more than 30 
years, with interest at a rate not to exceed 
the current market yield for outstanding 
municipal obligations with remaining periods 
to maturity comparable to the average 
maturity for the loan, adjusted to the nearest 
1/8 of 1 percent.’’. 
(b) WATERSHED PROTECTION AND FLOOD 
PREVENTION ACT.—Section 8 of the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1006a) is amended by striking the 
second sentence and inserting the following: 
‘‘A loan or advance under this section shall 
be made under a contract or agreement that 
provides, under such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary considers appropriate, for the 
repayment of the loan or advance in not 
more than 50 years from the date when the 
principal benefits of the works of improvement 
first become available, with interest at 
a rate not to exceed the current market 
yield for outstanding municipal obligations 
with remaining periods to maturity comparable 
to the average maturity for the loan, 
adjusted to the nearest 1/8 of 1 percent.’’. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S807 

SEC. 592. GRANTS FOR FINANCIALLY STRESSED 

FARMERS, DISLOCATED FARMERS, 

AND RURAL FAMILIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 502 of the Rural 
Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2662) is 
amended by striking subsection (f). 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 2389 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public 
Law 101–624; 7 U.S.C. 2662 note) is amended 
by striking subsection (d). 
(2) Section 503(c) of the Rural Development 
Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2663(c)) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(1)’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘section 502(e)’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘shall be distributed’’ 
and inserting ‘‘subsections (e), (h), and (i) of 
section 502 shall be distributed’’; and 
(iii) by striking ‘‘objectives of’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘title’’ and inserting 
‘‘objectives of subsections (e), (h), and (i) of 
section 502’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (2). 
SEC. 593. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS. 

Section 607(b) of the Rural Development 
Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following: 


‘‘(4) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding chapter 
63 of title 31, United States Code, the 
Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements 
with other Federal agencies, State 
and local governments, and any other organization 
or individual to improve the coordination 
and effectiveness of Federal programs, 
services, and actions affecting rural 
areas, including the establishment and financing 
of interagency groups, if the Secretary 
determines that the objectives of the 
agreement will serve the mutual interest of 
the parties in rural development activities. 

‘‘(B) COOPERATORS.—Each cooperator, including 
each Federal agency, to the extent 
that funds are otherwise available, may participate 
in any cooperative agreement or 
working group established pursuant to this 
paragraph by contributing funds or other resources 
to the Secretary to carry out the 
agreement or functions of the group.’’. 

TITLE VI—RESEARCH EXTENSION AND 
EDUCATION 

Subtitle A—Amendments to National Agricul


tural Research, Extension, and Teaching 

Policy Act of 1977 and Related Statutes 

SEC. 601. PURPOSES OF AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH, EXTENSION, AND EDU


CATION. 

Section 1402 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3101) is amended to read 
as follows: 

‘‘SEC. 1402. PURPOSES OF AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH, EXTENSION, AND EDU


CATION. 

‘‘The purposes of federally supported agricultural 
research, extension, and education 
are to— 

‘‘(1) enhance the competitiveness of the 
United States agriculture and food industry 
in an increasingly competitive world environment; 


‘‘(2) increase the long-term productivity of 
the United States agriculture and food industry 
while protecting the natural resource 
base on which rural America and the United 
States agricultural economy depend; 

‘‘(3) develop new uses and new products for 
agricultural commodities, such as alternative 
fuels, and develop new crops; 

‘‘(4) support agricultural research and extension 
to promote economic opportunity in 
rural communities and to meet the increasing 
demand for information and technology 
transfer throughout the United States agriculture 
industry; 

‘‘(5) improve risk management in the 
United States agriculture industry; 

‘‘(6) improve the safe production and processing 
of, and adding of value to, United 
States food and fiber resources using methods 
that are environmentally sound; 

‘‘(7) support higher education in agriculture 
to give the next generation of Americans 
the knowledge, technology, and applications 
necessary to enhance the competitiveness 
of United States agriculture; and 

‘‘(8) maintain an adequate, nutritious, and 
safe supply of food to meet human nutritional 
needs and requirements.’’. 

SEC. 602. SUBCOMMITTEE ON FOOD, AGRICULTURAL, 
AND FORESTRY RESEARCH. 

Section 401(h) of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities 
Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6651(h)) is amended 
by striking the second through fifth sentences. 


SEC. 603. JOINT COUNCIL ON FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL 
SCIENCES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1407 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3122) is 
repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1404 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103) is amended— 
(A) by striking paragraph (9); and 
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (10) 
through (18) as paragraphs (9) through (17), 
respectively. 
(2) Section 1405 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3121) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘Joint 
Council, Advisory Board,’’ and inserting 
‘‘Advisory Board’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (11), by striking ‘‘the 
Joint Council,’’. 
(3) Section 1410(2) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3125(2)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘the recommendations of the 
Joint Council developed under section 
1407(f),’’. 
(4) Section 1412 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3127) is amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘joint council, advisory board,’’ and inserting 
‘‘advisory board’’; 
(B) in subsection (a)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘Joint Council, the Advisory 
Board,’’ and inserting ‘‘Advisory 
Board’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘the cochairpersons of the 
Joint Council and’’ each place it appears; 
and 
(iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘one shall 
serve as the executive secretary to the Joint 
Council, one shall serve as the executive secretary 
to the Advisory Board,’’ and inserting 
‘‘1 shall serve as the executive secretary to 
the Advisory Board’’; and 
(C) in subsections (b) and (c), by striking 
‘‘Joint Council, Advisory Board,’’ each place 
it appears and inserting ‘‘Advisory Board’’. 
(5) Section 1413 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3128) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘Joint 
Council, the Advisory Board,’’ and inserting 
‘‘Advisory Board’’; 
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘Joint 
Council, Advisory Board,’’ and inserting 
‘‘Advisory Board’’; and 
(C) by striking subsection (d). 
(6) Section 1434(c) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3196(c)) is amended— 


(A) in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘Joint Council, the Advisory Board,’’ and inserting 
‘‘Advisory Board’’; and 
(B) in the fourth sentence, by striking ‘‘the 
Joint Council,’’. 
SEC. 604. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, 

EXTENSION, EDUCATION, AND ECO


NOMICS ADVISORY BOARD. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1408 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3123) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 1408. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RE


SEARCH, EXTENSION, EDUCATION, 

AND ECONOMICS ADVISORY BOARD. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall 
establish within the Department of Agriculture 
a board to be known as the ‘National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, 
and Economics Advisory Board’. 

‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Advisory Board 
shall consist of 25 members, appointed by the 
Secretary. 

‘‘(2) SELECTION OF MEMBERS.—The Secretary 
shall appoint members to the Advisory 
Board from individuals who are selected 
from national farm, commodity, agribusiness, 
environmental, consumer, and 
other organizations directly concerned with 
agricultural research, education, and extension 
programs. 

‘‘(3) REPRESENTATION.—A member of the 
Advisory Board may represent 1 or more of 
the organizations referred to in paragraph 
(2), except that 1 member shall be a representative 
of the scientific community that 
is not closely associated with agriculture. 
The Secretary shall ensure that the membership 
of the Advisory Board includes full-time 
farmers and ranchers and represents the interests 
of the full variety of stakeholders in 
the agricultural sector. 

‘‘(c) DUTIES.—The Advisory Board shall— 

‘‘(1) review and provide consultation to the 
Secretary and land-grant colleges and universities 
on long-term and short-term national 
policies and priorities, as set forth in 
section 1402, relating to agricultural research, 
extension, education, and economics; 

‘‘(2) evaluate the results and effectiveness 
of agricultural research, extension, education, 
and economics with respect to the 
policies and priorities; 

‘‘(3) review and make recommendations to 
the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, 
Education, and Economics on the research, 
extension, education, and economics 
portion of the draft strategic plan required 
under section 306 of title 5, United States 
Code; and 

‘‘(4) review the mechanisms of the Department 
of Agriculture for technology assessment 
(which should be conducted by qualified 
professionals) for the purposes of— 

‘‘(A) performance measurement and evaluation 
of the implementation by the Secretary 
of the strategic plan required under 
section 306 of title 5, United States Code; 

‘‘(B) implementation of the national research 
policies and priorities set forth in section 
1402; and 

‘‘(C) the development of mechanisms for 
the assessment of emerging public and private 
agricultural research and technology 
transfer initiatives. 

‘‘(d) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out this 
section, the Advisory Board shall solicit 
opinions and recommendations from persons 
who will benefit from and use federally funded 
agricultural research, extension, education, 
and economics. 

‘‘(e) APPOINTMENT.—A member of the Advisory 
Board shall be appointed by the Secretary 
for a term of up to 3 years. The members 
of the Advisory Board shall be appointed 
to serve staggered terms. 


S808 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(f) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.— 
The Advisory Board shall be deemed to have 
filed a charter for the purpose of section 9(c) 
of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 

U.S.C. App.). 
‘‘(g) TERMINATION.—The Advisory Board 
shall remain in existence until September 30, 
2002.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1404(1) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103(1)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘National Agricultural Research 
and Extension Users Advisory Board’’ 
and inserting ‘‘National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, Education, and Economics 
Advisory Board’’. 
(2) Section 1410(2) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3125(2)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘the recommendations of the 
Advisory Board developed under section 
1408(g),’’ and inserting ‘‘any recommendations 
of the Advisory Board’’. 
(3) The last sentence of section 4(a) of the 
Renewable Resources Extension Act of 1978 
(16 U.S.C. 1673(a)) is amended by striking 
‘‘National Agricultural Research and Extension 
Users Advisory Board’’ and inserting 
‘‘National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
Education, and Economics Advisory Board’’. 
SEC. 605. AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
REVIEW BOARD. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1408A of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3123a) is 
repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1404 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103) (as amended 
by section 603(b)(1)(B)) is further amended— 
(A) in paragraph (15), by adding ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(B) in paragraph (16), by striking ‘‘; and’’ 
and inserting a period; and 
(C) by striking paragraph (17). 
(2) Section 1405(12) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3121(12)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘, after coordination 
with the Technology Board,’’. 
(3) Section 1410(2) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3125(2)) (as 
amended by section 604(b)(2)) is further 
amended by striking ‘‘and the recommendations 
of the Technology Board developed 
under section 1408A(d)’’. 
(4) Section 1412 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3127) (as amended 
by section 603(b)(4)) is further amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘and technology board’’; 
(B) in subsection (a)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘and the Technology Board’’ 
each place it appears; and 
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and one 
shall serve as the executive secretary to the 
Technology Board’’; and 
(C) in subsections (b) and (c), by striking 
‘‘and Technology Board’’ each place it appears. 
(5) Section 1413 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3128) (as amended 
by section 603(b)(5)) is further amended— 
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘or the 
Technology Board’’; and 
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘and the 
Technology Board’’. 
SEC. 606. FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT 
EXEMPTION FOR FEDERAL-STATE 
COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS. 

Section 1409A of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 

Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3124a) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE ACT.— 

‘‘(1) PUBLIC MEETINGS.—All meetings of any 
entity described in paragraph (2) shall be 
publicly announced in advance and shall be 
open to the public. Detailed minutes of 
meetings and other appropriate records of 
the activities of such an entity shall be kept 
and made available to the public on request. 

‘‘(2) EXEMPTION.—The Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) and title 
XVIII of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 
(7 U.S.C. 2281 et seq.) shall not apply to any 
committee, board, commission, panel, or 
task force, or similar entity that— 

‘‘(A) is created for the purpose of cooperative 
efforts in agricultural research, extension, 
or teaching; and 

‘‘(B) consists entirely of full-time Federal 
employees and individuals who are employed 
by, or who are officials of, a State cooperative 
institution or a State cooperative 
agent.’’. 
SEC. 607. COORDINATION AND PLANNING OF AG


RICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTEN


SION, AND EDUCATION. 

Subtitle B of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3121 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 1413A. ACCOUNTABILITY. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop 
and carry out a system to monitor and 
evaluate agricultural research and extension 
activities conducted or supported by the 
Federal Government that will enable the 
Secretary to measure the impact of research, 
extension, and education programs according 
to priorities, goals, and mandates established 
by law. 

‘‘(b) CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—
The system shall be developed and 
carried out in a manner that is consistent 
with the Government Performance and Results 
Act of 1993 (Public Law 103–62; 107 Stat. 

285) and amendments made by the Act. 
‘‘SEC. 1413B. IMMINENT OR EMERGING THREATS 

TO FOOD SAFETY AND ANIMAL AND 

PLANT HEALTH. 

‘‘In the case of any activities of an agency 
of the Department of Agriculture that relate 
to food safety, animal or plant health, research, 
education, or technology transfer, 
the Secretary may transfer up to 5 percent of 
any amounts made available to the agency 
for a fiscal year to an agency of the Department 
of Agriculture reporting to the Under 
Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, 
and Economics for the purpose of addressing 
imminent or emerging threats to 
food safety and animal and plant health. 

‘‘SEC. 1413C. FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
ACT EXEMPTION FOR COMPETITIVE 
RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND EDUCATION 
PROGRAMS. 

‘‘The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 

U.S.C. App.) and title XVIII of the Food and 
Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2281 et seq.) 
shall not apply to any committee, board, 
commission, panel, or task force, or similar 
entity, created solely for the purpose of reviewing 
applications or proposals requesting 
funding under any competitive research, extension, 
or education program carried out by 
the Secretary.’’. 
SEC. 608. GRANTS AND FELLOWSHIPS FOR FOOD 

AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES EDU


CATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1417 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3152) is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) by inserting before ‘‘for a period’’ the 
following: ‘‘or to research foundations maintained 
by the colleges and universities,’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(4) to design and implement food and agricultural 
programs to build teaching and research 
capacity at primarily minority institutions;’’; 


(2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) 
as subsections (i) and (j), respectively; 
(3) by inserting after subsection (g) the following: 
‘‘(h) SECONDARY EDUCATION AND 2-YEAR 
POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION TEACHING PROGRAMS.— 


‘‘(1) AGRISCIENCE AND AGRIBUSINESS EDU-
CATION.—The Secretary shall— 

‘‘(A) promote and strengthen secondary 
education and 2-year postsecondary education 
in agriscience and agribusiness in 
order to help ensure the existence in the 
United States of a qualified workforce to 
serve the food and agricultural sciences system; 
and 

‘‘(B) promote complementary and synergistic 
linkages among secondary, 2-year 
postsecondary, and higher education programs 
in the food and agricultural sciences 
in order to promote excellence in education 
and encourage more young Americans to 
pursue and complete a baccalaureate or 
higher degree in the food and agricultural 
sciences. 

‘‘(2) GRANTS.—The Secretary may make 
competitive or noncompetitive grants, for 
grant periods not to exceed 5 years, to public 
secondary education institutions, 2-year 
community colleges, and junior colleges that 
have made a commitment to teaching 
agriscience and agribusiness— 

‘‘(A) to enhance curricula in agricultural 
education; 

‘‘(B) to increase faculty teaching competencies; 


‘‘(C) to interest young people in pursuing a 
higher education in order to prepare for scientific 
and professional careers in the food 
and agricultural sciences; 

‘‘(D) to promote the incorporation of 
agriscience and agribusiness subject matter 
into other instructional programs, particularly 
classes in science, business, and consumer 
education; 

‘‘(E) to facilitate joint initiatives among 
other secondary or 2-year postsecondary institutions 
and with 4-year colleges and universities 
to maximize the development and 
use of resources such as faculty, facilities, 
and equipment to improve agriscience and 
agribusiness education; and 

‘‘(F) to support other initiatives designed 
to meet local, State, regional, or national 
needs related to promoting excellence in 
agriscience and agribusiness education.’’; 
and 

(4) in subsection (j) (as so redesignated), by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES 
PERTAINING TO THE FUTURE FARMERS OF 
AMERICA.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—There are transferred to 
the Secretary of Agriculture all the functions 
and duties of the Secretary of Education 
under the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to incorporate 
the Future Farmers of America, 
and for other purposes’’, approved August 30, 
1950 (36 U.S.C. 271 et seq.). 
(2) PERSONNEL AND UNEXPENDED BAL-
ANCES.—There are transferred to the Department 
of Agriculture all personnel and balances 
of unexpended appropriations available 
for carrying out the duties and functions 
transferred under paragraph (1). 
(3) AMENDMENTS.—The Act entitled ‘‘An 
Act to incorporate the Future Farmers of 
America, and for other purposes’’, approved 
August 30, 1950, is amended— 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S809 

(A) in section 7(c) (36 U.S.C. 277(c)) by 
striking ‘‘Secretary of Education, the executive 
secretary shall be a member of the Department 
of Education’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary 
of Agriculture, the executive secretary 
shall be an officer or employee of the 
Department of Agriculture’’; 
(B) in section 8(a) (36 U.S.C. 278(a))— 

(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of Education’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Agriculture’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘Department of Education’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Department of Agriculture’’; 
and 
(C) in section 18 (36 U.S.C. 288)— 

(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of Education’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Secretary 
of Agriculture’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘Department of Education’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Department 
of Agriculture’’. 
SEC. 609. GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON THE PRODUCTION 
AND MARKETING OF ALCOHOLS 
AND INDUSTRIAL HYDROCARBONS 
FROM AGRICULTURAL 
COMMODITIES AND FOREST PRODUCTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1419 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3154) is 
repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1463(a) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3311(a)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘1419,’’. 
(2) Section 257(a) of the Biomass Energy 
and Alcohol Fuels Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 
8852(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘section 1419 
and’’. 
SEC. 610. POLICY RESEARCH CENTERS. 

The National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (as 
amended by section 609) is further amended 
by inserting after section 1418 (7 U.S.C. 3153) 
the following: 

‘‘SEC. 1419. POLICY RESEARCH CENTERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with this section, 
the Secretary may make grants, competitive 
grants, and special research grants 
to, and enter into cooperative agreements 
and other contracting instruments with, policy 
research centers to conduct research and 
education programs that are objective, operationally 
independent, and external to the 
Federal Government and that concern the effect 
of public policies on— 

‘‘(1) the farm and agricultural sectors; 

‘‘(2) the environment; 

‘‘(3) rural families, households and economies; 
and 

‘‘(4) consumers, food, and nutrition. 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE RECIPIENTS.—Except to the 
extent otherwise prohibited by law, State agricultural 
experiment stations, colleges and 
universities, other research institutions and 
organizations, private organizations, corporations, 
and individuals shall be eligible to 
apply for and receive funding under subsection 
(a). 

‘‘(c) ACTIVITIES.—Under this section, funding 
may be provided for disciplinary and 
interdisciplinary research and education 
concerning activities consistent with this 
section, including activities that— 

‘‘(1) quantify the implications of public 
policies and regulations; 

‘‘(2) develop theoretical and research methods; 


‘‘(3) collect and analyze data for policymakers, 
analysts, and individuals; and 

‘‘(4) develop programs to train analysts. 

‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as are necessary to carry out this section 
for fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’. 

SEC. 611. HUMAN NUTRITION INTERVENTION 

AND HEALTH PROMOTION RE


SEARCH PROGRAM. 

Section 1424 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3174) is amended to read 
as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 1424. HUMAN NUTRITION INTERVENTION 

AND HEALTH PROMOTION RE


SEARCH PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may establish, 
and award grants for projects for, a 
multi-year research initiative on human nutrition 
intervention and health promotion. 

‘‘(2) EMPHASIS OF INITIATIVE.—In administering 
human nutrition research projects 
under this section, the Secretary shall give 
specific emphasis to— 

‘‘(A) coordinated longitudinal research assessments 
of nutritional status; and 

‘‘(B) the implementation of unified, innovative 
intervention strategies; 
to identify and solve problems of nutritional 
inadequacy and contribute to the maintenance 
of health, well-being, performance, 
and productivity of individuals, thereby reducing 
the need of the individuals to use the 
health care system and social programs of 
the United States. 

‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS.—The Administrator 
of the Agricultural Research 
Service shall administer funds made available 
to carry out this section to ensure a coordinated 
approach to health and nutrition 
research efforts. 

‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as are necessary to carry out this section 
for fiscal years 1996 through 2002.’’. 

SEC. 612. FOOD AND NUTRITION EDUCATION 
PROGRAM. 

Section 1425(c)(3) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3175(c)(3)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘each of fiscal years 1996 through 
2002’’. 

SEC. 613. PURPOSES AND FINDINGS RELATING 

TO ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE 

RESEARCH. 

Section 1429 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3191) is amended to read 
as follows: 

‘‘SEC. 1429. PURPOSES AND FINDINGS RELATING 

TO ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE 

RESEARCH. 

‘‘(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this subtitle 
are to— 

‘‘(1) promote the general welfare through 
the improved health and productivity of domestic 
livestock, poultry, aquatic animals, 
and other income-producing animals that are 
essential to the food supply of the United 
States and the welfare of producers and consumers 
of animal products; 

‘‘(2) improve the health of horses; 

‘‘(3) facilitate the effective treatment of, 
and, to the extent possible, prevent animal 
and poultry diseases in both domesticated 
and wild animals that, if not controlled, 
would be disastrous to the United States 
livestock and poultry industries and endanger 
the food supply of the United States; 

‘‘(4) improve methods for the control of organisms 
and residues in food products of animal 
origin that could endanger the human 
food supply; 

‘‘(5) improve the housing and management 
of animals to improve the well-being of livestock 
production species; 

‘‘(6) minimize livestock and poultry losses 
due to transportation and handling; 

‘‘(7) protect human health through control 
of animal diseases transmissible to humans; 

‘‘(8) improve methods of controlling the 
births of predators and other animals; and 

‘‘(9) otherwise promote the general welfare 
through expanded programs of research and 
extension to improve animal health. 

‘‘(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 

‘‘(1) the total animal health and disease research 
and extension efforts of State colleges 
and universities and of the Federal Government 
would be more effective if there were 
close coordination between the efforts; and 

‘‘(2) colleges and universities having accredited 
schools or colleges of veterinary 
medicine and State agricultural experiment 
stations that conduct animal health and disease 
research are especially vital in training 
research workers in animal health and related 
disciplines.’’. 

SEC. 614. ANIMAL HEALTH SCIENCE RESEARCH 
ADVISORY BOARD. 

Section 1432 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3194) is repealed. 

SEC. 615. ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE CONTINUING 
RESEARCH. 

Section 1433 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3195) is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsection (b)(2)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘domestic livestock and 
poultry’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘domestic livestock, poultry, and commercial 
aquaculture species’’; and 
(B) in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘horses, and poultry’’ and inserting ‘‘horses, 
poultry, and commercial aquaculture species’’; 
(3) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘domestic 
livestock and poultry’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic 
livestock, poultry, and commercial 
aquaculture species’’; and 
(4) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘domestic 
livestock and poultry’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic 
livestock, poultry, and commercial 
aquaculture species’’. 
SEC. 616. ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE NATIONAL 
OR REGIONAL RESEARCH. 

Section 1434 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3196) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or national or regional 
problems relating to pre-harvest, on-farm 
food safety, or animal well-being,’’ after 
‘‘problems,’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘eligible 
institutions’’ and inserting ‘‘State agricultural 
experiment stations, colleges and universities, 
other research institutions and organizations, 
Federal agencies, private organizations 
or corporations, and individuals’’; 
(3) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘, 
food safety, and animal well-being’’ after 
‘‘animal health and disease’’; and 
(B) in the fourth sentence— 
(i) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) 
as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and 
(ii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) any food safety problem that has a significant 
pre-harvest (on-farm) component 
and is recognized as posing a significant 
health hazard to the consuming public; 

‘‘(3) issues of animal well-being related to 
production methods that will improve the 
housing and management of animals to improve 
the well-being of livestock production 
species;’’; 

(4) in the first sentence of subsection (d), 
by striking ‘‘to eligible institutions’’; and 
(5) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(f) APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE ACT.—The Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) and title 
XVIII of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 


S810 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(7 U.S.C. 2281 et seq.) shall not apply to a 
panel or board created solely for the purpose 
of reviewing applications or proposals submitted 
under this subtitle.’’. 

SEC. 617. RESIDENT INSTRUCTION PROGRAM AT 
1890 LAND-GRANT COLLEGES. 

Section 1446 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222a) is repealed. 

SEC. 618. GRANT PROGRAM TO UPGRADE AGRICULTURAL 
AND FOOD SCIENCES FACILITIES 
AT 1890 LAND-GRANT COLLEGES. 


Section 1447(b) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching 
Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222b(b)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘$8,000,000 for each of 
the fiscal years 1991 through 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘$15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1996 through 2002’’. 

SEC. 619. NATIONAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING 

CENTENNIAL CENTERS AUTHORIZA


TION. 

Section 1448 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3222c) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ‘‘, or 
fiscal years 1996 through 2002,’’ after ‘‘1995’’; 
and 
(2) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 620. GRANTS TO STATES FOR INTER


NATIONAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT 

CENTERS. 

Section 1458A of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3292) is repealed. 

SEC. 621. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAMS. 

Section 1463 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3311) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 

SEC. 622. EXTENSION EDUCATION. 

Section 1464 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3312) is amended by 
striking ‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘each of fiscal years 1995 through 2002’’. 

SEC. 623. SUPPLEMENTAL AND ALTERNATIVE 
CROPS RESEARCH. 

Section 1473D of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3319d) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘and pilot’’; 
(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘at 
pilot sites’’ through ‘‘the area’’; and 
(ii) in subparagraph (D)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘near such pilot sites’’; and 
(II) by striking ‘‘successful pilot program’’ 
and inserting ‘‘successful program’’; 
(B) in paragraph (3)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘pilot’’; 
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(iii) in subparagraph (D), by striking the 
period at the end and inserting a semicolon; 
and 
(iv) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(E) to conduct fundamental and applied 
research related to the development of new 
commercial products derived from natural 
plant material for industrial, medical, and 
agricultural applications; and 

‘‘(F) to participate with colleges and universities, 
other Federal agencies, and private 
sector entities in conducting research described 
in subparagraph (E).’’ 

SEC. 624. AQUACULTURE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS. 


(a) REPORTS.—Section 1475 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3322) is 
amended— 

(1) by striking subsection (e); and 
(2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) 
as subsections (e) and (f), respectively. 
(b) AQUACULTURE RESEARCH FACILITIES.— 
Section 1476(b) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3323(b)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(c) RESEARCH AND EXTENSION.—Section 1477 
of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 3324) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 625. RANGELAND RESEARCH. 

(a) REPORTS.—Section 1481 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3334) is 
repealed. 
(b) ADVISORY BOARD.—Section 1482 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3335) is repealed. 
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
Section 1483(a) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3336(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 626. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS. 

The table of contents of the Food and Agriculture 
Act of 1977 (Public Law 95–113; 91 
Stat. 913) is amended— 

(1) by striking the item relating to section 
1402 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1402. Purposes of agricultural research, 
extension, and education.’’; 

(2) by striking the items relating to sections 
1406, 1407, 1408A, 1432, 1446, 1458A, 1481, 
and 1482; 
(3) by striking the item relating to section 
1408 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1408. National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, Education, and Economics 
Advisory Board.’’; 

(4) by striking the item relating to section 
1412 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1412. Support for the Advisory Board.’’; 

(5) by adding at the end of the items relating 
to subtitle B of title XIV the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1413A. Accountability. 
‘‘Sec. 1413B. Imminent or emerging threats 

to food safety and animal and 
plant health. 

‘‘Sec. 1413C. Federal Advisory Committee 
Act exemption for competitive 
research, extension, and education 
programs.’’; 

(6) by striking the item relating to section 
1419 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1419. Policy research centers.’’; 

(7) by striking the item relating to section 
1424 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1424. Human nutrition intervention 
and health promotion research 
program.’’; 

and 

(8) by striking the item relating to section 
1429 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 1429. Purposes and findings relating to 
animal health and disease research.’’. 


Subtitle B—Amendments to Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 

SEC. 631. WATER QUALITY RESEARCH, EDUCATION, 
AND COORDINATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle G of title XIV of 
the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5501 et seq.) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1627(a)(3) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(7 U.S.C. 5821(a)(3)) is amended by striking ‘‘, 
subtitle G of title XIV,’’. 
(2) Section 1628 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5831) is amended by striking ‘‘, subtitle G of 
title XIV,’’ each place it appears in subsections 
(a) and (d). 
(3) Section 1629 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5832) is amended by striking ‘‘, subtitle G of 
title XIV,’’ each place it appears in subsections 
(f) and (g)(11). 
SEC. 632. EDUCATION PROGRAM REGARDING 
HANDLING OF AGRICULTURAL 
CHEMICALS AND AGRICULTURAL 
CHEMICAL CONTAINERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1499A of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 3125c) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
1499(b) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5506(b)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘and section 1499A’’. 
SEC. 633. PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1622 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 5812) is amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d); 
and 
(2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection 
(b). 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1619(b) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5801(b)) is amended— 
(A) by striking paragraph (7); and 
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (8), (9), 
and (10) as paragraphs (7), (8), and (9), respectively. 
(2) Section 1621(c) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5811(c)) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking subparagraph (A); and 
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) 
through (E) as subparagraphs (A) through 
(D), respectively; and 
(B) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) by striking subparagraph (A); and 
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) 
through (F) as subparagraphs (A) through 
(E), respectively. 
(3) Section 1622 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5812) (as amended by subsection (a)) is further 
amended— 
(A) in subsection (a)— 
(i) by striking paragraph (2); 
(ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘subsection 
(e)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (b)’’; 
and 
(iii) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) 
as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and 
(B) in subsection (b)(2)— 
(i) by striking subparagraph (A); and 
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) 
through (F) as subparagraphs (A) through 
(E), respectively. 
(4) Section 1628(b) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5831(b)) is amended by striking ‘‘Advisory 
Council, the Soil Conservation Service,’’ and 
inserting ‘‘Natural Resources Conservation 
Service’’. 
SEC. 634. NATIONAL GENETICS RESOURCES PROGRAM. 


(a) FUNCTIONS.—Section 1632(d) of the 
Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade 
Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5841(d)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(4) unless otherwise prohibited by law, 
have the right to make available on request, 
without charge and without regard to the 
country from which the request originates, 
the genetic material that the program assembles;’’. 


(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
Section 1635(b) of the Food, Agriculture, 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S811 

Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. SEC. 646. ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM fiscal year, as determined by the Secretary; 
5844(b)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and in-and

FOR FARMERS WITH DISABILITIES. 

serting ‘‘2002’’. Section 1680 of the Food, Agriculture, Con-‘‘(2) amounts made available after Sep-
SEC. 635. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL WEATHER servation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. tember 30, 1995, to carry out programs or ini-
INFORMATION SYSTEM. 5933) is amended— tiatives funded under this subsection prior to 

Section 1641(c) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5855(c)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 

SEC. 636. RESEARCH REGARDING PRODUCTION, 
PREPARATION, PROCESSING, HANDLING, 
AND STORAGE OF AGRICULTURAL 
PRODUCTS. 

Subtitle E of title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(7 U.S.C. 5871 et seq.) is repealed. 

SEC. 637. PLANT AND ANIMAL PEST AND DISEASE 
CONTROL PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle F of title XVI of 
the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and 
Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5881) is repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 28(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 
U.S.C. 136w–3(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking 
‘‘and the information required by section 
1651 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990’’. 
(2) Section 1627(a)(3) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(7 U.S.C. 5821(a)(3)) is amended by striking 
‘‘and section 1650’’. 
(3) Section 1628 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5831) is amended by striking ‘‘section 1650,’’ 
each place it appears in subsections (a) and 
(d). 
(4) Section 1629 of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5832) is amended by striking ‘‘section 1650,’’ 
each place it appears in subsections (f) and 
(g)(11). 
SEC. 638. LIVESTOCK PRODUCT SAFETY AND INSPECTION 
PROGRAM. 

Section 1670(e) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5923(e)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 

SEC. 639. PLANT GENOME MAPPING PROGRAM. 

Section 1671 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5924) is repealed. 

SEC. 640. SPECIALIZED RESEARCH PROGRAMS. 

Section 1672 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5925) is repealed. 

SEC. 641. AGRICULTURAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
PROGRAM. 

Section 1673(h) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5926(h)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 

SEC. 642. NATIONAL CENTERS FOR AGRICUL


TURAL PRODUCT QUALITY RE


SEARCH. 

Section 1675(g)(1) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5928(g)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 

SEC. 643. TURKEY RESEARCH CENTER AUTHORIZATION. 


Section 1676 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5929) is repealed. 

SEC. 644. SPECIAL GRANT TO STUDY CON


STRAINTS ON AGRICULTURAL 

TRADE. 

Section 1678 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5931) is repealed. 

SEC. 645. PILOT PROJECT TO COORDINATE FOOD 

AND NUTRITION EDUCATION PRO


GRAMS. 

Section 1679 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
5932) is repealed. 

(1) in subsection (a)(6)(B), by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘1996’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 647. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS. 

Section 2348 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
2662a) is repealed. 

SEC. 648. NATIONAL RURAL INFORMATION CENTER 
CLEARINGHOUSE. 

Section 2381(e) of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
3125b(e)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 

SEC. 649. GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE. 

(a) TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—Section 
2404 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6703) is 
repealed. 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
Section 2412 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, 
and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
6710) is amended by striking ‘‘1996’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 650. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS. 

The table of contents of the Food, Agriculture, 
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101–624; 104 Stat. 3359) is amended 
by striking the items relating to subtitle 
G of title XIV, section 1499A, subtitles E and 
F of title XVI, and sections 1671, 1672, 1676, 
1678, 1679, 2348, and 2404. 

Subtitle C—Miscellaneous Research 
Provisions 

SEC. 661. CRITICAL AGRICULTURAL MATERIALS 
RESEARCH. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 4 of the Critical 
Agricultural Materials Act (7 U.S.C. 178b) is 
amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (g); and 
(2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection 
(g). 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
Section 16(a) of the Critical Agricultural Materials 
Act (7 U.S.C. 178n(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 662. 1994 INSTITUTIONS. 

(a) LAND-GRANT STATUS.—The first sentence 
of section 533(b) of the Equity in Educational 
Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (Public 
Law 103–382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note) is amended 
by striking ‘‘2000’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING 
GRANTS.—Section 535 of the Equity in Educational 
Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (Public 
Law 103–382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note) is amended 
by striking ‘‘2000’’ each place it appears in 
subsections (b)(1) and (c) and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 663. SMITH-LEVER ACT FUNDING FOR 1890 
LAND-GRANT COLLEGES, INCLUDING 
TUSKEGEE UNIVERSITY AND THE 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR FUNDS.—Section 3(d) of 
the Act of May 8, 1914 (commonly known as 
the ‘‘Smith-Lever Act’’) (38 Stat. 373, chapter 
79; 7 U.S.C. 343(d)), is amended by adding at 
the end the following: ‘‘A college or university 
eligible to receive funds under the Act of 
August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417, chapter 841; 7 
U.S.C. 321 et seq.), including Tuskegee University, 
or section 208 of the District of Columbia 
Public Postsecondary Education Reorganization 
Act (Public Law 93–471; 88 Stat. 
1428) may apply for and receive directly from 
the Secretary of Agriculture— 
‘‘(1) amounts made available under this 
subsection after September 30, 1995, to carry 
out programs or initiatives for which no 
funds were made available under this subsection 
for fiscal year 1995, or any previous 

that date that are in excess of the highest 
amount made available for the programs or 
initiatives under this subsection for fiscal 
year 1995, or any previous fiscal year, as determined 
by the Secretary.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) The third sentence of section 1444(a) of 
the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 3221(a)) is amended by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ‘‘, except 
that for the purpose of this calculation, the 
total appropriations shall not include 
amounts made available after September 30, 
1995, under section 3(d) of the Act of May 8, 
1914 (commonly known as the ‘Smith-Lever 
Act’) (38 Stat. 373, chapter 79; 7 U.S.C. 343(d)), 
to carry out programs or initiatives for 
which no funds were made available under 
section 3(d) of the Act for fiscal year 1995, or 
any previous fiscal year, as determined by 
the Secretary, and shall not include amounts 
made available after September 30, 1995, to 
carry out programs or initiatives funded 
under section 3(d) of the Act prior to that 
date that are in excess of the highest amount 
made available for the programs or initiatives 
for fiscal year 1995, or any previous fiscal 
year, as determined by the Secretary.’’. 
(2) Section 208(c) of the District of Columbia 
Public Postsecondary Education Reorganization 
Act (Public Law 93–471; 88 Stat. 1428) 
is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Funds appropriated under this subsection 
shall be in addition to any amounts 
provided to the District of Columbia from— 
‘‘(1) amounts made available after September 
30, 1995, under section 3(d) of the Act 
to carry out programs or initiatives for 
which no funds were made available under 
section 3(d) of the Act for fiscal year 1995, or 
any previous fiscal year, as determined by 
the Secretary of Agriculture; and 

‘‘(2) amounts made available after September 
30, 1995, to carry out programs or initiatives 
funded under section 3(d) of the Act 
prior to the date that are in excess of the 
highest amount made available for the programs 
or initiatives for fiscal year 1995, or 
any previous fiscal year, as determined by 
the Secretary of Agriculture.’’. 
SEC. 664. COMMITTEE OF NINE. 

Section 3(c)(3) of the Act of March 2, 1887 
(Chapter 314; 7 U.S.C. 361c(c)(3)) is amended 
by striking from ‘‘, and shall be used’’ 
through the end of the paragraph and inserting 
a period. 
SEC. 665. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FACILITIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) RESEARCH FACILITIES.—The Research 
Facilities Act (7 U.S.C. 390 et seq.) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

‘‘This Act may be cited as the ‘Research 
Facilities Act’. 
‘‘SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this Act: 

‘‘(1) AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FACILITY.— 
The term ‘agricultural research facility’ 
means a proposed facility for research in 
food and agricultural sciences for which Federal 
funds are requested by a college, university, 
or nonprofit institution to assist in the 
construction, alteration, acquisition, modernization, 
renovation, or remodeling of the 
facility. 

‘‘(2) FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES.— 
The term ‘food and agricultural sciences’ 
means— 

‘‘(A) agriculture, including soil and water 
conservation and use, the use of organic materials 
to improve soil tilth and fertility, 


S812 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

plant and animal production and protection, 
and plant and animal health; 

‘‘(B) the processing, distributing, marketing, 
and utilization of food and agricultural 
products; 

‘‘(C) forestry, including range management, 
production of forest and range products. 
multiple use of forest and rangelands, 
and urban forestry; 

‘‘(D) aquaculture (as defined in section 
1404(3) of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3103(3)); 

‘‘(E) human nutrition; 

‘‘(F) production inputs, such as energy, to 
improve productivity; and 

‘‘(G) germ plasm collection and preservation. 


‘‘(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
‘‘SEC. 3. REVIEW PROCESS. 

‘‘(a) SUBMISSION TO SECRETARY.—Each proposal 
for an agricultural research facility 
shall be submitted to the Secretary for review. 
The Secretary shall review the proposals 
in the order in which the proposals 
are received. 

‘‘(b) APPLICATION PROCESS.—In consultation 
with the Committee on Appropriations 
of the Senate and Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives, the 
Secretary shall establish an application 
process for the submission of proposals for 
agricultural research facilities. 

‘‘(c) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.— 

‘‘(1) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—With 
respect to each proposal for an agricultural 
research facility submitted under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall determine whether 
the proposal meets the criteria set forth in 
paragraph (2). 

‘‘(2) CRITERIA.—A proposal for an agricultural 
research facility shall meet the following 
criteria: 

‘‘(A) NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—The proposal 
shall certify the availability of at least a 50 
percent non-Federal share of the cost of the 
facility. The non-Federal share shall be paid 
in cash and may include funding from private 
sources or from units of State or local 
government. 

‘‘(B) NONDUPLICATION OF FACILITIES.—The 
proposal shall demonstrate how the agricultural 
research facility would be complementary 
to, and not duplicative of, facilities of 
colleges, universities, and nonprofit institutions, 
and facilities of the Agricultural Research 
Service, within the State and region. 

‘‘(C) NATIONAL RESEARCH PRIORITIES.—The 
proposal shall demonstrate how the agricultural 
research facility would serve— 

‘‘(i) 1 or more of the national research policies 
and priorities set forth in section 1402 of 
the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 3101); and 

‘‘(ii) regional needs. 

‘‘(D) LONG-TERM SUPPORT.—The proposal 
shall demonstrate that the recipient college, 
university, or nonprofit institution has the 
ability and commitment to support the long-
term, ongoing operating costs of— 

‘‘(i) the agricultural research facility after 
the facility is completed; and 

‘‘(ii) each program to be based at the facility. 


‘‘(E) STRATEGIC PLAN.—After the development 
of the strategic plan required by section 
4, the proposal shall demonstrate how 
the agricultural research facility reflects the 
strategic plan for Federal research facilities. 

‘‘(d) EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS.—Not later 
than 90 days after receiving a proposal under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) evaluate and assess the merits of the 
proposal, including the extent to which the 
proposal meets the criteria set forth in subsection 
(c); and 

‘‘(2) report to the Committee on Appropriations 
of the Senate and Committee on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives on 
the results of the evaluation and assessment. 

‘‘SEC. 4. STRATEGIC PLAN FOR FEDERAL RESEARCH 
FACILITIES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than September 
30, 1997, the Secretary shall develop a 
comprehensive plan for the development, 
construction, modernization, consolidation, 
and closure of federally supported agricultural 
research facilities. 

‘‘(b) FACTORS.—In developing the plan, the 
Secretary shall consider— 

‘‘(1) the need to increase agricultural productivity 
and to enhance the competitiveness 
of the United States agriculture and 
food industry as set forth in section 1402 of 
the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 3101); and 

‘‘(2) the findings of the National Academy 
of Sciences with respect to programmatic 
and scientific priorities relating to agriculture. 


‘‘(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—The plan shall be 
developed for implementation over the 10-fiscal 
year period beginning with fiscal year 
1998. 

‘‘SEC. 5. APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE ACT. 

‘‘The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 

U.S.C. App) and title XVIII of the Food and 
Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2281 et. seq) 
shall not apply to a panel or board created 
solely for the purpose of reviewing applications 
or proposals submitted under this Act. 
‘‘SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection 
(b), there are authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as are necessary for fiscal years 
1996 through 2002 for the study, plan, design, 
structure, and related costs of agricultural 
research facilities under this Act. 

‘‘(b) ALLOWABLE ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.— 
Not more than 3 percent of the funds made 
available for any project for an agricultural 
research facility shall be available for administration 
of the project.’’. 

(2) APPLICATION.— 
(A) CURRENT PROJECTS.—The amendment 
made by paragraph (1), other than section 4 
of the Research Facilities Act (as amended 
by paragraph (1)), shall not apply to any 
project for an agricultural research facility 
for which funds have been made available for 
a feasibility study or for any phase of the 
project prior to October 1, 1995. 
(B) STRATEGIC PLAN.—The strategic plan 
required by section 4 of the Act shall apply 
to all federally supported agricultural research 
facilities, including projects funded 
prior to the effective date of this title. 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR 
FEDERAL FACILITIES.—Section 1431 of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act Amendments of 1985 
(Public Law 99–198; 99 Stat. 1556) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(a)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(2) by striking subsection (b). 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
1463(a) of the National Agricultural Research, 
Extension, and Teaching Policy Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3311(a)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1416,’’. 
SEC. 666. NATIONAL COMPETITIVE RESEARCH 
INITIATIVE. 

Subsection (b)(10) of the Competitive, Special, 
and Facilities Research Grant Act (7 

U.S.C. 450i(b)(10)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘AND 
AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—There’’; 

(2) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘each of fiscal years 1995 through 
2002’’; 
(3) by striking ‘‘(A) not’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(i) not’’; 

(4) by striking ‘‘(B) not’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(ii) not’’; 

(5) in clause (ii) (as so designated), by 
striking ‘‘20 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘40 percent’’; 
(6) by striking ‘‘(C) not’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(iii) not’’; 

(7) by striking ‘‘(D) not’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(iv) not’’; 

(8) by striking ‘‘(E) not’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(v) not’’; and 

(9) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) AVAILABILITY.—Funds made available 
under subparagraph (A) shall be available for 
obligation for a period of 2 years from the beginning 
of the fiscal year for which the funds 
are made available.’’. 
SEC. 667. COTTON CROP REPORTS. 

The Act of May 3, 1924 (43 Stat. 115, chapter 
149; 7 U.S.C. 475), is repealed. 

SEC. 668. RURAL DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH AND 
EDUCATION. 

Section 502 of the Rural Development Act 
of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2662) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a), by inserting after the 
first sentence the following: ‘‘The rural development 
extension programs shall also 
promote coordinated and integrated rural 
community initiatives that advance and empower 
capacity building through leadership 
development, entrepreneurship, business development 
and management training and 
strategic planning to increase jobs, income, 
and quality of life in rural communities.’’; 
(2) by striking subsections (g) and (j); and 
(3) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) 
as subsections (g) and (h) respectively. 
SEC. 669. HUMAN NUTRITION RESEARCH. 

Section 1452 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act Amendments of 1985 (Public Law 99–198; 
7 U.S.C. 3173 note) is repealed. 
SEC. 670. DAIRY GOAT RESEARCH PROGRAM. 

Section 1432 of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy 
Act Amendments of 1981 (Public Law 97–98; 7 

U.S.C. 3222 note) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(a)’’; and 
(2) by striking subsection (b). 
SEC. 671. GRANTS TO UPGRADE 1890 LAND-GRANT 
COLLEGE EXTENSION FACILITIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1416 of the Food 
Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 3224) is repealed. 
(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(Public Law 99–198; 99 Stat. 1354) is amended 
by striking the item relating to section 1416. 
SEC. 672. STUTTGART NATIONAL AQUACULTURE 
RESEARCH CENTER. 

(a) TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS TO THE SECRETARY 
OF AGRICULTURE.— 
(1) TITLE OF PUBLIC LAW 85–342.—The title of 
Public Law 85–342 (16 U.S.C. 778 et seq.) is 
amended by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Agriculture’’. 
(2) AUTHORIZATION.—The first section of 
Public Law 85–342 (16 U.S.C. 778) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘directed to’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Agriculture 
shall’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘station and stations’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1 or more centers’’; and 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S813 

(C) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘Department 
of Agriculture’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary 
of the Interior’’. 
(3) AUTHORITY.—Section 2 of Public Law 
85–342 (16 U.S.C. 778a) is amended by striking 
‘‘, the Secretary’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘authorized’’ and inserting ‘‘, the 
Secretary of Agriculture is authorized’’. 
(4) ASSISTANCE.—Section 3 of Public Law 
85–342 (16 U.S.C. 778b) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary of Agriculture’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘Department of Agriculture’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’. 
(b) TRANSFER OF FISH FARMING EXPERIMENTAL 
LABORATORY TO DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.— 
(1) DESIGNATION OF STUTTGART NATIONAL 
AQUACULTURE RESEARCH CENTER.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Fish Farming Experimental 
Laboratory in Stuttgart, Arkansas 
(including the facilities in Kelso, Arkansas), 
shall be known and designated as the ‘‘Stuttgart 
National Aquaculture Research Center’’. 
(B) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law, 
map, regulation, document, paper, or other 
record of the United States to the laboratory 
referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be 
deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Stuttgart 
National Aquaculture Research Center’’. 
(2) TRANSFER OF LABORATORY TO THE DEPARTMENT 
OF AGRICULTURE.—Subject to section 
1531 of title 31, United States Code, not 
later than 90 days after the effective date of 
this title, there are transferred to the Department 
of Agriculture— 
(A) the personnel employed in connection 
with the laboratory referred to in paragraph 
(1); 
(B) the assets, liabilities, contracts, and 
real and personal property of the laboratory; 
(C) the records of the laboratory; and 
(D) the unexpended balance of appropriations, 
authorizations, allocations and other 
funds employed, held, arising from, available 
to, or to be made available in connection 
with the laboratory. 
(3) NONDUPLICATION.—The research center 
referred to in paragraph (1)(A) shall be complementary 
to, and not duplicative of, facilities 
of colleges, universities, and nonprofit 
institutions, and facilities of the Agricultural 
Research Service, within the State and 
region, as determined by the Administrator 
of the Service. 
SEC. 673. NATIONAL AQUACULTURE POLICY, 
PLANNING, AND DEVELOPMENT. 

(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 3 of the National 
Aquaculture Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2802) is 
amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘the propagation’’ 
and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting the following: 
‘‘the commercially controlled cultivation of 
aquatic plants, animals, and microorganisms, 
but does not include private for-profit 
ocean ranching of Pacific salmon in a State 
in which the ranching is prohibited by law.’’; 
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘or aquatic 
plant’’ and inserting ‘‘aquatic plant, or 
microorganism’’; 
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through 
(9) as paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively; 
and 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following: 
‘‘(7) The term ‘private aquaculture’ means 
the commercially controlled cultivation of 
aquatic plants, animals, and microorganisms 
other than cultivation carried out by the 
Federal Government, any State or local government, 
or an Indian tribe recognized by 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs.’’. 

(b) NATIONAL AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT 
PLAN.—Section 4 of the National Aquaculture 
Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2803) is amended— 


(1) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in subparagraph (A), by adding ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘; 
and’’ and inserting a period; and 
(C) by striking subparagraph (C); 
(2) in the second sentence of subsection (d), 
by striking ‘‘Secretaries determine that’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary 
of the Interior, and the heads of such 
other agencies as the Secretary determines 
are appropriate, determines that’’; and 
(3) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘Secretaries’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Commerce, 
the Secretary of the Interior, and the heads 
of such other agencies as the Secretary determines 
are appropriate,’’. 
(c) FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF SECRETARIES.—
Section 5(b)(3) of the National 
Aquaculture Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2804(b)(3)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘Secretaries deem’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary 
of the Interior, and the heads of such 
other agencies as the Secretary determines 
are appropriate, consider’’. 
(d) COORDINATION OF NATIONAL ACTIVITIES 
REGARDING AQUACULTURE.—The first sentence 
of section 6(a) of the National Aquaculture 
Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2805(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘(f)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(e)’’. 
(e) NATIONAL POLICY FOR PRIVATE AQUA-
CULTURE.—The National Aquaculture Act of 
1980 (16 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating sections 7, 8, 9, 10, and 
11 as sections 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, respectively; 
and 
(2) by inserting after section 6 (16 U.S.C. 
2805) the following: 
‘‘SEC. 7. NATIONAL POLICY FOR PRIVATE AQUACULTURE. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In consultation with the 
Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of 
the Interior, the Secretary shall coordinate 
and implement a national policy for private 
aquaculture in accordance with this section. 
In developing the policy, the Secretary may 
consult with other agencies and organizations. 


‘‘(b) DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AQUACULTURE 
PLAN.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop 
and implement a Department of Agriculture 
Aquaculture Plan (referred to in this 
section as the ‘Department plan’) for a unified 
aquaculture program of the Department 
of Agriculture (referred to in this section as 
the ‘Department’) to support the development 
of private aquaculture. 

‘‘(2) ELEMENTS OF DEPARTMENT PLAN.—The 
Department plan shall address— 

‘‘(A) programs of individual agencies of the 
Department related to aquaculture that are 
consistent with Department programs related 
to other areas of agriculture, including 
livestock, crops, products, and commodities 
under the jurisdiction of agencies of the Department; 


‘‘(B) the treatment of cultivated aquatic 
animals as livestock and cultivated aquatic 
plants as agricultural crops; and 

‘‘(C) means for effective coordination and 
implementation of aquaculture activities 
and programs within the Department, including 
individual agency commitments of 
personnel and resources. 

‘‘(c) NATIONAL AQUACULTURE INFORMATION 
CENTER.—In carrying out section 5, the Secretary 
may maintain and support a National 
Aquaculture Information Center at the National 
Agricultural Library as a repository 
for information on national and international 
aquaculture. 

‘‘(d) TREATMENT OF AQUACULTURE.—The 
Secretary shall treat— 

‘‘(1) private aquaculture as agriculture; 
and 

‘‘(2) commercially cultivated aquatic animals, 
plants, and microorganisms, and products 
of the animals, plants, and microorganisms, 
produced by private persons and 
transported or moved in standard commodity 
channels as agricultural livestock, 
crops, and commodities. 

‘‘(e) PRIVATE AQUACULTURE POLICY COORDINATION, 
DEVELOPMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION.— 


‘‘(1) RESPONSIBILITY.—The Secretary shall 
have responsibility for coordinating, developing, 
and carrying out policies and programs 
for private aquaculture. 

‘‘(2) DUTIES.—The Secretary shall— 

‘‘(A) coordinate all intradepartmental 
functions and activities relating to private 
aquaculture; and 

‘‘(B) establish procedures for the coordination 
of functions, and consultation with, the 
coordinating group. 

‘‘(f) LIAISON WITH DEPARTMENTS OF COMMERCE 
AND THE INTERIOR.—The Secretary of 
Commerce and the Secretary of the Interior 
shall each designate an officer or employee 
of the Department of the Secretary to be the 
liaison of the Department to the Secretary 
of Agriculture.’’. 

(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
Section 11 of the National Aquaculture Act 
of 1980 (as redesignated by subsection (e)(1)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘the fiscal years 1991, 
1992, and 1993’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘fiscal years 1991 through 2002’’. 
SEC. 674. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATED 
TO THE NATIONAL ARBORETUM. 

(a) SOLICITATION OF GIFTS, BENEFITS, AND 
DEVISES.—The first sentence of section 5 of 
the Act of March 4, 1927 (89 Stat. 683; 20 
U.S.C. 195), is amended by inserting ‘‘solicit,’’ 
after ‘‘authorized to’’. 
(b) CONCESSIONS, FEES, AND VOLUNTARY 
SERVICES.—The Act of March 4, 1927 (44 Stat. 
1422, chapter 505; 20 U.S.C. 191 et seq.), is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 6. CONCESSIONS, FEES, AND VOLUNTARY 
SERVICES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services 
Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) and section 
321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (47 Stat. 
412, chapter 314; 40 U.S.C. 303b), the Secretary 
of Agriculture, in furtherance of the 
mission of the National Arboretum, may— 

‘‘(1) negotiate agreements granting concessions 
at the National Arboretum to nonprofit 
scientific or educational organizations 
the interests of which are complementary to 
the mission of the National Arboretum, except 
that the net proceeds of the organizations 
from the concessions shall be used exclusively 
for research and educational work 
for the benefit of the National Arboretum; 

‘‘(2) provide by concession, on such terms 
as the Secretary of Agriculture considers appropriate 
and necessary, for commercial 
services for food, drink, and nursery sales, if 
an agreement for a permanent concession 
under this paragraph is negotiated with a 
qualified person submitting a proposal after 
due consideration of all proposals received 
after the Secretary of Agriculture provides 
reasonable public notice of the intent of the 
Secretary to enter into such an agreement; 

‘‘(3) dispose of excess property, including 
excess plants and fish, in a manner designed 
to maximize revenue from any sale of the 
property, including by way of public auction, 
except that this paragraph shall not apply to 
the free dissemination of new varieties of 
seeds and germ plasm in accordance with 
section 520 of the Revised Statutes (commonly 
known as the ‘Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1862’) (7 U.S.C. 2201); 


S814 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(4) charge such fees as the Secretary of 
Agriculture considers reasonable for temporary 
use by individuals or groups of National 
Arboretum facilities and grounds for 
any purpose consistent with the mission of 
the National Arboretum; 

‘‘(5) charge such fees as the Secretary of 
Agriculture considers reasonable for the use 
of the National Arboretum for commercial 
photography or cinematography; 

‘‘(6) publish, in print and electronically 
and without regard to laws relating to printing 
by the Federal Government, informational 
brochures, books, and other publications 
concerning the National Arboretum or 
the collections of the Arboretum; and 

‘‘(7) license use of the National Arboretum 
name and logo for public service or commercial 
uses. 

‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Any funds received or 
collected by the Secretary of Agriculture as 
a result of activities described in subsection 

(a) shall be retained in a special fund in the 
Treasury for the use and benefit of the National 
Arboretum as the Secretary of Agriculture 
considers appropriate. 
‘‘(c) ACCEPTANCE OF VOLUNTARY SERVICES.—
The Secretary of Agriculture may accept 
the voluntary services of organizations 
described in subsection (a)(1), and the voluntary 
services of individuals (including employees 
of the National Arboretum), for the 
benefit of the National Arboretum.’’. 

SEC. 675. STUDY OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 
SERVICE. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall request the National Academy of 
Sciences to conduct a study of the role and 
mission of the Agricultural Research Service. 
The study shall— 
(1) evaluate the strength of science of the 
Service and the relevance of the science to 
national priorities; 
(2) examine how the work of the Service relates 
to the capacity of the United States agricultural 
research, education, and extension 
system overall; and 
(3) include recommendations, as appropriate. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months 
after the effective date of this title, the Secretary 
shall prepare a report that describes 
the results of the study conducted under subsection 
(a) and submit the report to the 
Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. 
(c) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall use to 
carry out this section not more than $500,000 
of funds made available to the Agricultural 
Research Service for research. 
TITLE VII—AGRICULTURAL PROMOTION 
Subtitle A—Popcorn 
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Popcorn 
Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information 
Act’’. 

SEC. 702. FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY. 


(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) popcorn is an important food that is a 
valuable part of the human diet; 
(2) the production and processing of popcorn 
plays a significant role in the economy 
of the United States in that popcorn is processed 
by several popcorn processors, distributed 
through wholesale and retail outlets, 
and consumed by millions of people throughout 
the United States and foreign countries; 
(3) popcorn must be of high quality, readily 
available, handled properly, and marketed 
efficiently to ensure that the benefits of popcorn 
are available to the people of the United 
States; 
(4) the maintenance and expansion of existing 
markets and uses and the development of 
new markets and uses for popcorn are vital 
to the welfare of processors and persons concerned 
with marketing, using, and producing 
popcorn for the market, as well as to the agricultural 
economy of the United States; 

(5) the cooperative development, financing, 
and implementation of a coordinated program 
of popcorn promotion, research, consumer 
information, and industry information 
is necessary to maintain and expand 
markets for popcorn; and 
(6) popcorn moves in interstate and foreign 
commerce, and popcorn that does not move 
in those channels of commerce directly burdens 
or affects interstate commerce in popcorn. 
(b) POLICY.—It is the policy of Congress 
that it is in the public interest to authorize 
the establishment, through the exercise of 
the powers provided in this subtitle, of an orderly 
procedure for developing, financing 
(through adequate assessments on unpopped 
popcorn processed domestically), and carrying 
out an effective, continuous, and coordinated 
program of promotion, research, 
consumer information, and industry information 
designed to— 
(1) strengthen the position of the popcorn 
industry in the marketplace; and 
(2) maintain and expand domestic and foreign 
markets and uses for popcorn. 
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this subtitle 
are to— 
(1) maintain and expand the markets for 
all popcorn products in a manner that— 
(A) is not designed to maintain or expand 
any individual share of a producer or processor 
of the market; 
(B) does not compete with or replace individual 
advertising or promotion efforts designed 
to promote individual brand name or 
trade name popcorn products; and 
(C) authorizes and funds programs that result 
in government speech promoting government 
objectives; and 
(2) establish a nationally coordinated program 
for popcorn promotion, research, consumer 
information, and industry information. 
(d) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—This subtitle 
treats processors equitably. Nothing in 
this subtitle— 
(1) provides for the imposition of a trade 
barrier to the entry into the United States of 
imported popcorn for the domestic market; 
or 
(2) provides for the control of production or 
otherwise limits the right of any individual 
processor to produce popcorn. 
SEC. 703. DEFINITIONS. 

In this subtitle (except as otherwise specifically 
provided): 

(1) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the 
Popcorn Board established under section 
705(b). 
(2) COMMERCE.—The term ‘‘commerce’’ 
means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce. 
(3) CONSUMER INFORMATION.—The term 
‘‘consumer information’’ means information 
and programs that will assist consumers and 
other persons in making evaluations and decisions 
regarding the purchase, preparation, 
and use of popcorn. 
(4) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’ 
means the Department of Agriculture. 
(5) INDUSTRY INFORMATION.—The term ‘‘industry 
information’’ means information and 
programs that will lead to the development 
of— 
(A) new markets, new marketing strategies, 
or increased efficiency for the popcorn 
industry; or 
(B) activities to enhance the image of the 
popcorn industry. 
(6) MARKETING.—The term ‘‘marketing’’ 
means the sale or other disposition of 
unpopped popcorn for human consumption in 
a channel of commerce, but does not include 
a sale or disposition to or between processors. 


(7) ORDER.—The term ‘‘order’’ means an 
order issued under section 704. 
(8) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an 
individual, group of individuals, partnership, 
corporation, association, or cooperative, or 
any other legal entity. 
(9) POPCORN.—The term ‘‘popcorn’’ means 
unpopped popcorn (Zea Mays L) that is— 
(A) commercially grown; 
(B) processed in the United States by shelling, 
cleaning, or drying; and 
(C) introduced into a channel of commerce. 
(10) PROCESS.—The term ‘‘process’’ means 
to shell, clean, dry, and prepare popcorn for 
the market, but does not include packaging 
popcorn for the market without also engaging 
in another activity described in this 
paragraph. 
(11) PROCESSOR.—The term ‘‘processor’’ 
means a person engaged in the preparation of 
unpopped popcorn for the market who owns 
or shares the ownership and risk of loss of 
the popcorn and who processes and distributes 
over 4,000,000 pounds of popcorn in the 
market per year. 
(12) PROMOTION.—The term ‘‘promotion’’ 
means an action, including paid advertising, 
to enhance the image or desirability of popcorn. 
(13) RESEARCH.—The term ‘‘research’’ 
means any type of study to advance the 
image, desirability, marketability, production, 
product development, quality, or nutritional 
value of popcorn. 
(14) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(15) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each 
of the 50 States and the District of Columbia. 
(16) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United 
States’’ means all of the States. 
SEC. 704. ISSUANCE OF ORDERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—To effectuate the policy 
described in section 702(b), the Secretary, 
subject to subsection (b), shall issue 1 or 
more orders applicable to processors. An 
order shall be applicable to all popcorn production 
and marketing areas in the United 
States. Not more than 1 order shall be in effect 
under this subtitle at any 1 time. 
(b) PROCEDURE.— 
(1) PROPOSAL OR REQUEST FOR ISSUANCE.— 
The Secretary may propose the issuance of 
an order, or an association of processors or 
any other person that would be affected by 
an order may request the issuance of, and 
submit a proposal for, an order. 
(2) NOTICE AND COMMENT CONCERNING PROPOSED 
ORDER.—Not later than 60 days after 
the receipt of a request and proposal for an 
order under paragraph (1), or at such time as 
the Secretary determines to propose an 
order, the Secretary shall publish a proposed 
order and give due notice and opportunity 
for public comment on the proposed order. 
(3) ISSUANCE OF ORDER.—After notice and 
opportunity for public comment under paragraph 
(2), the Secretary shall issue an order, 
taking into consideration the comments received 
and including in the order such provisions 
as are necessary to ensure that the 
order conforms to this subtitle. The order 
shall be issued and become effective not 
later than 150 days after the date of publication 
of the proposed order. 
(c) AMENDMENTS.—The Secretary, as appropriate, 
may amend an order. The provisions 
of this subtitle applicable to an order shall 
be applicable to any amendment to an order, 
except that an amendment to an order may 
not require a referendum to become effective. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S815 

SEC. 705. REQUIRED TERMS IN ORDERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—An order shall contain 
the terms and conditions specified in this 
section. 
(b) ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP OF 
POPCORN BOARD.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall provide 
for the establishment of, and appointment of 
members to, a Popcorn Board that shall consist 
of not fewer than 4 members and not 
more than 9 members. 
(2) NOMINATIONS.—The members of the 
Board shall be processors appointed by the 
Secretary from nominations submitted by 
processors in a manner authorized by the 
Secretary, subject to paragraph (3). Not 
more than 1 member may be appointed to 
the Board from nominations submitted by 
any 1 processor. 
(3) GEOGRAPHICAL DIVERSITY.—In making 
appointments, the Secretary shall take into 
account, to the extent practicable, the geographical 
distribution of popcorn production 
throughout the United States. 
(4) TERMS.—The term of appointment of 
each member of the Board shall be 3 years, 
except that the members appointed to the 
initial Board shall serve, proportionately, for 
terms of 2, 3, and 4 years, as determined by 
the Secretary. 
(5) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.—A member 
of the Board shall serve without compensation, 
but shall be reimbursed for the 
expenses of the member incurred in the performance 
of duties for the Board. 
(c) POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.—The 
order shall define the powers and duties of 
the Board, which shall include the power and 
duty— 
(1) to administer the order in accordance 
with the terms and provisions of the order; 
(2) to make regulations to effectuate the 
terms and provisions of the order; 
(3) to appoint members of the Board to 
serve on an executive committee; 
(4) to propose, receive, evaluate, and approve 
budgets, plans, and projects of promotion, 
research, consumer information, and 
industry information, and to contract with 
appropriate persons to implement the plans 
or projects; 
(5) to accept and receive voluntary contributions, 
gifts, and market promotion or 
similar funds; 
(6) to invest, pending disbursement under a 
plan or project, funds collected through assessments 
authorized under subsection (f), 
only in— 
(A) obligations of the United States or an 
agency of the United States; 
(B) general obligations of a State or a political 
subdivision of a State; 
(C) an interest-bearing account or certificate 
of deposit of a bank that is a member of 
the Federal Reserve System; or 
(D) obligations fully guaranteed as to principal 
and interest by the United States; 
(7) to receive, investigate, and report to 
the Secretary complaints of violations of the 
order; and 
(8) to recommend to the Secretary amendments 
to the order. 
(d) PLANS AND BUDGETS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall provide 
that the Board shall submit to the Secretary 
for approval any plan or project of promotion, 
research, consumer information, or 
industry information. 
(2) BUDGETS.—The order shall require the 
Board to submit to the Secretary for approval 
budgets on a fiscal year basis of the 
anticipated expenses and disbursements of 
the Board in the implementation of the 
order, including projected costs of plans and 
projects of promotion, research, consumer 
information, and industry information. 
(e) CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall provide 
that the Board may enter into contracts or 
agreements for the implementation and carrying 
out of plans or projects of promotion, 
research, consumer information, or industry 
information, including contracts with a 
processor organization, and for the payment 
of the cost of the plans or projects with 
funds collected by the Board under the order. 
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—A contract or agreement 
under paragraph (1) shall provide 
that— 
(A) the contracting party shall develop and 
submit to the Board a plan or project, together 
with a budget that shows the estimated 
costs to be incurred for the plan or 
project; 
(B) the plan or project shall become effective 
on the approval of the Secretary; and 
(C) the contracting party shall keep accurate 
records of each transaction of the party, 
account for funds received and expended, 
make periodic reports to the Board of activities 
conducted, and make such other reports 
as the Board or the Secretary may require. 
(3) PROCESSOR ORGANIZATIONS.—The order 
shall provide that the Board may contract 
with processor organizations for any other 
services. The contract shall include provisions 
comparable to the provisions required 
by paragraph (2). 
(f) ASSESSMENTS.— 
(1) PROCESSORS.—The order shall provide 
that each processor marketing popcorn in 
the United States or for export shall, in the 
manner prescribed in the order, pay assessments 
and remit the assessments to the 
Board. 
(2) DIRECT MARKETERS.—A processor that 
markets popcorn produced by the processor 
directly to consumers shall pay and remit 
the assessments on the popcorn directly to 
the Board in the manner prescribed in the 
order. 
(3) RATE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The rate of assessment 
prescribed in the order shall be a rate established 
by the Board but not more than $.08 
per hundredweight of popcorn. 
(B) ADJUSTMENT OF RATE.—The order shall 
provide that the Board, with the approval of 
the Secretary, may raise or lower the rate of 
assessment annually up to a maximum of 
$.08 per hundredweight of popcorn. 
(4) USE OF ASSESSMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs 
(B) and (C) and subsection (c)(5), the order 
shall provide that the assessments collected 
shall be used by the Board— 
(i) to pay expenses incurred in implementing 
and administering the order, with 
provision for a reasonable reserve; and 
(ii) to cover such administrative costs as 
are incurred by the Secretary, except that 
the administrative costs incurred by the Secretary 
(other than any legal expenses incurred 
to defend and enforce the order) that 
may be reimbursed by the Board may not exceed 
15 percent of the projected annual revenues 
of the Board. 
(B) EXPENDITURES BASED ON SOURCE OF AS-
SESSMENTS.—In implementing plans and 
projects of promotion, research, consumer 
information, and industry information, the 
Board shall expend funds on— 
(i) plans and projects for popcorn marketed 
in the United States or Canada in proportion 
to the amount of assessments collected on 
domestically marketed popcorn; and 
(ii) plans and projects for exported popcorn 
in proportion to the amount of assessments 
collected on exported popcorn. 
(C) NOTIFICATION.—If the administrative 
costs incurred by the Secretary that are reimbursed 
by the Board exceed 10 percent of 
the projected annual revenues of the Board, 
the Secretary shall notify as soon as practicable 
the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
the Senate. 

(g) PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS.—The 
order shall prohibit any funds collected by 
the Board under the order from being used to 
influence government action or policy, other 
than the use of funds by the Board for the development 
and recommendation to the Secretary 
of amendments to the order. 
(h) BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE BOARD.— 
The order shall require the Board to— 
(1) maintain such books and records (which 
shall be available to the Secretary for inspection 
and audit) as the Secretary may 
prescribe; 
(2) prepare and submit to the Secretary, 
from time to time, such reports as the Secretary 
may prescribe; and 
(3) account for the receipt and disbursement 
of all funds entrusted to the Board. 
(i) BOOKS AND RECORDS OF PROCESSORS.— 
(1) MAINTENANCE AND REPORTING OF INFOR-
MATION.—The order shall require that each 
processor of popcorn for the market shall— 
(A) maintain, and make available for inspection, 
such books and records as are required 
by the order; and 
(B) file reports at such time, in such manner, 
and having such content as is prescribed 
in the order. 
(2) USE OF INFORMATION.—The Secretary 
shall authorize the use of information regarding 
processors that may be accumulated 
under a law or regulation other than this 
subtitle or a regulation issued under this 
subtitle. The information shall be made 
available to the Secretary as appropriate for 
the administration or enforcement of this 
subtitle, the order, or any regulation issued 
under this subtitle. 
(3) CONFIDENTIALITY.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs 
(B), (C), and (D), all information obtained by 
the Secretary under paragraphs (1) and (2) 
shall be kept confidential by all officers, employees, 
and agents of the Board and the Department. 
(B) DISCLOSURE BY SECRETARY.—Information 
referred to in subparagraph (A) may be 
disclosed if— 
(i) the Secretary considers the information 
relevant; 
(ii) the information is revealed in a suit or 
administrative hearing brought at the request 
of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary 
or any officer of the United States is 
a party; and 
(iii) the information relates to the order. 
(C) DISCLOSURE TO OTHER AGENCY OF FEDERAL 
GOVERNMENT.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—No information obtained 
under the authority of this subtitle may be 
made available to another agency or officer 
of the Federal Government for any purpose 
other than the implementation of this subtitle 
and any investigatory or enforcement 
activity necessary for the implementation of 
this subtitle. 
(ii) PENALTY.—A person who knowingly 
violates this subparagraph shall, on conviction, 
be subject to a fine of not more than 
$1,000 or to imprisonment for not more than 
1 year, or both, and if an officer, employee, 
or agent of the Board or the Department, 
shall be removed from office or terminated 
from employment, as applicable. 
(D) GENERAL STATEMENTS.—Nothing in this 
paragraph prohibits— 
(i) the issuance of general statements, 
based on the reports, of the number of persons 
subject to the order or statistical data 
collected from the reports, if the statements 
do not identify the information provided by 
any person; or 
(ii) the publication, by direction of the 
Secretary, of the name of a person violating 
the order, together with a statement of the 

S816 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

particular provisions of the order violated by 
the person. 

(j) OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The 
order shall contain such terms and conditions, 
consistent with this subtitle, as are 
necessary to effectuate this subtitle, including 
regulations relating to the assessment of 
late payment charges. 
SEC. 706. REFERENDA. 

(a) INITIAL REFERENDUM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Within the 60-day period 
immediately preceding the effective date of 
an order, as provided in section 704(b)(3), the 
Secretary shall conduct a referendum among 
processors who, during a representative period 
as determined by the Secretary, have 
been engaged in processing, for the purpose 
of ascertaining whether the order shall go 
into effect. 
(2) APPROVAL OF ORDER.—The order shall 
become effective, as provided in section 
704(b), only if the Secretary determines that 
the order has been approved by not less than 
a majority of the processors voting in the 
referendum and if the majority processed 
more than 50 percent of the popcorn certified 
as having been processed, during the representative 
period, by the processors voting. 
(b) ADDITIONAL REFERENDA.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not earlier than 3 years 
after the effective date of an order approved 
under subsection (a), on the request of the 
Board or a representative group of processors, 
as described in paragraph (2), the Secretary 
may conduct additional referenda to 
determine whether processors favor the termination 
or suspension of the order. 
(2) REPRESENTATIVE GROUP OF PROC-
ESSORS.—An additional referendum on an 
order shall be conducted if the referendum is 
requested by 30 percent or more of the number 
of processors who, during a representative 
period as determined by the Secretary, 
have been engaged in processing. 
(3) DISAPPROVAL OF ORDER.—If the Secretary 
determines, in a referendum conducted 
under paragraph (1), that suspension 
or termination of the order is favored by at 
least 2/3 of the processors voting in the referendum, 
the Secretary shall— 
(A) suspend or terminate, as appropriate, 
collection of assessments under the order not 
later than 180 days after the date of determination; 
and 
(B) suspend or terminate the order, as appropriate, 
in an orderly manner as soon as 
practicable after the date of determination. 
(c) COSTS OF REFERENDUM.—The Secretary 
shall be reimbursed from assessments collected 
by the Board for any expenses incurred 
by the Secretary in connection with 
the conduct of any referendum under this 
section. 
(d) METHOD OF CONDUCTING REFERENDUM.— 
Subject to this section, a referendum conducted 
under this section shall be conducted 
in such manner as is determined by the Secretary. 
(e) CONFIDENTIALITY OF BALLOTS AND 
OTHER INFORMATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The ballots and other information 
or reports that reveal or tend to 
reveal the vote of any processor, or any business 
operation of a processor, shall be considered 
to be strictly confidential and shall 
not be disclosed. 
(2) PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.—An officer or 
employee of the Department who knowingly 
violates paragraph (1) shall be subject to the 
penalties described in section 705(i)(3)(C)(ii). 
SEC. 707. PETITION AND REVIEW. 

(a) PETITION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person subject to an 
order may file with the Secretary a petition— 
(A) stating that the order, a provision of 
the order, or an obligation imposed in connection 
with the order is not established in 
accordance with law; and 

(B) requesting a modification of the order 
or obligation or an exemption from the order 
or obligation. 
(2) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—A petition 
under paragraph (1) concerning an obligation 
may be filed not later than 2 years after the 
date of imposition of the obligation. 
(3) HEARINGS.—The petitioner shall be 
given the opportunity for a hearing on a petition 
filed under paragraph (1), in accordance 
with regulations issued by the Secretary. 
(4) RULING.—After a hearing under paragraph 
(3), the Secretary shall issue a ruling 
on the petition that is the subject of the 
hearing, which shall be final if the ruling is 
in accordance with applicable law. 
(b) REVIEW.— 
(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.—The district 
court of the United States for any district in 
which a person who is a petitioner under subsection 
(a) resides or carries on business 
shall have jurisdiction to review a ruling on 
the petition, if the person files a complaint 
not later than 20 days after the date of 
issuance of the ruling under subsection 
(a)(4). 
(2) PROCESS.—Service of process in a proceeding 
under paragraph (1) may be made on 
the Secretary by delivering a copy of the 
complaint to the Secretary. 
(3) REMANDS.—If the court determines, 
under paragraph (1), that a ruling issued 
under subsection (a)(4) is not in accordance 
with applicable law, the court shall remand 
the matter to the Secretary with directions— 
(A) to make such ruling as the court shall 
determine to be in accordance with law; or 
(B) to take such further proceedings as, in 
the opinion of the court, the law requires. 
(c) ENFORCEMENT.—The pendency of proceedings 
instituted under subsection (a) may 
not impede, hinder, or delay the Secretary or 
the Attorney General from taking action 
under section 708. 
SEC. 708. ENFORCEMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may issue 
an enforcement order to restrain or prevent 
any person from violating an order or regulation 
issued under this subtitle and may assess 
a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 
for each violation of the enforcement order, 
after an opportunity for an administrative 
hearing, if the Secretary determines that the 
administration and enforcement of the order 
and this subtitle would be adequately served 
by such a procedure. 
(b) JURISDICTION.—The district courts of 
the United States are vested with jurisdiction 
specifically to enforce, and to prevent 
and restrain any person from violating, an 
order or regulation issued under this subtitle. 
(c) REFERRAL TO ATTORNEY GENERAL.—A 
civil action authorized to be brought under 
this section shall be referred to the Attorney 
General for appropriate action. 
SEC. 709. INVESTIGATIONS AND POWER TO SUBPOENA. 


(a) INVESTIGATIONS.—The Secretary may 
make such investigations as the Secretary 
considers necessary— 
(1) for the effective administration of this 
subtitle; and 
(2) to determine whether any person subject 
to this subtitle has engaged, or is about 
to engage, in an act that constitutes or will 
constitute a violation of this subtitle or of 
an order or regulation issued under this subtitle. 
(b) OATHS, AFFIRMATIONS, AND SUB-
POENAS.—For the purpose of an investigation 
under subsection (a), the Secretary may administer 
oaths and affirmations, subpoena 
witnesses, compel the attendance of witnesses, 
take evidence, and require the production 
of any records that are relevant to 
the inquiry. The attendance of witnesses and 
the production of records may be required 
from any place in the United States. 

(c) AID OF COURTS.— 
(1) REQUEST.—In the case of contumacy by, 
or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any 
person, the Secretary may request the aid of 
any court of the United States within the jurisdiction 
of which the investigation or proceeding 
is carried on, or where the person resides 
or carries on business, in requiring the 
attendance and testimony of the person and 
the production of records. 
(2) ENFORCEMENT ORDER OF THE COURT.— 
The court may issue an enforcement order 
requiring the person to appear before the 
Secretary to produce records or to give testimony 
concerning the matter under investigation. 
(3) CONTEMPT.—A failure to obey an enforcement 
order of the court under paragraph 
(2) may be punished by the court as a 
contempt of the court. 
(4) PROCESS.—Process in a case under this 
subsection may be served in the judicial district 
in which the person resides or conducts 
business or wherever the person may be 
found. 
SEC. 710. RELATION TO OTHER PROGRAMS. 

Nothing in this subtitle preempts or supersedes 
any other program relating to popcorn 
promotion organized and operated under the 
laws of the United States or any State. 
SEC. 711. REGULATIONS. 

The Secretary may issue such regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this subtitle. 
SEC. 712. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

There are authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as are necessary to carry out this 
subtitle. Amounts made available under this 
section or otherwise made available to the 
Department, and amounts made available 
under any other marketing or promotion 
order, may not be used to pay any administrative 
expense of the Board. 

Subtitle B—Canola and Rapeseed 
SEC. 721. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Canola 
and Rapeseed Research, Promotion, and Consumer 
Information Act’’. 

SEC. 722. FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY. 


(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) canola and rapeseed products are an important 
and nutritious part of the human 
diet; 
(2) the production of canola and rapeseed 
products plays a significant role in the economy 
of the United States in that canola and 
rapeseed products are produced by thousands 
of canola and rapeseed producers, processed 
by numerous processing entities, and canola 
and rapeseed products produced in the 
United States are consumed by people 
throughout the United States and foreign 
countries; 
(3) canola, rapeseed, and canola and 
rapeseed products should be readily available 
and marketed efficiently to ensure that consumers 
have an adequate supply of canola 
and rapeseed products at a reasonable price; 
(4) the maintenance and expansion of existing 
markets and development of new markets 
for canola, rapeseed, and canola and 
rapeseed products are vital to the welfare of 
canola and rapeseed producers and processors 
and those persons concerned with 
marketing canola, rapeseed, and canola and 
rapeseed products, as well as to the general 
economy of the United States, and are necessary 
to ensure the ready availability and 
efficient marketing of canola, rapeseed, and 
canola and rapeseed products; 
(5) there exist established State and national 
organizations conducting canola and 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S817 

rapeseed research, promotion, and consumer 
education programs that are valuable to the 
efforts of promoting the consumption of 
canola, rapeseed, and canola and rapeseed 
products; 

(6) the cooperative development, financing, 
and implementation of a coordinated national 
program of canola and rapeseed research, 
promotion, consumer information, 
and industry information is necessary to 
maintain and expand existing markets and 
develop new markets for canola, rapeseed, 
and canola and rapeseed products; and 
(7) canola, rapeseed, and canola and 
rapeseed products move in interstate and 
foreign commerce, and canola, rapeseed, and 
canola and rapeseed products that do not 
move in interstate or foreign commerce directly 
burden or affect interstate commerce 
in canola, rapeseed, and canola and rapeseed 
products. 
(b) POLICY.—It is the policy of this subtitle 
to establish an orderly procedure for developing, 
financing through assessments on do-
mestically-produced canola and rapeseed, 
and implementing a program of research, 
promotion, consumer information, and industry 
information designed to strengthen 
the position in the marketplace of the canola 
and rapeseed industry, to maintain and expand 
existing domestic and foreign markets 
and uses for canola, rapeseed, and canola and 
rapeseed products, and to develop new markets 
and uses for canola, rapeseed, and 
canola and rapeseed products. 
(c) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subtitle 
provides for the control of production or otherwise 
limits the right of individual producers 
to produce canola, rapeseed, or canola 
or rapeseed products. 
SEC. 723. DEFINITIONS. 

In this subtitle (unless the context otherwise 
requires): 

(1) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the 
National Canola and Rapeseed Board established 
under section 725(b). 
(2) CANOLA; RAPESEED.—The terms 
‘‘canola’’ and ‘‘rapeseed’’ means any brassica 
plant grown in the United States for the production 
of an oilseed, the oil of which is used 
for a food or nonfood use. 
(3) CANOLA OR RAPESEED PRODUCTS.—The 
term ‘‘canola or rapeseed products’’ means 
products produced, in whole or in part, from 
canola or rapeseed. 
(4) COMMERCE.—The term ‘‘commerce’’ includes 
interstate, foreign, and intrastate 
commerce. 
(5) CONFLICT OF INTEREST.—The term ‘‘conflict 
of interest’’ means a situation in which 
a member of the Board has a direct or indirect 
financial interest in a corporation, partnership, 
sole proprietorship, joint venture, or 
other business entity dealing directly or indirectly 
with the Board. 
(6) CONSUMER INFORMATION.—The term 
‘‘consumer information’’ means information 
that will assist consumers and other persons 
in making evaluations and decisions regarding 
the purchase, preparation, and use of 
canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products. 
(7) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’ 
means the Department of Agriculture. 
(8) FIRST PURCHASER.—The term ‘‘first purchaser’’ 
means— 
(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
a person buying or otherwise acquiring 
canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products 
produced by a producer; or 
(B) the Commodity Credit Corporation, in 
a case in which canola or rapeseed is forfeited 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation 
as collateral for a loan issued under a price 
support loan program administered by the 
Commodity Credit Corporation. 
(9) INDUSTRY INFORMATION.—The term ‘‘industry 
information’’ means information or 
programs that will lead to the development 
of new markets, new marketing strategies, 
or increased efficiency for the canola and 
rapeseed industry, or an activity to enhance 
the image of the canola or rapeseed industry. 

(10) INDUSTRY MEMBER.—The term ‘‘industry 
member’’ means a member of the canola 
and rapeseed industry who represents— 
(A) manufacturers of canola or rapeseed 
products; or 
(B) persons who commercially buy or sell 
canola or rapeseed. 
(11) MARKETING.—The term ‘‘marketing’’ 
means the sale or other disposition of 
canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products 
in a channel of commerce. 
(12) ORDER.—The term ‘‘order’’ means an 
order issued under section 724. 
(13) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an 
individual, partnership, corporation, association, 
cooperative, or any other legal entity. 
(14) PRODUCER.—The term ‘‘producer’’ 
means a person engaged in the growing of 
canola or rapeseed in the United States who 
owns, or who shares the ownership and risk 
of loss of, the canola or rapeseed. 
(15) PROMOTION.—The term ‘‘promotion’’ 
means an action, including paid advertising, 
technical assistance, or trade servicing activity, 
to enhance the image or desirability 
of canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed 
products in domestic and foreign markets, or 
an activity designed to communicate to consumers, 
processors, wholesalers, retailers, 
government officials, or others information 
relating to the positive attributes of canola, 
rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products or 
the benefits of use or distribution of canola, 
rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products. 
(16) QUALIFIED STATE CANOLA AND RAPESEED 
BOARD.—The term ‘‘qualified State canola 
and rapeseed board’’ means a State canola 
and rapeseed promotion entity that is authorized 
and functioning under State law. 
(17) RESEARCH.—The term ‘‘research’’ 
means any type of test, study, or analysis to 
advance the image, desirability, marketability, 
production, product development, 
quality, or functional or nutritional value of 
canola, rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products, 
including research activity designed to 
identify and analyze barriers to export sales 
of canola or rapeseed produced in the United 
States. 
(18) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(19) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means any 
of the 50 States, the District of Columbia and 
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 
(20) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United 
States’’ means collectively the 50 States, the 
District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico. 
SEC. 724. ISSUANCE AND AMENDMENT OF ORDERS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b), 
the Secretary shall issue 1 or more orders 
under this subtitle applicable to producers 
and first purchasers of canola, rapeseed, or 
canola or rapeseed products. The order shall 
be national in scope. Not more than 1 order 
shall be in effect under this subtitle at any 
1 time. 
(b) PROCEDURE.— 
(1) PROPOSAL OR REQUEST FOR ISSUANCE.— 
The Secretary may propose the issuance of 
an order under this subtitle, or an association 
of canola and rapeseed producers or any 
other person that would be affected by an 
order issued pursuant to this subtitle may 
request the issuance of, and submit a proposal 
for, an order. 
(2) NOTICE AND COMMENT CONCERNING PROPOSED 
ORDER.—Not later than 60 days after 
the receipt of a request and proposal for an 
order pursuant to paragraph (1), or whenever 
the Secretary determines to propose an 
order, the Secretary shall publish a proposed 
order and give due notice and opportunity 
for public comment on the proposed order. 

(3) ISSUANCE OF ORDER.—After notice and 
opportunity for public comment are given as 
provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary 
shall issue an order, taking into consideration 
the comments received and including 
in the order provisions necessary to ensure 
that the order is in conformity with the requirements 
of this subtitle. The order shall 
be issued and become effective not later than 
180 days following publication of the proposed 
order. 
(c) AMENDMENTS.—The Secretary, from 
time to time, may amend an order issued 
under this section. 
SEC. 725. REQUIRED TERMS IN ORDERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—An order issued under 
this subtitle shall contain the terms and 
conditions specified in this section. 
(b) ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP OF 
THE NATIONAL CANOLA AND RAPESEED 
BOARD.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall provide 
for the establishment of, and appointment of 
members to, a National Canola and Rapeseed 
Board to administer the order. 
(2) SERVICE TO ENTIRE INDUSTRY.—The 
Board shall carry out programs and projects 
that will provide maximum benefit to the 
canola and rapeseed industry in all parts of 
the United States and only promote canola, 
rapeseed, or canola or rapeseed products. 
(3) BOARD MEMBERSHIP.—The Board shall 
consist of 15 members, including— 
(A) 11 members who are producers, including— 
(i) 1 member from each of 6 geographic regions 
comprised of States where canola or 
rapeseed is produced, as determined by the 
Secretary; and 
(ii) 5 members from the geographic regions 
referred to in clause (i), allocated according 
to the production in each region; and 
(B) 4 members who are industry members, 
including at least— 
(i) 1 member who represents manufacturers 
of canola or rapeseed end products; and 
(ii) 1 member who represents persons who 
commercially buy or sell canola or rapeseed. 
(4) LIMITATION ON STATE RESIDENCE.—There 
shall be no more than 4 producer members of 
the Board from any State. 
(5) MODIFYING BOARD MEMBERSHIP.—In accordance 
with regulations approved by the 
Secretary, at least once each 3 years and not 
more than once each 2 years, the Board shall 
review the geographic distribution of canola 
and rapeseed production throughout the 
United States and, if warranted, recommend 
to the Secretary that the Secretary— 
(A) reapportion regions in order to reflect 
the geographic distribution of canola and 
rapeseed production; and 
(B) reapportion the seats on the Board to 
reflect the production in each region. 
(6) CERTIFICATION OF ORGANIZATIONS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The eligibility of any 
State organization to represent producers 
shall be certified by the Secretary. 
(B) CRITERIA.—The Secretary shall certify 
any State organization that the Secretary 
determines has a history of stability and permanency 
and meets at least 1 of the following 
criteria: 
(i) MAJORITY REPRESENTATION.—The total 
paid membership of the organization— 
(I) is comprised of at least a majority of 
canola or rapeseed producers; or 
(II) represents at least a majority of the 
canola or rapeseed producers in the State. 
(ii) SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF PRODUCERS 
REPRESENTED.—The organization represents 
a substantial number of producers that 
produce a substantial quantity of canola or 
rapeseed in the State. 
(iii) PURPOSE.—The organization is a general 
farm or agricultural organization that 

S818 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

has as a stated objective the promotion and 
development of the United States canola or 
rapeseed industry and the economic welfare 
of United States canola or rapeseed producers. 


(C) REPORT.—The Secretary shall make a 
certification under this paragraph on the 
basis of a factual report submitted by the 
State organization. 
(7) TERMS OF OFFICE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The members of the 
Board shall serve for a term of 3 years, except 
that the members appointed to the initial 
Board shall serve, proportionately, for 
terms of 1, 2, and 3 years, as determined by 
the Secretary. 
(B) TERMINATION OF TERMS.—Notwithstanding 
subparagraph (C), each member 
shall continue to serve until a successor is 
appointed by the Secretary. 
(C) LIMITATION ON TERMS.—No individual 
may serve more than 2 consecutive 3-year 
terms as a member. 
(8) COMPENSATION.—A member of the Board 
shall serve without compensation, but shall 
be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable 
expenses incurred in the performance of duties 
for and approved by the Board. 
(c) POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.— 
The order shall define the powers and duties 
of the Board, which shall include the power 
and duty— 
(1) to administer the order in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the order; 
(2) to make regulations to effectuate the 
terms and conditions of the order; 
(3) to meet, organize, and select from 
among members of the Board a chairperson, 
other officers, and committees and subcommittees, 
as the Board determines appropriate; 
(4) to establish working committees of persons 
other than Board members; 
(5) to employ such persons, other than 
Board members, as the Board considers necessary, 
and to determine the compensation 
and define the duties of the persons; 
(6) to prepare and submit for the approval 
of the Secretary, when appropriate or necessary, 
a recommended rate of assessment 
under section 726, and a fiscal period budget 
of the anticipated expenses in the administration 
of the order, including the probable 
costs of all programs and projects; 
(7) to develop programs and projects, subject 
to subsection (d); 
(8) to enter into contracts or agreements, 
subject to subsection (e), to develop and 
carry out programs or projects of research, 
promotion, industry information, and consumer 
information; 
(9) to carry out research, promotion, industry 
information, and consumer information 
projects, and to pay the costs of the projects 
with assessments collected under section 726; 
(10) to keep minutes, books, and records 
that reflect the actions and transactions of 
the Board, and promptly report minutes of 
each Board meeting to the Secretary; 
(11) to appoint and convene, from time to 
time, working committees comprised of producers, 
industry members, and the public to 
assist in the development of research, promotion, 
industry information, and consumer 
information programs for canola, rapeseed, 
and canola and rapeseed products; 
(12) to invest, pending disbursement under 
a program or project, funds collected 
through assessments authorized under section 
726, or funds earned from investments, 
only in— 
(A) obligations of the United States or an 
agency of the United States; 
(B) general obligations of a State or a political 
subdivision of a State; 
(C) an interest-bearing account or certificate 
of deposit of a bank that is a member of 
the Federal Reserve System; or 
(D) obligations fully guaranteed as to principal 
and interest by the United States; 
(13) to receive, investigate, and report to 
the Secretary complaints of violations of the 
order; 
(14) to furnish the Secretary with such information 
as the Secretary may request; 
(15) to recommend to the Secretary amendments 
to the order; 
(16) to develop and recommend to the Secretary 
for approval such regulations as may 
be necessary for the development and execution 
of programs or projects, or as may otherwise 
be necessary, to carry out the order; 
and 
(17) to provide the Secretary with advance 
notice of meetings. 
(d) PROGRAMS AND BUDGETS.— 
(1) SUBMISSION TO SECRETARY.—The order 
shall provide that the Board shall submit to 
the Secretary for approval any program or 
project of research, promotion, consumer information, 
or industry information. No program 
or project shall be implemented prior 
to approval by the Secretary. 
(2) BUDGETS.—The order shall require the 
Board, prior to the beginning of each fiscal 
year, or as may be necessary after the beginning 
of a fiscal year, to submit to the Secretary 
for approval budgets of anticipated 
expenses and disbursements in the implementation 
of the order, including projected 
costs of research, promotion, consumer information, 
and industry information programs 
and projects. 
(3) INCURRING EXPENSES.—The Board may 
incur such expenses for programs or projects 
of research, promotion, consumer information, 
or industry information, and other expenses 
for the administration, maintenance, 
and functioning of the Board as may be authorized 
by the Secretary, including any implementation, 
administrative, and referendum 
costs incurred by the Department. 
(4) PAYING EXPENSES.—The funds to cover 
the expenses referred to in paragraph (3) 
shall be paid by the Board from assessments 
collected under section 726 or funds borrowed 
pursuant to paragraph (5). 
(5) AUTHORITY TO BORROW.—To meet the expenses 
referred to in paragraph (3), the Board 
shall have the authority to borrow funds, as 
approved by the Secretary, for capital outlays 
and startup costs. 
(e) CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—To ensure efficient use of 
funds, the order shall provide that the Board 
may enter into a contract or agreement for 
the implementation and carrying out of a 
program or project of canola, rapeseed, or 
canola or rapeseed products research, promotion, 
consumer information, or industry 
information, including a contract with a producer 
organization, and for the payment of 
the costs with funds received by the Board 
under the order. 
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—A contract or agreement 
under paragraph (1) shall provide 
that— 
(A) the contracting party shall develop and 
submit to the Board a program or project together 
with a budget that shall show the estimated 
costs to be incurred for the program 
or project; 
(B) the program or project shall become effective 
on the approval of the Secretary; and 
(C) the contracting party shall keep accurate 
records of all transactions, account for 
funds received and expended, make periodic 
reports to the Board of activities conducted, 
and make such other reports as the Board or 
the Secretary may require. 
(3) PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS.—The order 
shall provide that the Board may contract 
with producer organizations for any other 
services. The contract shall include provisions 
comparable to those required by paragraph 
(2). 
(f) BOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE BOARD.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall require 
the Board to— 
(A) maintain such books and records 
(which shall be available to the Secretary for 
inspection and audit) as the Secretary may 
prescribe; 
(B) prepare and submit to the Secretary, 
from time to time, such reports as the Secretary 
may prescribe; and 
(C) account for the receipt and disbursement 
of all funds entrusted to the Board. 
(2) AUDITS.—The Board shall cause the 
books and records of the Board to be audited 
by an independent auditor at the end of each 
fiscal year, and a report of the audit to be 
submitted to the Secretary. 
(g) PROHIBITION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
the Board shall not engage in any action to, 
nor shall any funds received by the Board 
under this subtitle be used to— 
(A) influence legislation or governmental 
action; 
(B) engage in an action that would be a 
conflict of interest; 
(C) engage in advertising that is false or 
misleading; or 
(D) engage in promotion that would disparage 
other commodities. 
(2) ACTION PERMITTED.—Paragraph (1) does 
not preclude— 
(A) the development and recommendation 
of amendments to the order; 
(B) the communication to appropriate government 
officials of information relating to 
the conduct, implementation, or results of 
promotion, research, consumer information, 
or industry information activities under the 
order; or 
(C) any action designed to market canola 
or rapeseed products directly to a foreign 
government or political subdivision of a foreign 
government. 
(h) BOOKS AND RECORDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall require 
that each producer, first purchaser, or industry 
member shall— 
(A) maintain and submit to the Board any 
reports considered necessary by the Secretary 
to ensure compliance with this subtitle; 
and 
(B) make available during normal business 
hours, for inspection by employees of the 
Board or Secretary, such books and records 
as are necessary to carry out this subtitle, 
including such records as are necessary to 
verify any required reports. 
(2) CONFIDENTIALITY.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subtitle, all information obtained 
from books, records, or reports required 
to be maintained under paragraph (1) 
shall be kept confidential, and shall not be 
disclosed to the public by any person. 
(B) DISCLOSURE.—Information referred to 
in subparagraph (A) may be disclosed to the 
public if— 
(i) the Secretary considers the information 
relevant; 
(ii) the information is revealed in a suit or 
administrative hearing brought at the direction 
or on the request of the Secretary or to 
which the Secretary or any officer of the Department 
is a party; and 
(iii) the information relates to this subtitle. 
(C) MISCONDUCT.—A knowing disclosure of 
confidential information in violation of subparagraph 
(A) by an officer or employee of 
the Board or Department, except as required 
by other law or allowed under subparagraph 
(B) or (D), shall be considered a violation of 
this subtitle. 
(D) GENERAL STATEMENTS.—Nothing in this 
paragraph prohibits— 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S819 

(i) the issuance of general statements, 
based on the reports, of the number of persons 
subject to the order or statistical data 
collected from the reports, if the statements 
do not identify the information furnished by 
any person; or 
(ii) the publication, by direction of the 
Secretary, of the name of a person violating 
the order, together with a statement of the 
particular provisions of the order violated by 
the person. 
(3) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.— 
(A) EXCEPTION.—Except as provided in this 
subtitle, information obtained under this 
subtitle may be made available to another 
agency of the Federal Government for a civil 
or criminal law enforcement activity if the 
activity is authorized by law and if the head 
of the agency has made a written request to 
the Secretary specifying the particular information 
desired and the law enforcement 
activity for which the information is sought. 
(B) PENALTY.—Any person knowingly violating 
this subsection, on conviction, shall 
be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or 
to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or 
both, and if an officer or employee of the 
Board or the Department, shall be removed 
from office or terminated from employment, 
as applicable. 
(5) WITHHOLDING INFORMATION.—Nothing in 
this subtitle authorizes withholding information 
from Congress.
(i) USE OF ASSESSMENTS.—The order shall 
provide that the assessments collected under 
section 726 shall be used for payment of the 
expenses in implementing and administering 
this subtitle, with provision for a reasonable 
reserve, and to cover those administrative 
costs incurred by the Secretary in implementing 
and administering this subtitle.
(j) OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The 
order also shall contain such terms and conditions, 
not inconsistent with this subtitle, 
as determined necessary by the Secretary to 
effectuate this subtitle. 
SEC. 726. ASSESSMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) FIRST PURCHASERS.—During the effective 
period of an order issued pursuant to 
this subtitle, assessments shall be— 
(A) levied on all canola or rapeseed produced 
in the United States and marketed; 
and 
(B) deducted from the payment made to a 
producer for all canola or rapeseed sold to a 
first purchaser. 
(2) DIRECT PROCESSING.—The order shall 
provide that any person processing canola or 
rapeseed of that person’s own production and 
marketing the canola or rapeseed, or canola 
or rapeseed products, shall remit to the 
Board or a qualified State canola and 
rapeseed board, in the manner prescribed by 
the order, an assessment established at a 
rate equivalent to the rate provided for 
under subsection (d).
(b) LIMITATION ON ASSESSMENTS.—No more 
than 1 assessment may be assessed under 
subsection (a) on any canola or rapeseed produced 
(as remitted by a first purchaser).
(c) REMITTING ASSESSMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Assessments required 
under subsection (a) shall be remitted to the 
Board by a first purchaser. The Board shall 
use qualified State canola and rapeseed 
boards to collect the assessments. If an appropriate 
qualified State canola and 
rapeseed board does not exist to collect an 
assessment, the assessment shall be collected 
by the Board. There shall be only 1 
qualified State canola or rapeseed Board in 
each State. 
(2) TIMES TO REMIT ASSESSMENT.—Each 
first purchaser shall remit the assessment to 
the Board as provided for in the order.
(d) ASSESSMENT RATE.— 
(1) INITIAL RATE.—The initial assessment 
rate shall be 4 cents per hundredweight of 
canola or rapeseed produced and marketed. 
(2) INCREASE.—The assessment rate may be 
increased on recommendation by the Board 
to a rate not exceeding 10 cents per hundredweight 
of canola or rapeseed produced and 
marketed in a State, unless— 
(A) after the initial referendum is held 
under section 727(a), the Board recommends 
an increase above 10 cents per hundredweight; 
and 
(B) the increase is approved in a referendum 
under section 727(b). 
(3) CREDIT.—A producer who demonstrates 
to the Board that the producer is participating 
in a program of an established qualified 
State canola and rapeseed board shall 
receive credit, in determining the assessment 
due from the producer, for contributions 
to the program of up to 2 cents per 
hundredweight of canola or rapeseed marketed. 
(e) LATE PAYMENT CHARGE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be a late payment 
charge imposed on any person who fails 
to remit, on or before the date provided for 
in the order, to the Board the total amount 
for which the person is liable. 
(2) AMOUNT OF CHARGE.—The amount of the 
late payment charge imposed under paragraph 
(1) shall be prescribed by the Board 
with the approval of the Secretary.
(f) REFUND OF ASSESSMENTS FROM ESCROW 
ACCOUNT.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF ESCROW ACCOUNT.— 
During the period beginning on the date on 
which an order is first issued under section 
724(b)(3) and ending on the date on which a 
referendum is conducted under section 727(a), 
the Board shall— 
(A) establish an escrow account to be used 
for assessment refunds; and 
(B) place funds in such account in accordance 
with paragraph (2). 
(2) PLACEMENT OF FUNDS IN ACCOUNT.—The 
Board shall place in such account, from assessments 
collected during the period referred 
to in paragraph (1), an amount equal 
to the product obtained by multiplying the 
total amount of assessments collected during 
the period by 10 percent. 
(3) RIGHT TO RECEIVE REFUND.—The Board 
shall refund to a producer the assessments 
paid by or on behalf of the producer if— 
(A) the producer is required to pay the assessment; 
(B) the producer does not support the program 
established under this subtitle; and 
(C) the producer demands the refund prior 
to the conduct of the referendum under section 
727(a). 
(4) FORM OF DEMAND.—The demand shall be 
made in accordance with such regulations, in 
such form, and within such time period as 
prescribed by the Board. 
(5) MAKING OF REFUND.—The refund shall be 
made on submission of proof satisfactory to 
the Board that the producer paid the assessment 
for which the refund is demanded. 
(6) PRORATION.—If— 
(A) the amount in the escrow account required 
by paragraph (1) is not sufficient to 
refund the total amount of assessments demanded 
by eligible producers; and 
(B) the order is not approved pursuant to 
the referendum conducted under section 
727(a); 
the Board shall prorate the amount of the refunds 
among all eligible producers who demand 
a refund. 
(7) PROGRAM APPROVED.—If the plan is approved 
pursuant to the referendum conducted 
under section 727(a), all funds in the 
escrow account shall be returned to the 
Board for use by the Board in accordance 
with this subtitle. 
SEC. 727. REFERENDA. 

(a) INITIAL REFERENDUM.— 
(1) REQUIREMENT.—During the period ending 
30 months after the date of the first 
issuance of an order under section 724, the 
Secretary shall conduct a referendum among 
producers who, during a representative period 
as determined by the Secretary, have 
been engaged in the production of canola or 
rapeseed for the purpose of ascertaining 
whether the order then in effect shall be continued. 


(2) ADVANCE NOTICE.—The Secretary shall, 
to the extent practicable, provide broad public 
notice in advance of any referendum. The 
notice shall be provided, without advertising 
expenses, by means of newspapers, county 
newsletters, the electronic media, and press 
releases, through the use of notices posted in 
State and county Cooperative State Research, 
Education, and Extension Service offices 
and county Consolidated Farm Service 
Agency offices, and by other appropriate 
means specified in the order. The notice 
shall include information on when the referendum 
will be held, registration and voting 
requirements, rules regarding absentee voting, 
and other pertinent information. 
(3) APPROVAL OF ORDER.—The order shall be 
continued only if the Secretary determines 
that the order has been approved by not less 
than a majority of the producers voting in 
the referendum. 
(4) DISAPPROVAL OF ORDER.—If continuation 
of the order is not approved by a majority 
of those voting in the referendum, the 
Secretary shall terminate collection of assessments 
under the order within 6 months 
after the referendum and shall terminate the 
order in an orderly manner as soon as practicable. 
(b) ADDITIONAL REFERENDA.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.— 
(A) REQUIREMENT.—After the initial referendum 
on an order, the Secretary shall 
conduct additional referenda, as described in 
subparagraph (C), if requested by a representative 
group of producers, as described 
in subparagraph (B). 
(B) REPRESENTATIVE GROUP OF PRO-
DUCERS.—An additional referendum on an 
order shall be conducted if requested by 10 
percent or more of the producers who during 
a representative period have been engaged in 
the production of canola or rapeseed. 
(C) ELIGIBLE PRODUCERS.—Each additional 
referendum shall be conducted among all 
producers who, during a representative period, 
as determined by the Secretary, have 
been engaged in the production of canola or 
rapeseed to determine whether the producers 
favor the termination or suspension of the 
order. 
(2) DISAPPROVAL OF ORDER.—If the Secretary 
determines, in a referendum conducted 
under paragraph (1), that suspension 
or termination of the order is favored by a 
majority of the producers voting in the referendum, 
the Secretary shall suspend or terminate, 
as appropriate, collection of assessments 
under the order within 6 months after 
the determination, and shall suspend or terminate 
the order, as appropriate, in an orderly 
manner as soon as practicable after the 
determination. 
(3) OPPORTUNITY TO REQUEST ADDITIONAL 
REFERENDA.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date 
that is 5 years after the conduct of a referendum 
under this subtitle, and every 5 
years thereafter, the Secretary shall provide 
canola and rapeseed producers an opportunity 
to request an additional referendum. 
(B) METHOD OF MAKING REQUEST.— 
(i) IN-PERSON REQUESTS.—To carry out subparagraph 
(A), the Secretary shall establish 
a procedure under which a producer may request 
a reconfirmation referendum in-person 
at a county Cooperative State Research, 
Education, and Extension Service office or a 

S820 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

county Consolidated Farm Service Agency 
office during a period established by the Secretary, 
or as provided in clause (ii). 

(ii) MAIL-IN REQUESTS.—In lieu of making a 
request in person, a producer may make a request 
by mail. To facilitate the submission 
of requests by mail, the Secretary may make 
mail-in request forms available to producers. 
(C) NOTIFICATIONS.—The Secretary shall 
publish a notice in the Federal Register, and 
the Board shall provide written notification 
to producers, not later than 60 days prior to 
the end of the period established under subparagraph 
(B)(i) for an in-person request, of 
the opportunity of producers to request an 
additional referendum. The notification 
shall explain the right of producers to an additional 
referendum, the procedure for a referendum, 
the purpose of a referendum, and 
the date and method by which producers 
may act to request an additional referendum 
under this paragraph. The Secretary shall 
take such other action as the Secretary determines 
is necessary to ensure that producers 
are made aware of the opportunity to 
request an additional referendum. 
(D) ACTION BY SECRETARY.—As soon as 
practicable following the submission of a request 
for an additional referendum, the Secretary 
shall determine whether a sufficient 
number of producers have requested the referendum, 
and take such steps as are necessary 
to conduct the referendum, as required 
under paragraph (1). 
(E) TIME LIMIT.—An additional referendum 
requested under the procedures provided in 
this paragraph shall be conducted not later 
than 1 year after the Secretary determines 
that a representative group of producers, as 
described in paragraph (1)(B), have requested 
the conduct of the referendum. 
(c) PROCEDURES.— 
(1) REIMBURSEMENT OF SECRETARY.—The 
Secretary shall be reimbursed from assessments 
collected by the Board for any expenses 
incurred by the Secretary in connection 
with the conduct of an activity required 
under this section. 
(2) DATE.—Each referendum shall be conducted 
for a reasonable period of time not to 
exceed 3 days, established by the Secretary, 
under a procedure under which producers intending 
to vote in the referendum shall certify 
that the producers were engaged in the 
production of canola, rapeseed, or canola or 
rapeseed products during the representative 
period and, at the same time, shall be provided 
an opportunity to vote in the referendum. 
(3) PLACE.—Referenda under this section 
shall be conducted at locations determined 
by the Secretary. On request, absentee mail 
ballots shall be furnished by the Secretary in 
a manner prescribed by the Secretary. 
SEC. 728. PETITION AND REVIEW. 

(a) PETITION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person subject to an 
order issued under this subtitle may file with 
the Secretary a petition— 
(A) stating that the order, a provision of 
the order, or an obligation imposed in connection 
with the order is not established in 
accordance with law; and 
(B) requesting a modification of the order 
or an exemption from the order. 
(2) HEARINGS.—The petitioner shall be 
given the opportunity for a hearing on a petition 
filed under paragraph (1), in accordance 
with regulations issued by the Secretary. 
(3) RULING.—After a hearing under paragraph 
(2), the Secretary shall make a ruling 
on the petition that is the subject of the 
hearing, which shall be final if the ruling is 
in accordance with applicable law. 
(4) LIMITATION ON PETITION.—Any petition 
filed under this subtitle challenging an 
order, or any obligation imposed in connected 
with an order, shall be filed not later 
than 2 years after the effective date of the 
order or obligation. 

(b) REVIEW.— 
(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.—The district 
court of the United States in any district in 
which the person who is a petitioner under 
subsection (a) resides or carries on business 
shall have jurisdiction to review a ruling on 
the petition, if a complaint is filed by the 
person not later than 20 days after the date 
of the entry of a ruling by the Secretary 
under subsection (a)(3). 
(2) PROCESS.—Service of process in a proceeding 
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted 
in accordance with the Federal Rules 
of Civil Procedure. 
(3) REMANDS.—If the court determines, 
under paragraph (1), that a ruling issued 
under subsection (a)(3) is not in accordance 
with applicable law, the court shall remand 
the matter to the Secretary with directions 
either— 
(A) to make such ruling as the court shall 
determine to be in accordance with law; or 
(B) to take such further proceedings as, in 
the opinion of the court, the law requires. 
(4) ENFORCEMENT.—The pendency of proceedings 
instituted under subsection (a) shall 
not impede, hinder, or delay the Attorney 
General or the Secretary from taking any 
action under section 729. 
SEC. 729. ENFORCEMENT. 

(a) JURISDICTION.—The district courts of 
the United States are vested with jurisdiction 
specifically to enforce, and to prevent 
and restrain any person from violating, an 
order or regulation made or issued under this 
subtitle. 
(b) REFERRAL TO ATTORNEY GENERAL.—A 
civil action authorized to be commenced 
under this section shall be referred to the 
Attorney General for appropriate action, except 
that the Secretary shall not be required 
to refer to the Attorney General a violation 
of this subtitle if the Secretary believes that 
the administration and enforcement of this 
subtitle would be adequately served by providing 
a suitable written notice or warning 
to the person who committed the violation 
or by administrative action under section 
728. 
(c) CIVIL PENALTIES AND ORDERS.— 
(1) CIVIL PENALTIES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any person who willfully 
violates any provision of an order or regulation 
issued by the Secretary under this subtitle, 
or who fails or refuses to pay, collect, 
or remit an assessment or fee required of the 
person under an order or regulation, may be 
assessed— 
(i) a civil penalty by the Secretary of not 
more than $1,000 for each violation; and 
(ii) in the case of a willful failure to pay, 
collect, or remit an assessment as required 
by an order or regulation, an additional penalty 
equal to the amount of the assessment. 
(B) SEPARATE OFFENSE.—Each violation 
under subparagraph (A) shall be a separate 
offense. 
(2) CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDERS.—In addition 
to, or in lieu of, a civil penalty under paragraph 
(1), the Secretary may issue an order 
requiring a person to cease and desist from 
continuing a violation. 
(3) NOTICE AND HEARING.—No penalty shall 
be assessed, or cease-and-desist order issued, 
by the Secretary under this subsection unless 
the person against whom the penalty is 
assessed or the order is issued is given notice 
and opportunity for a hearing before the Secretary 
with respect to the violation. 
(4) FINALITY.—The order of the Secretary 
assessing a penalty or imposing a cease-and-
desist order under this subsection shall be 
final and conclusive unless the affected person 
files an appeal of the order with the appropriate 
district court of the United States 
in accordance with subsection (d). 

(d) REVIEW BY DISTRICT COURT.— 
(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.—Any person 
who has been determined to be in violation 
of this subtitle, or against whom a civil penalty 
has been assessed or a cease-and-desist 
order issued under subsection (c), may obtain 
review of the penalty or order by— 
(A) filing, within the 30-day period beginning 
on the date the penalty is assessed or 
order issued, a notice of appeal in— 
(i) the district court of the United States 
for the district in which the person resides or 
conducts business; or 
(ii) the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia; and 
(B) simultaneously sending a copy of the 
notice by certified mail to the Secretary. 
(2) RECORD.—The Secretary shall file 
promptly, in the appropriate court referred 
to in paragraph (1), a certified copy of the 
record on which the Secretary has determined 
that the person has committed a violation. 
(3) STANDARD OF REVIEW.—A finding of the 
Secretary under this section shall be set 
aside only if the finding is found to be unsupported 
by substantial evidence. 
(e) FAILURE TO OBEY ORDERS.—Any person 
who fails to obey a cease-and-desist order 
issued under this section after the order has 
become final and unappealable, or after the 
appropriate United States district court has 
entered a final judgment in favor of the Secretary, 
shall be subject to a civil penalty assessed 
by the Secretary, after opportunity 
for a hearing and for judicial review under 
the procedures specified in subsections (c) 
and (d), of not more than $5,000 for each offense. 
Each day during which the failure continues 
shall be considered as a separate violation 
of the order. 
(f) FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.—If a person 
fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty 
under this section after the assessment has 
become a final and unappealable order, or 
after the appropriate United States district 
court has entered final judgment in favor of 
the Secretary, the Secretary shall refer the 
matter to the Attorney General for recovery 
of the amount assessed in the district court 
in which the person resides or conducts business. 
In an action for recovery, the validity 
and appropriateness of the final order imposing 
the civil penalty shall not be subject to 
review. 
(g) ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.—The remedies 
provided in this subtitle shall be in addition 
to, and not exclusive of, other remedies that 
may be available. 
SEC. 730. INVESTIGATIONS AND POWER TO SUBPOENA. 


(a) INVESTIGATIONS.—The Secretary may 
make such investigations as the Secretary 
considers necessary— 
(1) for the effective administration of this 
subtitle; and 
(2) to determine whether any person has 
engaged or is engaging in an act that constitutes 
a violation of this subtitle, or an 
order, rule, or regulation issued under this 
subtitle. 
(b) SUBPOENAS, OATHS, AND AFFIRMATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of an investigation 
under subsection (a), the Secretary 
may administer oaths and affirmations, 
subpoena witnesses, take evidence, 
and issue subpoenas to require the production 
of any records that are relevant to the 
inquiry. The attendance of witnesses and the 
production of records may be required from 
any place in the United States. 
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.—For the 
purpose of an administrative hearing held 
under section 728 or 729, the presiding officer 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S821 

is authorized to administer oaths and affirmations, 
subpoena and compel the attendance 
of witnesses, take evidence, and require 
the production of any records that are relevant 
to the inquiry. The attendance of witnesses 
and the production of records may be 
required from any place in the United 
States. 

(c) AID OF COURTS.—In the case of contumacy 
by, or refusal to obey a subpoena 
issued to, any person, the Secretary may invoke 
the aid of any court of the United 
States within the jurisdiction of which the 
investigation or proceeding is carried on, or 
where the person resides or carries on business, 
in order to enforce a subpoena issued 
by the Secretary under subsection (b). The 
court may issue an order requiring the person 
to comply with the subpoena. 
(d) CONTEMPT.—A failure to obey an order 
of the court under this section may be punished 
by the court as contempt of the court. 
(e) PROCESS.—Process may be served on a 
person in the judicial district in which the 
person resides or conducts business or wherever 
the person may be found. 
(f) HEARING SITE.—The site of a hearing 
held under section 728 or 729 shall be in the 
judicial district where the person affected by 
the hearing resides or has a principal place 
of business. 
SEC. 731. SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF AN 
ORDER. 

The Secretary shall, whenever the Secretary 
finds that an order or a provision of 
an order obstructs or does not tend to effectuate 
the declared policy of this subtitle, 
terminate or suspend the operation of the 
order or provision. The termination or suspension 
of an order shall not be considered 
an order within the meaning of this subtitle. 
SEC. 732. REGULATIONS. 

The Secretary may issue such regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this subtitle. 
SEC. 733. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to 
be appropriated for each fiscal year such 
sums as are necessary to carry out this subtitle. 
(b) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Funds appropriated 
under subsection (a) shall not be 
available for payment of the expenses or expenditures 
of the Board in administering a 
provision of an order issued under this subtitle. 
Subtitle C—Kiwifruit 
SEC. 741. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘National 
Kiwifruit Research, Promotion, and 
Consumer Information Act’’. 
SEC. 742. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) domestically produced kiwifruit are 
grown by many individual producers; 
(2) virtually all domestically produced 
kiwifruit are grown in the State of California, 
although there is potential for production 
in many other areas of the United 
States; 
(3) kiwifruit move in interstate and foreign 
commerce, and kiwifruit that do not move in 
channels of commerce directly burden or affect 
interstate commerce; 
(4) in recent years, large quantities of 
kiwifruit have been imported into the United 
States; 
(5) the maintenance and expansion of existing 
domestic and foreign markets for 
kiwifruit, and the development of additional 
and improved markets for kiwifruit, are 
vital to the welfare of kiwifruit producers 
and other persons concerned with producing, 
marketing, and processing kiwifruit; 
(6) a coordinated program of research, promotion, 
and consumer information regarding 
kiwifruit is necessary for the maintenance 
and development of the markets; and 
(7) kiwifruit producers, handlers, and importers 
are unable to implement and finance 
such a program without cooperative action. 
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this subtitle 
are— 
(1) to authorize the establishment of an orderly 
procedure for the development and financing 
(through an assessment) of an effective 
and coordinated program of research, 
promotion, and consumer information regarding 
kiwifruit; 
(2) to use the program to strengthen the 
position of the kiwifruit industry in domestic 
and foreign markets and maintain, develop, 
and expand markets for kiwifruit; and 
(3) to treat domestically produced 
kiwifruit and imported kiwifruit equitably. 
SEC. 743. DEFINITIONS. 

In this subtitle (unless the context otherwise 
requires): 

(1) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the 
National Kiwifruit Board established under 
section 745. 
(2) CONSUMER INFORMATION.—The term 
‘‘consumer information’’ means any action 
taken to provide information to, and broaden 
the understanding of, the general public regarding 
the consumption, use, nutritional 
attributes, and care of kiwifruit. 
(3) EXPORTER.—The term ‘‘exporter’’ means 
any person from outside the United States 
who exports kiwifruit into the United 
States. 
(4) HANDLER.—The term ‘‘handler’’ means 
any person, excluding a common carrier, engaged 
in the business of buying and selling, 
packing, marketing, or distributing 
kiwifruit as specified in the order. 
(5) IMPORTER.—The term ‘‘importer’’ means 
any person who imports kiwifruit into the 
United States. 
(6) KIWIFRUIT.—The term ‘‘kiwifruit’’ 
means all varieties of fresh kiwifruit grown 
or imported in the United States. 
(7) MARKETING.—The term ‘‘marketing’’ 
means the sale or other disposition of 
kiwifruit into interstate, foreign, or intrastate 
commerce by buying, marketing, distribution, 
or otherwise placing kiwifruit into 
commerce. 
(8) ORDER.—The term ‘‘order’’ means a 
kiwifruit research, promotion, and consumer 
information order issued by the Secretary 
under section 744. 
(9) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means any 
individual, group of individuals, partnership, 
corporation, association, cooperative, or 
other legal entity. 
(10) PROCESSING.—The term ‘‘processing’’ 
means canning, fermenting, distilling, extracting, 
preserving, grinding, crushing, or 
in any manner changing the form of 
kiwifruit for the purposes of preparing the 
kiwifruit for market or marketing the 
kiwifruit. 
(11) PRODUCER.—The term ‘‘producer’’ 
means any person who grows kiwifruit in the 
United States for sale in commerce. 
(12) PROMOTION.—The term ‘‘promotion’’ 
means any action taken under this subtitle 
(including paid advertising) to present a favorable 
image for kiwifruit to the general 
public for the purpose of improving the competitive 
position of kiwifruit and stimulating 
the sale of kiwifruit. 
(13) RESEARCH.—The term ‘‘research’’ 
means any type of research relating to the 
use, nutritional value, and marketing of 
kiwifruit conducted for the purpose of advancing 
the image, desirability, marketability, 
or quality of kiwifruit. 
(14) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(15) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United 
States’’ means the 50 States of the United 
States, the District of Columbia, and the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 
SEC. 744. ISSUANCE OF ORDERS. 

(a) ISSUANCE.—To effectuate the declared 
purposes of this subtitle, the Secretary shall 
issue an order applicable to producers, handlers, 
and importers of kiwifruit. Any such 
order shall be national in scope. Not more 
than 1 order shall be in effect under this subtitle 
at any 1 time. 
(b) PROCEDURE.— 
(1) PROPOSAL FOR ISSUANCE OF ORDER.—Any 
person that will be affected by this subtitle 
may request the issuance of, and submit a 
proposal for, an order under this subtitle. 
(2) PROPOSED ORDER.—Not later than 90 
days after the receipt of a request and proposal 
for an order, the Secretary shall publish 
a proposed order and give due notice and 
opportunity for public comment on the proposed 
order. 
(3) ISSUANCE OF ORDER.—After notice and 
opportunity for public comment are provided 
under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
issue an order, taking into consideration the 
comments received and including in the 
order provisions necessary to ensure that the 
order is in conformity with this subtitle. 
(c) AMENDMENTS.—The Secretary may 
amend any order issued under this section. 
The provisions of this subtitle applicable to 
an order shall be applicable to an amendment 
to an order. 
SEC. 745. NATIONAL KIWIFRUIT BOARD. 

(a) MEMBERSHIP.—An order issued by the 
Secretary under section 744 shall provide for 
the establishment of a National Kiwifruit 
Board that consists of the following 11 members: 
(1) 6 members who are producers (or representatives 
of producers) and who are not 
exempt from an assessment under section 
746(b). 
(2) 4 members who are importers (or representatives 
of importers) and who are not 
exempt from an assessment under section 
746(b) or are exporters (or representatives of 
exporters). 
(3) 1 member appointed from the general 
public. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF MEMBERSHIP.—Subject 
to the 11-member limit, the Secretary may 
adjust membership on the Board to accommodate 
changes in production and import 
levels of kiwifruit. 
(c) APPOINTMENT AND NOMINATION.— 
(1) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall appoint 
the members of the Board from nominations 
submitted in accordance with this 
subsection. 
(2) PRODUCERS.—The members referred to 
in subsection (a)(1) shall be appointed from 
individuals nominated by producers. 
(3) IMPORTERS AND EXPORTERS.—The members 
referred to in subsection (a)(2) shall be 
appointed from individuals nominated by importers 
or exporters. 
(4) PUBLIC REPRESENTATIVE.—The public 
representative shall be appointed from nominations 
submitted by other members of the 
Board. 
(5) FAILURE TO NOMINATE.—If producers, 
importers, and exporters fail to nominate individuals 
for appointment, the Secretary 
may appoint members on a basis provided for 
in the order. If the Board fails to nominate 
a public representative, the member may be 
appointed by the Secretary without a nomination. 
(d) ALTERNATES.—The Secretary shall appoint 
an alternate for each member of the 
Board. An alternate shall— 
(1) be appointed in the same manner as the 
member for whom the individual is an alternate; 
and 
(2) serve on the Board if the member is absent 
from a meeting or is disqualified under 
subsection (f). 
(e) TERMS.—A member of the Board shall 
be appointed for a term of 3 years. No member 
may serve more than 2 consecutive 3-

S822 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

year terms, except that of the members first 
appointed— 

(1) 5 members shall be appointed for a term 
of 2 years; and 
(2) 6 members shall be appointed for a term 
of 3 years. 
(f) DISQUALIFICATION.—If a member or alternate 
of the Board who was appointed as a 
producer, importer, exporter, or public representative 
member ceases to belong to the 
group for which the member was appointed, 
the member or alternate shall be disqualified 
from serving on the Board. 
(g) COMPENSATION.—A members or alternate 
of the Board shall serve without pay. 
(h) GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.—The 
Board shall— 
(1) administer an order issued by the Secretary 
under section 744, and an amendment 
to the order, in accordance with the order 
and amendment and this subtitle; 
(2) prescribe rules and regulations to carry 
out the order; 
(3) meet, organize, and select from among 
members of the Board a chairperson, other 
officers, and committees and subcommittees, 
as the Board determines appropriate; 
(4) receive, investigate, and report to the 
Secretary accounts of violations of the 
order; 
(5) make recommendations to the Secretary 
with respect to an amendment that 
should be made to the order; and 
(6) employ or contract with a manager and 
staff to assist in administering the order, except 
that, to reduce administrative costs and 
increase efficiency, the Board shall seek, to 
the extent practicable, to employ or contract 
with personnel who are already associated 
with State chartered organizations involved 
in promoting kiwifruit. 
SEC. 746. REQUIRED TERMS IN ORDER. 

(a) BUDGETS AND PLANS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—An order issued under section 
744 shall provide for periodic budgets 
and plans in accordance with this subsection. 
(2) BUDGETS.—The Board shall prepare and 
submit to the Secretary a budget prior to 
the beginning of the fiscal year of the anticipated 
expenses and disbursements of the 
Board in the administration of the order, including 
probable costs of research, promotion, 
and consumer information. A budget 
shall become effective on a 2/3-vote of a 
quorum of the Board and approval by the 
Secretary. 
(3) PLANS.—Each budget shall include a 
plan for research, promotion, and consumer 
information regarding kiwifruit. A plan 
under this paragraph shall become effective 
on approval by the Secretary. The Board 
may enter into contracts and agreements, on 
approval by the Secretary, for— 
(A) the development of and carrying out 
the plan; and 
(B) the payment of the cost of the plan, 
with funds collected pursuant to this subtitle. 
(b) ASSESSMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall provide 
for the imposition and collection of assessments 
with regard to the production and importation 
of kiwifruit in accordance with 
this subsection. 
(2) RATE.—The assessment rate shall be the 
reate that is recommended by a 2/3-vote of a 
quorum of the Board and approved by the 
Secretary, except that the rate shall not exceed 
$0.10 per 7-pound tray of kiwifruit or 
equivalent. 
(3) COLLECTION BY FIRST HANDLERS.—Except 
as provided in paragraph (5), the first handler 
of kiwifruit shall— 
(A) be responsible for the collection from 
the producer, and payment to the Board, of 
assessments required under this subsection; 
and 
(B) maintain a separate record of the 
kiwifruit of each producer whose kiwifruit 
are so handled, including the kiwifruit 
owned by the handler. 
(4) IMPORTERS.—The assessment on imported 
kiwifruit shall be paid by the importer 
to the United States Customs Service 
at the time of entry into the United States 
and shall be remitted to the Board. 
(5) EXEMPTION FROM ASSESSMENT.—The following 
persons or activities are exempt from 
an assessment under this subsection: 
(A) A producer who produces less than 500 
pounds of kiwifruit per year. 
(B) An importer who imports less than 
10,000 pounds of kiwifruit per year. 
(C) A sale of kiwifruit made directly from 
the producer to a consumer for a purpose 
other than resale. 
(D) The production or importation of 
kiwifruit for processing. 
(6) CLAIM OF EXEMPTION.—To claim an exemption 
under paragraph (5) for a particular 
year, a person shall— 
(A) submit an application to the Board 
stating the basis for the exemption and certifying 
that the quantity of kiwifruit produced, 
imported, or sold by the person will 
not exceed any poundage limitation required 
for the exemption in the year; or 
(B) be on a list of approved processors developed 
by the Board. 
(c) USE OF ASSESSMENTS. 
(1) AUTHORIZED USES.—The order shall provide 
that funds paid to the Board as assessments 
under subsection (b) may be used by 
the Board— 
(A) to pay for research, promotion, and 
consumer information described in the budget 
of the Board under subsection (a) and for 
other expenses incurred by the Board in the 
administration of an order; 
(B) to pay such other expenses for the administration, 
maintenance, and functioning 
of the Board, including any enforcement efforts 
for the collection of assessments as 
may be authorized by the Secretary, including 
interest and penalties for late payments; 
and 
(C) to fund a reserve established under section 
747(d). 
(2) REQUIRED USES.—The order shall provide 
that funds paid to the Board as assessments 
under subsection (b) shall be used by 
the Board— 
(A) to pay the expenses incurred by the 
Secretary, including salaries and expenses of 
Federal Government employees, in implementing 
and administering the order; and 
(B) to reimburse the Secretary for any expenses 
incurred by the Secretary in conducting 
referenda under this subtitle. 
(3) LIMITATION ON USE OF ASSESSMENTS.— 
Except for the first year of operation of the 
Board, expenses for the administration, 
maintenance, and functioning of the Board 
may not exceed 30 percent of the budget for 
a year. 
(d) FALSE CLAIMS.—The order shall provide 
that any promotion funded with assessments 
collected under subsection (b) may not 
make— 
(1) any false claims on behalf of kiwifruit; 
and 
(2) any false statements with respect to the 
attributes or use of any product that competes 
with kiwifruit for sale in commerce. 
(e) PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS.—The 
order shall provide that funds collected by 
the Board under this subtitle through assessments 
may not, in any manner, be used for 
the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental 
policy or action, except for making 
recommendations to the Secretary as 
provided for under this subtitle. 
(f) BOOKS, RECORDS, AND REPORTS.— 
(1) BOARD.—The order shall require the 
Board— 
(A) to maintain books and records with respect 
to the receipt and disbursement of 
funds received by the Board; 
(B) to submit to the Secretary from time 
to time such reports as the Secretary may 
require for appropriate accounting; and 
(C) to submit to the Secretary at the end 
of each fiscal year a complete audit report 
by an independent auditor regarding the activities 
of the Board during the fiscal year. 
(2) OTHERS.—To make information and 
data available to the Board and the Secretary 
that is appropriate or necessary for 
the effectuation, administration, or enforcement 
of this subtitle (or any order or regulation 
issued under this subtitle), the order 
shall require handlers and importers who are 
responsible for the collection, payment, or 
remittance of assessments under subsection 
(b)— 
(A) to maintain and make available for inspection 
by the employees and agents of the 
Board and the Secretary such books and 
records as may be required by the order; and 
(B) to file, at the times and in the manner 
and content prescribed by the order, reports 
regarding the collection, payment, or remittance 
of the assessments. 
(g) CONFIDENTIALITY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The order shall require 
that all information obtained pursuant to 
subsection (f)(2) be kept confidential by all 
officers and employees and agents of the Department 
and of the Board. Only such information 
as the Secretary considers relevant 
shall be disclosed to the public and only in a 
suit or administrative hearing, brought at 
the request of the Secretary or to which the 
Secretary or any officer of the United States 
is a party, involving the order with respect 
to which the information was furnished or 
acquired. 
(2) LIMITATIONS.—Nothing in this subsection 
prohibits— 
(A) issuance of general statements based 
on the reports of a number of handlers and 
importers subject to an order, if the statements 
do not identify the information furnished 
by any person; or 
(B) the publication, by direction of the 
Secretary, of the name of any person violating 
an order issued under section 744(a), 
together with a statement of the particular 
provisions of the order violated by the person. 
(3) PENALTY.—Any person who willfully 
violates this subsection, on conviction, shall 
be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or 
to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or 
both, and, if the person is a member, officer, 
or agent of the board or an employee of the 
Department, shall be removed from office. 
(h) WITHHOLDING INFORMATION.—Nothing in 
this subtitle authorizes the withholding of 
information from Congress. 
SEC. 747. PERMISSIVE TERMS IN ORDER. 

(a) PERMISSIVE TERMS.—On the recommendation 
of the Board and with the approval 
of the Secretary, an order issued 
under section 744 may include the terms and 
conditions specified in this section and such 
additional terms and conditions as the Secretary 
considers necessary to effectuate the 
other provisions of the order and are incidental 
to, and not inconsistent with, this 
subtitle. 
(b) ALTERNATIVE PAYMENT AND REPORTING 
SCHEDULES.—The order may authorize the 
Board to designate different handler payment 
and reporting schedules to recognize 
differences in marketing practices and procedures. 
(c) WORKING GROUPS.—The order may authorize 
the Board to convene working groups 
drawn from producers, handlers, importers, 
exporters, or the general public and utilize 
the expertise of the groups to assist in the 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S823 

development of research and marketing programs 
for kiwifruit. 

(d) RESERVE FUNDS.—The order may authorize 
the Board to accumulate reserve 
funds from assessments collected pursuant 
to section 746(b) to permit an effective and 
continuous coordinated program of research, 
promotion, and consumer information in 
years in which production and assessment 
income may be reduced, except that any reserve 
fund may not exceed the amount budgeted 
for operation of this subtitle for 1 year. 
(e) PROMOTION ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE UNITED 
STATES.—The order may authorize the Board 
to use, with the approval of the Secretary, 
funds collected under section 746(b) and 
funds from other sources for the development 
and expansion of sales in foreign markets 
of kiwifruit produced in the United 
States. 
SEC. 748. PETITION AND REVIEW. 

(a) PETITION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person subject to an 
order may file with the Secretary a petition— 
(A) stating that the order, a provision of 
the order, or an obligation imposed in connection 
with the order is not in accordance 
with law; and 
(B) requesting a modification of the order 
or an exemption from the order. 
(2) HEARINGS.—A person submitting a petition 
under paragraph (1) shall be given an opportunity 
for a hearing on the petition, in 
accordance with regulations issued by the 
Secretary. 
(3) RULING.—After the hearing, the Secretary 
shall make a ruling on the petition 
which shall be final if the petition is in accordance 
with law. 
(4) LIMITATION ON PETITION.—Any petition 
filed under this subtitle challenging an 
order, or any obligation imposed in connected 
with an order, shall be filed not later 
than 2 years after the effective date of the 
order or obligation. 
(b) REVIEW.— 
(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.—The district 
court of the United States in any district in 
which the person who is a petitioner under 
subsection (a) resides or carries on business 
is vested with jurisdiction to review the ruling 
on the petition of the person, if a complaint 
for that purpose is filed not later than 
20 days after the date of the entry of a ruling 
by the Secretary under subsection (a). 
(2) PROCESS.—Service of process in the proceedings 
shall be conducted in accordance 
with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 
(3) REMANDS.—If the court determines that 
the ruling is not in accordance with law, the 
court shall remand the matter to the Secretary 
with directions— 
(A) to make such ruling as the court shall 
determine to be in accordance with law; or 
(B) to take such further action as, in the 
opinion of the court, the law requires. 
(4) ENFORCEMENT.—The pendency of a proceeding 
instituted pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall not impede, hinder, or delay the Attorney 
General or the Secretary from obtaining 
relief pursuant to section 749. 
SEC. 749. ENFORCEMENT. 

(a) JURISDICTION.—A district court of the 
United States shall have jurisdiction specifically 
to enforce, and to prevent and restrain 
any person from violating, any order or regulation 
made or issued by the Secretary under 
this subtitle. 
(b) REFERRAL TO ATTORNEY GENERAL.—A 
civil action authorized to be brought under 
this section shall be referred to the Attorney 
General for appropriate action, except that 
the Secretary is not required to refer to the 
Attorney General a violation of this subtitle, 
or any order or regulation issued under this 
subtitle, if the Secretary believes that the 
administration and enforcement of this subtitle 
would be adequately served by administrative 
action under subsection (c) or suitable 
written notice or warning to any person 
committing the violation. 

(c) CIVIL PENALTIES AND ORDERS.— 
(1) CIVIL PENALTIES.—Any person who willfully 
violates any provision of any order or 
regulation issued by the Secretary under 
this subtitle, or who fails or refuses to pay, 
collect, or remit any assessment or fee duly 
required of the person under the order or regulation, 
may be assessed a civil penalty by 
the Secretary of not less than $500 nor more 
than $5,000 for each such violation. Each violation 
shall be a separate offense. 
(2) CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDERS.—In addition 
to or in lieu of the civil penalty, the Secretary 
may issue an order requiring the person 
to cease and desist from continuing the 
violation. 
(3) NOTICE AND HEARING.—No order assessing 
a civil penalty or cease-and-desist order 
may be issued by the Secretary under this 
subsection unless the Secretary gives the 
person against whom the order is issued notice 
and opportunity for a hearing on the 
record before the Secretary with respect to 
the violation. 
(4) FINALITY.—The order of the Secretary 
assessing a penalty or imposing a cease-and-
desist order shall be final and conclusive unless 
the person against whom the order is 
issued files an appeal from the order with the 
appropriate district court of the United 
States, in accordance with subsection (d). 
(d) REVIEW BY UNITED STATES DISTRICT 
COURT.— 
(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.—Any person 
against whom a violation is found and a civil 
penalty assessed or cease-and-desist order 
issued under subsection (c) may obtain review 
of the penalty or order in the district 
court of the United States for the district in 
which the person resides or does business, or 
the United States district court for the District 
of Columbia, by— 
(A) filing a notice of appeal in the court 
not later than 30 days after the date of the 
order; and 
(B) simultaneously sending a copy of the 
notice by certified mail to the Secretary. 
(2) RECORD.—The Secretary shall promptly 
file in the court a certified copy of the record 
on which the Secretary found that the person 
had committed a violation. 
(3) STANDARD OF REVIEW.—A finding of the 
Secretary shall be set aside only if the finding 
is found to be unsupported by substantial 
evidence. 
(e) FAILURE TO OBEY ORDERS.—Any person 
who fails to obey a cease-and-desist order 
issued by the Secretary after the order has 
become final and unappealable, or after the 
appropriate United States district court has 
entered a final judgment in favor of the Secretary, 
shall be subject to a civil penalty assessed 
by the Secretary, after opportunity 
for a hearing and for judicial review under 
the procedures specified in subsections (c) 
and (d), of not more than $500 for each offense. 
Each day during which the failure continues 
shall be considered a separate violation 
of the order. 
(f) FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.—If a person 
fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty 
after the assessment has become a final and 
unappealable order issued by the Secretary, 
or after the appropriate United States district 
court has entered final judgment in 
favor of the Secretary, the Secretary shall 
refer the matter to the Attorney General for 
recovery of the amount assessed in the district 
court of the United States in any district 
in which the person resides or conducts 
business. In the action, the validity and appropriateness 
of the final order imposing the 
civil penalty shall not be subject to review. 
SEC. 750. INVESTIGATIONS AND POWER TO SUBPOENA. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may make 
such investigations as the Secretary considers 
necessary— 
(1) for the effective carrying out of the responsibilities 
of the Secretary under this 
subtitle; or 
(2) to determine whether a person subject 
to this subtitle has engaged or is engaging in 
any act that constitutes a violation of this 
subtitle, or any order, rule, or regulation 
issued under this subtitle. 
(b) POWER TO SUBPOENA.— 
(1) INVESTIGATIONS.—For the purpose of an 
investigation made under subsection (a), the 
Secretary may administer oaths and affirmations 
and may issue subpoenas to require 
the production of any records that are relevant 
to the inquiry. The production of any 
such records may be required from any place 
in the United States. 
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.—For the 
purpose of an administrative hearing held 
under section 748 or 749, the presiding officer 
is authorized to administer oaths and affirmations, 
subpoena witnesses, compel the attendance 
of witnesses, take evidence, and require 
the production of any records that are 
relevant to the inquiry. The attendance of 
witnesses and the production of any such 
records may be required from any place in 
the United States. 
(c) AID OF COURTS.—In the case of contumacy 
by, or refusal to obey a subpoena to, 
any person, the Secretary may invoke the 
aid of any court of the United States within 
the jurisdiction of which the investigation or 
proceeding is carried on, or where the person 
resides or carries on business, to enforce a 
subpoena issued by the Secretary under subsection 
(b). The court may issue an order requiring 
the person to comply with the subpoena. 
(d) CONTEMPT.—Any failure to obey the 
order of the court may be punished by the 
court as a contempt of the order. 
(e) PROCESS.—Process in any such case 
may be served in the judicial district of 
which the person resides or conducts business 
or wherever the person may be found. 
(f) HEARING SITE.—The site of any hearing 
held under section 748 or 749 shall be within 
the judicial district where the person is an 
inhabitant or has a principal place of business. 
SEC. 751. REFERENDA. 

(a) INITIAL REFERENDUM.— 
(1) REFERENDUM REQUIRED.—During the 60-
day period immediately preceding the proposed 
effective date of an order issued under 
section 744, the Secretary shall conduct a 
referendum among kiwifruit producers and 
importers who will be subject to assessments 
under the order, to ascertain whether producers 
and importers approve the implementation 
of the order. 
(2) APPROVAL OF ORDER.—The order shall 
become effective, as provided in section 744, 
if the Secretary determines that— 
(A) the order has been approved by a majority 
of the producers and importers voting 
in the referendum; and 
(B) the producers and importers produce 
and import more than 50 percent of the total 
volume of kiwifruit produced and imported 
by persons voting in the referendum. 
(b) SUBSEQUENT REFERENDA.—The Secretary 
may periodically conduct a referendum 
to determine if kiwifruit producers 
and importers favor the continuation, termination, 
or suspension of any order issued 
under section 744 that is in effect at the time 
of the referendum. 
(c) REQUIRED REFERENDA.—The Secretary 
shall hold a referendum under subsection 
(b)— 

S824 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(1) at the end of the 6-year period beginning 
on the effective date of the order and at 
the end of each subsequent 6-year period; 
(2) at the request of the Board; or 
(3) if not less than 30 percent of the 
kiwifruit producers and importers subject to 
assessments under the order submit a petition 
requesting the referendum. 
(d) VOTE.—On completion of a referendum 
under subsection (b), the Secretary shall suspend 
or terminate the order that was subject 
to the referendum at the end of the marketing 
year if— 
(1) the suspension or termination of the 
order is favored by not less than a majority 
of the producers and importers voting in the 
referendum; and 
(2) the producers and importers produce 
and import more than 50 percent of the total 
volume of kiwifruit produced and imported 
by persons voting in the referendum. 
(e) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The ballots and 
other information or reports that reveal, or 
tend to reveal, the vote of any person under 
this subtitle and the voting list shall be held 
strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed. 
SEC. 752. SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF 
ORDER BY SECRETARY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary finds 
that an order issued under section 744, or a 
provision of the order, obstructs or does not 
tend to effectuate the purposes of this subtitle, 
the Secretary shall terminate or suspend 
the operation of the order or provision. 
(b) LIMITATION.—The termination or suspension 
of any order, or any provision of an 
order, shall not be considered an order under 
this subtitle. 
SEC. 753. REGULATIONS. 

The Secretary may issue such regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this subtitle. 

SEC. 754. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

There are authorized to be appropriated 
such funds as are necessary to carry out this 
subtitle for each fiscal year. 

Subtitle D—Commodity Promotion and 
Evaluation 
SEC. 761. COMMODITY PROMOTION AND EVALUATION. 


(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) it is in the national public interest and 
vital to the welfare of the agricultural economy 
of the United States to expand and develop 
markets for agricultural commodities 
through generic, industry-funded promotion 
programs; 
(2) the programs play a unique role in advancing 
the demand for agricultural commodities, 
since the programs increase the 
total market for a product to the benefit of 
consumers and all producers; 
(3) the programs complement branded advertising 
initiatives, which are aimed at increasing 
the market share of individual competitors; 
(4) the programs are of particular benefit 
to small producers, who may lack the resources 
or market power to advertise on 
their own; 
(5) the programs do not impede the branded 
advertising efforts of individual firms but instead 
increase market demand by methods 
that each individual entity would not have 
the incentive to employ; 
(6) the programs, paid for by the producers 
who directly reap the benefits of the programs, 
provide a unique opportunity for agricultural 
producers to inform consumers 
about their products; 
(7) it is important to ensure that the programs 
be carried out in an effective and coordinated 
manner that is designed to 
strengthen the position of the commodities 
in the marketplace and to maintain and expand 
the markets and uses of the commodities; 
and 
(8) independent evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the programs will assist Congress and 
the Secretary of Agriculture in ensuring 
that the objectives of the programs are met. 
(b) INDEPENDENT EVALUATIONS.—Except as 
otherwise provided by law, and at such intervals 
as the Secretary of Agriculture may determine, 
but not more frequently than every 
3 years or 3 years after the establishment of 
a program, the Secretary shall require that 
each industry-funded generic promotion program 
authorized by Federal law for an agricultural 
commodity shall provide for an 
independent evaluation of the program and 
the effectiveness of the program. The evaluation 
may include an analysis of benefits, 
costs, and the efficacy of promotional and research 
efforts under the program. The evaluation 
shall be funded from industry assessments 
and made available to the public. 
(c) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—The Secretary 
shall provide to Congress annually information 
on administrative expenses on programs 
referred to in subsection (b). 
TITLE VIII—MISCELLANEOUS 
Subtitle A—Options Pilot Programs and Risk 
Management Education 
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Options 
Pilot Programs Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. 802. PURPOSE. 

The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize 
the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in 
this subtitle as the ‘‘Secretary’’) to— 

(1) conduct research through pilot programs 
for 1 or more program commodities to 
ascertain whether futures and options contracts 
can provide producers with reasonable 
protection from the financial risks of fluctuations 
in price, yield, and income inherent 
in the production and marketing of agricultural 
commodities; and 
(2) provide education in the management 
of the financial risks inherent in the production 
and marketing of agricultural commodities. 
SEC. 803. PILOT PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary is authorized 
to conduct pilot programs for 1 or more 
supported commodities through December 
31, 2002. 
(b) DISTRIBUTION OF PILOT PROGRAMS.—The 
Secretary may operate a pilot program described 
in subsection (a) (referred to in this 
subtitle as a ‘‘pilot program’’) in up to 100 
counties for each program commodity with 
not more than 6 of those counties in any 1 
State. A pilot program shall not be implemented 
in any county for more than 3 of the 
1996 through 2002 calendar years. 
(c) ELIGIBLE PARTICIPANTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out a pilot 
program, the Secretary may contract with a 
producer who— 
(A) is eligible to participate in a price support 
program for a supported commodity; 
(B) desires to participate in a pilot program; 
and 
(C) is located in an area selected for a pilot 
program. 
(2) CONTRACTS.—Each contract under paragraph 
(1) shall set forth the terms and conditions 
for participation in a pilot program. 
(d) ELIGIBLE MARKETS.—Trades for futures 
and options contracts under a pilot program 
shall be carried out on commodity futures 
and options markets designated as contract 
markets under the Commodity Exchange Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) 
SEC. 804. TERMS AND CONDITIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to participate 
in any pilot program for any commodity 
conducted under this subtitle, a producer 
shall meet the eligibility requirements 
established under this subtitle (including 
regulations issued under this subtitle). 
(b) RECORDKEEPING.—Producers shall compile, 
maintain, and submit (or authorize the 
compilation, maintenance, and submission) 
of such documentation as the regulations 
governing any pilot program require. 
SEC. 805. NOTICE. 

(a) ALTERNATIVE PROGRAMS.—Pilot programs 
shall be alternatives to other related 
programs of the Department of Agriculture. 
(b) NOTICE TO PRODUCERS.—The Secretary 
shall provide notice to each producer participating 
in a pilot program that— 
(1) the participation of the producer in a 
pilot program is voluntary; and 
(2) neither the United States, the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Federal Crop 
Insurance Corporation, the Department of 
Agriculture, nor any other Federal agency is 
authorized to guarantee that participants in 
the pilot program will be better or worse off 
financially as a result of participation in a 
pilot program than the producer would have 
been if the producer had not participated in 
a pilot program. 
SEC. 806. COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Pilot programs established 
under this subtitle shall be funded by 
and carried out through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 
(b) LIMITATION.—In conducting the programs, 
the Secretary shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, operate the pilot programs 
in a budget neutral manner. 
SEC. 807. RISK MANAGEMENT EDUCATION. 

The Secretary shall provide such education 
in management of the financial risks inherent 
in the production and marketing of agricultural 
commodities as the Secretary considers 
appropriate. 

Subtitle B—Commercial Transportation of 
Equine for Slaughter 
SEC. 811. FINDINGS. 

Congress finds that, to ensure that equine 
sold for slaughter are provided humane 
treatment and care, it is essential to regulate 
the transportation, care, handling, and 
treatment of equine by any person engaged 
in the commercial transportation of equine 
for slaughter. 
SEC. 812. DEFINITIONS. 

In this subtitle: 

(1) COMMERCE.—The term ‘‘commerce’’ 
means trade, traffic, transportation, or other 
commerce by a person— 
(A) between any State, territory, or possession 
of the United States, or the District of 
Columbia, and any place outside thereof; 
(B) between points within the same State, 
territory, or possession of the United States, 
or the District of Columbia, but through any 
place outside thereof; or 
(C) within any territory or possession of 
the United States or the District of Columbia. 
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’ 
means the United States Department of Agriculture. 
(3) EQUINE.—The term ‘‘equine’’ means any 
member of the Equidae family. 
(4) EQUINE FOR SLAUGHTER.—The term 
‘‘equine for slaughter’’ means any equine 
that is transported, or intended to be transported, 
by vehicle to a slaughter facility or 
intermediate handler from a sale, auction, or 
intermediate handler by a person engaged in 
the business of transporting equine for 
slaughter. 
(5) FOAL.—The term ‘‘foal’’ means an 
equine that is not more than 6 months of 
age. 
(6) INTERMEDIATE HANDLER.—The term ‘‘intermediate 
handler’’ means any person regularly 
engaged in the business of receiving 
custody of equine for slaughter in connection 
with the transport of the equine to a slaughter 
facility, including a stockyard, feedlot, 
or assembly point. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S825 

(7) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means any 
individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation, 
or association that regularly transports 
equine for slaughter in commerce, except 
that the term shall not include an individual 
or other entity that does not transport 
equine for slaughter on a regular basis 
as part of a commercial enterprise. 
(8) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(9) VEHICLE.—The term ‘‘vehicle’’ means 
any machine, truck, tractor, trailer, or 
semitrailer, or any combination thereof, propelled 
or drawn by mechanical power and 
used on a highway in the commercial transportation 
of equine for slaughter. 
(10) STALLION.—The term ‘‘stallion’’ means 
any uncastrated male equine that is 1 year of 
age or older. 
SEC. 813. STANDARDS FOR HUMANE COMMERCIAL 
TRANSPORTATION OF EQUINE 
FOR SLAUGHTER. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the availability 
of appropriations, not later than 1 
year after the date of enactment of this subtitle, 
the Secretary shall issue, by regulation, 
standards for the humane commercial 
transportation by vehicle of equine for 
slaughter. 
(b) PROHIBITION.—No person engaged in the 
regular business of transporting equine by 
vehicle for slaughter as part of a commercial 
enterprise shall transport in commerce, to a 
slaughter facility or intermediate handler, 
an equine for slaughter except in accordance 
with the standards and this subtitle. 
(c) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—The standards 
shall include minimum requirements 
for the humane handling, care, treatment, 
and equipment necessary to ensure the safe 
and humane transportation of equine for 
slaughter. The standards shall require, at a 
minimum, that— 
(1) no equine for slaughter shall be transported 
for more than 24 hours without being 
unloaded from the vehicle and allowed to 
rest for at least 8 consecutive hours and 
given access to adequate quantities of wholesome 
food and potable water; 
(2) a vehicle shall provide adequate headroom 
for an equine for slaughter with a minimum 
of at least 6 feet, 6 inches of headroom 
from the roof and beams or other structural 
members overhead to floor underfoot, except 
that a vehicle transporting 6 equine or less 
shall provide a minimum of at least 6 feet of 
headroom from the roof and beams or other 
structural members overhead to floor 
underfoot if none of the equine are over 16 
hands; 
(3) the interior of a vehicle shall— 
(A) be free of protrusions, sharp edges, and 
harmful objects; 
(B) have ramps and floors that are adequately 
covered with a nonskid nonmetallic 
surface; and 
(C) be maintained in a sanitary condition; 
(4) a vehicle shall— 
(A) provide adequate ventilation and shelter 
from extremes of weather and temperature 
for all equine; 
(B) be of appropriate size, height, and interior 
design for the number of equine being 
carried to prevent overcrowding; and 
(C) be equipped with doors and ramps of 
sufficient size and location to provide for 
safe loading and unloading, including unloading 
during emergencies; 
(5)(A) equine shall be positioned in the vehicle 
by size; and 

(B) stallions shall be segregated from other 
equine; 
(6)(A) all equine for slaughter must be fit 
to travel as determined by an accredited veterinarian, 
who shall prepare a certificate of 
inspection, prior to loading for transport, 
that— 

(i) states that the equine were inspected 
and satisfied the requirements of subparagraph 
(B); 
(ii) includes a clear description of each 
equine; and 
(iii) is valid for 7 days; 
(B) no equine shall be transported to 
slaughter if the equine is found to be— 
(i) suffering from a broken or dislocated 
limb; 
(ii) unable to bear weight on all 4 limbs; 
(iii) blind in both eyes; or 
(iv) obviously suffering from severe illness, 
injury, lameness, or physical debilitation 
that would make the equine unable to withstand 
the stress of transportation; 
(C) no foal may be transported for slaughter; 
(D) no mare in foal that exhibits signs of 
impending parturition may be transported 
for slaughter; and 
(E) no equine for slaughter shall be accepted 
by a slaughter facility unless the equine 
is— 
(i) inspected on arrival by an employee of 
the slaughter facility or an employee of the 
Department; and 
(ii) accompanied by a certificate of inspection 
issued by an accredited veterinarian, 
not more than 7 days before the delivery, 
stating that the veterinarian inspected the 
equine on a specified date. 
SEC. 814. RECORDS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—A person engaged in the 
business of transporting equine for slaughter 
shall establish and maintain such records, 
make such reports, and provide such information 
as the Secretary may, by regulation, 
require for the purposes of carrying out, or 
determining compliance with, this subtitle. 
(b) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—The records 
shall include, at a minimum— 
(1) the veterinary certificate of inspection; 
(2) the names and addresses of current 
owners and consignors, if applicable, of the 
equine at the time of sale or consignment to 
slaughter; and 
(3) the bill of sale or other documentation 
of sale for each equine. 
(c) AVAILABILITY.—The records shall— 
(1) accompany the equine during transport 
to slaughter; 
(2) be retained by any person engaged in 
the business of transporting equine for 
slaughter for a reasonable period of time, as 
determined by the Secretary, except that the 
veterinary certificate of inspection shall be 
surrendered at the slaughter facility to an 
employee or designee of the Department and 
kept by the Department for a reasonable period 
of time, as determined by the Secretary; 
and 
(3) on request of an officer or employee of 
the Department, be made available at all 
reasonable times for inspection and copying 
by the officer or employee. 
SEC. 815. AGENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this subtitle, 
the act, omission, or failure of an individual 
acting for or employed by a person engaged 
in the business of transporting equine 
for slaughter, within the scope of the employment 
or office of the individual, shall be 
considered the act, omission, or failure of 
the person engaging in the commercial 
transportation of equine for slaughter as 
well as of the individual. 
(b) ASSISTANCE.—If an equine suffers a substantial 
injury or illness while being transported 
for slaughter on a vehicle, the driver 
of the vehicle shall seek prompt assistance 
from a licensed veterinarian. 
SEC. 816. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS. 

The Secretary is authorized to cooperate 
with States, political subdivisions of States, 
State agencies (including State departments 
of agriculture and State law enforcement 

agencies), and foreign governments to carry 
out and enforce this subtitle (including regulations 
issued under this subtitle). 

SEC. 817. INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary is authorized 
to conduct such investigations or inspections 
as the Secretary considers necessary 
to enforce this subtitle (including any 
regulation issued under this subtitle). 
(b) ACCESS.—For the purposes of conducting 
an investigation or inspection under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, at all 
reasonable times, have access to— 
(1) the place of business of any person engaged 
in the business of transporting equine 
for slaughter; 
(2) the facilities and vehicles used to transport 
the equine; and 
(3) records required to be maintained under 
section 834. 
(c) ASSISTANCE TO OR DESTRUCTION OF 
EQUINE.—The Secretary shall issue such regulations 
as the Secretary considers necessary 
to permit employees or agents of the 
Department to— 
(1) provide assistance to any equine that is 
covered by this subtitle (including any regulation 
issued under this subtitle); or 
(2) destroy, in a humane manner, any such 
equine found to be suffering. 
SEC. 818. INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b), 
a person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, 
impedes, intimidates, or interferes 
with any person while engaged in or on account 
of the performance of an official duty 
of the person under this subtitle shall be 
fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not 
more than 3 years, or both. 
(b) WEAPONS.—If the person uses a deadly 
or dangerous weapon in connection with an 
action described in subsection (a), the person 
shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned 
not more than 10 years, or both. 
SEC. 819. JURISDICTION OF COURTS. 

Except as provided in section 840(a)(5), a 
district court of the United States in any appropriate 
judicial district under section 1391 
of title 28, United States Code, shall have jurisdiction 
to specifically enforce this subtitle, 
to prevent and restrain a violation of 
this subtitle, and to otherwise enforce this 
subtitle. 
SEC. 820. CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES. 

(a) CIVIL PENALTIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who violates this 
subtitle (including a regulation or standard 
issued under this subtitle) shall be assessed a 
civil penalty by the Secretary of not more 
than $2,000 for each violation. 
(2) SEPARATE OFFENSES.—Each equine 
transported in violation of this subtitle shall 
constitute a separate offense. Each violation 
and each day during which a violation continues 
shall constitute a separate offense. 
(3) HEARINGS.—No penalty shall be assessed 
under this subsection unless the person who 
is alleged to have violated this subtitle is 
given notice and opportunity for a hearing 
with respect to an alleged violation. 
(4) FINAL ORDER.—An order of the Secretary 
assessing a penalty under this subsection 
shall be final and conclusive unless 
the aggrieved person files an appeal from the 
order pursuant to paragraph (5). 
(5) APPEALS.—Not later than 30 days after 
entry of a final order of the Secretary issued 
pursuant to this subsection, a person aggrieved 
by the order may seek review of the 
order in the appropriate United States Court 
of Appeals. The Court shall have exclusive 
jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, suspend (in 
whole or in part), or to determine the validity 
of the order. 
(6) NONPAYMENT OF PENALTY.—On a failure 
to pay the penalty assessed by a final order 
under this section, the Secretary shall request 
the Attorney General to institute a 

S826 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

civil action in a district court of the United 
States or other United States court for any 
district in which the person is found, resides, 
or transacts business, to collect the penalty. 
The court shall have jurisdiction to hear and 
decide the action. 

(b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.— 
(1) FIRST OFFENSE.—Subject to paragraph 
(2), a person who knowingly violates this 
subtitle (or a regulation or standard issued 
under this subtitle) shall, on conviction of 
the violation, be subject to imprisonment for 
not more than 1 year or a fine of not more 
than $2,000, or both. 
(2) SUBSEQUENT OFFENSES.—On conviction 
of a second or subsequent offense described 
in paragraph (1), a person shall be subject to 
imprisonment for not more than 3 years or 
to a fine of not more than $5,000, or both. 
SEC. 821. PAYMENTS FOR TEMPORARY OR MED


ICAL ASSISTANCE FOR EQUINE DUE 

TO VIOLATIONS. 

From sums received as penalties, fines, or 
forfeitures of property for any violation of 
this subtitle (including a regulation issued 
under this subtitle), the Secretary shall pay 
the reasonable and necessary costs incurred 
by any person in providing temporary care 
or medical assistance for any equine that 
needs the care or assistance due to a violation 
of this subtitle. 
SEC. 822. RELATIONSHIP TO STATE LAW. 

Nothing in this subtitle prevents a State 
from enacting or enforcing any law (including 
a regulation) that is not inconsistent 
with this subtitle or that is more restrictive 
than this subtitle. 
SEC. 823. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to 
be appropriated for each fiscal year such 
sums as are necessary to carry out this subtitle. 
(b) LIMITATION.—No provision of this subtitle 
shall be effective, or be enforced against 
any person, during a fiscal year unless funds 
to carry out this subtitle have been appropriated 
for the fiscal year. 
Subtitle C—Nutrition Assistance 
SEC. 831. FOOD STAMP PROGRAM. 

(a) EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING.—Section 
16(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 2025(h)(1)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF PILOT PROJECTS.— 
The last sentence of section 17(b)(1)(A) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2026(b)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(c) OUTREACH DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.— 
The first sentence of section 17(j)(1)(A) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2026(j)(1)(A)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(d) AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATIONS.— 
The first sentence of section 18(a)(1) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)(1)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(e) REAUTHORIZATION OF PUERTO RICO NUTRITION 
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.—The first sentence 
of section 19(a)(1)(A) of the Food 
Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2028(a)(1)(A)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘$974,000,000’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘$1,143,000,000 for fiscal year 1996, 
$1,174,000,000 for fiscal year 1997, $1,204,000,000 
for fiscal year 1998, $1,236,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1999, $1,268,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, 
$1,301,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and 
$1,335,000,000 for fiscal year 2002’’. 
(f) AMERICAN SAMOA.—The Food Stamp Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 24. TERRITORY OF AMERICAN SAMOA. 

‘‘From amounts made available to carry 
out this Act, the Secretary may pay to the 

Territory of American Samoa not more than 
$5,300,000 for each of fiscal years 1996 through 
2002 to finance 100 percent of the expenditures 
for the fiscal year for a nutrition assistance 
program extended under section 
601(c) of Public Law 96–597 (48 U.S.C. 
1469d(c)).’’. 

SEC. 832. COMMODITY DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM; 

COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD 

PROGRAM. 

(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—The first sentence 
of section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (Public Law 93– 
86; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) FUNDING.—Section 5 of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (Public 
Law 93–86; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 833. EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. 


(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—The first sentence 
of section 204(a)(1) of the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983 (Public Law 98–8; 7 
U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) PROGRAM TERMINATION.—Section 212 of 
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 
(Public Law 98–8; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(c) REQUIRED PURCHASES OF COMMODITIES.— 
Section 214 of the Emergency Food Assistance 
Act of 1983 (Public Law 98–8; 7 U.S.C. 
612c note) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 834. SOUP KITCHENS PROGRAM. 

Section 110 of the Hunger Prevention Act 
of 1988 (Public Law 100–435; 7 U.S.C. 612c 
note) is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (c)(2)— 
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 835. NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING. 

The first sentence of section 1114(a)(2)(A) of 
the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (7 

U.S.C. 1431e(2)(A)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
Subtitle D—Miscellaneous 
SEC. 841. LIVESTOCK DEALER TRUST. 

Title III of the Packers and Stockyards 
Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 318. LIVESTOCK DEALER TRUST. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 

‘‘(1) a burden on and obstruction to commerce 
in livestock is caused by financing arrangements 
under which dealers and market 
agencies purchasing livestock on commission 
encumber, give lenders security interests 
in, or have liens placed on livestock purchased 
by the dealers and market agencies in 
cash sales, or on receivables from or proceeds 
of such sales, when payment is not made for 
the livestock; and 

‘‘(2) the carrying out of such arrangements 
is contrary to the public interest. 

‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section 
is to remedy the burden on and obstruction 
to commerce in livestock described in paragraph 
(1) and protect the public interest. 

‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) CASH SALE.—The term ‘cash sale’ 
means a sale in which the seller does not expressly 
extend credit to the buyer. 

‘‘(2) TRUST.—The term ‘trust’ means 1 or 
more assets of a buyer that (subsequent to a 

cash sale of livestock) constitutes the corpus 
of a trust held for the benefit of a seller and 
consists of— 

‘‘(A) account receivables and proceeds 
earned from the cash sale of livestock by a 
dealer; 

‘‘(B) account receivables and proceeds of a 
marketing agency earned on commission 
from the cash sale of livestock; 

‘‘(C) the inventory of the dealer or marketing 
agency; or 

‘‘(D) livestock involved in the cash sale, if 
the seller has not received payment in full 
for the livestock and a bona fide third-party 
purchaser has not purchased the livestock 
from the dealer or marketing agency. 

‘‘(d) HOLDING IN TRUST.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The account receivables 
and proceeds generated in a cash sale made 
by a dealer or a market agency on commission 
and the inventory of the dealer or market 
agency shall be held by the dealer or 
market agency in trust for the benefit of the 
seller of the livestock until the seller receives 
payment in full for the livestock. 

‘‘(2) EXEMPTION.—Paragraph (1) does not 
apply in the case of a cash sale made by a 
dealer or market agency if the total amount 
of cash sales made by the dealer or market 
agency during the preceding 12 months does 
not exceed $250,000. 

‘‘(3) DISHONOR OF INSTRUMENT OF PAYMENT.—
A payment in a sale described in 
paragraph (1) shall not be considered to be 
made if the instrument by which payment is 
made is dishonored. 

‘‘(4) LOSS OF BENEFIT OF TRUST.—If an instrument 
by which payment is made in a 
sale described in paragraph (1) is dishonored, 
the seller shall lose the benefit of the trust 
under paragraph (1) on the earlier of— 

‘‘(A) the date that is 15 business days after 
date on which the seller receives notice of 
the dishonor; or 

‘‘(B) the date that is 30 days after the final 

date for making payment under section 409, 
unless the seller gives written notice to the 
dealer or market agency of the seller’s intention 
to preserve the trust and submits a copy 
of the notice to the Secretary. 

‘‘(5) RIGHTS OF THIRD-PARTY PURCHASER.— 
The trust established under paragraph (1) 
shall have no effect on the rights of a bona 
fide third-party purchaser of the livestock, 
without regard to whether the livestock are 
delivered to the bona fide purchaser. 

‘‘(e) JURISDICTION.—The district courts of 
the United States shall have jurisdiction in a 
civil action— 

‘‘(1) by the beneficiary of a trust described 
in subsection (c)(1), to enforce payment of 
the amount held in trust; and 

‘‘(2) by the Secretary, to prevent and restrain 
dissipation of a trust described in subsection 
(c)(1).’’. 

SEC. 842. FUND FOR DAIRY PRODUCERS TO PAY 
FOR NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT. 

Section 8c(5) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(5)), reenacted with 
amendments by the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937, is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (A), by adding at the end 
the following: ‘‘The minimum price for milk 
of the highest classification in any order 
(other than an order amended under paragraph 
(M)) may not be higher than the minimum 
price required under this paragraph.’’; 
and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(M) SAFE HARBOR.— 
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Providing that each 
order may be amended such that not more 
than $.10 per hundredweight of milk of the 
highest use classification may be added to 
the minimum applicable price to be set aside 
in a fund called the ‘Safe Harbor Fund Account’ 
(referred to in this paragraph as the 
‘Account’). 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S827 

‘‘(ii) ADMINISTRATION.— 

‘‘(I) MARKET ADMINISTRATOR.—The Account 
shall be administered by the Market Administrator. 


‘‘(II) USE OF FUNDS.—A determination regarding 
the use of the funds in the Account 
shall be made by the Safe Harbor Committee 
established under clause (iii). 

‘‘(iii) SAFE HARBOR COMMITTEE.—The Secretary 
shall establish a Safe Harbor Committee 
consisting of 7 milk producers appointed 
by the Secretary who supply milk to 
handlers regulated under a Federal milk 
marketing order. 

‘‘(iv) USE OF FUNDS.— 

‘‘(I) APPLICATIONS.—To be eligible to use 
amounts in the fund, a milk producer who 
supplies milk to handlers regulated under a 
Federal milk marketing order shall submit 
an application to the Safe Harbor Committee. 


‘‘(II) APPROVAL.—The Safe Harbor Committee 
may approve only applications that 
fund conservation practices approved by the 
Secretary that control the off-migration of 
nutrients from the farm. 

‘‘(III) STATE WATER QUALITY PRIORITIES.—In 
approving applications, the Safe Harbor 
Committee shall take into account, to the 
extent practicable, the applicable State 
water quality priorities.’’. 
SEC. 843. PLANTING OF ENERGY CROPS. 

(a) FEED GRAINS.—The first sentence of 
section 105B(c)(1)(F)(i) of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1444f(c)(1)(F)(i)) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘herbaceous perennial 
grass, short rotation woody coppice species 
of trees, other energy crops designated by 
the Secretary with high energy content,’’ 
after ‘‘mung beans,’’. 
(b) WHEAT.—The first sentence of section 
107B(c)(1)(F)(i) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1445b–3a(c)(1)(F)(i)) is amended by 
inserting ‘‘herbaceous perennial grass, short 
rotation woody coppice species of trees, 
other energy crops designated by the Secretary 
with high energy content,’’ after 
‘‘mung beans,’’. 
SEC. 844. CROP INSURANCE. 

(a) CATASTROPHIC RISK PROTECTION.—Section 
508(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1508(b)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end 
the following: 

‘‘(C) DELIVERY OF COVERAGE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In full consultation with 
approved insurance providers, the Secretary 
may continue to offer catastrophic risk protection 
in a State (or a portion of a State) 
through local offices of the Department if 
the Secretary determines that there is an insufficient 
number of approved insurance providers 
operating in the State or portion to 
adequately provide catastrophic risk protection 
coverage to producers. 

‘‘(ii) COVERAGE BY APPROVED INSURANCE 
PROVIDERS.—To the extent that catastrophic 
risk protection coverage by approved insurance 
providers is sufficiently available in a 
State as determined by the Secretary, only 
approved insurance providers may provide 
the coverage in the State. 

‘‘(iii) CURRENT POLICIES.—Subject to clause 
(ii), all catastrophic risk protection policies 
written by local offices of the Department 
shall be transferred (including all fees collected 
for the crop year in which the approved 
insurance provider will assume the 
policies) to the approved insurance provider 
for performance of all sales, service, and loss 
adjustment functions.’’; and 

(2) in paragraph (7), by striking subparagraph 
(A) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Effective for the spring-
planted 1996 and subsequent crops, to be eligible 
for any payment or loan under the Agricultural 
Market Transition Act or the Ag


ricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1301 et seq.), the conservation reserve program, 
or any benefit described in section 371 
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2008f), a person shall— 

‘‘(i) obtain at least the catastrophic level 
of insurance for each crop of economic significance 
in which the person has an interest; 
or 

‘‘(ii) provide a written waiver to the Secretary 
that waives any eligibility for emergency 
crop loss assistance in connection 
with the crop.’’. 

(b) COVERAGE OF SEED CROPS.—Section 
519(a)(2)(B) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1519(a)(2)(B)) 
is amended by inserting ‘‘seed crops,’’ after 
‘‘turfgrass sod,’’. 
SEC. 845. REVENUE INSURANCE. 

Section 508(h) of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1508(h)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(9) REVENUE INSURANCE PILOT PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December 
31, 1996, the Secretary shall carry out a 
pilot program in a limited number of counties, 
as determined by the Secretary, for 
crop years 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000, under 
which a producer of corn, wheat, or soybeans 
may elect to receive insurance against loss 
of revenue, as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) ADMINISTRATION.—Revenue insurance 
under this paragraph shall— 

‘‘(i) be offered through reinsurance arrangements 
with private insurance companies; 


‘‘(ii) offer at least a minimum level of coverage 
that is an alternative to catastrophic 
crop insurance; 

‘‘(iii) be actuarily sound; and 

‘‘(iv) require the payment of premiums and 
administrative fees by an insured producer.’’. 

SEC. 846. REIMBURSABLE AGREEMENTS. 

Section 737 of Public Law 102–142 (7 U.S.C. 
2277) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘SEC. 737. Funds’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘SEC. 737. SERVICES FOR APHIS PERFORMED 
OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Funds’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b) REIMBURSABLE AGREEMENTS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
may enter into reimbursable fee 
agreements with persons for preclearance at 
locations outside the United States of 
plants, plant products, animals, and articles 
for movement to the United States. 

‘‘(2) OVERTIME, NIGHT, AND HOLIDAY WORK.— 
Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary 
of Agriculture may pay an employee 
of the Department of Agriculture preforming 
services relating to imports into and exports 
from the United States for overtime, night, 
and holiday work performed by the employee 
at a rate of pay established by the Secretary. 

‘‘(3) REIMBURSEMENT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
may require persons for whom 
preclearance services are performed to reimburse 
the Secretary for any amounts paid by 
the Secretary for performance of the services. 


‘‘(B) CREDITING OF FUNDS.—All funds collected 
under subparagraph (A) shall be credited 
to the account that incurs the costs and 
shall remain available until expended without 
fiscal year limitation. 

‘‘(C) LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—On failure of a person to 
reimburse the Secretary of Agriculture for 
the costs of performance of preclearance 
services— 

‘‘(I) the Secretary may assess a late payment 
penalty; and 

‘‘(II) the overdue funds shall accrue interest 
in accordance with section 3717 of title 
31, United States Code. 

‘‘(ii) CREDITING OF FUNDS.—Any late payment 
penalty and any accrued interest collected 
under this subparagraph shall be credited 
to the account that incurs the costs and 
shall remain available until expended without 
fiscal year limitation.’’. 

SEC. 847. SWINE HEALTH PROTECTION. 

(a) TERMINATION OF STATE PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT 
RESPONSIBILITY.—Section 10 of 
the Swine Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 
3809) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
(d); and 
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following: 


‘‘(c) REQUEST OF STATE OFFICIAL.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On request of the Governor 
or other appropriate official of a State, 
the Secretary may terminate, effective as 
soon as the Secretary determines is practicable, 
the primary enforcement responsibility 
of a State under subsection (a). In terminating 
the primary enforcement responsibility 
under this subsection, the Secretary 
shall work with the appropriate State official 
to determine the level of support to be 
provided to the Secretary by the State under 
this Act. 

‘‘(2) REASSUMPTION.—Nothing in this subsection 
shall prevent a State from reassuming 
primary enforcement responsibility 
if the Secretary determines that the 
State meets the requirements of subsection 
(a).’’. 

(b) ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—The Swine 
Health Protection Act is amended— 
(1) by striking section 11 (7 U.S.C. 3810); 
and 
(2) by redesignating sections 12, 13, and 14 
(7 U.S.C. 3811, 3812, and 3813) as sections 11, 
12, and 13, respectively. 
SEC. 848. COOPERATIVE WORK FOR PROTECTION, 

MANAGEMENT, AND IMPROVEMENT 

OF NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM. 

The penultimate paragraph of the matter 
under the heading ‘‘FOREST SERVICE.’’ of 
the first section of the Act of June 30, 1914 
(38 Stat. 430, chapter 131; 16 U.S.C. 498), is 
amended— 

(1) by inserting ‘‘, management,’’ after 
‘‘the protection’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘national forests,’’ and inserting 
‘‘National Forest System,’’; 
(3) by inserting ‘‘management,’’ after ‘‘protection,’’ 
both places it appears; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following new 
sentences: ‘‘Payment for work undertaken 
pursuant to this paragraph may be made 
from any appropriation of the Forest Service 
that is available for similar work if a written 
agreement so provides and reimbursement 
will be provided by a cooperator in the same 
fiscal year as the expenditure by the Forest 
Service. A reimbursement received from a 
cooperator that covers the proportionate 
share of the cooperator of the cost of the 
work shall be deposited to the credit of the 
appropriation of the Forest Service from 
which the payment was initially made or, if 
the appropriation is no longer available to 
the credit of an appropriation of the Forest 
Service that is available for similar work. 
The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish 
written rules that establish criteria to be 
used to determine whether the acceptance of 
contributions of money under this paragraph 
would adversely affect the ability of an officer 
or employee of the United States Department 
of Agriculture to carry out a duty or 
program of the officer or employee in a fair 
and objective manner or would compromise, 
or appear to compromise, the integrity of 
the program, officer, or employee. The Secretary 
of Agriculture shall establish written 
rules that protect the interests of the Forest 
Service in cooperative work agreements.’’. 

S828 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

SEC. 849. COLLECTION AND USE OF AGRICUL


TURAL QUARANTINE AND INSPEC


TION FEES. 

Subsection (a) of section 2509 of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 
1990 (21 U.S.C. 136a) is amended to read as 
follows: 

‘‘(a) QUARANTINE AND INSPECTION FEES.— 

‘‘(1) FEES AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary of 
Agriculture may prescribe and collect fees 
sufficient— 

‘‘(A) to cover the cost of providing agricultural 
quarantine and inspection services in 
connection with the arrival at a port in the 
customs territory of the United States, or 
the preclearance or preinspection at a site 
outside the customs territory of the United 
States, of an international passenger, commercial 
vessel, commercial aircraft, commercial 
truck, or railroad car; 

‘‘(B) to cover the cost of administering this 
subsection; and 

‘‘(C) through fiscal year 2002, to maintain a 
reasonable balance in the Agricultural Quarantine 
Inspection User Fee Account established 
under paragraph (5). 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—In setting the fees under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure 
that the amount of the fees are commensurate 
with the costs of agricultural quarantine 
and inspection services with respect 
to the class of persons or entities paying the 
fees. The costs of the services with respect to 
passengers as a class includes the costs of related 
inspections of the aircraft or other vehicle. 


‘‘(3) STATUS OF FEES.—Fees collected under 
this subsection by any person on behalf of 
the Secretary are held in trust for the 
United States and shall be remitted to the 
Secretary in such manner and at such times 
as the Secretary may prescribe. 

‘‘(4) LATE PAYMENT PENALTIES.—If a person 
subject to a fee under this subsection fails to 
pay the fee when due, the Secretary shall assess 
a late payment penalty, and the overdue 
fees shall accrue interest, as required by section 
3717 of title 31, United States Code. 

‘‘(5) AGRICULTURAL QUARANTINE INSPECTION 
USER FEE ACCOUNT.— 

‘‘(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established 
in the Treasury of the United States a no-
year fund, to be known as the ‘Agricultural 
Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account’, 
which shall contain all of the fees collected 
under this subsection and late payment penalties 
and interest charges collected under 
paragraph (4) through fiscal year 2002. 

‘‘(B) USE OF ACCOUNT.—For each of the fiscal 
years 1996 through 2002, funds in the Agricultural 
Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account 
shall be available, in such amounts as 
are provided in advance in appropriations 
Acts, to cover the costs associated with the 
provision of agricultural quarantine and inspection 
services and the administration of 
this subsection. Amounts made available 
under this subparagraph shall be available 
until expended. 

‘‘(C) EXCESS FEES.—Fees and other 
amounts collected under this subsection in 
any of the fiscal years 1996 through 2002 in 
excess of $100,000,000 shall be available for 
the purposes specified in subparagraph (B) 
until expended, without further appropriation. 


‘‘(6) USE OF AMOUNTS COLLECTED AFTER FISCAL 
YEAR 2002.—After September 30, 2002, the 
unobligated balance in the Agricultural 
Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account and 
fees and other amounts collected under this 
subsection shall be credited to the Department 
of Agriculture accounts that incur the 
costs associated with the provision of agricultural 
quarantine and inspection services 
and the administration of this subsection. 
The fees and other amounts shall remain 

available to the Secretary until expended 
without fiscal year limitation. 

‘‘(7) STAFF YEARS.—The number of full-
time equivalent positions in the Department 
of Agriculture attributable to the provision 
of agricultural quarantine and inspection 
services and the administration of this subsection 
shall not be counted toward the limitation 
on the total number of full-time 
equivalent positions in all agencies specified 
in section 5(b) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring 
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–226; 5 

U.S.C. 3101 note) or other limitation on the 
total number of full-time equivalent positions.’’. 
SEC. 850. AMENDMENT OF THE VIRUS-SERUM 
TOXIN ACT OF 1913. 

The Act of March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 828, chapter 
145), is amended in the eighth paragraph 
under the heading ‘‘BUREAU OF ANIMAL 
INDUSTRY’’, commonly known as the 
‘‘Virus-Serum Toxin Act of 1913’’, by striking 
the 10th sentence (21 U.S.C. 158) and inserting 
‘‘A person, firm, or corporation that 
knowingly violates any of the provisions of 
this paragraph or regulations issued under 
this paragraph, or knowingly forges, counterfeits, 
or, without authorization by the 
Secretary of Agriculture, uses, alters, defaces, 
or destroys any certificate, permit, license, 
or other document provided for in this 
paragraph, may, for each violation, after 
written notice and opportunity for a hearing 
on the record, be assessed a civil penalty by 
the Secretary of Agriculture of not more 
than $5,000, or shall, on conviction, be assessed 
a criminal penalty of not more than 
$10,000, imprisoned not more than 1 year, or 
both. In the course of an investigation of a 
suspected violation of this paragraph, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may issue subpoenas 
requiring the attendance and testimony 
of witnesses and the production of evidence 
that relates to the matter under investigation. 
In determining the amount of a 
civil penalty, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall take into account the nature, circumstances, 
extent, and gravity of the violation, 
the ability of the violator to pay the 
penalty, the effect that the assessment 
would have on the ability of the violator to 
continue to do business, any history of such 
violations by the violator, the degree of culpability 
of the violator, and such other matters 
as justice may require. An order assessing 
a civil penalty shall be treated as a final 
order reviewable under chapter 158 of title 28, 
United State’s Code. The Secretary of Agriculture 
may compromise, modify, or remit a 
civil penalty with or without conditions. The 
amount of a civil penalty that is paid (including 
any amount agreed on in compromise) 
may be deducted from any sums 
owing by the United States to the violator. 
The total amount of civil penalties assessed 
against a violator shall not exceed $300,000 
for all such violations adjudicated in a single 
proceeding. The validity of an order assessing 
a civil penalty shall not be subject to review 
in an action to collect the civil penalty. 
The unpaid amount of a civil penalty not 
paid in full when due shall accrue interest at 
the rate of interest applicable to civil judgments 
of the courts of the United States.’’. 

SEC. 851. OVERSEAS TORT CLAIMS. 

Title VII of Public Law 102–142 (105 Stat. 

911) is amended by inserting after section 737 
(7 U.S.C. 2277) the following: 
‘‘SEC. 737A. OVERSEAS TORT CLAIMS. 

‘‘The Secretary of Agriculture may pay a 
tort claim in the manner authorized in section 
2672 of title 28, United States Code, if 
the claim arises outside the United States in 
connection with activities of individuals who 
are performing services for the Secretary. A 
claim may not be allowed under this section 
unless the claim is presented in writing to 

the Secretary within 2 years after the date 
on which the claim accrues.’’. 

SEC. 852. GRADUATE SCHOOL OF THE UNITED 
STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 


(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section 
is to authorize the continued operation of 
the Graduate School as a nonappropriated 
fund instrumentality of the Department of 
Agriculture. 
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the 
General Administration Board of the Graduate 
School. 
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’ 
means the Department of Agriculture. 
(3) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means 
the Director of the Graduate School. 
(4) GRADUATE SCHOOL.—The term ‘‘Graduate 
School’’ means the Graduate School of 
the United States Department of Agriculture. 
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(c) FUNCTIONS AND AUTHORITY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Graduate School shall 
continue as a nonappropriated fund instrumentality 
of the Department under the general 
supervision of the Secretary. 
(2) ACTIVITIES.—The Graduate School shall 
develop and administer education, training, 
and professional development activities, including 
the provision of educational activities 
for Federal agencies, Federal employees, 
nonprofit organizations, other entities, and 
members of the general public. 
(3) FEES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Graduate School 
may charge and retain fair and reasonable 
fees for the activities that it provides based 
on the cost of the activities to the Graduate 
School. 
(B) NOT FEDERAL FUNDS.—Fees under subparagraph 
(A) shall not be considered to be 
Federal funds and shall not required to be 
deposited in the Treasury of the United 
States. 
(4) NAME.—The Graduate School shall operate 
under the name ‘‘United States Department 
of Agriculture Graduate School’’ or 
such other name as the Graduate School 
may adopt. 
(d) GENERAL ADMINISTRATION BOARD.— 
(1) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall appoint 
a General Administration Board to 
serve as a governing board subject to regulation 
by the Secretary. 
(2) SUPERVISION.—The Graduate School 
shall be subject to the supervision and direction 
of the Board. 
(3) DUTIES.—The Board shall— 
(A) formulate broad policies in accordance 
with which the Graduate School shall be administered; 
(B) take all steps necessary to see that the 
highest possible educational standards are 
maintained; 
(C) exercise general supervision over the 
administration of the Graduate School; and 
(D) establish such bylaws, rules, and procedures 
as may be necessary for the fulfillment 
of the duties described in subparagraph (A), 
(B), and (C). 
(4) DIRECTOR AND OTHER OFFICERS.—The 
Board shall select the Director and such 
other officers as the Board may consider necessary, 
who shall serve on such terms and 
perform such duties as the Board may prescribe. 
(5) BORROWING.—The Board may authorize 
the Director to borrow money on the credit 
of the Graduate School. 
(e) DIRECTOR OF THE GRADUATE SCHOOL.— 
(1) DUTIES.—The Director shall be responsible, 
subject to the supervision and direction 
of the Board, for carrying out the functions 
of the Graduate School. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S829 

(2) INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.—The Board may 
authorize the Director to invest funds held 
in excess of the current operating requirements 
of the Graduate School for purposes of 
maintaining a reasonable reserve. 
(f) LIABILITY.—The Director and the members 
of the Board shall not be held personally 
liable for any loss or damage that may accrue 
to the funds of the Graduate School as 
the result of any act or exercise of discretion 
performed in carrying out the duties described 
in this section. 
(g) EMPLOYEES.—Employees of the Graduate 
School are employees of a non-
appropriated fund instrumentality and shall 
not be considered to be Federal employees. 
(h) NOT A FEDERAL AGENCY.—The Graduate 
School shall not be considered to be a Federal 
Agency for purposes of— 
(1) chapter 171 of title 28, United States 
Code; 
(2) section 552 or 552a of title 28, United 
States Code; or 
(3) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 
U.S.C. App.). 
(i) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS.—The Graduate 
School shall not accept a donation from 
a person that is actively engaged in a procurement 
activity with the Graduate School 
or has an interest that may be substantially 
affected by the performance or nonperformance 
of an official duty of a member of the 
Board or an employee of the Graduate 
School. 
(j) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.—In order 
to carry out the functions of the Graduate 
School, the Graduate School may— 
(1) accept, use, hold, dispose, and administer 
gifts, bequests, or devises of money, securities, 
and other real or personal property 
made for the benefit of, or in connection 
with, the Graduate School; 
(2) notwithstanding any other law— 
(A) acquire real property in the District of 
Columbia and in other places by lease, purchase, 
or otherwise; 
(B) maintain, enlarge, or remodel any such 
property; and 
(C) have sole control of any such property; 
(3) enter into contracts without regard to 
the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471) or any 
other law that prescribes procedures for the 
procurement of property or services by an 
executive agency; 
(4) dispose of real and personal property 
without regard to the requirements of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services 
Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471); and 
(5) use the facilities and resources of the 
Department, on the condition that any costs 
incurred by the Department that are attributable 
solely to Graduate School operations 
and all costs incurred by the Graduate 
School arising out of such operations shall 
be borne by the fees paid by or on behalf of 
students or by other means and not with 
Federal funds. 
SEC. 853. STUDENT INTERN SUBSISTENCE PROGRAM. 


(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term 
‘‘student intern’’ means a person who— 
(1) is employed by the Department of Agriculture 
to assist scientific, professional, administrative, 
or technical employees of the 
Department; and 
(2) is a student in good standing at an accredited 
college or university pursuing a 
course of study related to the field in which 
the person is employed by the Department. 
(b) PAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES BY THE 
SECRETARY.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
may, out of user fee funds or funds appropriated 
to any agency, pay for lodging expenses, 
subsistence expenses, and transportation 
expenses of a student intern (including 
expenses of transportation to and from 
the student intern’s residence at or near the 
college or university attended by the student 
intern and the official duty station at which 
the student intern is employed). 

SEC. 854. CONVEYANCE OF LAND TO WHITE OAK 
CEMETERY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) RELEASE OF INTEREST.—After execution 
of the agreement described in subsection (b), 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall release 
the condition stated in the deed on the land 
described in subsection (c) that the land be 
used for public purposes, and that if the land 
is not so used, that the land revert the 
United States, on the condition that the land 
be used exclusively for cemetery purposes, 
and that if the land is not so used, that the 
land revert the United States. 
(2) BANKHEAD-JONES ACT.—Section 32(c) of 
the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 
U.S.C. 1011(c)) shall not apply to the release 
under paragraph (1). 
(b) AGREEMENT.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall make the release under in subsection 
(a) on execution by the Board of 
Trustees of the University of Arkansas, in 
consideration of the release, of an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Secretary of Agriculture, 
that— 
(1) the Board of Trustees will not sell, 
lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the 
land described in subsection (c) except to the 
White Oak Cemetery Association of Washington 
County, Arkansas, or a successor organization, 
for exclusive use for an expansion 
of the cemetery maintained by the Association; 
and 
(2) the proceeds of such a disposition of the 
land will be deposited and held in an account 
open to inspection by the Secretary of Agriculture, 
and used, if withdrawn from the account, 
for public purposes. 
(c) LAND DESCRIPTION.—The land described 
in this subsection is the land conveyed to the 
Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas, 
with certain other land, by deed 
dated November 18, 1953, comprising approximately 
2.2 acres located within property of 
the University of Arkansas in Washington, 
County, Arkansas, commonly known as the 
‘‘Savor property’’ and described as follows: 
The part of Section 20, Township 17 north, 
range 31 west, beginning at the north corner 
of the White Oak Cemetery and the University 
of Arkansas Agricultural Experiment 
Station farm at Washington County road 
#874, running west approximately 330 feet, 
thence south approximately 135 feet, thence 
southeast approximately 384 feet, thence 
north approximately 330 feet to the point of 
beginning. 

SEC. 855. ADVISORY BOARD ON AGRICULTURAL 
AIR QUALITY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) various studies have identified agriculture 
as a major atmospheric polluter; 
(2) Federal research activities are underway 
to determine the extent of the pollution 
problem and the extent of the role of agriculture 
in the problem; and 
(3) any Federal policy decisions that may 
result, and any Federal regulations that may 
be imposed on the agricultural sector, should 
be based on sound scientific findings; 
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section 
is to establish an advisory board to assist 
and provide the Secretary of Agriculture 
with information, analyses, and policy recommendations 
for determining matters of 
fact and technical merit and addressing scientific 
questions dealing with particulate 
matter less than 10 microns that become 
lodged in human lungs (known as ‘‘PM10’’) 
and other airborne particulate matter or 
gases that affect agricultural production 
yields and the economy. 
(c) ESTABLISHMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
may establish a board to be known 
as the ‘‘Advisory Board on Agricultural Air 
Quality’’ (referred to in this section as the 
‘‘Board’’) to advise the Secretary, through 
the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service, with respect to carrying out 
this act and obligations agriculture incurred 
under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
seq.) and the Act entitled ‘An Act to amend 
the Clean Air Act to provide for attainment 
and maintenance of health protective national 
ambient air quality standards, and for 
other purposes’, approved November 15, 1990 
(commonly known as the ‘Clean Air Act 
Amendments of 1990’) (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.). 

(2) OVERSIGHT COORDINATION.—The Secretary 
of Agriculture shall provide oversight 
and coordination with respect to other Federal 
departments and agencies to ensure 
intergovernmental cooperation in research 
activities and to avoid duplication of Federal 
efforts. 
(d) COMPOSITION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be composed 
of at least 17 members appointed by 
the Secretary in consultation with the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection 
Agency. 
(2) REGIONAL REPRESENTATION.—The membership 
of the Board shall be 2 persons from 
each of the 6 regions of the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, of whom 1 
from each region shall be an agricultural 
producer. 
(3) ATMOSPHERIC SCIENTIST.—At least 1 
member of the Board shall be an atmospheric 
scientist. 
(e) CHAIRPERSON.—The Chief of the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service shall— 
(1) serve as chairman of the Board; and 
(2) provide technical support to the Board. 
(f) TERM.—Each member of the Board shall 
be appointed for a 3-year term, except that 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall appoint 4 
of the initial members for a term of 1 year 
and 4 for a term of 2 years. 
(g) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet not 
less than twice annually. 
(h) COMPENSATION.—Members of the Board 
shall serve without compensation, but while 
away from their homes or regular place of 
business in performance of services for the 
Board, members of the Board shall be allowed 
travel expenses, including a per diem 
allowance in lieu of subsistence, in the same 
manner as persons employed in Government 
service are allowed travel expenses under 
section 5703 of title 5, United States Code. 
(i) FUNDING.—The Board shall be funded 
using appropriations for conservation operations. 
SEC. 856. COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION INTEREST 
RATE. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the monthly Commodity Credit Corporation 
interest rate applicable to loans 
provided for agricultural commodities by the 
Corporation shall be 100 basis points greater 
than the rate determined under the applicable 
interest rate formula in effect on October 
1, 1995. 

SEC. 857. EVERGLADES AGRICULTURAL AREA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—On July 1, 1996, out of any 
funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
provide $200,000,000 to the Secretary of the 
Interior to carry out this section. 
(b) ENTITLEMENT.—The Secretary of the Interior— 
(1) shall accept the funds made available 
under subsection (a); 
(2) shall be entitled to receive the funds; 
and 
(3) shall use the funds to conduct restoration 
activities in the Everglades ecosystem, 
which may include acquiring the remaining 

S830 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

private acreage in Townships 46, 47, and 48 of 
the Everglades Agricultural Area of approximately 
52,000 acres that is commonly known 
as the ‘‘Talisman tract’’. 

(c) DEADLINE.—The Secretary of the Interior 
shall acquire acreage referred to in subsection 
(b)(3) not later than December 31, 
1998. 
(d) EMINENT DOMAIN.—If necessary, the 
Secretary of the Interior may use the power 
of eminent domain to carry out this section. 
BURNS (AND OTHERS) 

AMENDMENT NO. 3253 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BURNS (for himself, Mr. GORTON, 
and Mr. CRAIG) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by them 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the end of title II, insert the following: 

SEC. 206. FOREIGN MARKET DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR 
PROGRAM. 

The Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 

U.S.C. 5601 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘TITLE VII—FOREIGN MARKET 
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR PROGRAM 

‘‘SEC. 701. DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE TRADE ORGANIZATION. 


‘‘In this title, the term ‘eligible trade organization’ 
means a United States trade organization 
that— 

‘‘(1) promotes the export of 1 or more 
United States agricultural commodities or 
products; and 

‘‘(2) does not have a business interest in or 
receive remuneration from specific sales of 
agricultural commodities or products. 

‘‘SEC. 702. FOREIGN MARKET DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR 
PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish 
and, in cooperation with eligible 
trade organizations, carry out a foreign market 
development cooperator program to 
maintain and develop foreign markets for 
United States agricultural commodities and 
products. 

‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATION.—Funds made available 
to carry out this title shall be used only 
to provide— 

‘‘(1) cost-share assistance to an eligible 
trade organization under a contract or agreement 
with the organization; and 

‘‘(2) assistance for other costs that are necessary 
or appropriate to carry out the foreign 
market development cooperator program, 
including contingent liabilities that 
are not otherwise funded. 

‘‘SEC. 703. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out this title such sums as may be 
necessary for each of fiscal years 1996 
through 2002.’’. 

BURNS AMENDMENT NO. 3254 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BURNS submitted an amendment 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

‘‘(j)’’ MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.—The following 
assessments shall be collected with 
respect to all sugar marketed for consumption 
within the United States during the 1996 
through 2003 fiscal years: 

‘‘(1)’’ BEET SUGAR.—The first seller of beet 
sugar produced from sugar beets or sugar 
beet molasses produced in the United States 
shall remit to the Commodity Credit Corporation 
a nonrefundable marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to 1.4742 percent of 

the loan level established under subsection 

(b) per pound of sugar marketed. 
‘‘(2)’’ CANE SUGAR.—The first seller of raw 
cane sugar produced from sugarcane or sugarcane 
molasses produced in the United 
States shall remit to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation a nonrefundable marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to 1.375 percent 
of the loan level established under subsection 
(b) per pound of sugar marketed (including 
the transfer or delivery of the sugar 
to a refinery for further processing or marketing). 


‘‘(3)’’ IMPORTED SUGAR.—The first seller of 
refined sugar produced from sugar beets, 
sugar beet molasses, surgarcane or sugarcane 
molasses produced outside the United 
States shall remit to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation a nonrefundable marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to 1.4742 percent 
of the loan level established under subsection 
(b) per pound of sugar marketed. 

KERREY AMENDMENTS NOS. 3255– 

3257 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. LEAHY submitted three amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3255 
On page 3–6, strike lines 6 and 7 and insert 
the following: 

(2) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘38,000,000’’ and inserting 
‘‘36,400,000’’; and 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘The Secretary may enter into 1 or more 
new contracts to enroll acreage in a quantity 
equal to the quantity of acreage covered by 
any contract that terminates after the date 
of enactment of the Agricultural Market 
Transition Act.’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3256 
On page 3–6, between lines 11 and 12, insert 
the following: 

(c) REPAYMENT OF COST SHARING AND 
OTHER PAYMENTS.—Section 1235(d)(1) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3835(d)(1)) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting a semicolon; 
and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) in the case of a contract with respect 
to which 5 years or less of the contract term 
have elapsed, the owner or operator agrees to 
repay all cost sharing, rental, and other payments 
made by the Secretary under the contract 
and section 1234; and 

‘‘(D) in the case of a contract with respect 
to which more than 5 years but less than 8 
years of the contract term have elapsed, the 
owner or operator agrees to repay all cost 
sharing payments made by the Secretary 
under the contract and section 1234(b).’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3257 
On page 3–46, strike lines 6 through 14 and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 353. STATE TECHNICAL COMMITTEES. 

Subtitle G of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3861 et seq.) is amended 
to read as follows: 

‘‘Subtitle G—State Technical Committees 
‘‘SEC. 1261. ESTABLISHMENT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish 
in each State a State technical committee 
to assist the Secretary in the technical 
considerations relating to implementation 
of the conservation provisions under 
this title. 

‘‘(b) COORDINATION.—Each State technical 
committee shall be coordinated by the State 
Conservationist of the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service. 

‘‘(c) COMPOSITION.—Each technical committee 
shall be composed of persons with relevant 
expertise that represent a variety of 
disciplines in the soil, water, wetland, and 
wildlife and social sciences, including representatives 
of— 

‘‘(1) the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service; 

‘‘(2) the Farm Service Agency; 

‘‘(3) the Forest Service; 

‘‘(4) the Cooperative State Research, Education 
and Extension Service; 

‘‘(5) the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service; 

‘‘(6) the Environmental Protection Agency; 

‘‘(7) the United States Geological Service; 

‘‘(8) State departments and agencies that 
the Secretary considers appropriate, including— 


‘‘(A) the State fish and wildlife agency; 

‘‘(B) the State forester or equivalent State 
official; 

‘‘(C) the State water resources agency; 

‘‘(D) the State department of agriculture; 
and 

‘‘(E) the State association of soil and water 
conservation districts, or natural resources 
districts; 

‘‘(9) farmers utilizing a range of conservation 
farming systems and practices; 

‘‘(10) other nonprofit organizations with 
demonstrable expertise; 

‘‘(11) persons knowledgeable about the economic 
and environmental impact of conservation 
techniques and programs; and 

‘‘(12) agribusiness. 

‘‘SEC. 1262. RESPONSIBILITIES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) MEETINGS.—Each State technical committee 
shall meet regularly to provide information, 
analysis, and recommendations to 
the Secretary regarding implementation of 
conservation provisions and programs. 

‘‘(2) MANNER.—The information, analysis, 
and recommendations shall be provided in a 
manner that will assist the Department of 
Agriculture in determining conservation priorities 
for the State and matters of fact, 
technical merit, or scientific question. 

‘‘(3) BEST INFORMATION AND JUDGMENT.—Information, 
analysis, and recommendations 
shall be provided in writing and shall reflect 
the best information and judgment of the 
committee. 

‘‘(b) OTHER DUTIES.—Each State technical 
committee shall provide assistance and offer 
recommendations with respect to the technical 
aspects of— 

‘‘(1) wetland protection, restoration, and 
mitigation requirements; 

‘‘(2) criteria to be used in evaluating bids 
for enrollment of environmentally sensitive 
lands in the conservation reserve program; 

‘‘(3) guidelines for haying or grazing and 
the control of weeds to protect nesting wildlife 
on set-aside acreage; 

‘‘(4) addressing common weed and pest 
problems and programs to control weeds and 
pests found on acreage enrolled in the conservation 
reserve program; 

‘‘(5) guidelines for planting perennial cover 
for water quality and wildlife habitat improvement 
on set-aside lands; 

‘‘(6) criteria and guidelines to be used in 
evaluating petitions by farmers to test conservation 
practices and systems not currently 
covered in Field Office Technical 
Guides; 

‘‘(7) identification, prioritization, and coordination 
of Water Quality Incentives Program 
initiatives in the State; and 

‘‘(8) other matters determined appropriate 
by the Secretary. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S831 

‘‘(c) AUTHORITY.— 

‘‘(1) NO ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—Each 
State technical committee is advisory and 
shall have no implementation or enforcement 
authority. 

‘‘(2) CONSIDERATION.—The Secretary shall 
give strong consideration to the recommendations 
of State technical committees 
in administering the program under this 
title, and to any factual, technical, or scientific 
finding of a committee.’’. 

KERREY AMENDMENT NO. 3258 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KERREY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

On page 3–21, lines 6 and 21, insert ‘‘, in 
consultation with the State Technical Committee’’ 
after ‘‘Secretary’’. 

On page 3–22, lines 2 and 8, insert ‘‘, in consultation 
with the State Technical Committee’’ 
after ‘‘Secretary’’. 

On page 3–26, line 25, strike ‘‘Governor of a 
State’’ and insert in lieu thereof ‘‘State 
Technical Committee’’. 

On page 3–29, line 18, insert ‘‘in consultation 
with the State Technical Committee’’ 
after ‘‘shall,’’. 

MACK AMENDMENT NO. 3259 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. MACK submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to 
amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


On page 511, strike lines 1 through the end 
and insert in lieu thereof the following: 

Nothing in this section precludes the Secretary 
of the Interior from transferring 
funds to the Army Corps of Engineers, or the 
State of Florida or the South Florida Water 
Management District to carry out sub-section 
(b)(3). 

(3) Shall use the funds to conduct restoration 
activities in the Everglades ecosystem, 
which may include acquisition of up to 52,000 
acres of private acreage in the Everglades 
agricultural area, that is commonly known 
as the (Talisman tract). 
(d) DEADLINE.—The Secretary of the Interior 
shall acquire acreage referred to in subsection 
(b)(3) not later than December 31, 
1999. 
KERREY AMENDMENT NO. 3260 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. KERREY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
On page 1–75, strike lines 13–16. 

KERREY AMENDMENTS NOS. 3261– 

3271 

Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KERREY submitted 11 amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3261 
On page 3–62, after line 22, insert the following: 


SEC. 356. CONSERVATION ESCROW ACCOUNT. 

Subtitle E of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841 et seq.) amended by 
adding at the end the following: 

‘‘SEC. 1248. CONSERVATION ESCROW ACCOUNT. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall 
establish a conservation escrow account. 

‘‘(b) Deposits Into Account.—Any program 
loans, payments, or benefits forfeited by, or 
fines collected from, producers under section 
1211 or 1221 shall be placed in the conservation 
escrow account. 

‘‘(c) USE OF FUNDS.—Funds in the conservation 
escrow account shall be used to 
provide technical and financial assistance to 
individuals to implement natural resource 
conservation practices. 

‘‘(d) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary 
shall use funds in the conservation escrow 
account for local areas in proportion to 
the amount of funds forfeited by or collected 
from producers in the local area. 

‘‘(e) REFUND.—A producer shall be eligible 
to a refund of 66 percent of any loan, payment, 
or benefit forfeited to the conservation 
escrow account if the producer complies 
with the applicable section referred to in 
subsection (b) not later than 1 year after a 
determination of noncompliance.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3262 
On page 1–26, line 19, strike all through line 
25 and insert in lieu thereof: ‘‘The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for soybeans 
shall be not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
soybeans, as determined by the Secretary, 
during the marketing years for the immediately 
preceeding 5 crops of soybeans, excluding 
the year in which the average price 
was the highest and the year in which the 
average price was the lowest in the period.’’ 
‘‘(B) SUNFLOWER SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND FLAXSEED.— 
The loan rates for a marketing assistance 
loan for a sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, 
safflower, mustard seed, and flaxseed, individually, 
shall be not less than 85 percent of 
the simple average price received by producers 
of such crops, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceeding 5 crops of such 
crops, excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period.’’ 
AMENDMENT NO. 3263 
On page 1–22, line 17, strike ‘‘Subject to 
subparagraph (B),’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3264 
On page 1–23, line 2, strike ‘‘; but’’ through 
page 1–24, line 2, and insert in lieu thereof ‘‘. 
’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3265 
On page 1–21, line 16, strike ‘‘; but’’ 
through page 1–22, line 15, and insert in lieu 
thereof ‘‘. ’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3266 
On page 1–21, line 6, strike ‘‘Subject to subparagraph 
(B),’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3267 
On page 5–10, strike lines 8 through 15. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3268 
On page 3–3, between lines 23 and 24, insert 
the following, ‘‘the Rain Water Basin Region, 
the Prairie Pothole Region,’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3269 
On page 1–76, strike all of section 110. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3270 
On page 5–5, between lines 13 and 14, insert 
the following: 
‘‘(c) RECONFIGURATION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—
Section 505 of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1505) is amended to read as 
follows: 

‘‘SEC. 505. BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 

‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—The management of the 
Corporation shall be vested in a Board of Directors 
subject to the general supervision of 
the Secretary. 

‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be appointed 
by the Secretary and shall consist of 
the Manager of the Corporation, the Under 
Secretary of Agriculture responsible for the 
Federal crop insurance program, one person 
who is an officer or employee of an approved 
insurance provider, one person who is a licensed 
crop insurance agent, one person experienced 
in the reinsurance business who is 
not otherwise employed by the Federal Government, 
and four active producers who are 
not otherwise employed by the Federal Government. 
The Secretary shall not be a member 
of the Board. 

‘‘(2) PRODUCER MEMBERS.—In appointing 
the four active producers who are not otherwise 
employed by the Federal Government, 
the Secretary shall ensure that three such 
members are policyholders and are from different 
geographic areas of the United States, 
in order that diverse agricultural interests 
in the United States are at all times represented 
on the Board. The Secretary shall 
ensure that the fourth active producer, who 
may also be a policyholder, receives a significant 
portion of crop income from crops 
are employed in the Department shall receive 
no additional compensation for their 
covered by the noninsured crop disaster assistance 
program established under section 
519. 

‘‘(c) TERMS OF OFFICE.— 

(1) TERMS OF USDA EMPLOYEES.—The Manager 
of the Corporation and the Under Secretary 
of Agriculture responsible for the 
Federal crop insurance program shall hold 
office at the pleasure of the Secretary. 
(2) TERMS OF OTHER MEMBERS.—Other than 
the Manager of the Corporation and the 
Under Secretary of Agriculture responsible 
for the Federal crop insurance program, the 
members of the Board shall be appointed by 
the Secretary for a term of 3 years. However, 
in the initial appointment of such members, 
the Secretary shall appoint two members for 
one year, two members for two years, and 
two members for three years in order to provide 
greater continuity to the Board. 
(3) SUCCESSION.—A member of the Board 
appointed under paragraph (2) may serve 
after the expiration of the term of office of 
such member until the successor for such 
member has taken office. 
‘‘(d) QUORUM.—Five of the members in office 
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction 
of the business of the Board. 

‘‘(e) IMPAIRMENT OF POWERS.—The powers 
of the Board to execute the function of the 
Corporation shall be impaired at any time 
there are not six members of the Board in office. 


‘‘(f) COMPENSATION.— 

‘‘(1) EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT.—The 
Directors of the Corporation who are employed 
in the Department shall receive no 
additional compensation for their services as 
such Directors but may be allowed necessary 
traveling and subsistence expenses when engaged 
in business of the Corporation, outside 
of the District of 

‘‘(2) NON-EMPLOYEES OF THE FEDERAL GOV-
ERNMENT.—The Directors of the Corporation 
who are not employed by the Federal Government 
shall be paid such compensation for 
their services as Directors as the Secretary 
shall determine, but such compensation shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the rate 
prescribed for positions at level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of Title 
5, United States Code, when actually employed. 
Such members may also receive actual 
necessary traveling and subsistence expenses, 
or a per diem allowance in lieu of 
subsistence expenses, as authorized by section 
5703 of such title for persons in Government 
service employed intermittently, when 
on the business of the Corporation away 


S832 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

from their homes or regular places of business. 


‘‘(g) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.—The Manager 
of the Corporation shall be its chief executive 
officer, with such power and authority 
as may be conferred by the Board. The 
Manager shall be appointed by, and hold office 
at the pleasure of, the Secretary.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3271 
On page 3–14, line 20, strike ‘‘means’’ and 
insert in lieu thereof, ‘‘shall be defined by 
the State Technical Committee, or mean’’. 

HEFLIN AMENDMENT NO. 3272 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HEFLIN submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. 106. PEANUT PROGRAM. 

(a) MARKETING QUOTAS.— 
(1) NATIONAL POUNDAGE QUOTAS AND ACREAGE 
ALLOTMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The section heading of 
section 358–1 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1991 THROUGH 1997 CROPS OF’’. 
(B) NATIONAL POUNDAGE QUOTAS.— 
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 358–1(a)(1) of 
the Act is amended— 
(I) in the first sentence— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; 

(bb) by striking ‘‘, seed,’’; and 

(cc) by striking the period at the end and 
inserting ‘‘, excluding seed. In making estimates 
under this paragraph for a marketing 
year, the Secretary shall annually estimate 
and take into account the quantity of peanuts 
and peanut products to be imported 
into the United States for the marketing 
year.’’; and 
(II) by striking the second sentence. 
(ii) APPORTIONMENT.—Section 358–1(a)(3) of 
the Act is amended by striking ‘‘1990’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1995’’. 
(C) FARM POUNDAGE QUOTA.— 
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 358–1(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act is amended— 

(I) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; and 
(II) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘1990’’ and inserting 
‘‘1995’’. 
(ii) QUANTITY.—Section 358–1(b)(1)(B) of the 
Act is amended— 
(I) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; and 
(II) by striking ‘‘including—’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘(ii) any’’ and inserting ‘‘including 
any’’. 
(iii) ADJUSTMENTS.—Section 358–1(b)(2) of 
the Act is amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘(B) and subject to subparagraph 
(D)’’ and inserting ‘‘(C)’’; and 
(bb) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; 

(II) by striking subparagraph (B); 
(III) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) 
and (D) as subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; 
and 
(IV) in subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated), 
by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’. 
(iv) QUOTA NOT PRODUCED.—Section 358– 
1(b)(3) of the Act is amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘of the 
1991 through 1997 marketing years’’ and inserting 
‘‘marketing year’’; and 
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘include—’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘(ii) 
any’’ and inserting ‘‘include any’’. 
(v) QUOTA CONSIDERED PRODUCED.—Section 
358–1(b)(4) of the Act is amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or’’ 
after the semicolon at the end; and 
(II) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) the farm poundage quota for the farm 
was— 
‘‘(i) released voluntarily under paragraph 
(7); or 
‘‘(ii) leased to another owner or operator of 
a farm within the same county for transfer 
to the farm; 

for only 1 of the 3 marketing years immediately 
preceding the marketing year for 
which the determination is being made.’’. 

(vi) ALLOCATION OF QUOTAS REDUCED OR RELEASED.—
Section 358–1(b)(6) of the Act is 
amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘subparagraphs 
(B) and (C), the total quantity of 
the’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (B),’’; 
(II) in subparagraph (B)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘Not more than 25 percent 
of the’’ and inserting ‘‘The’’; and 
(bb) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Any farm quota pounds remaining after allocation 
to farms under this subparagraph 
shall be allocated under subparagraph (A).’’; 
and 

(III) by striking subparagraph (C). 
(vii) TEMPORARY QUOTA ALLOCATION FOR 
SEED.—Section 358–1(b) of the Act is amended 
by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(8) TEMPORARY QUOTA ALLOCATION FOR 
SEED.—For each marketing year and pursuant 
to regulation, the Secretary shall make 
a temporary allocation of poundage quota, 
for that marketing year only, to each producer 
of peanuts on a farm, in addition to 
any farm poundage quota established under 
paragraph (1), in a quantity equal to the 
pounds of seed peanuts planted by the producer 
on the farm.’’. 

(viii) TRANSFER OF ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
Section 358–1(b) of the Act is amended by 
striking paragraph (9) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(9) TRANSFER OF ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), additional peanuts on a 
farm from which the quota poundage was not 
harvested and marketed may be transferred 
to the quota loan pool for pricing purposes 
on such basis as the Secretary shall provide 
by regulation. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS.—The poundage of peanuts 
transferred under subparagraph (A) 
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total farm 
poundage quota, excluding pounds transferred 
in the fall. 

‘‘(C) SUPPORT RATE.—Peanuts transferred 
under this paragraph shall be supported at a 
rate of not less than 70 percent of the quota 
support rate for the marketing years during 
which the transfers occur.’’. 

(D) CROPS.—Section 358–1(f) of the Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1997’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 
(2) SALE, LEASE, OR TRANSFER OF FARM 
POUNDAGE QUOTA.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The section heading of 
section 358b of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358b) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1991 THROUGH 1995 CROPS OF’’. 
(B) SALE, LEASE, OR TRANSFER OF FARM 
POUNDAGE QUOTA.—Section 358b(a) of the Act 
is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(including any applicable 
under marketings)’’ each place it appears; 
(ii) in paragraph (1)— 
(I) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) as subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; 
(II) by inserting before subparagraph (B) 
(as so redesignated) the following: 
‘‘(A) with the owner or operator of another 
farm located within the same county or located 
in a different county within the same 
State;’’; 

(III) in subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated), 
by striking ‘‘undermarketings and’’; 
and 
(IV) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Fall transfers of quota pounds shall not affect 
the farm quota history for the transferring 
or receiving farm and shall not result in 
a reduction of the farm poundage quota on 
the transferring farm.’’; 
(iii) in paragraph (2)— 
(I) in the first sentence— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘county or in a county 
contiguous to the county in the same’’; and 
(bb) by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ‘‘, if both the transferring 
and the receiving farms were under the control 
of the owner or operator for at least 3 
crop years prior to the crop year in which 
the farm poundage quota is transferred’’; and 

(II) in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘the transferred quota is produced or considered 
produced on the receiving farm’’ and inserting 
‘‘sufficient acreage is planted on the 
receiving farm to produce the quota pounds 
transferred’’; and 
(iv) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) TRANSFERS BY SALE IN STATES WITH 
LARGE QUOTAS.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a State 
for which the poundage quota allocated to 
the State was 10,000 tons or greater for the 
previous year, the owner, or operator with 
permission of the owner, of a farm located in 
the State for which a farm poundage quota 
has been established under section 358–1 may 
sell all or any part of the farm poundage 
quota to any other eligible owner or operator 
of a farm within the same State. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS.— 

‘‘(i) 1996.—During calendar year 1996, not 
more than 15 percent of the total poundage 
quota within a county as of January 1, 1996, 
may be sold and transferred outside the 
county under this paragraph. 

‘‘(ii) SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—During calendar 
year 1997 and each subsequent calendar year, 
not more than 5 percent of the total poundage 
quota within a county as of January 1 of 
the calendar year may be sold and transferred 
outside the county under this paragraph. 


‘‘(iii) AGGREGATE LIMIT.—Not more than an 
aggregate of 30 percent of the total poundage 
quota within a county may be sold and 
transferred outside the county under this 
paragraph. 

‘‘(C) SUBSEQUENT LEASE OR SALE.—Quota 
poundage sold and transferred under this 
paragraph may not be leased or sold to another 
farm owner or operator within the 
same State for a period of 5 years following 
the original transfer to the farm.’’. 

(C) RECORD.—Section 358b(b)(3) of the Act 
is amended by striking ‘‘committee of the 
county to which the transfer is made and the 
committee determines’’ and inserting ‘‘committees 
of the counties from and to which 
the transfer is made and the committees determine’’. 
(D) CROPS.—Section 358b(c) of the Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 
(3) EXPERIMENTAL AND RESEARCH PROGRAMS.—
Section 358c(d) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358c(d)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S833 

(4) MARKETING PENALTIES.—Section 358e of 
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
U.S.C. 1359a) is amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1991 THROUGH 1997 CROPS OF’’; 
(B) in subsection (d)(6)(A), by inserting 
after ‘‘If any additional peanuts’’ the following: 
‘‘or peanut products made from additional 
peanuts’’; and 
(C) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘1991 
through 1997’’ and inserting ‘‘1996 through 
2002’’. 
(b) PRICE SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR PEANUTS.— 
(1) QUOTA PEANUTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
price support available to producers through 
loans, purchases, and other operations on 
quota peanuts. 
(B) SUPPORT RATES.—The national average 
quota support rate for each crop of quota 
peanuts shall be the national average quota 
support rate for the immediately preceding 
crop, adjusted to reflect any increase, during 
the calendar year immediately preceding the 
marketing year for the crop for which a level 
of support is being determined, in the national 
average cost of peanut production, excluding 
any change in the cost of land and 
the cost of any assessments required under 
paragraph (7), except that in no event shall 
the national average quota support rate for 
any such crop be increased, or decreased, by 
more than 5 percent of the national average 
quota support rate for the preceding crop. 
(C) INSPECTION, HANDLING, OR STORAGE.— 
The levels of support so announced shall not 
be reduced by any deductions for inspection, 
handling, or storage. 
(D) LOCATION AND OTHER FACTORS.—The 
Secretary may make adjustments for location 
of peanuts and such other factors as are 
authorized by section 411 of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938. 
(E) ANNOUNCEMENT.—The Secretary shall 
announce the level of support for quota peanuts 
of each crop not later than February 15 
preceding the marketing year for the crop 
for which the level of support is being determined. 
(2) ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
price support available to producers through 
loans, purchases, or other operations on additional 
peanuts at such levels as the Secretary 
finds appropriate, taking into consideration 
the demand for peanut oil and peanut 
meal, expected prices of other vegetable 
oils and protein meals, and the demand for 
peanuts in foreign markets, except that the 
Secretary shall set the support rate on additional 
peanuts at a level estimated by the 
Secretary to ensure that there are no losses 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation on the 
sale or disposal of the peanuts. 
(B) ANNOUNCEMENT.—The Secretary shall 
announce the level of support for additional 
peanuts of each crop not later than February 
15 preceding the marketing year for the crop 
for which the level of support is being determined. 
(3) AREA MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS.— 
(A) WAREHOUSE STORAGE LOANS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out subsections 
(a) and (b), the Secretary shall 
make warehouse storage loans available in 
each of the three producing areas (described 
in section 1446.95 of title 7 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations (January 1, 1989)) to a designated 
area marketing association of peanut 
producers that is selected and approved 
by the Secretary and that is operated primarily 
for the purpose of conducting the 
loan activities. The Secretary may not make 
warehouse storage loans available to any cooperative 
that is engaged in operations or 
activities concerning peanuts other than 
those operations and activities specified in 
this section and sections 358d and 358e of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938. 

(ii) ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPERVISORY AC-
TIVITIES.—The area marketing associations 
shall be used in administrative and supervisory 
activities relating to price support 
and marketing activities under this section 
and sections 358d and 358e of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938. 
(iii) ASSOCIATION COSTS.—Loans made to 
the association under this paragraph shall 
include, in addition to the price support 
value of the peanuts, such costs as the area 
marketing association reasonably may incur 
in carrying out its responsibilities, operations, 
and activities under this section and 
sections 358d and 358e of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938. 
(B) POOLS FOR QUOTA AND ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall require 
that each area marketing association 
establish pools and maintain complete and 
accurate records by area and segregation for 
quota peanuts handled under loan and for additional 
peanuts placed under loan, except 
that separate pools shall be established for 
Valencia peanuts produced in New Mexico. 
Peanuts physically produced outside the 
State of New Mexico shall not be eligible for 
entry into or participation in the New Mexico 
pools. Bright hull and dark hull Valencia 
peanuts shall be considered as separate types 
for the purpose of establishing the pools. 
(ii) NET GAINS.—Net gains on peanuts in 
each pool, unless otherwise approved by the 
Secretary, shall be distributed only to producers 
who placed peanuts in the pool and 
shall be distributed in proportion to the 
value of the peanuts placed in the pool by 
each producer. Net gains for peanuts in each 
pool shall consist of the following: 
(I) QUOTA PEANUTS.—For quota peanuts, 
the net gains over and above the loan indebtedness 
and other costs or losses incurred on 
peanuts placed in the pool plus an amount 
from all additional pool gains equal to any 
loss on disposition of all peanuts in the pool 
for quota peanuts. 
(II) ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.—For additional 
peanuts, the net gains over and above the 
loan indebtedness and other costs or losses 
incurred on peanuts placed in the pool for 
additional peanuts less any amount allocated 
to offset any loss on the pool for quota 
peanuts as provided in subclause (I). 
(4) LOSSES.— 
(A) OTHER PRODUCERS IN SAME POOL.— 
Losses in an area quota pool shall be offset 
by reducing the gain of any producer in the 
pool by the amount of pool gains attributable 
to the same producer from the sale of 
additional peanuts for domestic and edible 
use or export. 
(B) QUOTA PEANUTS PLACED UNDER LOAN.— 
Net gains on additional peanuts within an 
area (other than net gains on additional peanuts 
in separate type pools established under 
paragraph (3)(B)(i) for Valencia peanuts produced 
in New Mexico) shall be first reduced 
to the extent of any loss by the Commodity 
Credit Corporation on quota peanuts placed 
under loan in the area, in such manner as the 
Secretary shall by regulation prescribe. 
(C) QUOTA LOAN POOLS.— 
(i) TRANSFERS FROM ADDITIONAL LOAN 
POOLS.—The proceeds due any producer from 
any pool shall be reduced by the amount of 
any loss that is incurred with respect to peanuts 
transferred from an additional loan pool 
to a quota loan pool by the producer under 
section 358–1(b)(9) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b)(9)). 
(ii) USE OF MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall use funds collected under 
paragraph (7) to offset further losses in area 
quota pools. At the end of each year, the 
Secretary shall transfer to the Treasury the 
funds collected under paragraph (7) that the 
Secretary determines are not required to 
cover losses in area quota pools. 

(iii) CROSS COMPLIANCE.—Further losses in 
area quota pools, other than losses incurred 
as a result of transfers from additional loan 
pools to quota loan pools under section 358– 
1(b)(9) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938, shall be offset by any gains or profits 
from pools in other production areas (other 
than separate type pools established under 
paragraph (3)(B)(i) for Valencia peanuts produced 
in New Mexico) in such manner as the 
Secretary shall by regulation prescribe. 
(iv) INCREASED ASSESSMENTS.—If actions 
taken under clauses (i) through (iii) are not 
sufficient to cover losses in area pools, the 
Secretary shall increase the marketing assessment 
established under paragraph (7) by 
such amount as the Secretary considers necessary 
to cover the losses. Amounts collected 
under paragraph (7) as a result of the increased 
assessment shall be retained by the 
Secretary to cover losses in the pool. 
(5) DISAPPROVAL OF QUOTAS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, no price 
support may be made available by the Secretary 
for any crop of peanuts with respect 
to which poundage quotas have been disapproved 
by producers, as provided for in 
section 358–1(d) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938. 
(6) QUALITY IMPROVEMENT.— 
(A) PRICE SUPPORT PEANUTS.—With respect 
to peanuts under price support loan, the Secretary 
shall— 
(i) promote the crushing of peanuts at a 
greater risk of deterioration before peanuts 
of a lesser risk of deterioration; 
(ii) ensure that all Commodity Credit Corporation 
loan stocks of peanuts sold for domestic 
edible use must be shown to have 
been officially inspected by licensed Department 
of Agriculture inspectors both as farmer 
stock and shelled or cleaned in-shell peanuts; 
(iii) continue to endeavor to operate the 
peanut price support program so as to improve 
the quality of domestic peanuts and 
ensure the coordination of activities under 
the Peanut Administrative Committee established 
under Marketing Agreement No. 
146, regulating the quality of domestically 
produced peanuts (under the Agricultural 
Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
601 et seq.)); and 
(iv) ensure that any changes made in the 
price support program as a result of this subsection 
requiring additional production or 
handling at the farm level shall be reflected 
as an upward adjustment in the Department 
of Agriculture loan schedule. 
(B) EXPORTS AND OTHER PEANUTS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall require 
that all peanuts, including peanuts imported 
into the United States, meet all 
United States quality standards under Marketing 
Agreement No. 146, regulating the 
quality of domestically produced peanuts 
(under the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted with amendments 
by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement 
Act of 1937), and that importers of the 
peanuts fully comply with inspection, handling, 
storage, and processing requirements 
implemented under Marketing Agreement 
No. 146. 
(ii) EXPORTED PEANUTS.—The Secretary 
shall ensure that peanuts produced for the 
export market meet quality, inspection, handling, 
storage, and processing requirements 
under Marketing Agreement No. 146. 
(7) MARKETING ASSESSMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide, 
by regulation, for a nonrefundable marketing 
assessment equal to 1.2 percent of the 
national average quota or additional peanut 
support rate per pound, as applicable, on all 
peanuts sold in the United States during 

S834 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

each of the 1996 through 2002 marketing 
years. 

(B) TREATMENT OF IMPORTED PEANUTS.—For 
the purposes of determining the applicable 
assessment rate under this section, imported 
peanuts shall be treated as additional peanuts. 
(C) FIRST PURCHASERS.— 
(i) DEFINITION OF FIRST PURCHASER.—In this 
clause, the term ‘first purchaser’ means a 
person acquiring peanuts from a producer, or 
a person that imports peanuts, except that 
in the case of peanuts forfeited by a producer 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation, the 
term means the person acquiring the peanuts 
from the Commodity Credit Corporation. 
(ii) ADMINISTRATION.—Except as provided 
in clause (iii) and subparagraphs (D) and (E), 
the first purchaser shall— 
(I) collect from the producer a marketing 
assessment equal to the quantity of peanuts 
acquired multiplied by .6 percent of the applicable 
national average support rate; 
(II) pay, in addition to the amount collected 
under subclause (I), a marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to the quantity 
of peanuts acquired multiplied by .6 percent 
of the applicable national average support 
rate; and 
(III) remit the amounts required under subclauses 
(I) and (II) to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation in a manner specified by the 
Secretary. 
(iii) IMPORTED PEANUTS.—In the case of imported 
peanuts, the first purchaser shall pay 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation, in a 
manner specified by the Secretary, a marketing 
assessment in an amount equal to the 
quantity of peanuts acquired multiplied by 
1.2 percent of the national average support 
rate for additional peanuts. 
(D) OTHER PRIVATE MARKETINGS.—In the 
case of a private marketing by a producer directly 
to a consumer through a retail or 
wholesale outlet or in the case of a marketing 
by the producer outside of the continental 
United States, the producer shall be 
responsible for the full amount of the assessment 
and shall remit the assessment by such 
time as is specified by the Secretary. 
(E) LOAN PEANUTS.—In the case of peanuts 
that are pledged as collateral for a price support 
loan made under this section, 1/2 of the 
assessment shall be deducted from the proceeds 
of the loan. The remainder of the assessment 
shall be paid by the first purchaser 
of the peanuts. For purposes of computing 
net gains on peanuts under this section, the 
reduction in loan proceeds shall be treated as 
having been paid to the producer. 
(F) PENALTIES.—If any person fails to collect 
or remit the reduction required by this 
subsection or fails to comply with such requirements 
for recordkeeping or otherwise as 
are required by the Secretary to carry out 
this subsection, the person shall be liable to 
the Secretary for a civil penalty up to an 
amount determined by multiplying— 
(i) the quantity of peanuts involved in the 
violation; by 
(ii) the national average quota peanut 
price support level for the applicable crop 
year. 
(G) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may enforce 
this subsection in the courts of the 
United States. 
(H) USE OF FUNDS.—Funds collected under 
this subsection shall be used by the Secretary 
to offset the costs of operating the 
peanut price support program. 
(8) CROPS.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(7) and notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, this section shall be effective 
only for the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts. 
(c) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.— 
(1) REPORTS AND RECORDS.—Effective only 
for the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts, 
the first sentence of section 373(a) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1373(a)) is amended by inserting before ‘‘all 
brokers and dealers in peanuts’’ the following: 
‘‘all producers engaged in the production 
of peanuts,’’. 

(2) SUSPENSION OF PERMANENT PROGRAM.— 
The following provisions of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 shall not be applicable 
to the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts: 
(A) Subsections (a) through (j) of section 
358 (7 U.S.C. 1358). 
(B) Subsections (a) through (h) of section 
358a (7 U.S.C. 1358a). 
(C) Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of section 
359 (7 U.S.C. 1359). 
(D) Part I of subtitle C of title III (7 U.S.C. 
1361 et seq.). 
(E) Section 371 (7 U.S.C. 1371). 

(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The first paragraph 
of section 32 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to 
amend the Agricultural Adjustment Act, and 
for other purposes’’, approved August 24, 1935 
(7 U.S.C. 612c), is amended— 
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘30 
per centum’’ and inserting ‘‘30 percent (or, in 
the case of duties collected with respect to 
an import that is subject to a tariff-rate 
quota, 100 percent)’’; and 
(B) in the second sentence— 
(i) by striking ‘‘and (3)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(3)’’; and 
(ii) by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ‘‘; and (4) offset the costs 
of operating a program to provide price support 
for domestically produced peanuts’’. 
(d) PEANUT STANDARDS.— 
(1) INSPECTION; QUALITY ASSURANCE.— 
(A) INITIAL ENTRY.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
(referred to in this title as the ‘‘Secretary’’) 
shall require all peanuts and peanut 
products sold in the United States to be initially 
placed in a bonded, licensed warehouse 
approved by the Secretary for the purpose of 
inspection and grading by the Secretary, the 
Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, 
and the heads of other appropriate 
agencies of the United States. 
(B) PRELIMINARY INSPECTION.—Peanuts and 
peanut products shall be held in the warehouse 
until inspected by the Secretary, the 
Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, 
or the head of another appropriate 
agency of the United States, for chemical 
residues, general cleanliness, disease, size, 
aflatoxin, stripe virus, and other harmful 
conditions, and an assurance of compliance 
with all grade and quality standards specified 
under Marketing Agreement No. 146, 
regulating the quality of domestically produced 
peanuts (under the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted 
with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937). 
(C) SEPARATION OF LOTS.—All imported 
peanuts shall be maintained separately from, 
and shall not be commingled with, domestically 
produced peanuts in the warehouse. 
(D) ORIGIN OF PEANUT PRODUCTS.— 
(i) LABELING.—A peanut product shall be 
labeled with a label that indicates the origin 
of the peanuts contained in the product. 
(ii) SOURCE.—No peanut product may contain 
both imported and domestically produced 
peanuts. 
(iii) IMPORTED PEANUT PRODUCTS.—The first 
seller of an imported peanut product shall 
certify that the product is made from raw 
peanuts that meet the same quality and 
grade standards that apply to domestically 
produced peanuts. 
(E) DOCUMENTATION.—No peanuts or peanut 
products may be transferred, shipped, or otherwise 
released from a warehouse described 
in subparagraph (A) unless accompanied by a 
United States Government inspection certificate 
that certifies compliance with this 
section. 
(2) HANDLING AND STORAGE.— 
(A) TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY.—The Secretary 
shall require all shelled peanuts sold 
in the United States to be maintained at a 
temperature of not more than 37 degrees 
Fahrenheit and a humidity range of 60 to 68 
percent at all times during handling and 
storage prior to sale and shipment. 
(B) CONTAINERS.—The peanuts shall be 
shipped in a container that provides the 
maximum practicable protection against 
moisture and insect infestation. 
(C) IN-SHELL PEANUTS.—The Secretary 
shall require that all in-shell peanuts be reduced 
to a moisture level not exceeding 10 
percent immediately on being harvested and 
be stored in a facility that will ensure quality 
maintenance and will provide proper ventilation 
at all times prior to sale and shipment. 
(3) LABELING.—The Secretary shall require 
that all peanuts and peanut products sold in 
the United States contain labeling that lists 
the country or countries in which the peanuts, 
including all peanuts used to manufacture 
the peanut products, were produced. 
(4) INSPECTION AND TESTING.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—All peanuts and peanut 
products sold in the United States shall be 
inspected and tested for grade and quality. 
(B) CERTIFICATION.—All peanuts or peanut 
products offered for sale in, or imported into, 
the United States shall be accompanied by a 
certification by the first seller or importer 
that the peanuts or peanut products do not 
contain residues of any pesticide not approved 
for use in, or importation into, the 
United States. 
(5) NUTRITIONAL LABELING.—The Secretary 
shall require all peanuts and peanut products 
sold in the United States to contain complete 
nutritional labeling information as required 
under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 et seq.). 
(6) PEANUT CONTENT.— 
(A) OFFSET AGAINST HTS QUANTITY.—The 
actual quantity of peanuts, by weight, used 
to manufacture, and ultimately contained 
in, peanut products imported into the United 
States shall be accounted for and offset 
against the total quantity of peanut imports 
allowed under the in-quota quantity of the 
tariff-rate quota established for peanuts 
under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the 
United States. 
(B) VERIFICATION.—The Secretary shall establish 
standards and procedures for the purpose 
of verifying the actual peanut content 
of peanut products imported into the United 
States. 
(7) PLANT DISEASES.—The Secretary, in 
consultation with the heads of other appropriate 
agencies of the United States, shall 
ensure that all peanuts in the domestic edible 
market are inspected and tested to ensure 
that they are free of all plant diseases. 
(8) ADMINISTRATION.— 
(A) FEES.—The Secretary shall by regulation 
fix and collect fees and charges to cover 
the costs of any inspection or testing performed 
under this title. 
(B) CERTIFICATION.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may require 
the first seller of peanuts sold in the 
United States to certify that the peanuts 
comply with this title. 
(ii) FRAUD AND FALSE STATEMENTS.—Section 
1001 of title 18, United States Code, shall 
apply to a certification made under this 
title. 
(C) STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.—In consultation 
with the heads of other appropriate 
agencies of the United States, the Secretary 
shall establish standards and procedures to 
provide for the enforcement of, and ensure 
compliance with, this title. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S835 

(D) FAILURE TO MEET STANDARDS.—Peanuts 
or peanut products that fail to meet standards 
established under this title shall be returned 
to the seller and exported or crushed 
pursuant to section 358e(d) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1359a(d)). 
(9) CHANGE OF VENUE.—In any case in which 
an area pool or a marketing association 
brings, joins, or seeks to join a civil action 
in a United States district court to enforce 
this title, the district court may not transfer 
the action to any other district or division 
over the objection of the pool or marketing 
association. 
KERREY AMENDMENT NO. 3273 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. KERREY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
On page 5–5, between lines 13 and 14, insert 
the following: 
‘‘(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF RISK 
MANAGEMENT.— 

(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Department of 
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 is 
amended by inserting after section 226 (7 
U.S.C. 6932) the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 226A. OFFICE OF RISK MANAGEMENT. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain in the Department an 
independent Office of Risk Management. 

or 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Nothing in this Act 
shall change the status of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Corporation, an agency created 
under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 

U.S.C. 1503), as an agency within the Department. 
The administration of the agency 
shall be carried out by an independent Office 
of Risk Management that is separate and 
independent of the Consolidated Farm Services 
Agency and of equal or higher ranking 
than that agency within the Department. 
‘‘(b) FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICE OF RISK 
MANAGEMENT.—The Office of Risk Management 
shall have jurisdiction over the following 
functions: 

‘‘(1) Supervision of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Corporation. 

‘‘(2) Administration and oversight of all aspects, 
including delivery through local offices 
of the Department, of all programs authorized 
under the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.). 

‘‘(3) Any pilot or other program involving 
revenue insurance, risk management savings 
accounts, or the use of the futures market to 
manage risk and support farm income that 
may be established under the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act or other law. 

‘‘(4) Such other functions as the Secretary 
considers appropriate. 

‘‘(c) MANAGER.—The Manager of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Corporation shall serve 
as head of the Office of Risk Management 
but not in any other capacity. 

‘‘(d) RESOURCES.— 

‘‘(1) FUNCTIONAL COORDINATION.—Certain 
functions of the Office of Risk Management 
such as human resources, public affairs, and 
legislative affairs may be provided by a consolidation 
of such functions under the Under 
Secretary of Agriculture responsible for crop 
insurance program. 

‘‘(2) MINIMUM PROVISIONS.—Notwithstanding 
paragraph (1) or any other provision 
of law or order of the Secretary, the 
Secretary shall provide the Office of Risk 
Management with human and capital resources 
sufficient for it to carry out its functions 
in a timely and efficient manner. 

‘‘(3) FISCAL YEAR 1996 FUNDING.—Not less 
than $88,500,000 of the appropriation provided 
for the salaries and expenses of the Consolidated 
Farm Services Agency in the Agricultural, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1996 shall be provided to 
the Office of Risk Management for the salaries 
and expenses of the Office.’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
226(b) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 6932(b)) is amended 
by striking paragraph (2). 
HARKIN AMENDMENT NO. 3274 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HARKIN submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SECTION . NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENTS 
UNDER THE FOOD STAMP PROGRAM. 

Section 3(g)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 2012(g)(1)) is amended by striking 
‘‘or food product’’ and inserting ‘‘, food 
product, or nutritional supplement of a vitamin, 
mineral, or a vitamin and a mineral’’. 

KERRY AMENDMENTS NOS. 3275– 
3276 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KERRY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3275 
On page 2–2, strike lines 7 through 9, and 
insert in lieu the following: 
‘‘(2) by striking ‘‘through 1997,’’ and inserting 
‘‘through 1995, and not more than $25,000 
each for fiscal years 1996 and 1997, and notwithstanding 
any other provision of law or 
this Act, $75,000,000 shall be placed in a separate 
fund in each of fiscal years 1996 and 1997 
which fund is to be administered by the Secretary 
of Agriculture, and from which fund 
the Secretary is authorized to make grants 
to the states and to non-profit organizations 
for the purpose of alleviating the hunger of 
women, infants, and children which exceeds 
the ability of government programs to alleviate 
because of funding limitations imposed 
by this Act or any other law on the 
federal programs intended to accomplish 
that objective,’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3276 
On page 2–2, strike lines 7 through 9, and 
insert in lieu the following: 
‘‘(2) by striking ‘‘through 1997,’’ and inserting 
‘‘through 1995, and not more than $25,000 
each for fiscal years 1996 and 1997,’’. 

HATCH AMENDMENT NO. 3277 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HATCH submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the end of title IV, insert the following: 

SEC. 406. NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENTS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) the dietary patterns of Americans do 
not result in nutrient intakes that fully 
meet Recommended Dietary Allowances 
(RDAs) of vitamins and minerals; 
(2) children in low-income families and the 
elderly often fail to achieve adequate nutrient 
intakes from diet alone; 
(3) pregnant women have particularly high 
nutrient needs, which they often fail to meet 
through dietary means alone; 
(4)(A) many scientific studies have shown 
that nutritional supplements that contain 
folic acid (a B vitamin) can prevent as many 
as 60 to 80 percent of neural tube birth defects; 


(B) the Public Health Service, in September 
1992, recommended that all women of 
childbearing age in the United States who 
are capable of becoming pregnant should 
consume 0.4 mg of folic acid per day for the 
purpose of reducing their risk of having a 
pregnancy affected with spina bifida or other 
neural tube birth defects; and 
(C) the Food and Drug Administration has 
also approved a health claim for folic acid to 
reduce the risk of neural tube birth defects; 
(5) infants who fail to receive adequate intakes 
of iron may be somewhat impaired in 
their mental and behavioral development; 
and 
(6) a massive volume of credible scientific 
evidence strongly suggests that increasing 
intake of specific nutrients over an extended 
period of time may be helpful in protecting 
against diseases or conditions such as 
osteoporosis, cataracts, cancer, and heart 
disease. 
(b) AMENDMENT OF THE FOOD STAMP ACT OF 
1977.—Section 3(g)(1) of the Food Stamp Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2012(g)(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘or food product’’ and inserting ‘‘, 
food product, or nutritional supplement of a 
vitamin, mineral, or a vitamin and a mineral’’. 
HEFLIN AMENDMENT NO. 3278 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. HEFLIN submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
Strike section 106 and insert the following: 

SEC. 106. PEANUT PROGRAM. 

(a) MARKETING QUOTAS.— 
(1) NATIONAL POUNDAGE QUOTAS AND ACREAGE 
ALLOTMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The section heading of 
section 358–1 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1991 THROUGH 1997 CROPS OF’’. 
(B) NATIONAL POUNDAGE QUOTAS.— 
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 358–1(a)(1) of 
the Act is amended— 
(I) in the first sentence— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; 

(bb) by striking ‘‘, seed,’’; and 

(cc) by striking the period at the end and 
inserting ‘‘, excluding seed. In making estimates 
under this paragraph for a marketing 
year, the Secretary shall annually estimate 
and take into account the quantity of peanuts 
and peanut products to be imported 
into the United States for the marketing 
year.’’; and 
(II) by striking the second sentence. 
(ii) APPORTIONMENT.—Section 358–1(a)(3) of 
the Act is amended by striking ‘‘1990’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1995’’. 
(C) FARM POUNDAGE QUOTA.— 
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 358–1(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act is amended— 

(I) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; and 
(II) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘1990’’ and inserting 
‘‘1995’’. 
(ii) QUANTITY.—Section 358–1(b)(1)(B) of the 
Act is amended— 
(I) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; and 

S836 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(II) by striking ‘‘including—’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘(ii) any’’ and inserting ‘‘including 
any’’. 
(iii) ADJUSTMENTS.—Section 358–1(b)(2) of 
the Act is amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘(B) and subject to subparagraph 
(D)’’ and inserting ‘‘(C)’’; and 
(bb) by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; 

(II) by striking subparagraph (B); 
(III) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) 
and (D) as subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; 
and 
(IV) in subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated), 
by striking ‘‘of the 1991 through 1997 
marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’. 
(iv) QUOTA NOT PRODUCED.—Section 358– 
1(b)(3) of the Act is amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘of the 
1991 through 1997 marketing years’’ and inserting 
‘‘marketing year’’; and 
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘include—’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘(ii) 
any’’ and inserting ‘‘include any’’. 
(v) QUOTA CONSIDERED PRODUCED.—Section 
358–1(b)(4) of the Act is amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or’’ 
after the semicolon at the end; and 
(II) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) the farm poundage quota for the farm 
was— 
‘‘(i) released voluntarily under paragraph 
(7); or 
‘‘(ii) leased to another owner or operator of 
a farm within the same county for transfer 
to the farm; 
for only 1 of the 3 marketing years immediately 
preceding the marketing year for 
which the determination is being made.’’. 

(vi) ALLOCATION OF QUOTAS REDUCED OR RELEASED.—
Section 358–1(b)(6) of the Act is 
amended— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘subparagraphs 
(B) and (C), the total quantity of 
the’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (B),’’; 
(II) in subparagraph (B)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘Not more than 25 percent 
of the’’ and inserting ‘‘The’’; and 
(bb) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Any farm quota pounds remaining after allocation 
to farms under this subparagraph 
shall be allocated under subparagraph (A).’’; 
and 

(III) by striking subparagraph (C). 
(vii) TEMPORARY QUOTA ALLOCATION FOR 
SEED.—Section 358–1(b) of the Act is amended 
by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(8) TEMPORARY QUOTA ALLOCATION FOR 
SEED.—For each marketing year and pursuant 
to regulation, the Secretary shall make 
a temporary allocation of poundage quota, 
for that marketing year only, to each producer 
of peanuts on a farm, in addition to 
any farm poundage quota established under 
paragraph (1), in a quantity equal to the 
pounds of seed peanuts planted by the producer 
on the farm.’’. 

(viii) TRANSFER OF ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
Section 358–1(b) of the Act is amended by 
striking paragraph (9) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(9) TRANSFER OF ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), additional peanuts on a 
farm from which the quota poundage was not 
harvested and marketed may be transferred 
to the quota loan pool for pricing purposes 
on such basis as the Secretary shall provide 
by regulation. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS.—The poundage of peanuts 
transferred under subparagraph (A) 
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total farm 

poundage quota, excluding pounds transferred 
in the fall. 

‘‘(C) SUPPORT RATE.—Peanuts transferred 
under this paragraph shall be supported at a 
rate of not less than 70 percent of the quota 
support rate for the marketing years during 
which the transfers occur.’’. 

(D) CROPS.—Section 358–1(f) of the Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1997’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 
(2) SALE, LEASE, OR TRANSFER OF FARM 
POUNDAGE QUOTA.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The section heading of 
section 358b of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358b) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1991 THROUGH 1995 CROPS OF’’. 
(B) SALE, LEASE, OR TRANSFER OF FARM 
POUNDAGE QUOTA.—Section 358b(a) of the Act 
is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(including any applicable 
under marketings)’’ each place it appears; 
(ii) in paragraph (1)— 
(I) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) as subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; 
(II) by inserting before subparagraph (B) 
(as so redesignated) the following: 
‘‘(A) with the owner or operator of another 
farm located within the same county or located 
in a different county within the same 
State;’’; 

(III) in subparagraph (B) (as so redesignated), 
by striking ‘‘undermarketings and’’; 
and 
(IV) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Fall transfers of quota pounds shall not affect 
the farm quota history for the transferring 
or receiving farm and shall not result in 
a reduction of the farm poundage quota on 
the transferring farm.’’; 
(iii) in paragraph (2)— 
(I) in the first sentence— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘county or in a county 
contiguous to the county in the same’’; and 
(bb) by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ‘‘, if both the transferring 
and the receiving farms were under the control 
of the owner or operator for at least 3 
crop years prior to the crop year in which 
the farm poundage quota is transferred’’; and 

(II) in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘the transferred quota is produced or considered 
produced on the receiving farm’’ and inserting 
‘‘sufficient acreage is planted on the 
receiving farm to produce the quota pounds 
transferred’’; and 
(iv) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) TRANSFERS BY SALE IN STATES WITH 
LARGE QUOTAS.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a State 
for which the poundage quota allocated to 
the State was 10,000 tons or greater for the 
previous year, the owner, or operator with 
permission of the owner, of a farm located in 
the State for which a farm poundage quota 
has been established under section 358–1 may 
sell all or any part of the farm poundage 
quota to any other eligible owner or operator 
of a farm within the same State. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS.— 

‘‘(i) 1996.—During calendar year 1996, not 
more than 15 percent of the total poundage 
quota within a county as of January 1, 1996, 
may be sold and transferred outside the 
county under this paragraph. 

‘‘(ii) SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—During calendar 
year 1997 and each subsequent calendar year, 
not more than 5 percent of the total poundage 
quota within a county as of January 1 of 
the calendar year may be sold and transferred 
outside the county under this paragraph. 


‘‘(iii) AGGREGATE LIMIT.—Not more than an 
aggregate of 30 percent of the total poundage 
quota within a county may be sold and 
transferred outside the county under this 
paragraph. 

‘‘(C) SUBSEQUENT LEASE OR SALE.—Quota 
poundage sold and transferred under this 
paragraph may not be leased or sold to another 
farm owner or operator within the 
same State for a period of 5 years following 
the original transfer to the farm.’’. 

(C) RECORD.—Section 358b(b)(3) of the Act 
is amended by striking ‘‘committee of the 
county to which the transfer is made and the 
committee determines’’ and inserting ‘‘committees 
of the counties from and to which 
the transfer is made and the committees determine’’. 
(D) CROPS.—Section 358b(c) of the Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 
(3) EXPERIMENTAL AND RESEARCH PROGRAMS.—
Section 358c(d) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358c(d)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1991 through 1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘1996 through 2002’’. 
(4) MARKETING PENALTIES.—Section 358e of 
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
U.S.C. 1359a) is amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1991 THROUGH 1997 CROPS OF’’; 
(B) in subsection (d)(6)(A), by inserting 
after ‘‘If any additional peanuts’’ the following: 
‘‘or peanut products made from additional 
peanuts’’; and 
(C) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘1991 
through 1997’’ and inserting ‘‘1996 through 
2002’’. 
(b) PRICE SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR PEANUTS.— 
(1) QUOTA PEANUTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
price support available to producers through 
loans, purchases, and other operations on 
quota peanuts. 
(B) SUPPORT RATES.—The national average 
quota support rate for each crop of quota 
peanuts shall be the national average quota 
support rate for the immediately preceding 
crop, adjusted to reflect any increase, during 
the calendar year immediately preceding the 
marketing year for the crop for which a level 
of support is being determined, in the national 
average cost of peanut production, excluding 
any change in the cost of land and 
the cost of any assessments required under 
paragraph (7), except that in no event shall 
the national average quota support rate for 
any such crop be increased, or decreased, by 
more than 5 percent of the national average 
quota support rate for the preceding crop. 
(C) INSPECTION, HANDLING, OR STORAGE.— 
The levels of support so announced shall not 
be reduced by any deductions for inspection, 
handling, or storage. 
(D) LOCATION AND OTHER FACTORS.—The 
Secretary may make adjustments for location 
of peanuts and such other factors as are 
authorized by section 411 of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938. 
(E) ANNOUNCEMENT.—The Secretary shall 
announce the level of support for quota peanuts 
of each crop not later than February 15 
preceding the marketing year for the crop 
for which the level of support is being determined. 
(2) ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
price support available to producers through 
loans, purchases, or other operations on additional 
peanuts at such levels as the Secretary 
finds appropriate, taking into consideration 
the demand for peanut oil and peanut 
meal, expected prices of other vegetable 
oils and protein meals, and the demand for 
peanuts in foreign markets, except that the 
Secretary shall set the support rate on additional 
peanuts at a level estimated by the 
Secretary to ensure that there are no losses 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation on the 
sale or disposal of the peanuts. 
(B) ANNOUNCEMENT.—The Secretary shall 
announce the level of support for additional 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S837 

peanuts of each crop not later than February 
15 preceding the marketing year for the crop 
for which the level of support is being determined. 


(3) AREA MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS.— 
(A) WAREHOUSE STORAGE LOANS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out subsections 
(a) and (b), the Secretary shall 
make warehouse storage loans available in 
each of the three producing areas (described 
in section 1446.95 of title 7 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations (January 1, 1989)) to a designated 
area marketing association of peanut 
producers that is selected and approved 
by the Secretary and that is operated primarily 
for the purpose of conducting the 
loan activities. The Secretary may not make 
warehouse storage loans available to any cooperative 
that is engaged in operations or 
activities concerning peanuts other than 
those operations and activities specified in 
this section and sections 358d and 358e of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938. 
(ii) ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPERVISORY AC-
TIVITIES.—The area marketing associations 
shall be used in administrative and supervisory 
activities relating to price support 
and marketing activities under this section 
and sections 358d and 358e of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938. 
(iii) ASSOCIATION COSTS.—Loans made to 
the association under this paragraph shall 
include, in addition to the price support 
value of the peanuts, such costs as the area 
marketing association reasonably may incur 
in carrying out its responsibilities, operations, 
and activities under this section and 
sections 358d and 358e of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938. 
(B) POOLS FOR QUOTA AND ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall require 
that each area marketing association 
establish pools and maintain complete and 
accurate records by area and segregation for 
quota peanuts handled under loan and for additional 
peanuts placed under loan, except 
that separate pools shall be established for 
Valencia peanuts produced in New Mexico. 
Peanuts physically produced outside the 
State of New Mexico shall not be eligible for 
entry into or participation in the New Mexico 
pools. Bright hull and dark hull Valencia 
peanuts shall be considered as separate types 
for the purpose of establishing the pools. 
(ii) NET GAINS.—Net gains on peanuts in 
each pool, unless otherwise approved by the 
Secretary, shall be distributed only to producers 
who placed peanuts in the pool and 
shall be distributed in proportion to the 
value of the peanuts placed in the pool by 
each producer. Net gains for peanuts in each 
pool shall consist of the following: 
(I) QUOTA PEANUTS.—For quota peanuts, 
the net gains over and above the loan indebtedness 
and other costs or losses incurred on 
peanuts placed in the pool plus an amount 
from all additional pool gains equal to any 
loss on disposition of all peanuts in the pool 
for quota peanuts. 
(II) ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.—For additional 
peanuts, the net gains over and above the 
loan indebtedness and other costs or losses 
incurred on peanuts placed in the pool for 
additional peanuts less any amount allocated 
to offset any loss on the pool for quota 
peanuts as provided in subclause (I). 
(4) LOSSES.— 
(A) OTHER PRODUCERS IN SAME POOL.— 
Losses in an area quota pool shall be offset 
by reducing the gain of any producer in the 
pool by the amount of pool gains attributable 
to the same producer from the sale of 
additional peanuts for domestic and edible 
use or export. 
(B) QUOTA PEANUTS PLACED UNDER LOAN.— 
Net gains on additional peanuts within an 
area (other than net gains on additional peanuts 
in separate type pools established under 
paragraph (3)(B)(i) for Valencia peanuts produced 
in New Mexico) shall be first reduced 
to the extent of any loss by the Commodity 
Credit Corporation on quota peanuts placed 
under loan in the area, in such manner as the 
Secretary shall by regulation prescribe. 

(C) QUOTA LOAN POOLS.— 
(i) TRANSFERS FROM ADDITIONAL LOAN 
POOLS.—The proceeds due any producer from 
any pool shall be reduced by the amount of 
any loss that is incurred with respect to peanuts 
transferred from an additional loan pool 
to a quota loan pool by the producer under 
section 358–1(b)(9) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b)(9)). 
(ii) USE OF MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall use funds collected under 
paragraph (7) to offset further losses in area 
quota pools. At the end of each year, the 
Secretary shall transfer to the Treasury the 
funds collected under paragraph (7) that the 
Secretary determines are not required to 
cover losses in area quota pools. 
(iii) CROSS COMPLIANCE.—Further losses in 
area quota pools, other than losses incurred 
as a result of transfers from additional loan 
pools to quota loan pools under section 358– 
1(b)(9) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938, shall be offset by any gains or profits 
from pools in other production areas (other 
than separate type pools established under 
paragraph (3)(B)(i) for Valencia peanuts produced 
in New Mexico) in such manner as the 
Secretary shall by regulation prescribe. 
(iv) INCREASED ASSESSMENTS.—If actions 
taken under clauses (i) through (iii) are not 
sufficient to cover losses in area pools, the 
Secretary shall increase the marketing assessment 
established under paragraph (7) by 
such amount as the Secretary considers necessary 
to cover the losses. Amounts collected 
under paragraph (7) as a result of the increased 
assessment shall be retained by the 
Secretary to cover losses in the pool. 
(5) DISAPPROVAL OF QUOTAS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, no price 
support may be made available by the Secretary 
for any crop of peanuts with respect 
to which poundage quotas have been disapproved 
by producers, as provided for in 
section 358–1(d) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938. 
(6) QUALITY IMPROVEMENT.— 
(A) PRICE SUPPORT PEANUTS.—With respect 
to peanuts under price support loan, the Secretary 
shall— 
(i) promote the crushing of peanuts at a 
greater risk of deterioration before peanuts 
of a lesser risk of deterioration; 
(ii) ensure that all Commodity Credit Corporation 
loan stocks of peanuts sold for domestic 
edible use must be shown to have 
been officially inspected by licensed Department 
of Agriculture inspectors both as farmer 
stock and shelled or cleaned in-shell peanuts; 
(iii) continue to endeavor to operate the 
peanut price support program so as to improve 
the quality of domestic peanuts and 
ensure the coordination of activities under 
the Peanut Administrative Committee established 
under Marketing Agreement No. 
146, regulating the quality of domestically 
produced peanuts (under the Agricultural 
Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 
601 et seq.)); and 
(iv) ensure that any changes made in the 
price support program as a result of this subsection 
requiring additional production or 
handling at the farm level shall be reflected 
as an upward adjustment in the Department 
of Agriculture loan schedule. 
(B) EXPORTS AND OTHER PEANUTS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall require 
that all peanuts, including peanuts imported 
into the United States, meet all 
United States quality standards under Marketing 
Agreement No. 146, regulating the 
quality of domestically produced peanuts 
(under the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 

U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted with amendments 
by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement 
Act of 1937), and that importers of the 
peanuts fully comply with inspection, handling, 
storage, and processing requirements 
implemented under Marketing Agreement 
No. 146. 
(ii) EXPORTED PEANUTS.—The Secretary 
shall ensure that peanuts produced for the 
export market meet quality, inspection, handling, 
storage, and processing requirements 
under Marketing Agreement No. 146. 
(7) MARKETING ASSESSMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide, 
by regulation, for a nonrefundable marketing 
assessment equal to 1.2 percent of the 
national average quota or additional peanut 
support rate per pound, as applicable, on all 
peanuts sold in the United States during 
each of the 1996 through 2002 marketing 
years. 
(B) TREATMENT OF IMPORTED PEANUTS.—For 
the purposes of determining the applicable 
assessment rate under this section, imported 
peanuts shall be treated as additional peanuts. 
(C) FIRST PURCHASERS.— 
(i) DEFINITION OF FIRST PURCHASER.—In this 
clause, the term ‘first purchaser’ means a 
person acquiring peanuts from a producer, or 
a person that imports peanuts, except that 
in the case of peanuts forfeited by a producer 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation, the 
term means the person acquiring the peanuts 
from the Commodity Credit Corporation. 
(ii) ADMINISTRATION.—Except as provided 
in clause (iii) and subparagraphs (D) and (E), 
the first purchaser shall— 
(I) collect from the producer a marketing 
assessment equal to the quantity of peanuts 
acquired multiplied by .6 percent of the applicable 
national average support rate; 
(II) pay, in addition to the amount collected 
under subclause (I), a marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to the quantity 
of peanuts acquired multiplied by .6 percent 
of the applicable national average support 
rate; and 
(III) remit the amounts required under subclauses 
(I) and (II) to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation in a manner specified by the 
Secretary. 
(iii) IMPORTED PEANUTS.—In the case of imported 
peanuts, the first purchaser shall pay 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation, in a 
manner specified by the Secretary, a marketing 
assessment in an amount equal to the 
quantity of peanuts acquired multiplied by 
1.2 percent of the national average support 
rate for additional peanuts. 
(D) OTHER PRIVATE MARKETINGS.—In the 
case of a private marketing by a producer directly 
to a consumer through a retail or 
wholesale outlet or in the case of a marketing 
by the producer outside of the continental 
United States, the producer shall be 
responsible for the full amount of the assessment 
and shall remit the assessment by such 
time as is specified by the Secretary. 
(E) LOAN PEANUTS.—In the case of peanuts 
that are pledged as collateral for a price support 
loan made under this section, 1/2 of the 
assessment shall be deducted from the proceeds 
of the loan. The remainder of the assessment 
shall be paid by the first purchaser 
of the peanuts. For purposes of computing 
net gains on peanuts under this section, the 
reduction in loan proceeds shall be treated as 
having been paid to the producer. 
(F) PENALTIES.—If any person fails to collect 
or remit the reduction required by this 
subsection or fails to comply with such requirements 
for recordkeeping or otherwise as 
are required by the Secretary to carry out 
this subsection, the person shall be liable to 

S838 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the Secretary for a civil penalty up to an 
amount determined by multiplying— 

(i) the quantity of peanuts involved in the 
violation; by 
(ii) the national average quota peanut 
price support level for the applicable crop 
year. 
(G) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may enforce 
this subsection in the courts of the 
United States. 
(H) USE OF FUNDS.—Funds collected under 
this subsection shall be used by the Secretary 
to offset the costs of operating the 
peanut price support program. 
(8) CROPS.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(7) and notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, this section shall be effective 
only for the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts. 
(c) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.— 
(1) REPORTS AND RECORDS.—Effective only 
for the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts, 
the first sentence of section 373(a) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1373(a)) is amended by inserting before ‘‘all 
brokers and dealers in peanuts’’ the following: 
‘‘all producers engaged in the production 
of peanuts,’’. 
(2) SUSPENSION OF PERMANENT PROGRAM.— 
The following provisions of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 shall not be applicable 
to the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts: 
(A) Subsections (a) through (j) of section 
358 (7 U.S.C. 1358). 
(B) Subsections (a) through (h) of section 
358a (7 U.S.C. 1358a). 
(C) Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of section 
359 (7 U.S.C. 1359). 
(D) Part I of subtitle C of title III (7 U.S.C. 
1361 et seq.). 
(E) Section 371 (7 U.S.C. 1371). 

(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The first paragraph 
of section 32 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to 
amend the Agricultural Adjustment Act, and 
for other purposes’’, approved August 24, 1935 
(7 U.S.C. 612c), is amended— 
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘30 
per centum’’ and inserting ‘‘30 percent (or, in 
the case of duties collected with respect to 
an import that is subject to a tariff-rate 
quota, 100 percent)’’; and 
(B) in the second sentence— 
(i) by striking ‘‘and (3)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(3)’’; and 
(ii) by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ‘‘; and (4) offset the costs 
of operating a program to provide price support 
for domestically produced peanuts’’. 
(d) PEANUT STANDARDS.— 
(1) INSPECTION; QUALITY ASSURANCE.— 
(A) INITIAL ENTRY.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
(referred to in this title as the ‘‘Secretary’’) 
shall require all peanuts and peanut 
products sold in the United States to be initially 
placed in a bonded, licensed warehouse 
approved by the Secretary for the purpose of 
inspection and grading by the Secretary, the 
Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, 
and the heads of other appropriate 
agencies of the United States. 
(B) PRELIMINARY INSPECTION.—Peanuts and 
peanut products shall be held in the warehouse 
until inspected by the Secretary, the 
Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, 
or the head of another appropriate 
agency of the United States, for chemical 
residues, general cleanliness, disease, size, 
aflatoxin, stripe virus, and other harmful 
conditions, and an assurance of compliance 
with all grade and quality standards specified 
under Marketing Agreement No. 146, 
regulating the quality of domestically produced 
peanuts (under the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted 
with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937). 
(C) SEPARATION OF LOTS.—All imported 
peanuts shall be maintained separately from, 
and shall not be commingled with, domestically 
produced peanuts in the warehouse. 

(D) ORIGIN OF PEANUT PRODUCTS.— 
(i) LABELING.—A peanut product shall be 
labeled with a label that indicates the origin 
of the peanuts contained in the product. 
(ii) SOURCE.—No peanut product may contain 
both imported and domestically produced 
peanuts. 
(iii) IMPORTED PEANUT PRODUCTS.—The first 
seller of an imported peanut product shall 
certify that the product is made from raw 
peanuts that meet the same quality and 
grade standards that apply to domestically 
produced peanuts. 
(E) DOCUMENTATION.—No peanuts or peanut 
products may be transferred, shipped, or otherwise 
released from a warehouse described 
in subparagraph (A) unless accompanied by a 
United States Government inspection certificate 
that certifies compliance with this 
section. 
(2) HANDLING AND STORAGE.— 
(A) TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY.—The Secretary 
shall require all shelled peanuts sold 
in the United States to be maintained at a 
temperature of not more than 37 degrees 
Fahrenheit and a humidity range of 60 to 68 
percent at all times during handling and 
storage prior to sale and shipment. 
(B) CONTAINERS.—The peanuts shall be 
shipped in a container that provides the 
maximum practicable protection against 
moisture and insect infestation. 
(C) IN-SHELL PEANUTS.—The Secretary 
shall require that all in-shell peanuts be reduced 
to a moisture level not exceeding 10 
percent immediately on being harvested and 
be stored in a facility that will ensure quality 
maintenance and will provide proper ventilation 
at all times prior to sale and shipment. 
(3) LABELING.—The Secretary shall require 
that all peanuts and peanut products sold in 
the United States contain labeling that lists 
the country or countries in which the peanuts, 
including all peanuts used to manufacture 
the peanut products, were produced. 
(4) INSPECTION AND TESTING.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—All peanuts and peanut 
products sold in the United States shall be 
inspected and tested for grade and quality. 
(B) CERTIFICATION.—All peanuts or peanut 
products offered for sale in, or imported into, 
the United States shall be accompanied by a 
certification by the first seller or importer 
that the peanuts or peanut products do not 
contain residues of any pesticide not approved 
for use in, or importation into, the 
United States. 
(5) NUTRITIONAL LABELING.—The Secretary 
shall require all peanuts and peanut products 
sold in the United States to contain complete 
nutritional labeling information as required 
under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 et seq.). 
(6) PEANUT CONTENT.— 
(A) OFFSET AGAINST HTS QUANTITY.—The 
actual quantity of peanuts, by weight, used 
to manufacture, and ultimately contained 
in, peanut products imported into the United 
States shall be accounted for and offset 
against the total quantity of peanut imports 
allowed under the in-quota quantity of the 
tariff-rate quota established for peanuts 
under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the 
United States. 
(B) VERIFICATION.—The Secretary shall establish 
standards and procedures for the purpose 
of verifying the actual peanut content 
of peanut products imported into the United 
States. 
(7) PLANT DISEASES.—The Secretary, in 
consultation with the heads of other appropriate 
agencies of the United States, shall 
ensure that all peanuts in the domestic edible 
market are inspected and tested to ensure 
that they are free of all plant diseases. 
(8) ADMINISTRATION.— 
(A) FEES.—The Secretary shall by regulation 
fix and collect fees and charges to cover 
the costs of any inspection or testing performed 
under this title. 
(B) CERTIFICATION.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may require 
the first seller of peanuts sold in the 
United States to certify that the peanuts 
comply with this title. 
(ii) FRAUD AND FALSE STATEMENTS.—Section 
1001 of title 18, United States Code, shall 
apply to a certification made under this 
title. 
(C) STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.—In consultation 
with the heads of other appropriate 
agencies of the United States, the Secretary 
shall establish standards and procedures to 
provide for the enforcement of, and ensure 
compliance with, this title. 
(D) FAILURE TO MEET STANDARDS.—Peanuts 
or peanut products that fail to meet standards 
established under this title shall be returned 
to the seller and exported or crushed 
pursuant to section 358e(d) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1359a(d)). 
(9) CHANGE OF VENUE.—In any case in which 
an area pool or a marketing association 
brings, joins, or seeks to join a civil action 
in a United States district court to enforce 
this title, the district court may not transfer 
the action to any other district or division 
over the objection of the pool or marketing 
association. 
HARKIN AMENDMENT NO. 3279 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. HARKIN submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra, as follows: 
Strike all after the enacting clause 
and insert the following: 

SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Farm Security 
and Reform Act of 1996’’. 

Subtitle A—Commodity Programs 
SEC. 1101. WHEAT, FEED GRAIN, AND OILSEED 
PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.) is amended 
by adding the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 116. MARKETING LOANS AND LOAN DEFICIENCY 
PAYMENTS FOR 1996 
THROUGH 2002 CROPS OF WHEAT, 
FEED GRAINS, AND OILSEEDS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) COVERED COMMODITIES.—The term ‘covered 
commodities’ means wheat, feed grains, 
and oilseeds. 

‘‘(2) FEED GRAINS.—The term ‘feed grains’ 
means corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, 
millet, rye, or as designated by the Secretary, 
other feed grains. 

‘‘(3) OILSEEDS.—The term ‘oilseeds’ means 
soybeans, sunflower seed, rapeseed, canola, 
safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, or as designated 
by the Secretary, other oilseeds. 

‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENT ACCOUNT.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF PAYMENT BUSHEL OF PRO-
DUCTION.—In this subsection, the term ‘payment 
bushel of production’ means— 

‘‘(A) in the case of wheat, 7/10 of a bushel; 

‘‘(B) in the case of corn, a bushel; and 

‘‘(C) in the case of other feed grains, a 
quantity determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall 
establish an Adjustment Account (referred 
to in this subsection as the ‘Account’) for 
making— 

‘‘(A) payments to producers of the 1996 
through 2002 crops of covered commodities 
who participate in the marketing loan program 
established under subsection (c); and 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S839 

‘‘(B) payments to producers of the 1994 and 
1995 crops of covered commodities that are 
authorized, but not paid, under sections 105B 
and 107B prior to the date of enactment of 
this section. 

‘‘(3) AMOUNT IN ACCOUNT.—The Secretary 
shall transfer from funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation into the Account— 

‘‘(A) $4,500,000,000 for fiscal year 1996; and 

‘‘(B) $2,800,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1997 through 2002; 
to remain available until expended. 

‘‘(4) PAYMENTS.—The Secretary shall use 
funds in the Account to make payments to 
producers of wheat and feed grains in accordance 
with this subsection. 

‘‘(5) TIER 1 SUPPORT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The producers on a farm 
referred to in paragraph (2) shall be entitled 
to a payment computed by multiplying— 

‘‘(i) the payment quantity determined 
under subparagraph (B); by 

‘‘(ii) the payment factor determined under 
subparagraph (C). 

‘‘(B) PAYMENT QUANTITY.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), the 
payment quantity for payments under subparagraph 
(A) shall be determined by the 
Secretary based on— 

‘‘(I) 90 percent of the 5-year average of the 
quantity of wheat and feed grains produced 
on the farm; 

‘‘(II) an adjustment to reflect any disaster 
or other circumstance beyond the control of 
the producers that adversely affected production 
of wheat or feed grains, as determined 
by the Secretary; and 

‘‘(III) an adjustment for planting resource 
conservation crops on the crop acreage base 
for covered commodities, and adopting conserving 
uses, on the base not enrolled in the 
environmental reserve program provided in 
paragraph (6). 

‘‘(ii) LIMITATIONS.—The quantity determined 
under clause (i) for an individual, directly 
or indirectly, shall not exceed 22,000 
payment bushels of wheat or feed grains and 
may be adjusted by the Secretary to reflect 
the availability of funds. 

‘‘(C) PAYMENT FACTOR.— 

‘‘(i) WHEAT.—The payment factor for wheat 
under subparagraph (A) shall be equal to the 
difference between a price established by the 
Secretary, of not to exceed $4.00 per bushel, 
and the greater of— 

‘‘(I) the marketing loan rate for the crop of 
wheat; or 

‘‘(II) the average domestic price for wheat 
for the crop for the calendar year in which 
the crop is normally harvested. 

‘‘(ii) CORN.—The payment factor for corn 
under subparagraph (A) shall be equal to the 
difference between a price established by the 
Secretary, of not to exceed $2.75 per bushel, 
and the greater of— 

‘‘(I) the marketing loan rate for the crop of 
corn; or 

‘‘(II) the average domestic price for corn 
for the crop for the calendar year in which 
the crop is normally harvested; 

‘‘(iii) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The payment 
factor for other feed grains under subparagraph 
(A) shall be established by the Secretary 
at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the payment factor for corn. 

‘‘(D) ADVANCE PAYMENT.—The Secretary 
shall make available to producers on a farm 
50 percent of the projected payment under 
this subsection at the time the producers 
agree to participate in the program. 

‘‘(6) ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVE PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
enter into 1 to 5 year contracts with producers 
on a farm referred to in paragraph (2) 
for the purposes of enrolling flexible acreage 
base for conserving use purposes. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—Flexible acreage base 
enrolled in the environmental reserve program 
shall not be eligible for benefits provided 
in paragraph (5)(B). 

‘‘(c) MARKETING LOANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall 
make available to producers on a farm marketing 
loans for each of the 1996 through 2002 
crops of covered commodities produced on 
the farm. 

‘‘(2) ELIGIBILITY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible for a loan 
under this subsection, the producers on a 
farm may not plant covered commodities on 
the farm in excess of the flexible acreage 
base of the farm determined under section 
502. 

‘‘(B) AMOUNT.—The Secretary shall provide 
marketing loans for their normal production 
of covered commodities produced on a farm. 

‘‘(3) LOAN RATE.—Loans made under this 
subsection shall be made at the rate of 95 
percent of the average price for the commodity 
for the previous 5 crop years, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(4) REPAYMENT.— 

‘‘(A) CALCULATION.—Producers on a farm 
may repay loans made under this subsection 
for a crop at a level that is the lesser of— 

‘‘(i) the loan level determined for the crop; 
or 

‘‘(ii) the prevailing domestic market price 
for the commodity (adjusted to location and 
quality), as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) PREVAILING DOMESTIC MARKET PRICE.— 
The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation— 


‘‘(i) a formula to determine the prevailing 
domestic market price for each covered commodity; 
and 

‘‘(ii) a mechanism by which the Secretary 
shall announce periodically the prevailing 
domestic market prices established under 
this subsection. 

‘‘(d) LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may, for 
each of the 1996 through 2002 crops of covered 
commodities, make payments (referred to in 
this subsection as ‘loan deficiency payments’) 
available to producers who, although 
eligible to obtain a marketing loan under 
subsection (c), agree to forgo obtaining the 
loan in return for payments under this subsection. 


‘‘(2) COMPUTATION.—A payment under this 
subsection shall be computed by multiplying— 


‘‘(A) the loan payment rate; by 

‘‘(B) the quantity of a covered commodity 
the producer is eligible to place under loan 
but for which the producer forgoes obtaining 
the loan in return for payments under this 
subsection. 

‘‘(3) LOAN PAYMENT RATE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For the purposes of this 
subsection, the loan payment rate shall be 
the amount by which— 

‘‘(i) the marketing loan rate determined 
for the crop under subsection (c)(3); exceeds 

‘‘(ii) the level at which a loan may be repaid 
under subsection (c)(4). 

‘‘(B) DATE.—The date on which the calculation 
required under subparagraph (A) for the 
producers on a farm shall be determined by 
the producers, except that the date may not 
be later than the earlier of— 

‘‘(i) the date the producers lost beneficial 
interest in the crop; or 

‘‘(ii) the end of the marketing year for the 
crop. 

‘‘(4) APPLICATION.—Producers on a farm 
may apply for a payment for a covered commodity 
under this subsection at any time 
prior to the end of the marketing year for 
the commodity. 

‘‘(e) PROGRAM COST LIMITATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary determines 
that the costs of providing marketing 

loans and loan deficiency payments for covered 
commodities under this section will exceed 
an amount of $9,000,000,000 for the 1996 
through 2002 fiscal years, the Secretary shall 
carry out a program cost limitation program 
to ensure that the cost of providing marketing 
loans and loan deficiency payments 
do not exceed the amount. 

‘‘(2) TERMS.—If the Secretary determines 
that a program cost limitation program is 
required for a crop year, the Secretary shall 
carry out for the crop year— 

‘‘(A) a proportionate reduction in the number 
of bushels that a producer may directly 
or indirectly place under loan; 

‘‘(B) a limitation on the number of bushels 
the producers on a farm may directly or indirectly 
place under loan; 

‘‘(C) an acreage limitation program; or 

‘‘(D) any combination of actions described 
in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C). 

‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—The program cost limitation 
program may only be applied to a crop 
of a covered commodity for which the domestic 
price is projected, by the Secretary, 
to be less than the 5-year average price for 
the commodity. 

‘‘(4) ANNOUNCEMENTS.—If the Secretary 
elects to implement a program cost limitation 
program for any crop year, the Secretary 
shall make an announcement of the 
program not later than— 

‘‘(A) in the case of wheat, June 1 of the calendar 
year preceding the year in which the 
crop is harvested; and 

‘‘(B) in the case of feed grains and oilseeds, 
September 30 of the calendar year preceding 
the year in which the crop is harvested, and 

‘‘(f) EQUITABLE RELIEF.—If the failure of a 
producer to comply fully with the terms and 
conditions of programs conducted under this 
section precludes the making of loans and 
payments, the Secretary may, nevertheless, 
make the loans and payments in such 
amounts as the Secretary determines are equitable 
in relation to the seriousness of the 
failure. 

‘‘(g) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this section through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 

‘‘(h) ASSIGNMENT OF PAYMENTS.—The provisions 
of section 8(g) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(g)) (relating to assignment of payments) 
shall apply to payments under this section. 

‘‘(i) TENANTS AND SHARECROPPERS.—In carrying 
out this section, the Secretary shall 
provide adequate safeguards to protect the 
interest of tenants and sharecroppers. 

‘‘(j) CROPS.—This section shall be effective 
only for the 1996 through 2002 crops of a covered 
commodity.’’. 

(b) FLEXIBLE ACREAGE BASE.— 
(1) DEFINITIONS.—Section 502 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1462) is amended 
by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) FEED GRAINS.—The term ‘feed grains’ 
means corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, 
millet, rye, or as designated by the Secretary, 
other feed grains. 

‘‘(3) GO CROPS.—The term ‘GO crops’ means 
wheat, feed grains, and oilseeds. 

‘‘(4) OILSEEDS.—The term ‘oilseed’ means a 
crop of soybeans, sunflower seed, rapeseed, 
canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, or, 
if designated by the Secretary, other oilseeds. 


‘‘(5) PROGRAM CROP.—The term ‘program 
crop’ means a GO crop and a crop of upland 
cotton or rice.’’. 

(2) CROP ACREAGE BASES.—Section 503(a) of 
the Act (7 U.S.C. 1463(a)) is amended by 
striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.— 
‘‘(A) GO CROPS.—The Secretary shall provide 
for the establishment and maintenance 


S840 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

of a single crop acreage base for GO crops, 
including any GO crops produced under an 
established practice of double cropping. 

‘‘(B) COTTON AND RICE.—The Secretary 
shall provide for the establishment and 
maintenance of crop acreage bases for cotton 
and rice crops, including any program crop 
produced under an established practice of 
double cropping.’’. 
SEC. 1102. UPLAND COTTON PROGRAM. 

(a) EXTENSION.—Section 103B of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1444–2) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), and 
(o), by striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 

(3) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ‘‘1998’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(4) in the heading of subsection 
(c)(1)(D)(v)(II), by striking ‘‘1997’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; 
(5) in subsection (e)(1)(D), by striking ‘‘the 
1997 crop’’ and inserting ‘‘each of the 1997 
through 2002 crops’’; and 
(6) in subsections (e)(3)(A) and (f)(1), by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(b) INCREASE IN NONPAYMENT ACRES.—Section 
103B(c)(1)(C) of the Act is amended by 
striking ‘‘85 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘77.5 percent 
for each of the 1996 through 2002 crops’’. 
SEC. 1103. RICE PROGRAM. 

(a) EXTENSION.—Section 101B of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1441–2) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsections (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), 
(c)(1)(A), (c)(1)(B)(iii), (e)(3)(A), (f)(1), and (n), 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 

(3) in subsection (a)(5)(D)(i), by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’; and 
(4) in subsection (c)(1)— 
(A) in subparagraph (B)(ii)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘AND 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘THROUGH 2002’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘and 1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘through 2002’’; and 
(B) in subparagraph (D)— 
(i) in clauses (i) and (v)(II), by striking 
‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in the heading of clause (v)(II), by 
striking ‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) INCREASE IN NONPAYMENT ACRES.—Section 
101B(c)(1)(C)(ii) of the Act is amended by 
striking ‘‘85 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘77.5 percent 
for each of the 1998 through 2002 crops’’. 
SEC. 1104. PEANUT PROGRAM. 

(a) EXTENSION.— 
(1) AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.—Section 108B 
of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 
1445c–3) is amended— 
(A) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(B) in subsection (a)(1), (b)(1), and (h), by 
striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 
(C) in subsection (g)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘1997’’ in paragraphs (1) and 
(2)(A)(ii)(II) and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘the 1997 crop’’ each place 
it appears and inserting ‘‘each of the 1997 
through 2002 crops’’. 
(2) AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 
1938.—Part VI of subtitle B of title III of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 is 
amended— 
(A) in section 358–1 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in subsections (a)(1), (b), and (f), by 
striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; 
(B) in section 358b (7 U.S.C. 1358b)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(C) in section 358c(d) (7 U.S.C. 1358c(d)), by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(D) in section 358e (7 U.S.C. 1359a)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(ii) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘1997’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(b) SUPPORT RATES FOR PEANUTS.—Section 
108B(a)(2) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1445c–3(a)(2)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(2) SUPPORT RATES.—The’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(2) SUPPORT RATES.— 
‘‘(A) 1991–1995 CROPS.—The’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) 1996–2002 CROPS.—The national average 
quota support rate for each of the 1996 
through 2002 crops of quota peanuts shall be 
$678 per ton.’’. 

(c) UNDERMARKETINGS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 358–1(b) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1358–1(b)) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (7), by adding at the end 
the following:: 
‘‘(C) TRANSFER OF ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
Additional peanuts on a farm from which the 
quota poundage was not harvested or marketed 
may be transferred to the quota loan 
pool for pricing purposes at the quota price 
on such basis as the Secretary shall be regulation 
provide, except that the poundage of 
the peanuts so transferred shall not exceed 
the difference in the total quantity of peanuts 
meeting quality requirements for domestic 
edible use, as determined by the Secretary, 
marketed from the farm and the 
total farm poundage quota.’’; and 

(B) by striking paragraphs (8) and (9). 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
358b(a) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1358b(a)) is 
amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘undermarketings 
and’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘(including 
any applicable undermarketings)’’. 
SEC. 1105. DAIRY PROGRAM. 

(a) PRICE SUPPORT.—Section 204 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446e) is 
amended— 
(1) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in subsections (a), (b), (f), (g), and (k), 
by striking ‘‘1996’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(3) in subsection (h)(2)(C), by striking ‘‘and 
1997’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2002’’. 
(b) SUPPORT PRICE FOR BUTTER AND POWDERED 
MILK.—Section 204(c)(3) of the Act is 
amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Subject 
to subparagraph (B), the’’ and inserting 
‘‘The’’; 
(2) by striking subparagraph (B); and 
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
subparagraph (B). 
(c) SUPPORT RATE.—Section 204(d) of the 
Act is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraphs (1) through (3); 
and 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) 
as paragraphs (1) and (2) respectively. 
SEC. 1106. SUGAR PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 206 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446g) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 206. SUGAR SUPPORT FOR 1996 THROUGH 
2002 CROPS. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE.—The 
term ‘Agreement on Agriculture’ means the 
Agreement on Agriculture resulting from the 
Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. 


‘‘(2) MAJOR COUNTRY.—The term ‘major 
country’ includes— 

‘‘(A) a country that is allocated a share of 
the tariff rate quota for imported sugars and 

syrups by the United States Trade Representative 
pursuant to additional U.S. note 
5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule; 

‘‘(B) a country of the European Union; and 

‘‘(C) the People’s Republic of China. 

‘‘(3) MARKET.—The term ‘market’ means to 
sell or otherwise dispose of in commerce in 
the United States (including, with respect to 
any integrated processor and refiner, the 
movement of raw cane sugar into the refining 
process) and delivery to a buyer. 

‘‘(4) TOTAL ESTIMATED DISAPPEARANCE.— 
The term ‘total estimated disappearance’ 
means the quantity of sugar, as estimated by 
the Secretary, that will be consumed in the 
United States during a fiscal year (other 
than sugar imported for the production of 
polyhydric alcohol or to be refined and reexported 
in refined form or in a sugar-containing 
product), plus the quantity of sugar 
that would provide for adequate carryover 
stocks. 

‘‘(b) PRICE SUPPORT.—The price of each of 
the 1996 through 2002 crops of sugar beets and 
sugarcane shall be supported in accordance 
with this section. 

‘‘(c) SUGARCANE.—Subject to subsection 
(e), the Secretary shall support the price of 
domestically grown sugarcane through loans 
at a support level of 18 cents per pound for 
raw cane sugar. 

‘‘(d) SUGAR BEETS.—Subject to subsection 
(e), the Secretary shall support the price of 
each crop of domestically grown sugar beets 
through loans at the level provided for refined 
beet sugar produced from the 1995 crop 
of domestically grown sugar beets. 

‘‘(e) ADJUSTMENT IN SUPPORT LEVEL.— 

‘‘(1) DOWNWARD ADJUSTMENT IN SUPPORT 
LEVEL.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall decrease 
the support price of domestically 
grown sugarcane and sugar beets from the 
level determined for the preceding crop, as 
determined under this section, if the quantity 
of negotiated reductions in export and 
domestic subsidies of sugar that apply to the 
European Union and other major countries 
in the aggregate exceed the quantity of the 
reductions in the subsidies agreed to under 
the Agreement of Agriculture. 

‘‘(B) EXTENT OF REDUCTION.—The Secretary 
shall not reduce the level of price support 
under subparagraph (A) below a level that 
provides an equal measure of support to the 
level provided by the European Union or any 
other major country through domestic and 
export subsidies that are subject to reduction 
under the Agreement on Agriculture. 

‘‘(2) INCREASES IN SUPPORT LEVEL.—The 
Secretary may increase the support level for 
each crop of domestically grown sugarcane 
and sugar beets from the level determined 
for the preceding crop based on such factors 
as the Secretary determines appropriate, including 
changes (during the 2 crop years immediately 
preceding the crop year for which 
the determination is made) in the cost of 
sugar products, the cost of domestic sugar 
production, the amount of any applicable assessments, 
and other factors or circumstances 
that may adversely affect domestic 
sugar production. 

‘‘(f) LOAN TYPE; PROCESSOR ASSURANCES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
the Secretary shall carry out this section by 
making recourse loans to sugar producers. 

‘‘(2) MODIFICATION.—During any fiscal year 
in which the tariff rate quota for imports of 
sugar into the United States is established 
at, or is increased to, a level that exceeds the 
minimum level for the imports committed to 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S841 

by the United States under the Agreement 
on Agriculture, the Secretary shall carry out 
this section by making nonrecourse loans 
available to sugar producers. Any recourse 
loan previously made available by the Secretary 
and not repaid under this section during 
the fiscal year shall be converted into a 
nonrecourse loan. 

‘‘(3) PROCESSOR ASSURANCES.—To effectively 
support the prices of sugar beets and 
sugarcane received by a producer, the Secretary 
shall obtain from each processor that 
receives a loan under this section such assurances 
as the Secretary considers adequate 
that, if the Secretary is required under paragraph 
(2) to make nonrecourse loans available, 
or convert recourse loans into non-
recourse loans, each producer served by the 
processor will receive the appropriate minimum 
payment for sugar beets and sugarcane 
delivered by the producer, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(g) ANNOUNCEMENTS.—The Secretary shall 
announce the type of loans available and the 
loan rates for beet and cane sugar for any 
fiscal year under this section as far in advance 
as is practicable. 

‘‘(h) LOAN TERM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2) and subsection (i), a loan under 
this section during any fiscal year shall be 
made available not earlier than the beginning 
of the fiscal year and shall mature at 
the end of 3 months. 

‘‘(2) EXTENSION.—The maturity of a loan 
under this section may be extended for up to 
2 additional 3-month periods, at the option of 
the borrower, except that the maturity of a 
loan may not be extended under this paragraph 
beyond the end of the fiscal year. 

‘‘(i) SUPPLEMENTARY LOANS.—Subject to 
subsection (e), the Secretary shall make 
available to eligible processors price support 
loans with respect to sugar processed from 
sugar beets and sugarcane harvested in the 
last 3 months of a fiscal year. The loans shall 
mature at the end of the fiscal year. The 
processor may repledge the sugar as collateral 
for a price support loan in the subsequent 
fiscal year, except that the second 
loan shall— 

‘‘(1) be made at the loan rate in effect at 
the time the second loan is made; and 

‘‘(2) mature in not more than 9 months, 
less the quantity of time that the first loan 
was in effect. 

‘‘(j) USE OF COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—
The Secretary shall use the funds, facilities, 
and authorities of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation to carry out this section. 

‘‘(k) MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Assessments shall be collected 
in accordance with this subsection 
with respect to all sugar marketed within 
the United States during the 1996 through 
2002 fiscal years. 

‘‘(2) BEET SUGAR.—The first seller of beet 
sugar produced from domestic sugar beets or 
domestic sugar beet molasses shall remit to 
the Commodity Credit Corporation a nonrefundable 
marketing assessment in an 
amount equal to 1.1894 percent of the loan 
level established under subsection (d) per 
pound of sugar marketed. 

‘‘(3) CANE SUGAR.—The first seller of raw 
cane sugar produced from domestic sugarcane 
or domestic sugarcane molasses shall 
remit to the Commodity Credit Corporation 
a nonrefundable marketing assessment in an 
amount equal to 1.11 percent of the loan 
level established under subsection (c) per 
pound of sugar marketed (including the 
transfer or delivery of the sugar to a refinery 
for further processing or marketing). 

‘‘(4) COLLECTION.— 

‘‘(A) TIMING.—Marketing assessments required 
under this subsection shall be collected 
and remitted to the Commodity Cred


it Corporation not later than 30 days after 
the date that the sugar is marketed. 

‘‘(B) MANNER.—Subject to subparagraph 
(A), marketing assessments shall be collected 
under this subsection in the manner 
prescribed by the Secretary and shall be nonrefundable. 


‘‘(5) PENALTIES.—If any person fails to 
remit an assessment required by this subsection 
or fails to comply with such requirements 
for recordkeeping or otherwise fails to 
comply with this subsection, the person shall 
be liable to the Secretary for a civil penalty 
of not more than an amount determined by 
multiplying— 

‘‘(A) the quantity of sugar involved in the 
violation; by 

‘‘(B) the loan level for the applicable crop 
of sugarcane or sugar beets from which the 
sugar is produced. 

For the purposes of this paragraph, refined 
sugar shall be treated as produced from 
sugar beets. 

‘‘(6) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may 
enforce this subsection in the courts of the 
United States. 

‘‘(l) INFORMATION REPORTING.— 

‘‘(1) DUTY OF PROCESSORS AND REFINERS TO 
REPORT.—A sugarcane processor, cane sugar 
refiner, and sugar beet processor shall furnish 
the Secretary, on a monthly basis, such 
information as the Secretary may require to 
administer sugar programs, including the 
quantity of purchases of sugarcane, sugar 
beets, and sugar, and production, importation, 
distribution, and stock levels of sugar. 

‘‘(2) DUTY OF PRODUCERS TO REPORT.—To efficiently 
and effectively carry out the program 
under this section, the Secretary may 
require a producer of sugarcane or sugar 
beets to report, in the manner prescribed by 
the Secretary, the producer’s sugarcane or 
sugar beet yields and acres planted to sugarcane 
or sugar beets, respectively. 

‘‘(3) PENALTY.—Any person willfully failing 
or refusing to furnish the information, or 
furnishing willfully any false information, 
required under this subsection shall be subject 
to a civil penalty of not more than 
$10,000 for each such violation. 

‘‘(4) MONTHLY REPORTS.—Taking into consideration 
the information received under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish on 
a monthly basis composite data on production, 
imports, distribution, and stock levels 
of sugar. 

‘‘(m) SUGAR ESTIMATES.— 

‘‘(1) DOMESTIC REQUIREMENT.—Before the 
beginning of each fiscal year, the Secretary 
shall estimate the domestic sugar requirement 
of the United States in an amount that 
is equal to the total estimated disappearance, 
minus the quantity of sugar that will 
be available from carry-in stocks. 

‘‘(2) QUARTERLY REESTIMATES.—The Secretary 
shall make quarterly reestimates of 
sugar consumption, stocks, production, and 
imports for a fiscal year not later than the 
beginning of each of the second through 
fourth quarters of the fiscal year. 

‘‘(n) CROPS.—This section shall be effective 
only for the 1996 through 2002 crops of sugar 
beets and sugarcane.’’. 

(b) MARKETING QUOTAS.—Part VII of subtitle 
B of title III of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359aa et seq.) is 
repealed. 
SEC. 1107. SHEEP INDUSTRY TRANSITION PROGRAM. 


Title II of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 

U.S.C. 1446 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 208. SHEEP INDUSTRY TRANSITION PROGRAM. 


‘‘(a) LOSS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, on 
presentation of warehouse receipts or other 

acceptable evidence of title as determined by 
the Secretary, make available for each of the 
1996 through 1999 marketing years recourse 
loans for wool at a loan level, per pound, 
that is not less than the smaller of— 

‘‘(A) the average price (weighted by market 
and month) of the base quality of wool at 
average location in the United States as 
quoted during the 5-marketing year period 
preceding the year in which the loan level is 
announced, excluding the year in which the 
average price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period; or 

‘‘(B) 90 percent of the average price for 
wool projected for the marketing year in 
which the loan level is announced, as determined 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) ADJUSTMENTS TO LOAN LEVEL.— 

‘‘(A) LIMITATION ON DECREASE IN LOAN 
LEVEL.—The loan level for any marketing 
year determined under paragraph (1) may 
not be reduced by more than 5 percent from 
the level determined for the preceding marketing 
year, and may not be reduced below 
50 cents per pound. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION ON INCREASE IN LOAN 
LEVEL.—If for any marketing year the average 
projected price determined under paragraph 
(1)(B) is less than the average United 
States market price determined under paragraph 
(1)(A), the Secretary may increase the 
loan level to such level as the Secretary may 
consider appropriate, not in excess of the average 
United States market price determined 
under paragraph (1)(A). 

‘‘(C) ADJUSTMENT FOR QUALITY.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B), the Secretary may 
adjust the loan level of a loan made under 
this section with respect to a quantity of 
wool to more accurately reflect the quality 
of the wool, as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(ii) ESTABLISHMENT OF GRADING SYSTEM.— 
To allow producers to establish the quality 
of wool produced on a farm, the Secretary 
shall establish a grading system for wool, 
based on micron diameter of the fibers in the 
wool. 

‘‘(iii) FEES.—The Secretary may charge 
each person that requests a grade for a quantity 
of wool a fee to offset the costs of testing 
and establishing a grade for the wool. 

‘‘(iv) TESTING FACILITIES.—To the extent 
practicable, the Secretary may certify State, 
local, or private facilities to carry out the 
grading of wool for the purpose of carrying 
out this subparagraph. 

‘‘(3) ANNOUNCEMENT OF LOAN LEVEL.—The 
loan level for any marketing year of wool 
shall be determined and announced by the 
Secretary not later than December 1 of the 
calendar year preceding the marketing year 
for which the loan is to be effective or, in the 
case of the 1996 marketing year, as soon as is 
practicable after December 1, 1995. 

‘‘(4) TERM OF LOAN.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Recourse loans provided 
for in this section may be made for an initial 
term of 9 months from the first day of the 
month in which the loan is made. 

‘‘(B) EXTENSIONS.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (C), recourse loans provided for 
in this section shall, on request of the producer 
during the 9th month of the loan period 
for the wool, be made available for an 
additional term of 8 months. 

‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—A request to extend the 
loan period shall not be approved in any 
month in which the average price of the base 
quality of wool, as determined by the Secretary, 
in the designated markets for the 
preceding month exceeded 130 percent of the 
average price of the base quality of wool in 
the designated United States markets for the 
preceding 36-month period 

‘‘(5) MARKETING LOAN PROVISIONS.—If the 
Secretary determines that the prevailing 


S842 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

world market price for wool (adjusted to 
United States quality and location) is below 
the loan level determined under paragraphs 

(1) through (4), to make United States wool 
competitive, the Secretary shall permit a 
producer to repay a loan made for any marketing 
year at the lesser of— 
‘‘(A) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year; or 

‘‘(B) the higher of— 

‘‘(i) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year multiplied by 70 percent; or 

‘‘(ii) the prevailing world market price for 
wool (adjusted to United States quality and 
location), as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(6) PREVAILING WORLD MARKET PRICE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall prescribe 
by regulation— 

‘‘(i) a formula to define the prevailing 
world market price for wool (adjusted to 
United States quality and location); and 

‘‘(ii) a mechanism by which the Secretary 
shall announce periodically the prevailing 
world market price for wool (adjusted to 
United States quality and location). 

‘‘(B) USE.—The prevailing world market 
price for wool (adjusted to United States 
quality and location) established under this 
paragraph shall be used to carry out paragraph 
(5). 

‘‘(C) ADJUSTMENT OF PREVAILING WORLD 
MARKET PRICE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The prevailing world 
market price for wool (adjusted to United 
States quality and location) established 
under this paragraph shall be further adjusted 
if the adjusted prevailing world market 
price is less than 115 percent of the current 
marketing year loan level for the base 
quality of wool, as determined by the Secretary. 


‘‘(ii) FURTHER ADJUSTMENT.—The adjusted 
prevailing world market price shall be further 
adjusted on the basis of some or all of 
the following data, as available: 

‘‘(I) The United States share of world exports. 


‘‘(II) The current level of wool export sales 
and wool export shipments. 

‘‘(III) Other data determined by the Secretary 
to be relevant in establishing an accurate 
prevailing world market price for wool 
(adjusted to United States quality and location). 


‘‘(D) MARKET PRICE QUOTATION.—The Secretary 
may establish a system to monitor 
and make available on a weekly basis information 
with respect to the most recent average 
domestic and world market prices for 
wool. 

‘‘(7) PARTICIPATION.—The Secretary may 
make loans available under this subsection 
to producers, cooperatives, or marketing 
pools. 

‘‘(b) LOAN DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, for 
each of the 1996 through 1999 marketing 
years of wool, make payments available to 
producers who, although eligible to obtain a 
loan under subsection (a), agree to forgo obtaining 
the loan in return for payments 
under this subsection. 

‘‘(2) COMPUTATION.—A payment under this 
subsection shall be computed by multiplying— 


‘‘(A) the loan payment rate; by 

‘‘(B) the quantity of wool the producer is 
eligible to place under loan but for which the 
producer forgoes obtaining the loan in return 
for payments under this subsection. 

‘‘(3) LOAN PAYMENT RATE.—For purposes of 
this subsection, the loan payment rate shall 
be the amount by which— 

‘‘(A) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year under subsection (a); exceeds 
‘‘(B) the level at which a loan may be repaid 
under subsection (a). 
‘‘(c) DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall 
make available to producers deficiency payments 
for each of the 1996 through 1999 marketing 
years of wool in an amount computed 
by multiplying— 

‘‘(A) the payment rate; by 

‘‘(B) the payment quantity of wool for the 
marketing year. 

‘‘(2) PAYMENT RATE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The payment rate for 
wool shall be the amount by which the established 
price for the marketing year of wool 
exceeds the higher of— 

‘‘(i) the national average market price received 
by producers during the marketing 
year, as determined by the Secretary; or 

‘‘(ii) the loan level determined for the marketing 
year. 

‘‘(B) MINIMUM ESTABLISHED PRICE.—The established 
price for wool shall not be less 
than $2.12 per pound on a grease wool basis 
for each of the 1996 through 1999 marketing 
years. 

‘‘(3) PAYMENT QUANTITY.—Payment quantity 
of wool for a marketing year shall be 
the number of pounds of wool produced during 
the marketing year. 

‘‘(d) EQUITABLE RELIEF.— 

‘‘(1) LOANS AND PAYMENTS.—If the failure of 
a producer to comply fully with the terms 
and conditions of the program conducted 
under this section precludes the making of 
loans and payments, the Secretary may, nevertheless, 
make the loans and payments in 
such amounts as the Secretary determines 
are equitable in relation to the seriousness 
of the failure. The Secretary may consider 
whether the producer made a good faith effort 
to comply fully with the terms and conditions 
of the program in determining 
whether equitable relief is warranted under 
this paragraph. 

‘‘(2) DEADLINES AND PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—
The Secretary may authorize the 
county and State committees established 
under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(b)) to waive or modify deadlines and 
other program requirements in cases in 
which lateness or failure to meet such other 
requirements does not affect adversely the 
operation of the program. 

‘‘(e) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may 
issue such regulations as the Secretary determines 
necessary to carry out this section. 

‘‘(f) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary shall carry out the program authorized 
by this section through the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 

‘‘(g) ASSIGNMENT OF PAYMENTS.—The provisions 
of section 8(g) of the Soil Conservation 
and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 
590h(g)) (relating to assignment of payments) 
shall apply to payments under this section. 

‘‘(h) SHARING OF PAYMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall provide for the sharing of payments 
made under this section for any farm 
among the producers on the farm on a fair 
and equitable basis. 

‘‘(i) TENANTS AND SHARECROPPERS.—The 
Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards 
to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers. 


‘‘(j) CROSS-COMPLIANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Compliance on a farm 
with the terms and conditions of any other 
commodity program, or compliance with 
marketing year acreage base requirements 
for any other commodity, may not be required 
as a condition of eligibility for loans 
or payments under this section. 

‘‘(2) COMPLIANCE ON OTHER FARMS.—The 
Secretary may not require producers on a 
farm, as a condition of eligibility for loans or 
payments under this section for the farm, to 
comply with the terms and conditions of the 
wool program with respect to any other farm 
operated by the producers. 

‘‘(k) LIMITATION ON OUTLAYS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The total amount of payments 
that may be made available to all producers 
under this section may not exceed— 

‘‘(A) $75,000,000, during any single marketing 
year; or 

‘‘(B) $200,000,000 in the aggregate for marketing 
years 1996 through 1999. 

‘‘(2) PRORATION OF BENEFITS.—To the extent 
that the total amount of benefits for 
which producers are eligible under this section 
exceeds the limitations in paragraph (1), 
funds made available under this section shall 
be prorated among all eligible producers. 

‘‘(3) PERSON LIMITATION.— 

‘‘(A) LOANS.—No person may realize gains 
or receive payments under subsection (a) or 

(b) that exceed $75,000 during any marketing 
year. 
‘‘(B) DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS.—No person 
may receive payments under subsection (c) 
that exceed $50,000 during any marketing 
year. 

‘‘(l) MARKETING YEARS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, this section shall 
be effective only for the 1996 through 1999 
marketing years for wool.’’. 

SEC. 1108. SUSPENSION OF PERMANENT PRICE 
SUPPORT AUTHORITY. 

(a) WHEAT.— 
(1) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.—
Sections 379d through 379j of 
the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 
U.S.C. 1379d–1379j) shall not be applicable to 
wheat processors or exporters during the period 
June 1, 1995, through May 31, 2003. 
(2) SUSPENSION OF LAND USE, WHEAT MARKETING 
ALLOCATION, AND PRODUCER CERTIFICATE 
PROVISIONS.—Sections 331 through 339, 
379b, and 379c of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1331 through 1339, 
1379b, and 1379c) shall not be applicable to 
the 1996 through 2002 crops of wheat. 
(3) SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN QUOTA PROVISIONS.—
The joint resolution entitled ‘‘A 
joint resolution relating to corn and wheat 
marketing quotas under the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938, as amended’’, approved 
May 26, 1941 (7 U.S.C. 1330 and 1340), shall not 
be applicable to the crops of wheat planted 
for harvest in the calendar years 1996 
through 2002. 
(4) NONAPPLICABILITY OF SECTION 107 OF THE 
AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.—Section 107 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445a) shall 
not be applicable to the 1996 through 2002 
crops of wheat. 
(b) FEED GRAINS.— 
(1) NONAPPLICABILITY OF SECTION 105 OF THE 
AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.—Section 105 of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1444b) shall 
not be applicable to the 1996 through 2002 
crops of feed grains. 
(2) RECOURSE LOAN PROGRAM FOR SILAGE.— 
Section 403 of the Food Security Act of 1985 
(7 U.S.C. 1444e–1) is amended by striking 
‘‘1996’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(c) OILSEEDS.—Section 201(a) of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘oilseeds’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘determine),’’. 
(d) UPLAND COTTON.— 
(1) SUSPENSION OF BASE ACREAGE ALLOTMENTS, 
MARKETING QUOTAS, AND RELATED PROVISIONS.—
Sections 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, and 
377 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1342–1346 and 1377) shall not be 
applicable to any of the 1996 through 2002 
crops of upland cotton. 
(2) MISCELLANEOUS COTTON PROVISIONS.— 
Section 103(a) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1444(a)) shall not be applicable to 
the 1996 through 2002 crops. 
(e) PEANUTS.— 
(1) SUSPENSION OF MARKETING QUOTAS AND 
ACREAGE ALLOTMENTS.—The following provisions 
of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S843 

1938 shall not be applicable to the 1996 
through 2002 crops of peanuts: 

(A) Subsections (a) through (j) of section 
358 (7 U.S.C. 1358). 
(B) Subsections (a) through (h) of section 
358a (7 U.S.C. 1358a). 
(C) Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of section 
358d (7 U.S.C. 1359). 
(D) Part I of subtitle C of title III (7 U.S.C. 
1361 et seq.). 
(E) Section 371 (7 U.S.C. 1371). 

(2) REPORTS AND RECORDS.—Effective only 
for the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts, 
the first sentence of section 373(a) of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1373(a)) is amended by inserting before ‘‘all 
brokers and dealers in peanuts’’ the following: 
‘‘all producers engaged in the production 
of peanuts,’’. 
(3) SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN PRICE SUPPORT 
PROVISIONS.—Section 101 of the Agricultural 
Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1441) shall not be applicable 
to the 1996 through 2002 crops of peanuts. 
SEC. 1109. EXTENSION OF RELATED PRICE SUPPORT 
PROVISIONS. 

(a) DEFICIENCY AND LAND DIVERSION PAYMENTS.—
Section 114 of the Agricultural Act 
of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445j) is amended— 
(1) in subsections (a)(1) and (c), by striking 
‘‘1997’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘1995’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF ESTABLISHED PRICES.— 
Section 402(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1422(b)) is amended by striking 
‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(c) ADJUSTMENT OF SUPPORT PRICES.—Section 
403(c) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1423(c)) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(d) APPLICATION OF TERMS IN THE AGRICULTURAL 
ACT OF 1949.—Section 408(k)(3) of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1428(k)(3)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(e) ACREAGE BASE AND YIELD SYSTEM.— 
Title V of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 
U.S.C. 1461 et seq.) is amended— 
(1) in subsections (c)(3) and (h)(2)(A) of section 
503 (7 U.S.C. 1463), by striking ‘‘1997’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(2) in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
505(b) (7 U.S.C. 1465(b)), by striking ‘‘1997’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(3) in section 509 (7 U.S.C. 1469), by striking 
‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(f) PAYMENT LIMITATIONS.—Section 1001 of 
the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308) 
is amended by striking ‘‘1997’’ each place it 
appears and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(g) NORMALLY PLANTED ACREAGE.—Section 
1001 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 
(7 U.S.C. 1309) is amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
each place it appears in subsections (a), 
(b)(1), and (c) and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(h) OPTIONS PILOT PROGRAM.—The Options 
Pilot Program Act of 1990 (subtitle E of title 
XI of Public Law 101–624; 104 Stat. 3518; 7 
U.S.C. 1421 note) is amended— 
(1) in subsections (a) and (b) of section 1153, 
by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(2) in section 1154(b)(1)(A), by striking 
‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2002’’. 
(i) FOOD SECURITY WHEAT RESERVE.—Section 
302(i) of the Food Security Wheat Reserve 
Act of 1980 (7 U.S.C. 1736f–1(i)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
SEC. 1110. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise specifically 
provided in this subtitle, this subtitle 
and the amendments made by this subtitle 
shall apply beginning with the 1996 crop 
of an agricultural commodity. 

(b) PRIOR CROPS.—Except as otherwise specifically 
provided and notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, this subtitle and the 
amendments made by this subtitle shall not 
affect the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture 
to carry out a price support, production 
adjustment, or payment program for— 
(1) any of the 1991 through 1995 crops of an 
agricultural commodity established under a 
provision of law as in effect immediately before 
the enactment of this Act; or 
(2) the 1996 crop of an agricultural commodity 
established under section 406(b) of 
the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1426(b)). 
Subtitle B—Conservation 

SEC. 1201. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM. 

Chapter 2 of subtitle D of title XII of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3838 et 
seq.) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘CHAPTER 2—ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 
INCENTIVES PROGRAM 
‘‘SEC. 1238. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE.—The 
term ‘land management practice’ means nutrient 
or manure management, integrated 
pest management, irrigation management, 
tillage or residue management, grazing management, 
or another land management practice 
the Secretary determines is needed to 
protect soil, water, or related resources in 
the most cost efficient manner. 

‘‘(2) LARGE CONFINED LIVESTOCK OPERATION.—
The term ‘large confined livestock 
operation’ means a farm or ranch that— 

‘‘(A) is a confined animal feeding operation; 
and 

‘‘(B) has more than— 

‘‘(i) 700 mature dairy cattle; 

‘‘(ii) 1,000 beef cattle; 

‘‘(iii) 100,000 laying hens or broilers; 

‘‘(iv) 55,000 turkeys; 

‘‘(v) 2,500 swine; or 

‘‘(vi) 10,000 sheep or lambs. 

‘‘(3) LIVESTOCK.—The term ‘livestock’ 
means mature dairy cows, beef cattle, laying 
hens, broilers, turkeys, swine, sheep, or 
lambs. 

‘‘(4) OPERATOR.—The term ‘operator’ 
means a person who is engaged in crop or 
livestock production (as defined by the Secretary). 


‘‘(5) STRUCTURAL PRACTICE.—The term 
‘structural practice’ means the establishment 
of an animal waste management facility, 
terrace, grassed waterway, contour grass 
strip, filterstrip, permanent wildlife habitat, 
or another structural practice that the Secretary 
determines is needed to protect soil, 
water, or related resources in the most cost 
effective manner. 
‘‘SEC. 1238A ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRA


TION OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 

INCENTIVES PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—During the 1996 through 
2006 fiscal years, the Secretary shall enter 
into contracts with operators to provide 
technical assistance, cost-sharing payments, 
and incentive payments to operators, who 
enter into contracts with the Secretary, 
through an environmental quality incentives 
program in accordance with this chapter. 

‘‘(2) CONSOLIDATION OF EXISTING PRO-
GRAMS.—In establishing the environmental 
quality incentives program authorized under 
this chapter, the Secretary shall combine 
into a single program the functions of— 

‘‘(A) the agricultural conservation program 
authorized by sections 7 and 8 of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590g and 590h) (as in effect before 
the amendments made by section 
201(b)(1) of the Agricultural Reconciliation 
Act of 1995); 

‘‘(B) the Great Plains conservation program 
established under section 16(b) of the 
Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment 
Act (16 U.S.C. 590p(b)) (as in effect before the 
amendment made by section 201(b)(2) of the 
Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1995); 

‘‘(C) the water quality incentives program 
established under this chapter (as in effect 
before amendment made by section 201(a) of 
the Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1995); 
and 

‘‘(D) the Colorado River Basin salinity control 
program established under section 202(c) 
of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1592(c)) (as in effect before the 
amendment made by section 201(b)(3) of the 
Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1995). 

‘‘(b) APPLICATION AND TERM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A contract between an 
operator and the Secretary under this chapter 
may— 

‘‘(A) apply to 1 or more structural practices 
or 1 or more land management practices, 
or both; and 

‘‘(B) have a term of not less than 5, nor 
more than 10, years, as determined appropriate 
by the Secretary, depending on the 
practice or practices that are the basis of the 
contract. 

‘‘(2) CONTRACT EFFECTIVE DATE.—A contract 
between an operator and the Secretary 
under this chapter shall become effective on 
October 1st following the date the contract 
is fully entered into. 

‘‘(c) COST-SHARING AND INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(1) COST-SHARING PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of 
cost-sharing payments to an operator proposing 
to implement 1 or more structural 
practices shall not be more than 75 percent 
of the projected cost of the practice, as determined 
by the Secretary, taking into consideration 
any payment received by the operator 
from a State or local government. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—An operator of a large 
confined livestock operation shall not be eligible 
for cost-sharing payments to construct 
an animal waste management facility. 

‘‘(C) OTHER PAYMENTS.—An operator shall 
not be eligible for cost-sharing payments for 
structural practices on eligible land under 
this chapter if the operator receives cost-
sharing payments or other benefits for the 
same land under chapter 1 or 3. 

‘‘(2) INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall make incentive payments in an amount 
and at a rate determined by the Secretary to 
be necessary to encourage an operator to 
perform 1 or more land management practices. 


‘‘(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall allocate 
funding under this chapter for the provision 
of technical assistance according to 
the purpose and projected cost for which the 
technical assistance is provided in a fiscal 
year. The allocated amount may vary according 
to the type of expertise required 
quantity of time involved, and other factors 
as determined appropriate by the Secretary. 
Funding shall not exceed the projected cost 
to the Secretary of the technical assistance 
provided in a fiscal year. 

‘‘(2) OTHER AUTHORITIES.—The receipt of 
technical assistance under this chapter shall 
not affect the eligibility of the operator to 
receive technical assistance under other authorities 
of law available to the Secretary. 

‘‘(e) FUNDING.—The Secretary shall use to 
carry out this chapter not less than— 

‘‘(1) $200,000,000 for fiscal year 1997; and 

‘‘(2) $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2002. 

‘‘(f) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION.—The 
Secretary may use the funds, facilities, and 
authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation 
to carry out this subchapter. 


S844 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘SEC. 1238B. CONSERVATION PRIORITY AREAS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall designate 
watersheds or regions of special environmental 
sensitivity, including the Chesapeake 
Bay region (located in Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, and Virginia), the Great Lakes region, 
the Long Island Sound region, prairie 
pothole region (located in North Dakota, 
South Dakota, and Minnesota), Rainwater 
Basin (located in Nebraska), and other areas 
the Secretary considers appropriate, as conservation 
priority areas that are eligible for 
enhanced assistance through the programs 
established under this chapter and chapter 1. 

‘‘(b) APPLICABILITY.—A designation shall 
be made under this section if an application 
is made by a State agency and agricultural 
practices within the watershed or region 
pose a significant threat to soil, water, and 
related natural resources, as determined by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘SEC. 1238C. EVALUATION OF OFFERS AND PAYMENTS. 


‘‘(a) REGIONAL PRIORITIES.—The Secretary 
shall provide technical assistance, cost-sharing 
payments, and incentive payments to operators 
in a region, watershed, or conservation 
priority area under this chapter based 
on the significance of soil, water, and related 
natural resources problems in the region, 
watershed, or area, and the structural practices 
or land management practices that best 
address the problems, as determined by the 
Secretary. 

‘‘(b) MAXIMIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In providing technical 
assistance, cost-sharing payments, and incentive 
payments to operators in regions, 
watersheds, or conservation priority areas 
under this chapter, the Secretary shall accord 
a higher priority to assistance and payments 
that maximize environmental benefits 
per dollar expended. 

‘‘(2) STATE OR LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—The 
Secretary shall accord a higher priority to 
operators whose agricultural operations are 
located within watersheds, regions, or conservation 
priority areas in which State or 
local governments have provided, or will provide, 
financial or technical assistance to the 
operators for the same conservation or environmental 
purposes. 

‘‘SEC. 1238D. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES 
PROGRAM PLAN. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Prior to approving cost-
share or incentive payments authorized 
under this chapter, the Secretary shall require 
the preparation and evaluation of an 
environmental quality incentives program 
plan described in subsection (b), unless the 
Secretary determines that such a plan is not 
necessary to evaluate the application for the 
payments. 

‘‘(b) TERMS.—An environmental quality incentives 
program plan shall include (as determined 
by the Secretary) a description of 
relevant— 

‘‘(1) farming or ranching practices on the 
farm; 

‘‘(2) characteristics of natural resources on 
the farm; 

‘‘(3) specific conservation and environmental 
objectives to be achieved including 
those that will assist the operator in complying 
with Federal and State environmental 
laws; 

‘‘(4) dates for, and sequences of, events for 
implementing the practices for which payments 
will be received under this chapter; 
and 

‘‘(5) information that will enable evaluation 
of the effectiveness of the plan in 
achieving the conservation and environmental 
objectives, and that will enable evaluation 
of the degree to which the plan has 
been implemented. 

‘‘SEC. 1238E. LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS. 

‘‘(a) PAYMENTS.—The total amount of cost-
share and incentive payments paid to a person 
under this chapter may not exceed— 

‘‘(1) $10,000 for any fiscal year; or 

‘‘(2) $50,000 for any multiyear contract. 

‘‘(b) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall 
issue regulations that are consistent with 
section 1001 for the purpose of— 

‘‘(1) defining the term ‘person’ as used in 
subsection (a); and 

‘‘(2) prescribing such rules as the Secretary 
determines necessary to ensure a fair and 
reasonable application of the limitations 
contained in subsection (a).’’. 

Subtitle C—Food Stamp Program Integrity 
and Reform 
SEC. 1301. REFERENCES TO THE FOOD STAMP 
ACT OF 1977. 

Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
wherever in this subtitle an amendment or 
repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment 
to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, 
the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of 
the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et 
seq.). 
SEC. 1302. CERTIFICATION PERIOD. 

(a) DEFINITION.—Section 3 (7 U.S.C. 2012(c)) 
is amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(c) CERTIFICATION PERIOD.—The term ‘certification 
period’ means the period specified 
by the State agency for which a household 
shall be eligible to receive an authorization 
card, except that the period shall be— 

‘‘(1) not more than 24 months for a household 
in which all adult members are elderly 
or disabled members; and 

‘‘(2) not more than 12 months for another 
household.’’. 

(b) REPORTING ON RESERVATIONS.—Section 
6(c)(1)(C) (7 U.S.C. 2015(c)(1)(C)) is amended— 
(1) in clause (ii), by adding ‘‘and’’ at the 
end; 
(2) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘; and’’ at the 
end and inserting a period; and 
(3) by striking clause (iv). 
SEC. 1303. EXPANDED DEFINITION OF COUPON. 

Section 3(d) (7 U.S.C. 2012(d)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘or type of certificate’’ and inserting 
‘‘type of certificate, authorization 
card, cash or check issued as a coupon, or an 
access device, including an electronic benefits 
transfer card or a personal identification 
number,’’. 
SEC. 1304. TREATMENT OF MINORS. 

The second sentence of section 3(i) (7 

U.S.C. 2012(i)) is amended by striking ‘‘(who 
are not themselves parents living with their 
children or married and living with their 
spouses)’’. 
SEC. 1305. ADJUSTMENT TO THRIFTY FOOD PLAN. 

The second sentence of section 3(o) (7 

U.S.C. 2012(o)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘shall (1) make’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘shall— 
‘‘(1) make’’; 

(2) by striking ‘‘scale, (2) make’’ and inserting 
‘‘scale; 
‘‘(2) make’’; 

(3) by striking ‘‘Alaska, (3) make’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘Alaska; 
‘‘(3) make’’; and 

(4) by striking ‘‘Columbia, (4) through’’ and 
all that follows through the end of the subsection 
and inserting the following: ‘‘Columbia; 
and 
‘‘(4) on October 1, 1995, and each October 1 
thereafter, adjust the cost of the diet to reflect 
the cost of the diet, in the preceding 
June, and round the result to the nearest 
lower dollar increment for each household 
size.’’. 

SEC. 1306. EARNINGS OF CERTAIN HIGH SCHOOL 
STUDENTS COUNTED AS INCOME. 

Section 5(d)(7) (7 U.S.C. 2014(d)(7)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘21’’ and inserting ‘‘18’’. 

SEC. 1307. ENERGY ASSISTANCE COUNTED AS INCOME. 


(a) LIMITING EXCLUSION.—Section 5(d)(11) (7 

U.S.C. 2014(d)(11)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(A) under any Federal law, 
or (B)’’; and 
(2) by inserting before the comma at the 
end the following: ‘‘, except that no benefits 
provided under the State program under part 
A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) shall be excluded under 
this clause’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 5(e) (7 U.S.C. 2014(e)) is amended 
by striking sentences nine through twelve. 
(2) Section 5(k)(2) (7 U.S.C. 2014(k)(2)) is 
amended by striking subparagraph (C) and 
redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (H) 
as subparagraphs (C) through (G), respectively. 


(3) Section 5(k) (7 U.S.C. 2014(k)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(4) For purposes of subsection (d)(1), any 
payments or allowances made under any 
Federal or State law for the purposes of energy 
assistance shall be treated as money 
payable directly to the household.’’. 

(4) Section 2605(f) of the Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 
8634(f)) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘food 
stamps’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘(f)(1) Notwithstanding’’ 
and inserting ‘‘(f) Notwithstanding’’; and 
(C) by striking paragraph (2). 
SEC. 1308. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN JTPA INCOME. 


Section 5 (7 U.S.C. 2014) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and (16)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(16)’’; and 
(B) by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ‘‘, and (17) income received 
under the Job Training Partnership 
Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) by a household 
member who is less than 19 years of age’’; 
and 
(2) in subsection (l), by striking ‘‘under section 
204(b)(1)(C)’’ and all that follows and inserting 
‘‘shall be considered earned income 
for purposes of the food stamp program.’’. 
SEC. 1309. 2-YEAR FREEZE OF STANDARD DEDUCTION. 


The second sentence of section 5(e)(4) (7 

U.S.C. 2014(e)(4)) is amended by inserting ‘‘, 
except October 1, 1995, and October 1, 1996’’ 
after ‘‘thereafter’’. 
SEC. 1310. ELIMINATION OF HOUSEHOLD ENTITLEMENT 
TO SWITCH BETWEEN ACTUAL 
EXPENSES AND ALLOWANCES 
DURING CERTIFICATION PERIOD. 

The fourteenth sentence of section 5(e) (7 

U.S.C. 2014(e)) (as in effect before the amendment 
made by section 1307) is amended by 
striking ‘‘and up to one additional time during 
each twelve-month period’’. 
SEC. 1311. EXCLUSION OF LIFE INSURANCE PROCEEDS. 


Section 5(g) (7 U.S.C. 2014(g)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(6) LIFE INSURANCE POLICY.—The Secretary 
shall exclude from financial resources 
the cash value of any life insurance policy 
owned by a member of a household.’’. 

SEC. 1312. VENDOR PAYMENTS FOR TRANSITIONAL 
HOUSING COUNTED AS INCOME. 


Section 5(k)(2) (7 U.S.C. 2014(k)(2)) (as 
amended by section 1307(b)(2)) is amended— 

(1) by striking subparagraph (E); and 
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) and 
(G) as subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively. 
SEC. 1313. DOUBLED PENALTIES FOR VIOLATING 
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS. 


Section 6(b)(1) (7 U.S.C. 2015(b)(1)) is 
amended— 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S845 

(1) in clause (i)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘six months upon’’ and inserting 
‘‘1 year on’’; and 
(B) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end; and 
(2) striking clauses (ii) and (iii) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(ii) permanently on— 

‘‘(I) the second occasion of any such determination; 
or 

‘‘(II) the first occasion of a finding by a 
Federal, State, or local court of the trading 
for coupons of— 

‘‘(aa) a controlled substance (as defined in 
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act 
(21 U.S.C. 802)); or 

‘‘(bb) firearms, ammunition, or explosives.’’. 


SEC. 1314. STRENGTHENED WORK REQUIREMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6(d) (7 U.S.C. 
2015(d)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(d)(1) Unless otherwise exempted 
by the provisions’’ and all that follows 
through the end of paragraph (1) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(d) CONDITIONS OF PARTICIPATION.— 

‘‘(1) WORK REQUIREMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—No physically and mentally 
fit individual over the age of 15 and 
under the age of 60 shall be eligible to participate 
in the food stamp program if the individual— 


‘‘(i) refuses, at the time of application and 
every 12 months thereafter, to register for 
employment in a manner prescribed by the 
State agency; 

‘‘(ii) refuses without good cause to participate 
in an employment and training program 
under paragraph (4), to the extent required 
under paragraph (4), including any reasonable 
employment requirements prescribed by 
the State agency under paragraph (4); 

‘‘(iii) refuses without good cause to accept 
an offer of employment, at a site or plant 
not subject to a strike or lockout at the time 
of the refusal, at a wage that is not less than 
the higher of— 

‘‘(I) the applicable Federal or State minimum 
wage; or 

‘‘(II) 80 percent of the wage that would 
have governed had the minimum hourly rate 
under section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards 
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) been applicable 
to the offer of employment; or 

‘‘(iv) voluntarily quits a job without good 
cause. 

‘‘(B) HOUSEHOLD INELIGIBILITY.—If an individual 
who is the head of a household becomes 
ineligible to participate in the food 
stamp program under subparagraph (A), the 
household shall, at the option of the State 
agency, become ineligible to participate in 
the food stamp program for a period not to 
exceed the period of the individual’s ineligibility. 


‘‘(C) DURATION OF INELIGIBILITY.— 

‘‘(i) FIRST REFUSAL.—The first time that an 
individual becomes ineligible to participate 
in the food stamp program under clause (i), 
(ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A), the individual 
shall remain ineligible until the individual 
becomes eligible under this Act (including 
subparagraph (A)). 

‘‘(ii) SECOND REFUSAL.—The second time 
that an individual becomes ineligible to participate 
in the food stamp program under 
clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A), 
the individual shall remain ineligible until 
the later of— 

‘‘(I) the date the individual becomes eligible 
under this Act (including subparagraph 
(A)); or 

‘‘(II) the date that is 3 months after the 
date the individual became ineligible under 
subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(iii) THIRD OR SUBSEQUENT REFUSAL.—The 
third or subsequent time that an individual 
becomes ineligible to participate in the food 

stamp program under clause (i), (ii), or (iii) 
of subparagraph (A), the individual shall remain 
ineligible until the later of— 

‘‘(I) the date the individual becomes eligible 
under this Act (including subparagraph 
(A)); or 

‘‘(II) the date that is 6 months after the 
date the individual became ineligible under 
subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(iv) VOLUNTARY QUIT.—On the date that 
an individual becomes ineligible under subparagraph 
(A)(iv), the individual shall remain 
ineligible until— 

‘‘(I) in the case of the first time the individual 
becomes ineligible, the date that is 3 
months after the date the individual became 
ineligible; and 

‘‘(II) in the case of the second or subsequent 
time the individual becomes ineligible, 
the date that is 6 months after the date the 
individual became ineligible. 

‘‘(D) ADMINISTRATION.— 

‘‘(i) BECOMING ELIGIBLE.— 

‘‘(I) WAITING PERIOD.—A State agency may 
consider an individual ineligible to participate 
in the food stamp program not earlier 
than 14 days after the date the individual becomes 
ineligible to participate under clause 
(i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(II) REMAINING ELIGIBLE.—If an individual 
remains eligible to participate in the food 
stamp program under this Act (including 
subparagraph (A)) at the end of the earliest 
date for ineligibility under subclause (I), the 
State agency shall consider the individual to 
have maintained eligibility during the period 
preceding the earliest date for ineligibility. 

‘‘(ii) GOOD CAUSE.—In this paragraph, the 
term ‘good cause’ includes the lack of adequate 
child care for a dependent child under 
the age of 12. 

‘‘(iii) STRIKE AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT.— 
For the purpose of subparagraph (A)(iv), an 
employee of the Federal Government, a 
State, or a political subdivision of a State, 
who is dismissed for participating in a strike 
against the Federal Government, the State, 
or the political subdivision of the State shall 
be considered to have voluntarily quit without 
good cause. 

‘‘(iv) SELECTING A HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of this 
paragraph, the State agency shall allow the 
household to select any adult parent of a 
child in the household as the head of the 
household if all adult members of the household 
making application under the food 
stamp program agree to the selection. 

‘‘(II) TIME FOR MAKING DESIGNATION.—A 
household may designate the head of the 
household under subclause (I) each time the 
household is certified for participation in the 
food stamp program. The household may not 
change the designation during a certification 
period unless there is a change in the composition 
of the household. 

‘‘(v) CHANGE IN HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD.—If the 
head of a household leaves the household 
during a period in which the household is ineligible 
to participate in the food stamp program 
under subparagraph (B)— 

‘‘(I) the household shall, if otherwise eligible, 
become eligible to participate in the 
food stamp program; and 

‘‘(II) if the head of the household becomes 
the head of another household, the household 
that becomes headed by the individual shall 
become ineligible to participate in the food 
stamp program for the remaining period of 
ineligibility.’’; and 

(2) in paragraph (4)(H)(i), by striking ‘‘The 
Secretary’’ and all that follows through 
‘‘State agency shall’’ and inserting ‘‘A State 
agency may’’. 
(b) WORKFARE.—Section 20(f) (7 U.S.C. 
2029(f)) is amended by striking ‘‘neither 
that’’ and all that follows through ‘‘shall be 
eligible’’ and inserting ‘‘the person and, at 

the option of a State agency, the household 
of which the person is a member, shall be ineligible’’. 


(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The second 
sentence of section 17(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 
2026(b)(2)) is amended by striking ‘‘6(d)(1)(i)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘6(d)(1)(A)(i)’’. 
SEC. 1315. WORK REQUIREMENT FOR ABLE-BODIED 
RECIPIENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6 (7 U.S.C. 2015) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(i) WORK REQUIREMENT.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF WORK PROGRAM.—In this 
subsection, the term ‘work program’ 
means— 

‘‘(A) a program under the Job Training 
Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.); 

‘‘(B) a program under section 236 of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296); or 

‘‘(C) a program of employment or training 
operated or supervised by a State or local 
government, as determined appropriate by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) WORK REQUIREMENT.—No individual 
shall be eligible to participate in the food 
stamp program as a member of any household 
if, during the preceding 12 months, the 
individual received food stamp benefits for 
not less than 6 months during which the individual 
did not— 

‘‘(A) work 20 hours or more per week, averaged 
monthly; 

‘‘(B) participate in a workfare program 
under section 20 or a comparable State or 
local workfare program; 

‘‘(C) participate in and comply with the requirements 
of an approved employment and 
training program under subsection (d)(4); or 

‘‘(D) participate in and comply with the requirements 
of a work program for 20 hours or 
more per week. 

‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (2) shall not 
apply to an individual if the individual is— 

‘‘(A) under 18 or over 50 years of age; 

‘‘(B) medically certified as physically or 
mentally unfit for employment; 

‘‘(C) a parent or other member of a household 
with a dependent child under 18 years of 
age; or 

‘‘(D) otherwise exempt under subsection 
(d)(2). 

‘‘(4) WAIVER.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may 
waive the applicability of paragraph (2) to 
any group of individuals in the State if the 
Secretary makes a determination that the 
area in which the individuals reside— 

‘‘(i) has an unemployment rate of over 8 
percent; or 

‘‘(ii) does not have a sufficient number of 
jobs to provide employment for the individuals. 


‘‘(B) REPORT.—The Secretary shall report 
the basis for a waiver under subparagraph 

(A) to the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
the Senate.’’. 
(b) WORK AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.—Section 
6(d)(4) (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(O) REQUIRED PARTICIPATION IN WORK AND 
TRAINING PROGRAMS.—A State agency shall 
provide an opportunity to participate in the 
employment and training program under 
this paragraph to any individual who would 
otherwise become subject to disqualification 
under subsection (i). 

‘‘(P) COORDINATING WORK REQUIREMENTS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this paragraph, a State 
agency that meets the participation requirements 
of clause (ii) may operate the employment 
and training program of the State for 
individuals who are members of households 
receiving allotments under this Act as part 
of a program operated by the State under 
part F of title IV of the Social Security Act 


S846 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(42 U.S.C. 681 et seq.), subject to the requirements 
of the Act. 

‘‘(ii) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS.—A 
State agency may exercise the option under 
clause (i) if the State agency provides an opportunity 
to participate in an approved employment 
and training program to an individual 
who is— 

‘‘(I) subject to subsection (i); 

‘‘(II) not employed at least an average of 20 
hours per week; 

‘‘(III) not participating in a workfare program 
under section 20 (or a comparable State 
or local program); and 

‘‘(IV) not subject to a waiver under subsection 
(i)(4).’’. 

(c) ENHANCED EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING 
PROGRAM.—Section 16(h)(1) (7 U.S.C. 
2025(h)(1)) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
‘‘$75,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991 
through 1995’’ and inserting ‘‘$150,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 1996 through 2000’’; 
(2) by striking subparagraphs (B), (C), (E), 
and (F); 
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
subparagraph (B); and 
(4) in subparagraph (B) (as redesignated by 
paragraph (3)), by striking ‘‘for each’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘of $60,000,000’’ and inserting 
‘‘, the Secretary shall allocate funding’’. 
SEC. 1316. DISQUALIFICATION FOR PARTICIPATING 
IN 2 OR MORE STATES. 

Section 6 (7 U.S.C. 2015) (as amended by 
section 1315) is further amended by adding at 
the end the following: 

‘‘(j) DISQUALIFICATION FOR PARTICIPATING IN 
2 OR MORE STATES.—An individual shall be 
ineligible to participate in the food stamp 
program as a member of any household during 
a 10-year period beginning on the date 
the individual is found by a State to have 
made, or is convicted in Federal or State 
court of having made, a fraudulent statement 
or representation with respect to the 
place of residence of the individual to receive 
benefits simultaneously from 2 or more 
States under— 

‘‘(1) the food stamp program; 

‘‘(2) a State program funded under part A 
of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 

U.S.C. 601 et seq.) or under title XIX of the 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.); or 
‘‘(3) the supplemental security income program 
under title XVI of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
1381 et seq.).’’. 

SEC. 1317. DISQUALIFICATION RELATING TO 
CHILD SUPPORT ARREARS. 

Section 6 (7 U.S.C. 2015) (as amended by 
section 1316) is further amended by adding at 
the end the following: 

‘‘(k) DISQUALIFICATION FOR CHILD SUPPORT 
ARREARS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—At the option of a State 
agency, except as provided in paragraph (2), 
no individual shall be eligible to participate 
in the food stamp program as a member of 
any household during any month that the individual 
is delinquent in any payment due 
under a court order for the support of a child 
of the individual. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
apply if— 

‘‘(A) a court is allowing the individual to 
delay payment; or 

‘‘(B) the individual is complying with a 
payment plan approved by a court or the 
State agency designated under part D of title 
IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651 
et seq.) to provide support for the child of 
the individual.’’. 
SEC. 1318. FACILITATE IMPLEMENTATION OF A 

NATIONAL ELECTRONIC BENEFIT 

TRANSFER DELIVERY SYSTEM. 

(a) IMPLEMENTATION OF NATIONAL ELECTRONIC 
BENEFITS TRANSFER SYSTEM.—Section 
7 (7 U.S.C. 2016) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (g)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(1)’’; 
(B) by striking paragraph (2); and 
(C) by striking ‘‘(A)’’ and ‘‘(B)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(1)’’ and ‘‘(2)’’, respectively; 
(2) in subsection (i)— 
(A) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘issue final regulations effective 
no later than April 1, 1992, that’’; 
(ii) by striking subparagraph (A); and 
(iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) 
through (H) as subparagraphs (A) through 
(G), respectively; 
(B) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting after 
‘‘minority language populations’’ the following: 
‘‘and those stores a State agency has 
determined shall be provided the equipment 
necessary for participation by the store in an 
electronic benefit transfer delivery system’’; 
and 
(D) by striking paragraph (5) and redesignating 
paragraph (6) as paragraph (5); and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j) ELECTRONIC BENEFIT TRANSFERS.— 
‘‘(1) APPLICABLE LAW.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Disclosures, protections, 
responsibilities, and remedies established by 
the Federal Reserve Board under section 904 
of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 

U.S.C. 1693b) shall not apply to benefits 
under this Act delivered through any electronic 
benefit transfer system. 
‘‘(B) DEFINITION OF ELECTRONIC BENEFIT 
TRANSFER SYSTEM.—In this paragraph, the 
term ‘electronic benefit transfer system’ 
means a system under which a governmental 
entity distributes benefits under this Act or 
other benefits or payments by establishing 
accounts to be accessed by recipients of the 
benefits electronically, including through 
the use of an automated teller machine or an 
intelligent benefit card. 

‘‘(2) CHARGING FOR ELECTRONIC BENEFIT 
TRANSFER CARE REPLACEMENT.—’’. 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A State agency may 
charge an individual for the cost of replacing 
a lost or stolen electronic benefit transfer 
card. 

‘‘(B) REDUCING ALLOTMENT.—A State agency 
may collect a charge imposed under subparagraph 
(A) by reducing the monthly allotment 
of the household of which the individual 
is a member. 

‘‘(3) OPTIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC IDENTIFICATION.— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A State agency may require 
that an electronic benefit card contain 
a photograph of 1 or more members of a 
household. 

‘‘(B) OTHER AUTHORIZED USERS.—If a State 
agency requires a photograph on an electronic 
benefit card under subparagraph (A), 
the State agency shall establish procedures 
to ensure that any other appropriate member 
of the household or any authorized representative 
of the household may utilize the 
card.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) The first sentence of section 10 (7 U.S.C. 
2019) is amended by striking the period at 
the end and inserting the following: ‘‘, unless 
the center, organization, institution, shelter, 
group living arrangement, or establishment 
is equipped with a point-of-sale device for 
the purpose of participating in the electronic 
benefit transfer system.’’. 
(2) Section 16(a)(3) (7 U.S.C. 2025(a)(3)) is 
amended by inserting after ‘‘households’’ the 
following: ‘‘, including the cost of providing 
equipment necessary for retail food stores to 
participate in an electronic benefit transfer 
system’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall become effective 
on the date that the Secretary of Agriculture 
implements a national electronic 
benefit transfer system in accordance with 
section 7 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 

U.S.C. 2016) (as amended by subsection (a)). 
SEC. 1319. LIMITING ADJUSTMENT OF MINIMUM 
BENEFIT. 

Section 8(a) (7 U.S.C. 2017(a)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘nearest $5’’ and inserting ‘‘nearest 
$10’’. 

SEC. 1320. BENEFITS ON RECERTIFICATION. 

Section 8(c)(2)(B) (7 U.S.C. 2017(c)(2)(B)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘of more than one 
month’’. 

SEC. 1321. STATE AUTHORIZATION TO SET RE


QUIREMENTS APPROPRIATE FOR 

HOUSEHOLDS. 

(a) AGGREGATE ALLOTMENT.—Section 8(c)(3) 
(7 U.S.C. 2017(c)(3)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘agency—’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘11(e)(9), may’’ and inserting 
‘‘agency may’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and all that follows 
and inserting a period. 
(b) STATE PLAN.—Section 11 (7 U.S.C. 2020) 
is amended— 

(1) in subsection (e)— 
(A) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘a simplified, uniform national’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘such 
State forms are’’ and inserting ‘‘an application 
form for participation in the food stamp 
program that is’’; 
(ii) striking ‘‘Each food stamp application 
form shall contain’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘The State agency shall require’’ 
and inserting ‘‘The State agency shall require’’; 
and 
(iii) by striking the semicolon at the end 
and inserting the following: ‘‘. An application 
shall be considered filed on the date the 
household submits an application that contains 
the name, address, and signature of the 
applicant;’’; 
(B) by striking paragraph (14) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(14) that the agency shall evaluate the access 
needs of special groups, including the elderly, 
disabled, rural poor, people who do not 
speak or read English, households that are 
homeless, and households that reside on an 
Indian reservation. The State plan of operation 
required under subsection (d) shall describe 
the procedures the State agency will 
follow to address the access needs of the special 
groups, the actions the State agency 
will take to provide timely and accurate 
service to all applicants and recipients, and 
the means the State agency will use to provide 
necessary information to applicants and 
recipients, including the rights and responsibilities 
of the applicants;’’; 

(C) by striking ‘‘; and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(24) and inserting a period; and 
(D) by striking paragraph (25); 
(2) in subsection (i)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(1) a single’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘; (2)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘; (3) households’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘is available in such 
case file’’; and 
(3) in subsection (j), by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(3) INDEPENDENT ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION.—
A State agency may not deny an application, 
nor terminate benefits, under the 
food stamp program, without a separate determination 
by the State agency that the 
household fails to satisfy the eligibility requirements 
for participation in the food 
stamp program, on the basis that an application 
to participate has been denied or benefits 
have been terminated under a program 
funded under the Social Security Act (42 

U.S.C. 301 et seq.).’’. 
SEC. 1322. COORDINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AND 
TRAINING PROGRAMS. 

Section 8(d) (7 U.S.C. 2019(d)) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘(d) A household’’ and inserting 
the following: 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S847 

‘‘(d) NONCOMPLIANCE WITH OTHER WELFARE 
OR WORK PROGRAMS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A household’’; and 

(2) by inserting ‘‘or a work requirement 
under a welfare or public assistance program’’ 
after ‘‘assistance program’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) WORK REQUIREMENT.—If a household 
fails to comply with a work requirement 
under a State program funded under part A 
of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 

U.S.C. 601 et seq.), for the duration of the reduction— 
‘‘(A) the household may not receive an increased 
allotment as the result of a decrease 
in the income of the household to the extent 
that the decrease is the result of a penalty 
imposed for the failure to comply; and 

‘‘(B) the State agency may reduce the allotment 
of the household by not more than 
25 percent.’’. 
SEC. 1323. SIMPLIFICATION OF APPLICATION 

PROCEDURES AND STANDARDIZA


TION OF BENEFITS. 

Section 8 (7 U.S.C. 2019) is amended by 
striking subsection (e) and inserting the following: 


‘‘(e) SIMPLIFICATION OF APPLICATION PROCEDURES 
AND STANDARDIZATION OF BENEFITS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On the request of a State 
agency, the Secretary may approve Statewide, 
or for 1 or more project areas, procedures 
and standards consistent with this Act 
under which— 

‘‘(A) a household in which all members of 
the household are receiving benefits under a 
State program funded under part A of title 
IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 
et seq.) may be considered to have satisfied 
the application, interview, and verification 
requirements under section 11(e); 

‘‘(B) the State agency may use income information 
obtained and used under a State 
program funded under part A of title IV of 
the Social Security Act to determine the 
gross nonexcluded income of the household 
under this Act; 

‘‘(C) the State agency may standardize the 
amount of the deductions under section 5(e), 
except that a deduction may not be allowed 
for dependent care costs or earned income if 
the State program funded under part A of 
title IV of the Social Security Act allows an 
income exclusion for the costs or income; 
and 

‘‘(D) the State agency may elect to apply 
different shelter standards to a household 
that receives a housing subsidy and a household 
that does not receive a housing subsidy. 

‘‘(2) INCOME INCLUDES ASSISTANCE.—The 
gross nonexcluded income of a household determined 
under paragraph (1)(B) shall include 
the assistance provided under a State 
program funded under part A of title IV of 
the Social Security Act. 

‘‘(3) HOUSEHOLD SIZE.—A State agency shall 
base the value of the allotment provided to a 
household under this paragraph on household 
size. 

‘‘(4) ALTERNATIVE PLAN.—The Secretary 
may approve an alternative plan submitted 
by a State agency that is consistent with 
this Act for simplifying application procedures 
or standardizing income or benefit determinations 
for a household in which all 
members of the household are receiving benefits 
under a State program funded under 
part A of title IV of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.). 

‘‘(5) NO INCREASED FEDERAL COSTS.— 

‘‘(A) APPLICATION.—On submission of a request 
for approval under paragraph (1) or (4), 
a State agency shall assure the Secretary 
that approval will not increase Federal 
costs. 

‘‘(B) REDUCTION OF COSTS.—If Federal costs 
are increased as a result of a State agency 
carrying out this subsection, the State agen


cy shall take prompt action to reduce costs 
to the level that existed prior to carrying 
out this subsection.’’. 

SEC. 1324. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AUTHORIZATION 
PERIODS. 

Section 9(a)(1) (7 U.S.C. 2018(a)(1)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘The Secretary is authorized to issue regulations 
establishing specific time periods during 
which authorization to accept and redeem 
coupons under the food stamp program 
shall be valid.’’. 

SEC. 1325. SPECIFIC PERIOD FOR PROHIBITING 

PARTICIPATION OF STORES BASED 

ON LACK OF BUSINESS INTEGRITY. 

Section 9(a)(1) (7 U.S.C. 2018(a)(1)) (as 
amended by section 1324) is further amended 
by adding at the end the following: ‘‘The 
Secretary may issue regulations establishing 
specific time periods of not less than 6 
months during which a retail food store or 
wholesale food concern that has an application 
for approval to accept and redeem coupons 
denied or that has an approval withdrawn 
on the basis of business integrity and 
reputation cannot submit a new application 
for approval. The periods shall reflect the severity 
of business integrity infractions that 
are the basis of the denials or withdrawals.’’. 

SEC. 1326. INFORMATION FOR VERIFYING ELIGIBILITY 
FOR AUTHORIZATION. 

Section 9(c) (7 U.S.C. 2018(c)) is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘, 
which may include relevant income and sales 
tax filing documents,’’ after ‘‘submit information’’ 
; and 
(2) by inserting after the first sentence the 
following: ‘‘The regulations may require retail 
food stores and wholesale food concerns 
to provide written authorization for the Secretary 
to verify all relevant tax filings with 
appropriate agencies and to obtain corroborating 
documentation from other sources so 
that the accuracy of information provided by 
the stores and concerns may be verified.’’. 
SEC. 1327. WAITING PERIOD FOR STORES THAT 

INITIALLY FAIL TO MEET AUTHOR


IZATION CRITERIA. 

Section 9(d) (7 U.S.C. 2018(d)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ‘‘A retail 
food store or wholesale food concern that has 
an application for approval to accept and redeem 
coupons denied because the store or 
concern does not meet criteria for approval 
established by the Secretary by regulation 
may not submit a new application for 6 
months from the date of the denial.’’. 

SEC. 1328. MANDATORY CLAIMS COLLECTION 
METHODS. 

(a) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—Section 
11(e)(8) (7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(8)) is amended by inserting 
before the semicolon at the end the 
following: ‘‘or from refunds of Federal taxes 
under section 3720A of title 31, United States 
Code’’. 
(b) COLLECTION OF OVERISSUANCES.—Section 
13 (7 U.S.C. 2022) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(b)(1)(A) In’’ and all that 
follows through ‘‘(2)(A) State agencies’’ and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) COLLECTION OF OVERISSUANCES.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A State agency’’; 

(B) by striking ‘‘(B) State agencies’’ and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(2) OTHER MEANS OF COLLECTION.—A State 
agency’’; 

(C) in paragraph (1) (as amended by subparagraph 
(A))— 
(i) by striking ‘‘, other than claims’’ and 
all that follows through ‘‘error of the State 
agency,’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘, except that the household 
shall’’ and inserting ‘‘. At the option of 
the State, the household may’’; and 
(iii) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘A 
State agency may waive the use of an allotment 
reduction as a means of collecting a 
claim arising from an error of the State 
agency if the collection would cause a hardship 
(as defined by the State agency) on the 
household, except that the State agency 
shall continue to pursue all other lawful 
methods of collection of the claim.’’; and 

(D) in paragraph (2) (as amended by subparagraph 
(A))— 
(i) by striking ‘‘may collect’’ and inserting 
‘‘shall collect’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘or subparagraph (A)’’; and 
(2) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and except for claims arising 
from an error of the State agency,’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘may be recovered’’ and inserting 
‘‘shall be recovered’’; and 
(C) by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ‘‘or a refund of Federal 
taxes under section 3720A of title 31, United 
States Code.’’. 
(c) DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION.— 
Section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘officers and 
employees’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘officers, employees, or agents, including 
State agencies,’’. 
(d) STATE AGENCY COLLECTION OF FEDERAL 
TAX REFUNDS.—Section 6402(d) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after ‘‘any 
Federal agency’’ the following: ‘‘(or any 
State agency that has the responsibility for 
the administration of the food stamp program 
operated pursuant to the Food Stamp 
Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.))’’; and 
(2) in the second sentence of paragraph (2), 
by inserting after ‘‘a Federal agency’’ the 
following: ‘‘(or a State agency that has the 
responsibility for the administration of the 
food stamp program operated pursuant to 
the Food Stamp Act of 1977)’’. 
SEC. 1329. STATE AUTHORIZATION TO ASSIST 

LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS IN 

LOCATING FUGITIVE FELONS. 

Section 11(e)(8)(B) (7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(8)(B)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘Act, and’’ and inserting 
‘‘Act or of locating a fugitive felon (as 
defined by a State), and’’. 
SEC. 1330. EXPEDITED SERVICE. 

Section 11(e)(9) (7 U.S.C. 2020(e)(9)) is 
amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (A)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘five days’’ and inserting 
‘‘7 days’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(2) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C); 
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
subparagraph (B); and 
(4) in subparagraph (B) (as redesignated by 
paragraph (3)), by striking ‘‘, (B), or (C)’’. 
SEC. 1331. BASES FOR SUSPENSIONS AND DISQUALIFICATIONS. 


Section 12(a) (7 U.S.C. 2021(a)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ‘‘Regulations 
issued pursuant to this Act shall provide 
criteria for the finding of a violation, 
and the suspension or disqualification of a 
retail food store or wholesale food concern, 
on the basis of evidence that may include 
facts established through on-site investigations, 
inconsistent redemption data, or evidence 
obtained through transaction reports 
under electronic benefits transfer systems.’’. 

SEC. 1332. AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND STORES VIOLATING 
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS 
PENDING ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL 
REVIEW. 

(a) AUTHORITY.—Section 12(a) (7 U.S.C. 
2021(a)) (as amended by section 1331) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘The regulations may establish criteria 
under which the authorization of a retail 
food store or wholesale food concern to accept 
and redeem coupons may be suspended 
at the time the store or concern is initially 
found to have committed a violation of a requirement 
of the food stamp program. The 


S848 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

suspension may coincide with the period of a 
review under section 14. The Secretary shall 
not be liable for the value of any sales lost 
during a suspension or disqualification period.’’. 


(b) REVIEW.—Section 14(a) (7 U.S.C. 2023(a)) 
is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘disqualified 
or subjected’’ and inserting ‘‘suspended, 
disqualified, or subjected’’; 
(2) in the fifth sentence, by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ‘‘, except 
that, in the case of the suspension of a retail 
food store or wholesale food concern under 
section 12(a), the suspension shall remain in 
effect pending any administrative or judicial 
review of the proposed disqualification action, 
and the period of suspension shall be 
deemed a part of any period of disqualification 
that is imposed’’; and 
(3) by striking the last sentence. 
SEC. 1333. DISQUALIFICATION OF RETAILERS 

WHO ARE DISQUALIFIED UNDER 

THE WIC PROGRAM. 

Section 12 (7 U.S.C. 2021) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(g) DISQUALIFICATION OF RETAILERS WHO 
ARE DISQUALIFIED UNDER THE WIC PROGRAM.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall issue 
regulations providing criteria for the disqualification 
of an approved retail food store 
and a wholesale food concern that is disqualified 
from accepting benefits under the 
special supplemental nutrition program for 
women, infants, and children established 
under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
1966 (7 U.S.C. 1786). 

‘‘(2) TERMS.—A disqualification under paragraph 
(1)— 

‘‘(A) shall be for the same period as the disqualification 
from the program referred to in 
paragraph (1); 

‘‘(B) may begin at a later date than the 
disqualification from the program referred 
to in paragraph (1); and 

‘‘(C) notwithstanding section 14, shall not 
be subject to administrative or judicial review.’’. 
SEC. 1334. PERMANENT DEBARMENT OF RETAIL


ERS WHO INTENTIONALLY SUBMIT 

FALSIFIED APPLICATIONS. 

Section 12 (7 U.S.C. 2021) (as amended by 
section 1333) is further amended by adding at 
the end the following: 

‘‘(h) FALSIFIED APPLICATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall issue 
regulations providing for the permanent disqualification 
of a retail food store, or wholesale 
food concern, that knowingly submits 
an application for approval to accept and redeem 
coupons that contains false information 
about a substantive matter that was a 
basis for approving the application. 

‘‘(2) REVIEW.—A disqualification under 
paragraph (1) shall be subject to administrative 
and judicial review under section 14, except 
that the disqualification shall remain in 
effect pending the review.’’. 

SEC. 1335. EXPANDED CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FORFEITURE 
FOR VIOLATIONS. 

(a) FORFEITURE OF ITEMS EXCHANGED IN 
FOOD STAMP TRAFFICKING.—The first sentence 
of section 15(g) (7 U.S.C. 2024(g)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘or intended to be furnished’’. 
(b) CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FORFEITURE.—Section 
15 (7 U.S.C. 2024)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(h) CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FORFEITURE.— 
‘‘(1) CIVIL FORFEITURE.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any food stamp benefits 

and any property, real or personal, constituting, 
derived from, or traceable to any proceeds 
obtained directly or indirectly from, or 
used, or intended to be used, to commit, or 
to facilitate, the commission of a violation 
of subsection (b) or (c) involving food stamp 

benefits having an aggregate value of not 
less than $5,000, shall be subject to forfeiture 
to the United States. 

‘‘(B) PROCEDURES.—Chapter 46 of title 18, 
United States Code, shall apply to a seizure 
or forfeiture under this subsection, if not inconsistent 
with this subsection, except that 
any duties imposed on the Secretary of the 
Treasury under chapter 46 may also be performed 
with respect to a seizure or forfeiture 
under this section by the Secretary of Agriculture. 


‘‘(C) CIVIL AND CRIMINAL.—Forfeitures imposed 
under this subsection shall be in addition 
to any criminal sanctions imposed 
against the owner of the forfeited property. 

‘‘(2) CRIMINAL FORFEITURE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any person convicted of 
violating subsection (b) or (c) involving food 
stamp benefits having an aggregate value of 
not less than $5,000, shall forfeit to the 
United States, irrespective of any State 
law— 

‘‘(i) any food stamp benefits and any property 
constituting, or derived from, or traceable 
to any proceeds the person obtained directly 
or indirectly as a result of the violation; 
and 

‘‘(ii) any food stamp benefits and any property 
of the person used, or intended to be 
used, in any manner or part, to commit, or 
to facilitate the commission of the violation. 

‘‘(B) SENTENCE.—In imposing a sentence on 
a person under subparagraph (A), the court 
shall order that the person forfeit to the 
United States all property described in this 
subsection. 

‘‘(C) PROCEDURES.—Any food stamp benefits 
or property subject to forfeiture under 
this subsection, any seizure or disposition of 
the benefits or property, and any administrative 
or judicial proceeding relating to the 
benefits or property, shall be governed by 
subsections (b), (c), (e), and (g) through (p) of 
section 413 of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse 
Prevention and Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 
853), if not inconsistent with this subsection. 

‘‘(3) EXCLUDED PROPERTY.—This subsection 
shall not apply to property referred to in 
subsection (g). 

‘‘(4) RESTRAINING ORDER.—A restraining 
order available under section 413(e) of the 
Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and 
Control Act of 1970 (21 U.S.C. 853(e)) shall 
apply to assets otherwise subject to forfeiture 
under section 413(p) of the Act (21 
U.S.C. 853(p)). 

‘‘(5) RULES AND REGULATIONS.—The Secretary 
may prescribe such rules and regulations 
as are necessary to carry out this subsection. 


‘‘(i) RULES RELATING TO FORFEITURES.— 
With respect to property subject to forfeiture 
under subsections (g) and (h), the 
Secretary may allocate a division of such 
property, or the proceeds of the sale of such 
property, as the Secretary determines appropriate, 
between the Secretary of Agriculture 
under subsection (g) and the Secretary of the 
Treasury under subsection (h).’’. 

SEC. 1336. EXTENDING CLAIMS RETENTION 
RATES. 

The provisions of the first sentence of section 
16(a) (7 U.S.C. 2025(a)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2000’’. 

SEC. 1337. NUTRITION ASSISTANCE FOR PUERTO 
RICO. 

The first sentence of section 19(a)(1)(A) of 
the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
2028(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking 
‘‘$974,000,000’’ and all that follows through 
‘‘fiscal year 1995’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘$1,143,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1995 and 1996, $1,182,000,000 for fiscal year 
1997, $1,223,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$1,266,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$1,310,000,000 for fiscal year 2000’’ 

SEC. 1338. EXPANDED AUTHORITY FOR SHARING 

INFORMATION PROVIDED BY RE


TAILERS. 

(a) SOCIAL SECURITY ACT.—Section 
205(c)(2)(C)(iii) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 405(c)(2)(C)(iii)) is amended— 
(1) in subclause (II)— 
(A) in the first sentence, by inserting after 
‘‘instrumentality of the United States’’ the 
following: ‘‘, a State government officer or 
employee with law enforcement or investigative 
responsibilities, or a State agency that 
has responsibility for administering the special 
supplemental nutrition program for 
women, infants, and children established 
under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
1966 (7 U.S.C. 1786),’’; and 
(B) in the last sentence, by inserting ‘‘or 
State’’ after ‘‘other Federal’’; and 
(2) in subclause (III), by inserting ‘‘or a 
State’’ after ‘‘United States’’. 
(b) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.—Section 
6109(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(26 U.S.C. 6109(f)(2)) (as added by section 
316(b) of the Social Security Administrative 
Reform Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–296; 108 
Stat. 1464)) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after 
‘‘instrumentality of the United States’’ the 
following: ‘‘, a State government officer or 
employee with law enforcement or investigative 
responsibilities, or a State agency that 
has responsibility for administering the special 
supplemental nutrition program for 
women, infants, and children established 
under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
1966 (7 U.S.C. 1786),’’; 
(2) in the last sentence of subparagraph 
(A), by inserting ‘‘or State’’ after ‘‘other 
Federal’’; and 
(3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘or a 
State’’ after ‘‘United States’’. 
SEC. 1339. CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM. 


(a) PAYMENTS TO SPONSOR EMPLOYEES.— 
Paragraph (2) of the last sentence of section 
17(a) of the National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1766(a)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(B); 
(2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
(C) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) in the case of a family or group day 
care home sponsoring organization that employs 
more than 1 employee, the organization 
does not base payments to an employee 
of the organization on the number of family 
or group day care homes recruited, managed, 
or monitored.’’. 

(b) IMPROVED TARGETING OF DAY CARE 
HOME REIMBURSEMENTS.— 
(1) RESTRUCTURED DAY CARE HOME REIM-
BURSEMENTS.—Section 17(f)(3) of the Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘(3)(A) Institutions’’ 
and all that follows through the end of subparagraph 
(A) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(3) REIMBURSEMENT OF FAMILY OR GROUP 
DAY CARE HOME SPONSORING ORGANIZATIONS.— 

‘‘(A) REIMBURSEMENT FACTOR.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—An institution that participates 
in the program under this section 
as a family or group day care home sponsoring 
organization shall be provided, for 
payment to a home of the organization, reimbursement 
factors in accordance with this 
subparagraph for the cost of obtaining and 
preparing food and prescribed labor costs involved 
in providing meals under this section. 

‘‘(ii) TIER I FAMILY OR GROUP DAY CARE 
HOMES.— 

‘‘(I) DEFINITION.—In this paragraph, the 
term ‘tier I family or group day care home’ 
means— 

‘‘(aa) a family or group day care home that 
is located in a geographic area, as defined by 
the Secretary based on census data, in which 
at least 50 percent of the children residing in 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S849 

the area are members of households whose 
incomes meet the eligibility standards for 
free or reduced price meals under section 9; 

‘‘(bb) a family or group day care home that 
is located in an area served by a school enrolling 
elementary students in which at least 
50 percent of the total number of children enrolled 
are certified eligible to receive free or 
reduced price school meals under this Act or 
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 
et seq.); or 

‘‘(cc) a family or group day care home that 
is operated by a provider whose household 
meets the eligibility standards for free or reduced 
price meals under section 9 and whose 
income is verified by a sponsoring organization 
under regulations established by the 
Secretary. 

‘‘(II) REIMBURSEMENT.—Except as provided 
in subclause (III), a tier I family or group 
day care home shall be provided reimbursement 
factors under this clause without a requirement 
for documentation of the costs described 
in clause (i), except that reimbursement 
shall not be provided under this sub-
clause for meals or supplements served to 
the children of a person acting as a family or 
group day care home provider unless the 
children meet the eligibility standards for 
free or reduced price meals under section 9. 

‘‘(III) FACTORS.—Except as provided in sub-
clause (IV), the reimbursement factors applied 
to a home referred to in subclause (II) 
shall be the factors in effect on the date of 
enactment of this subclause. 

‘‘(IV) ADJUSTMENTS.—The reimbursement 
factors under this subparagraph shall be adjusted 
on August 1, 1996, July 1, 1997, and 
each July 1 thereafter, to reflect changes in 
the Consumer Price Index for food at home 
for the most recent 12-month period for 
which the data are available. The reimbursement 
factors under this subparagraph shall 
be rounded to the nearest lower cent increment 
and based on the unrounded adjustment 
for the preceding 12-month period. 

‘‘(iii) TIER II FAMILY OR GROUP DAY CARE 
HOMES.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(aa) FACTORS.—Except as provided in sub-
clause (II), with respect to meals or supplements 
served under this clause by a family 
or group day care home that does not meet 
the criteria set forth in clause (ii)(I), the reimbursement 
factors shall be $1 for lunches 
and suppers, 40 cents for breakfasts, and 20 
cents for supplements. 

‘‘(bb) ADJUSTMENTS.—The factors shall be 
adjusted on July 1, 1997, and each July 1 
thereafter, to reflect changes in the Consumer 
Price Index for food at home for the 
most recent 12-month period for which the 
data are available. The reimbursement factors 
under this item shall be rounded down 
to the nearest lower cent increment and 
based on the unrounded adjustment for the 
preceding 12-month period. 

‘‘(cc) REIMBURSEMENT.—A family or group 
day care home shall be provided reimbursement 
factors under this subclause without a 
requirement for documentation of the costs 
described in clause (i), except that reimbursement 
shall not be provided under this 
subclause for meals or supplements served to 
the children of a person acting as a family or 
group day care home provider unless the 
children meet the eligibility standards for 
free or reduced price meals under section 9. 

‘‘(II) OTHER FACTORS.—A family or group 
day care home that does not meet the criteria 
set forth in clause (ii)(I) may elect to 
be provided reimbursement factors determined 
in accordance with the following requirements: 


‘‘(aa) CHILDREN ELIGIBLE FOR FREE OR REDUCED 
PRICE MEALS.—In the case of meals or 
supplements served under this subsection to 
children who are members of households 

whose incomes meet the eligibility standards 
for free or reduced price meals under section 
9, the family or group day care home shall be 
provided reimbursement factors set by the 
Secretary in accordance with clause (ii)(III). 

‘‘(bb) INELIGIBLE CHILDREN.—In the case of 
meals or supplements served under this subsection 
to children who are members of 
households whose incomes do not meet the 
eligibility standards, the family or group day 
care home shall be provided reimbursement 
factors in accordance with subclause (I). 

‘‘(III) INFORMATION AND DETERMINATIONS.— 

‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—If a family or group day 
care home elects to claim the factors described 
in subclause (II), the family or group 
day care home sponsoring organization serving 
the home shall collect the necessary income 
information, as determined by the Secretary, 
from any parent or other caretaker 
to make the determinations specified in sub-
clause (II) and shall make the determinations 
in accordance with rules prescribed by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘(bb) CATEGORICAL ELIGIBILITY.—In making 
a determination under item (aa), a family or 
group day care home sponsoring organization 
may consider a child participating in or 
subsidized under, or a child with a parent 
participating in or subsidized under, a federally 
or State supported child care or other 
benefit program with an income eligibility 
limit that does not exceed the eligibility 
standard for free or reduced price meals 
under section 9 to be a child who is a member 
of a household whose income meets the 
eligibility standards under section 9. 

‘‘(cc) FACTORS FOR CHILDREN ONLY.—A family 
or group day care home may elect to receive 
the reimbursement factors prescribed 
under clause (ii)(III) solely for the children 
participating in a program referred to in 
item (bb) if the home elects not to have income 
statements collected from parents or 
other caretakers. 

‘‘(IV) SIMPLIFIED MEAL COUNTING AND REPORTING 
PROCEDURES.—The Secretary shall 
prescribe simplified meal counting and reporting 
procedures for use by a family or 
group day care home that elects to claim the 
factors under subclause (II) and by a family 
or group day care home sponsoring organization 
that serves the home. The procedures 
the Secretary prescribes may include 1 or 
more of the following: 

‘‘(aa) Setting an annual percentage for 
each home of the number of meals served 
that are to be reimbursed in accordance with 
the reimbursement factors prescribed under 
clause (ii)(III) and an annual percentage of 
the number of meals served that are to be reimbursed 
in accordance with the reimbursement 
factors prescribed under subclause (I), 
based on the family income of children enrolled 
in the home in a specified month or 
other period. 

‘‘(bb) Placing a home into 1 of 2 or more reimbursement 
categories annually based on 
the percentage of children in the home whose 
households have incomes that meet the eligibility 
standards under section 9, with each 
such reimbursement category carrying a set 
of reimbursement factors such as the factors 
prescribed under clause (ii)(III) or subclause 

(I) or factors established within the range of 
factors prescribed under clause (ii)(III) and 
subclause (I). 
‘‘(cc) Such other simplified procedures as 
the Secretary may prescribe. 

‘‘(V) MINIMUM VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—
The Secretary may establish any 
necessary minimum verification requirements.’’. 


(2) SPONSOR PAYMENTS.—Section 17(f)(3)(B) 
of the Act is amended— 
(A) by striking the period at the end of the 
second sentence and all that follows through 
the end of the subparagraph and inserting 
the following:‘‘, except that the adjustment 
that otherwise would occur on July 1, 1996, 
shall be made on August 1, 1996. The maximum 
allowable levels for administrative expense 
payments shall be rounded to the nearest 
lower dollar increment and based on the 
unrounded adjustment for the preceding 12-
month period.’’; 

(B) by striking ‘‘(B)’’ and inserting 
‘‘(B)(i)’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following new 
clause: 
‘‘(ii) The maximum allowable level of administrative 
expense payments shall be adjusted 
by the Secretary— 

‘‘(I) to increase by 7.5 percent the monthly 
payment to family or group day care home 
sponsoring organizations both for tier I family 
or group day care homes and for those 
tier II family or group day care homes for 
which the sponsoring organization administers 
a means test as provided under subparagraph 
(A)(iii); and 

‘‘(II) to decrease by 7.5 percent the monthly 
payment to family or group day care 
home sponsoring organizations for family or 
group day care homes that do not meet the 
criteria for tier I homes and for which a 
means test is not administered.’’. 

(3) GRANTS TO STATES TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE 
TO FAMILY OR GROUP DAY CARE HOMES.— 
Section 17(f)(3) of the Act is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) GRANTS TO STATES TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE 
TO FAMILY OR GROUP DAY CARE HOMES.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(I) RESERVATION.—From amounts made 
available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
shall reserve $5,000,000 of the amount 
made available for fiscal year 1996. 

‘‘(II) PURPOSE.—The Secretary shall use 
the funds made available under subclause (I) 
to provide grants to States for the purpose of 
providing— 

‘‘(aa) assistance, including grants, to family 
and day care home sponsoring organizations 
and other appropriate organizations, in 
securing and providing training, materials, 
automated data processing assistance, and 
other assistance for the staff of the sponsoring 
organizations; and 

‘‘(bb) training and other assistance to family 
and group day care homes. 

‘‘(ii) ALLOCATION.—The Secretary shall allocate 
from the funds reserved under clause 
(i)(II)— 

‘‘(I) $30,000 in base funding to each State; 
and 

‘‘(II) any remaining amount among the 
States, based on the number of family day 
care homes participating in the program in a 
State in 1994 as a percentage of the number 
of all family day care homes participating in 
the program in 1994. 

‘‘(iii) RETENTION OF FUNDS.—Of the amount 
of funds made available to a State for a fiscal 
year under clause (i), the State may retain 
not to exceed 30 percent of the amount 
to carry out this subparagraph. 

‘‘(iv) ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS.—Any payments 
received under this subparagraph 
shall be in addition to payments that a State 
receives under subparagraph (A).’’. 

(4) PROVISION OF DATA.—Section 17(f)(3) of 
the Act (as amended by paragraph (3)) is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(E) PROVISION OF DATA TO FAMILY OR 
GROUP DAY CARE HOME SPONSORING ORGANIZATIONS.— 


‘‘(i) CENSUS DATA.—The Secretary shall 
provide to each State agency administering 
a child and adult care food program under 
this section data from the most recent decennial 
census survey or other appropriate 
census survey for which the data are available 
showing which areas in the State meet 
the requirements of subparagraph 


S850 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(A)(ii)(I)(aa). The State agency shall provide 
the data to family or group day care home 
sponsoring organizations located in the 
State. 

‘‘(ii) SCHOOL DATA.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—A State agency administering 
the program under this section shall 
annually provide to a family or group day 
care home sponsoring organizations that request 
the data, a list of schools serving elementary 
school children in the State in 
which at least 50 percent of the children enrolled 
are certified to receive free or reduced 
price meals. State agencies administering 
the school lunch program under this Act or 
the school breakfast program under the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et 
seq.) shall collect such data annually and 
provide such data on a timely basis to the 
State agency administering the program 
under this section. 

‘‘(II) USE OF DATA FROM PRECEDING SCHOOL 
YEAR.—In determining for a fiscal year or 
other annual period whether a home qualifies 
as a tier I family or group day care home 
under subparagraph (A)(ii)(I), the State 
agency administering the program under 
this section, and a family or group day care 
home sponsoring organization, shall use the 
most current available data at the time of 
the determination. 

‘‘(iii) DURATION OF DETERMINATION.—For 
purposes of this section, a determination 
that a family or group day care home is located 
in an area that qualifies the home as a 
tier I family or group day care home (as the 
term is defined in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I)), 
shall be in effect for 3 years (unless the determination 
is made on the basis of census 
data, in which case the determination shall 
remain in effect until more recent census 
data are available) unless the State agency 
determines that the area in which the home 
is located no longer qualifies the home as a 
tier I family or group day care home.’’. 

(5) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
17(c) of the Act is amended by inserting ‘‘except 
as provided in subsection (f)(3),’’ after 
‘‘For purposes of this section,’’ each place it 
appears in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3). 
(c) DISALLOWING MEAL CLAIMS.—The fourth 
sentence of section 17(f)(4) of the Act is 
amended by inserting ‘‘(including institutions 
that are not family or group day care 
home sponsoring organizations)’’ after ‘‘institutions’’. 
(d) ELIMINATION OF STATE PAPERWORK AND 
OUTREACH BURDEN.—Section 17 of the Act is 
amended by striking subsection (k) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(k) TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—
A State participating in the program 
established under this section shall provide 
sufficient training, technical assistance, and 
monitoring to facilitate effective operation 
of the program. The Secretary shall assist 
the State in developing plans to fulfill the 
requirements of this subsection.’’. 

(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), the amendments made by this 
section shall become effective on the date of 
enactment of this Act. 
(2) IMPROVED TARGETING OF DAY CARE HOME 
REIMBURSEMENTS.—The amendments made 
by paragraphs (1), (3), and (4) of subsection 
(b) shall become effective on August 1, 1996. 
(3) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall issue regulations to implement 
the amendments made by paragraphs 
(1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (b) and the 
provisions of section 17(f)(3)(C) of the National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1766(f)(3)(C)) not later than February 1, 1996. 
If such regulations are issued in interim 
form, final regulations shall be issued not 
later than August 1, 1996. 
Subtitle D—Agricultural Promotion and 
Export Programs 

SEC. 1401. EXPORT ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM. 

Effective October 1, 1995, section 301(e)(1) of 
the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 
5651(e)(1)) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall make available to carry 
out the program established under this section 
not more than $800,000,000 for fiscal year 
1996.’’. 

HARKIN AMENDMENTS NOS. 3280– 
3282 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HARKIN submitted three amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3280 
Section 105(b)(3) is amended by striking (A) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(a) DIRECT ATTRIBUTION.—The Secretary 
shall attribute payments specified in section 
1001 to persons who receive the payments directly 
and attribute payments received by 
entities to the individuals who own such entities 
in proportion to their ownership interest 
in the entity.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 3281 
Section 104(b) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(7) LOCAL LOAN RATES.—The Secretary 
may not reduce the national loan for a crop 
in a county by an amount in excess of 5 percent 
the national loan rate. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3282 
Section 103(h)(1) is amended by striking 
‘‘during the period of the violation,’’. 

HARKIN AMENDMENTS NOS. 3283– 
3288 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HARKIN submitted six amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 3283 
On page 1–26, strike line 16 and all that follows 
through line 25 and insert the following: 

(6) OILSEEDS.— 
(A) SOYBEANS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for soybeans shall 
be— 
(i) 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of soybeans, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 
crops of soybeans, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 
the year in which the average price was the 
lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $4.92 per bushel. 
(B) SUNFLOWER SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND FLAXSEED.— 
The loan rates for a marketing assistance 
loan for sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, 
safflower, mustard seed, and flaxseed, individually, 
shall be— 
(i) 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of each such oilseed, as 
determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately preceding 
5 crops of the oilseed, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $0.087 per pound. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3284 

Beginning on page 1–21, strike line 5, and 
all that follows through page 1–26, line 25, 
and insert the following: 

(1) WHEAT.— 
(A) LOAN RATE.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for wheat shall be not less than 85 percent 
of the simple average price received by 
producers of wheat, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceding 5 crops of wheat, 
excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in which 
the average price was the lowest in the period. 
(B) STOCKS TO USE RATIO ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary estimates for any marketing 
year that the ratio of ending stocks of wheat 
to total use for the marketing year will be— 
(i) equal to or greater than 30 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for 
wheat for the corresponding crop by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent in any year; 
(ii) less than 30 percent but not less than 15 
percent, the Secretary may reduce the loan 
rate for wheat for the corresponding crop by 
an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
(iii) less than 15 percent, the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for wheat for 
the corresponding crop. 
(C) NO EFFECT ON FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction 
in the loan rate for wheat under subparagraph 
(B) shall not be considered in determining 
the loan rate for wheat for subsequent 
years. 
(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for corn shall be not less 
than 85 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of corn, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 crops 
of corn, excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period. 
(B) STOCKS TO USE RATIO ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary estimates for any marketing 
year that the ratio of ending stocks of corn 
to total use for the marketing year will be— 
(i) equal to or greater than 25 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for corn 
for the corresponding crop by an amount not 
to exceed 10 percent in any year; 
(ii) less than 25 percent but not less than 
12.5 percent, the Secretary may reduce the 
loan rate for corn for the corresponding crop 
by an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
(iii) less than 12.5 percent the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for corn for the 
corresponding crop. 
(C) NO EFFECT ON FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction 
in the loan rate for corn under subparagraph 
(B) shall not be considered in determining 
the loan rate for corn for subsequent 
years. 
(D) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate for 
a marketing assistance loan for grain sorghum, 
barley, and oats, respectively, shall be 
established at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the rate that loans are made available for 
corn, taking into consideration the feeding 
value of the commodity in relation to corn. 
(3) UPLAND COTTON.— 
(A) LOAN RATE.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for upland cotton shall be established 
by the Secretary at such loan rate, per 
pound, as will reflect for the base quality of 
upland cotton, as determined by the Secretary, 
at average locations in the United 
States a rate that is not less than the smaller 
of— 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S851 

(i) 85 percent of the average price (weighted 
by market and month) of the base quality 
of cotton as quoted in the designated United 
States spot markets during 3 years of the 5-
year period ending July 31 in the year in 
which the loan rate is announced, excluding 
the year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; or 
(ii) 90 percent of the average, for the 15-
week period beginning July 1 of the year in 
which the loan rate is announced, of the 5 
lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted 
for Middling 13/32-inch cotton C.I.F. Northern 
Europe (adjusted downward by the average 
difference during the period April 15 through 
October 15 of the year in which the loan is 
announced between the average Northern 
European price quotation of such quality of 
cotton and the market quotations in the designated 
United States spot markets for the 
base quality of upland cotton), as determined 
by the Secretary. 
(B) LIMITATIONS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for upland cotton 
shall not be less than $0.50 per pound or more 
than $0.5192 per pound. 
(4) EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON.—The loan 
rate for a marketing assistance loan for 
extra long staple cotton shall be— 
(A) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of extra 
long staple cotton, as determined by the Secretary, 
during 3 years of the 5 previous marketing 
years, excluding the year in which 
the average price was the highest and the 
year in which the average price was the lowest 
in the period; but 
(B) not more than $0.7965 per pound. 
(5) RICE.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for rice shall be $6.50 per 
hundredweight. 
(6) OILSEEDS.— 
(A) SOYBEANS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for soybeans shall 
be— 
(i) 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of soybeans, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 
crops of soybeans, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 
the year in which the average price was the 
lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $4.92 per bushel. 
(B) SUNFLOWER SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND FLAXSEED.— 
The loan rates for a marketing assistance 
loan for sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, 
safflower, mustard seed, and flaxseed, individually, 
shall be— 
(i) 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of each such oilseed, as 
determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately preceding 
5 crops of the oilseed, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $0.087 per pound. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3285 
Beginning on page 1–21, strike line 5 and 
all that follows through page 1–23, line 3, and 
insert the following: 

(1) WHEAT.— 
(A) LOAN RATE.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for wheat shall be not less than 85 percent 
of the simple average price received by 
producers of wheat, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceding 5 crops of wheat, 
excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in which 
the average price was the lowest in the period. 
(B) STOCKS TO USE RATIO ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary estimates for any marketing 
year that the ratio of ending stocks of wheat 
to total use for the marketing year will be— 
(i) equal to or greater than 30 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for 
wheat for the corresponding crop by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent in any year; 
(ii) less than 30 percent but not less than 15 
percent, the Secretary may reduce the loan 
rate for wheat for the corresponding crop by 
an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
(iii) less than 15 percent, the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for wheat for 
the corresponding crop. 
(C) NO EFFECT ON FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction 
in the loan rate for wheat under subparagraph 
(B) shall not be considered in determining 
the loan rate for wheat for subsequent 
years. 
(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for corn shall be not less 
than 85 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of corn, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 crops 
of corn, excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3286 
Beginning on page 1–21, strike line 5 and 
all that follows through page 1–26, line 25, 
and insert the following: 

(1) WHEAT.— 
(A) LOAN RATE.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for wheat shall be not less than 90 percent 
of the simple average price received by 
producers of wheat, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceding 5 crops of wheat, 
excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in which 
the average price was the lowest in the period. 
(B) STOCKS TO USE RATIO ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary estimates for any marketing 
year that the ratio of ending stocks of wheat 
to total use for the marketing year will be— 
(i) equal to or greater than 30 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for 
wheat for the corresponding crop by an 
amount not to exceed 10 percent in any year; 
(ii) less than 30 percent but not less than 15 
percent, the Secretary may reduce the loan 
rate for wheat for the corresponding crop by 
an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
(iii) less than 15 percent, the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for wheat for 
the corresponding crop. 
(C) NO EFFECT ON FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction 
in the loan rate for wheat under subparagraph 
(B) shall not be considered in determining 
the loan rate for wheat for subsequent 
years. 
(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for corn shall be not less 
than 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of corn, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 crops 
of corn, excluding the year in which the average 
price was the highest and the year in 
which the average price was the lowest in 
the period. 
(B) STOCKS TO USE RATIO ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary estimates for any marketing 
year that the ratio of ending stocks of corn 
to total use for the marketing year will be— 
(i) equal to or greater than 25 percent, the 
Secretary may reduce the loan rate for corn 
for the corresponding crop by an amount not 
to exceed 10 percent in any year; 
(ii) less than 25 percent but not less than 
12.5 percent, the Secretary may reduce the 
loan rate for corn for the corresponding crop 
by an amount not to exceed 5 percent in any 
year; or 
(iii) less than 12.5 percent the Secretary 
may not reduce the loan rate for corn for the 
corresponding crop. 
(C) NO EFFECT ON FUTURE YEARS.—Any reduction 
in the loan rate for corn under subparagraph 
(B) shall not be considered in determining 
the loan rate for corn for subsequent 
years. 
(D) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate for 
a marketing assistance loan for grain sorghum, 
barley, and oats, respectively, shall be 
established at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the rate that loans are made available for 
corn, taking into consideration the feeding 
value of the commodity in relation to corn. 
(3) UPLAND COTTON.— 
(A) LOAN RATE.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the loan rate for a marketing assistance 
loan for upland cotton shall be established 
by the Secretary at such loan rate, per 
pound, as will reflect for the base quality of 
upland cotton, as determined by the Secretary, 
at average locations in the United 
States a rate that is not less than the smaller 
of— 
(i) 85 percent of the average price (weighted 
by market and month) of the base quality 
of cotton as quoted in the designated United 
States spot markets during 3 years of the 5-
year period ending July 31 in the year in 
which the loan rate is announced, excluding 
the year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; or 
(ii) 90 percent of the average, for the 15-
week period beginning July 1 of the year in 
which the loan rate is announced, of the 5 
lowest-priced growths of the growths quoted 
for Middling 13/32-inch cotton C.I.F. Northern 
Europe (adjusted downward by the average 
difference during the period April 15 through 
October 15 of the year in which the loan is 
announced between the average Northern 
European price quotation of such quality of 
cotton and the market quotations in the designated 
United States spot markets for the 
base quality of upland cotton), as determined 
by the Secretary. 
(B) LIMITATIONS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for upland cotton 
shall not be less than $0.50 per pound or more 
than $0.5192 per pound. 
(4) EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON.—The loan 
rate for a marketing assistance loan for 
extra long staple cotton shall be— 
(A) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of extra 
long staple cotton, as determined by the Secretary, 
during 3 years of the 5 previous marketing 
years, excluding the year in which 
the average price was the highest and the 
year in which the average price was the lowest 
in the period; but 
(B) not more than $0.7965 per pound. 
(5) RICE.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for rice shall be $6.50 per 
hundredweight. 
(6) OILSEEDS.— 
(A) SOYBEANS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for soybeans shall 
be— 
(i) 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of soybeans, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 
crops of soybeans, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 

S852 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

the year in which the average price was the 
lowest in the period; but 

(ii) not less than $4.92 per bushel. 
(B) SUNFLOWER SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND FLAXSEED.— 
The loan rates for a marketing assistance 
loan for sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, 
safflower, mustard seed, and flaxseed, individually, 
shall be— 
(i) 90 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of each such oilseed, as 
determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately preceding 
5 crops of the oilseed, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $0.087 per pound. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3287 
On page 5–10, strike line 8 and all that follows 
through line 15. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3288 
On page 1–77, strike lines 5 through 24 and 
insert the following: 
(B) by transferring sections 110, 111, 201(c), 
and 204 (7 U.S.C. 1445e, 1445f, 1446(c), and 
1446(e) to appear after section 304 of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 
1304) and redesignating the transferred sections 
as sections 305, 306, 307, and 308, respectively; 
and 

(C) by transferring sections 404 and 416 (7 
U.S.C. 1424 and 1431) to appear after section 
390 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1390) and redesignating the 
transferred sections as sections 390A and 
390B, respectively. 
(2) REPEAL.—The Agricultural Act of 1949 
(7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) (as amended by paragraph 
(1)) is repealed. 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 307 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and redesignated 
by subsection (b)(1)(B)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘204’’ and inserting ‘‘308’’. 
GREGG (AND OTHERS) 

AMENDMENT NO. 3289 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. GREGG (for himself, Mr. REID, 
Mr. SANTORUM, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) 
submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed by them to the bill S. 1541, 
supra; as follows: 

Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this Act, none of the provision dealing with 
or extending the Sugar program shall be enforced. 


THOMAS AMENDMENT NO. 3290 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. THOMAS submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


Strike Section and insert in lieu thereof 
the following: 

SEC. . SUGAR PROGRAM. 

(a) SUGARCANE.—The Secretary shall make 
loans available to processors of domestically 
grown sugarcane at a rate equal to 18 cents 
per pound of raw cane sugar. 
(b) SUGAR BEETS.—The Secretary shall 
make loans available to processors of domestically 
grown sugar beets at a rate equal to 
22.9 cents per pound for refined beet sugar. 
(c) REDUCTION IN LOAN RATES.— 
(1) REDUCTION REQUIRED.—The Secretary 
shall reduce the loan rate specified in subsection 
(a) for domestically grown sugarcane 
and subsection (b) for domestically grown 
sugar beets if the Secretary determines that 
negotiated reductions in export subsidies and 
domestic subsidies provided for sugar of the 
European Union and other major sugar growing, 
producing, and exporting countries in 
the aggregate exceed the commitments made 
as part of the Agreement on Agriculture. 

(2) EXTENT OF REDUCTION.—The Secretary 
shall not reduce the loan rate under subsection 
(a) or (b) below a rate that provides 
an equal measure of support to that provided 
by the European Union and other major 
sugar growing, producing, and exporting 
countries, based on an examination of both 
domestic and export subsidies subject to reduction 
in the Agreement on Agriculture. 
(3) ANNOUNCEMENT OF REDUCTION.—The Secretary 
shall announce any loan rate reduction 
to be made under this subsection no less 
than 36 months prior to the effective date of 
such reduction. 
(4) MAJOR SUGAR COUNTRIES DEFINED.—For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘major 
sugar growing, producing, and exporting 
countries’’ means— 
(A) the countries of the European union; 
and 
(B) the ten foreign countries not covered 
by subparagraph (A) that the Secretary determines 
produce the greatest amount of 
sugar. 
(5) AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE DEFINED.— 
For purposes of this subsection, the term 
‘‘Agreement on Agriculture’’ means the 
Agreement on Agriculture referred to in section 
101(d)(2) of the Uruguay Round Agreements 
Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(2). 
BUMPERS AMENDMENT NO. 3291 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BUMPERS submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to an amendment submitted by Mr. 
CONRAD to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


In the section relating to the Deficiency 
Payment Account and the Conservation and 
Rural America Account, strike subsection 

(a) and insert the following: 
(a) ACCOUNTS.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There are established 
in the Treasury of the United States a Deficiency 
Payment Account and a Conservation 
and Rural America Account, which shall be 
used to carry out this section, to remain 
available until expended. 
(2) ESTIMATE.—During each of fiscal years 
1996 through 2002, the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, in consultation 
with the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office, shall determine whether— 
(A) the total amount that the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office estimated, 
as of the day before the date of enactment of 
this Act, would be expended under this title 
during the period consisting of fiscal years 
1996 through 2002; exceeds 
(B) the total amount that the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office estimates, 
as of the date of the determination, will be 
expended under this title during the period 
consisting of fiscal years 1996 through 2002. 
(3) ANNUAL ROLLER OF SURPLUS.—At the 
end of each of fiscal years 1996 through 2002, 
an amount equal to— 
(A) the total amount that the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office estimated, 
as of the day before the date of enactment of 
this Act, would be expended under this title 
during the fiscal year; exceeds 
(B) the total amount that was expended 
under this title during the fiscal year; 
shall be available for obligation in the succeeding 
fiscal year. 

(4) SURPLUS.—If the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget determines that 
the current estimate exceeds the prior estimate 
as described in paragraph (2), the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall— 

(A) as soon as practicable after the determination, 
transfer— 
(i) an amount equal to 25 percent of the 
surplus to the Deficiency Payment Account; 
and 
(ii) an amount equal to 25 percent of the 
surplus to the Conservation and Rural America 
Account; and 
(B) on October 1, 2002, transfer the remaining 
amount of any surplus to the Accounts. 
BURNS (AND OTHERS) 

AMENDMENT NO. 3292 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. BURNS (for himself, Mr. GORTON, 
and Mr. CRAIG) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by them 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the end of title II, insert the following: 

SEC. 206. FOREIGN MARKET DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR 
PROGRAM. 

The Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 

U.S.C. 5601 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘TITLE VII—FOREIGN MARKET 
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR PROGRAM 

‘‘SEC. 701. DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE TRADE ORGANIZATION. 


‘‘In this title, the term ‘eligible trade organization’ 
means a United States trade organization 
that— 

‘‘(1) promotes the export of 1 or more 
United States agricultural commodities or 
products; and 

‘‘(2) does not have a business interest in or 
receive remuneration from specific sales of 
agricultural commodities or products. 

‘‘SEC. 702. FOREIGN MARKET DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR 
PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish 
and, in cooperation with eligible 
trade organizations, carry out a foreign market 
development cooperator program to 
maintain and develop foreign markets for 
United States agricultural commodities and 
products. 

‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATION.—Funds made available 
to carry out this title shall be used only 
to provide— 

‘‘(1) cost-share assistance to an eligible 
trade organization under a contract or agreement 
with the organization; and 

‘‘(2) assistance for costs that are necessary 
or appropriate to carry out the foreign market 
development cooperator program, including 
contingent liabilities that are not 
otherwise funded. 

‘‘SEC. 703. AUTHORIZATION APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out this title such sums as may be 
necessary for each of fiscal years 1996 
through 2002.’’. 

GRAIG (AND OTHERS) AMENDMENT 

NO. 3293 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. CRAIG (for himself, Mr. MACK, 
and Mr. GRAHAM) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


Strike subsection (d) of sec. 506 of the 
Craig/Leahy substitute. 

CRAIG AMENDMENT NO. 3294 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S853 

Mr. CRAIG submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. 507. NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT 
CENTER. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act is amended by 
inserting after section 363 (17 U.S.C. 2006e) 
the following: 
‘‘SEC. 364. NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT 
CENTER. 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) BOARD.—The term ‘Board’ means the 
Board of Directors established under subsection 
(f). 

‘‘(2) CENTER.—The term ‘Center’ means the 
National Sheep Industry Improvement Center 
established under subsection (b). 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible 
entity’ means an entity that promotes the 
betterment of the United States lamb or 
wool industry and that is— 

‘‘(A) a public, private, or cooperative organization; 


‘‘(B) an association, including a corporation 
not operated for profit; 

‘‘(C) a federally recognized Indian Tribe; or 

‘‘(D) a public or quasi-public agency. 

‘‘(4) FUND.—The term ‘Fund’ means the 
Natural Sheep Improvement Center Revolving 
Fund established under subsection (e). 

‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTER.—The Secretary 
shall establish a National Sheep Industry 
Improvement Center. 

‘‘(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Center 
shall be to— 

‘‘(1) promote strategic development activities 
and collaborative efforts by private and 
State entities to maximize the impact of 
Federal assistance to strengthen and enhance 
the production and marketing of lamb 
and wool in the United States; 

‘‘(2) optimize the use of available human 
capital and resources within the sheep industry; 


‘‘(3) provide assistance to meet the needs of 
the sheep industry for infrastructure development, 
business development, production, 
resource development, and market and environmental 
research; 

‘‘(4) advance activities that empower and 
build the capacity of the United States sheep 
industry to design unique responses to the 
special needs of the lamb and wool industries 
on both a regional and national basis; and 

‘‘(5) adopt flexible and innovative approaches 
to solving the long-term needs of 
the United States sheep industry. 

‘‘(d) STRATEGIC PLAN.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Center shall submit 
to the Secretary an annual strategic plan for 
the delivery of financial assistance provided 
by the Center. 

‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—A strategic plan shall 
identify— 

‘‘(A) goals, methods, and a benchmark for 
measuring the success of carrying out the 
plan and how the plan relates to the national 
and regional goals of the Center; 

‘‘(B) the amount and sources of Federal 
and non-Federal funds that are available for 
carrying out the plan; 

‘‘(C) funding priorities; 

‘‘(D) selection criteria for funding; and 

‘‘(E) a method of distributing funding. 

‘‘(e) REVOLVING FUND.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established 
in the Treasury the Natural Sheep Improvement 
Center Revolving Fund. The Fund shall 
be available to the Center, without fiscal 
year limitation, to carry out the authorized 
programs and activities of the Center under 
this section. 

‘‘(2) CONTENTS OF FUND.—There shall be deposited 
in the Fund— 

‘‘(A) such amounts as may be appropriated, 
transferred, or otherwise made available to 
support programs and activities of the Center; 


‘‘(B) payments received from any source 
for products, services, or property furnished 
in connection with the activities of the Center; 


‘‘(C) fees and royalties collected by the 
Center from licensing or other arrangements 
relating to commercialization of products 
developed through projects funded, in whole 
or part, by grants, contracts, or cooperative 
agreements executed by the Center; 

‘‘(D) proceeds from the sale of assets, 
loans, and equity interests made in furtherance 
of the purposes of the Center;; 

‘‘(E) donations or contributions accepted 
by the Center to support authorized programs 
and activities; and 

‘‘(F) any other funds acquired by the Center. 


‘‘(3) USE OF FUND.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Center may use 
amounts in the Fund to make grants and 
loans to eligible entities in accordance with 
a strategic plan submitted under subsection 
(d). 

‘‘(B) CONTINUED EXISTENCE.—The Center 
shall manage the Fund in a manner that ensures 
that sufficient amounts are available 
in the Fund to carry out subsection (c). 

‘‘(C) DIVERSE AREA.—The Center shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, use the 
Fund to serve broad geographic areas and regions 
of diverse production. 

‘‘(D) VARIETY OF LOANS AND GRANTS.—The 
Center shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
use the Fund to provide a variety of 
intermediate-and long-term grants and 
loans. 

‘‘(E) ADMINISTRATION.—The Center may not 
use more than 3 percent of the amounts in 
the Fund for a fiscal year for the administration 
of the Center. 

‘‘(F) INFLUENCING LEGISLATION.—None of 
the amounts in the Fund may be used to influence 
legislation. 

‘‘(G) ACCOUNTING.—To be eligible to receive 
amounts from the Fund, an entity must 
agree to account for the amounts using generally 
accepted accounting principles. 

‘‘(H) USES OF FUND.—The Center may use 
amounts in the Fund to— 

‘‘(i) participate with Federal and State 
agencies in financing activities that are in 
accordance with a strategic plan submitted 
under subsection (d), including participation 
with several States in a regional effort; 

‘‘(ii) participate with other public and private 
funding sources in financing activities 
that are in accordance with the strategic 
plan, including participation in a regional effort; 


‘‘(iii) provide security for, or make principle 
or interest payments on, revenue or 
general obligation bonds issued by a State, if 
the proceeds from the sale of the bonds are 
deposited in the Fund; 

‘‘(iv) accrue interest; 

‘‘(v) guarantee or purchase insurance for 
local obligations to improve credit market 
access or reduce interest rates for a project 
that is in accordance with the strategic plan; 
or 

‘‘(vi) sell assets, loans, and equity interests 
acquired in connection with the financing of 
projects funded by the Center. 

‘‘(4) LOANS.— 

‘‘(A) RATE.—A loan from the Fund may be 
made at an interest rate that is below the 
market rate or may be interest free. 

‘‘(B) TERM.—The term of a loan may not 
exceed the shorter of— 

‘‘(i) the useful life of the activity financed; 
or 

‘‘(ii) 40 years. 

‘‘(C) SOURCE OF REPAYMENT.—The Center 
may not make a loan from the Fund unless 
the recipient establishes an assured source of 
repayment. 

‘‘(D) PROCEEDS.—All payments of principal 
and interest on a loan made from the Fund 
shall be deposited into the Fund. 

‘‘(5) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—The Center 
shall use the Fund only to supplement and 
not to supplant Federal, State, and private 
funds expended for rural development. 

‘‘(6) FUNDING.— 

‘‘(A) DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.—All Federal and 
non-Federal amounts received by the Center 
to carry out this section shall be deposited 
in the Fund. 

‘‘(B) MANDATORY FUNDS.—Out of any moneys 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
provide to the Center not to exceed 
$20,000,000 to carry out this section. 

‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—In addition to 
any funds provided under subparagraph (B), 
there is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section $30,000,000 to carry out 
this section. 

‘‘(D) PRIVATIZATION.—Federal funds shall 
not be used to carry out this section beginning 
on the earlier of— 

‘‘(i) the date that is 10 years after the effective 
date of this section; or 

‘‘(ii) the day after a total of $50,000,000 is 
made available under subparagraphs (B) and 

(C) to carry out this section. 
‘‘(f) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The management of the 
Center shall be vested in a Board of Direc


tors. 

‘‘(2) POWERS.—The Board shall— 

‘‘(A) be responsible for the general supervision 
of the Center; 

‘‘(B) review any grant, loan, contract, or 
cooperative agreement to be made or entered 
into by the Center and any financial assistance 
provided to the Center; 

‘‘(C) make the final decision, by majority 
vote, on whether and how to provide assistance 
to an applicant; and 

‘‘(D) develop and establish a budget plan 
and a long-term operating plan to carry out 
the goals of the Center. 

‘‘(3) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be 
composed of— 

‘‘(A) 7 voting members, of whom— 

‘‘(i) 4 members shall be active producers of 
sheep in the United States; 

‘‘(ii) 2 members shall have expertise in finance 
and management; and 

‘‘(iii) 1 member shall have expertise in 
lamb and wool marketing; and 

‘‘(B) 2 nonvoting members, of whom— 

‘‘(i) 1 member shall be the Under Secretary 
of Agriculture for Rural Economic and Community 
Development; and 

‘‘(ii) 1 member shall be the Under Secretary 
of Agriculture for Research, Education, 
and Economics. 

‘‘(4) ELECTION.—A voting member of the 
Board shall be chosen in an election of the 
members of a national organization selected 
by the Secretary that— 

‘‘(A) consists only of sheep producers in 
the United States; and 

‘‘(B) has as the primary interest of the organization 
the production of lamb and wool 
in the United States. 

‘‘(5) TERM OF OFFICE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the term of office of a voting member of 
the Board shall be 3 years. 

‘‘(B) STAGGERED INITIAL TERMS.—The initial 
voting members of the Board (other than 
the chairperson of the initially established 
Board) shall serve for staggered terms of 1, 2, 
and 3 years, as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(C) REELECTION.—A voting member may 
be reelected for not more than 1 additional 
term. 


S854 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

‘‘(6) VACANCY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A vacancy on the Board 
shall be filled in the same manner as the 
original Board. 

‘‘(B) REELECTION.—A member elected to fill 
a vacancy for an unexpired term may be reelected 
for 1 full term. 

‘‘(7) CHAIRPERSON.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall select a 
chairperson from among the voting members 
of the Board. 

‘‘(B) TERM.—The term of office of the 
chairperson shall be 2 years. 

‘‘(8) ANNUAL MEETING.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall meet 
not less than once each fiscal year at the call 
of the chairperson or at the request of the 
executive director appointed under subsection 
(g)(1). 

‘‘(B) LOCATION.—The location of a meeting 
of the Board shall be established by the 
Board. 

‘‘(9) VOTING.— 

‘‘(A) QUORUM.—A quorum of the Board 
shall consist of a majority of the voting 
members. 

‘‘(B) MAJORITY VOTE.—A decision of the 
Board shall be made by a majority of the 
voting members of the Board. 

‘‘(10) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A member of the Board 
shall not vote on any matter respecting any 
application, contract, claim, or other particular 
matter pending before the Board in 
which, to the knowledge of the member, an 
interest is held by— 

‘‘(i) the member; 

‘‘(ii) any spouse of the member; 

‘‘(iii) any child of the member; 

‘‘(iv) any partner of the member; 

‘‘(v) any organization in which the member 
is serving as an officer, director, trustee, 
partner, or employee; or 

‘‘(vi) any person with whom the member is 
negotiating or has any arrangement concerning 
prospective employment or with 
whom the member has a financial interest. 

‘‘(B) REMOVAL.—Any action by a member 
of the Board that violates subparagraph (A) 
shall be cause for removal from the Board. 

‘‘(C) VALIDITY OF ACTION.—An action by a 
member of the Board that violates subparagraph 
(A) shall not impair or otherwise affect 
the validity of any otherwise lawful action 
by the Board. 

‘‘(D) DISCLOSURE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a member of the Board 
makes a full disclosure of an interest and, 
prior to any participation by the member, 
the Board determines, by majority vote, that 
the interest is too remote or too inconsequential 
to affect the integrity of any participation 
by the member, the member may 
participate in the matter relating to the interest. 


‘‘(ii) VOTE.—A member that discloses an 
interest under clause (i) shall not vote on a 
determination of whether the member may 
participate in the matter relating to the interest. 


‘‘(E) REMANDS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may vacate 
and remand to the Board for reconsideration 
any decision made pursuant to subsection 
(e)(3)(H) if the Secretary determines 
that there has been a violation of this paragraph 
or any conflict of interest provision of 
the bylaws of the Board with respect to the 
decision. 

‘‘(ii) REASONS.—In the case of any violation 
and remand of a funding decision to the 
Board under clause (i), the Secretary shall 
inform the Board of the reasons for the remand. 


‘‘(11) COMPENSATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A member of the Board 
shall not receive any compensation by reason 
of service on the Board. 

‘‘(B) EXPENSES.—A member of the Board 
shall be reimbursed for travel, subsistence, 
and other necessary expenses incurred by the 
member in the performance of a duty of the 
member. 

‘‘(12) BYLAWS.—The Board shall adopt, and 
may from time to time amend, any bylaw 
that is necessary for the proper management 
and functioning of the Center. 

‘‘(13) PUBLIC HEARINGS.—Not later than 1 
year after the effective date of this section, 
the Board shall hold public hearings on policy 
objectives of the program established 
under this section. 

‘‘(14) ORGANIZATIONAL SYSTEM.—The Board 
shall provide a system of organization to fix 
responsibility and promote efficiency in carrying 
out the functions of the Board. 

‘‘(15) USE OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRI-
CULTURE.—The Board may, with the consent 
of the Secretary, utilize the facilities of and 
the services of employees of the Department 
of Agriculture, without cost to the Center. 

‘‘(g) OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.— 

‘‘(1) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall appoint 
an executive director to be the chief executive 
officer of the Center. 

‘‘(B) TENURE.—The executive director shall 
serve at the pleasure of the Board. 

‘‘(C) COMPENSATION.—Compensation for the 
executive director shall be established by the 
Board. 

‘‘(2) OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.—The 
Board may select and appoint officers, attorneys, 
employees, and agents who shall be 
vested with such powers and duties as the 
Board may determine. 

‘‘(3) DELEGATION.—The Board may, by resolution, 
delegate to the chairperson, the executive 
director, or any other officer or employee 
any function, power, or duty of the 
Board other than voting on a grant, loan, 
contract, agreement, budget, or annual strategic 
plan. 

‘‘(h) CONSULTATION.—To carry out this section, 
the Board may consult with— 

‘‘(1) State departments of agriculture; 

‘‘(2) Federal departments and agencies; 

‘‘(3) nonprofit development corporations; 

‘‘(4) colleges and universities; 

‘‘(5) banking and other credit-related agencies; 


‘‘(6) agriculture and agribusiness organizations; 
and 

‘‘(7) regional planning and development organizations. 


‘‘(i) OVERSIGHT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall review 
and monitor compliance by the Board 
and the Center with this section. 

‘‘(2) SANCTIONS.—If, following notice and 
opportunity for a hearing, the Secretary 
finds that the Board or the Center is not in 
compliance with this section, the Secretary 
may— 

‘‘(A) cease making deposits to the Fund; 

‘‘(B) suspend the authority of the Center to 
withdraw funds from the Fund; or 

‘‘(C) impose other appropriate sanctions, 
including recoupment of money improperly 
expended for purposes prohibited or not authorized 
by this Act and disqualification 
from receipt of financial assistance under 
this section. 

‘‘(3) REMOVING SANCTIONS.—The Secretary 
shall remove sanctions imposed under paragraph 
(2) on a finding that there is no longer 
any failure by the Board or the Center to 
comply with this section or that the noncompliance 
shall be promptly corrected.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by subsection (a) shall become effective 
on the date of enactment of this Act. 
MCCAIN AMENDMENT NO. 3295 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. MCCAIN submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

At an appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

(a) Section 1677, the Indian Reservation 
Extension Agent Program, of P.L. 101–624, is 
reauthorized through 2002; further, once an 
Indian Reservation Extension Program has 
been determined by the Secretary of Agriculture 
to have been satisfactorily administered 
for two years, the Secretary shall implement 
a reduced re-application process for 
the continued operation of such programs, in 
order to reduce regulatory burdens on the 
participating university and tribal entities. 
(b) Before January 6, 1997, the Secretary 
shall develop and implement a formal Memorandum 
of Agreement with the 29 tribally 
controlled colleges eligible under federal law 
to receive funds from the Department as partial 
Land Grant institutions; the Memorandum 
of Agreement shall establish programs 
to ensure that tribally-controlled colleges 
and Native American communities equitably 
participate in USDA employment, 
programs, services, and resources. 
MOSELEY-BRAUN AMENDMENT NO. 

3296 

(Order to lie on the table.) 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
her to amendment No. 3184 proposed by 
Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as 
follows: 

Amend language on oilseed loan rates as 
follows: 

(A) SOYBEANS.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for soybeans shall 
be— 
(i) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of soybeans, 
as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of soybeans, excluding the 
year in which the average price was the 
highest and the year in which the average 
price was the lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $4.92 or more than $5.26 
per bushel. 
(B) SUNFLOWER SEED, CANOLA, RAPESEED, 
SAFFLOWER, MUSTARD SEED, AND 
FLAXSEED.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for sunflower seed, canola, 
rapeseed, safflower, mustard seed, and 
flaxseed, individually, shall be— 
(i) not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of these 
oilseeds, individually, as determined by the 
Secretary, during the marketing years for 
the immediately preceding 5 crops of these 
oilseeds, individually, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 
the year in which the average prices was the 
lowest in the period; but 
(ii) not less than $0.087 or more than $0.093 
per pound. 
(c) OTHER OILSEEDS.—The loan rates for a 
marketing assistance loan for other oilseeds 
shall be established at such level as the Secretary 
determines is fair and reasonable in 
relation to the loan rate available for soybeans, 
except in no event shall the rate for 
the oilseeds (other than cottonseed) be less 
than the rate established for soybeans on a 
per-pound basis for the same crop. 
KERREY AMENDMENT NO. 3297 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. KERREY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 



February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S855 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


(c) REPAYMENT OF COST SHARING AND 
OTHER PAYMENTS.—Section 1235(d)(1) of the 
Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 
3835(d)(1)) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting a semicolon; 
and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) in the case of a contract with respect 
to which 5 years of less or the contract term 
have elapsed, the owner or operator agrees to 
repay all cost sharing, rental, and other payments 
made by the Secretary under the contract 
and section 1234; and 

‘‘(D) in the case of a contract with respect 
to which more than 5 years but less than 8 
years of the contract term have elapsed, the 
owner or operator agrees to repay all cost 
sharing payments made by the Secretary 
under the contract and section 1234(b).’’. 

KERREY (AND EXON) AMENDMENT 

NO. 3298 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KERREY (for himself and Mr. 
EXON) submitted an amendment intended 
to be proposed by him to 
amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
Leahy to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. 353. STATE TECHNICAL COMMITTEES. 

Subtitle G of title XII of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 2861 et seq.) is amended 
to read as follows: 

‘‘Subtitle G—State Technical Committees 

‘‘SEC. 1261. ESTABLISHMENT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish 
in each State a State technical committee 
to assist the Secretary in the technical 
considerations relating to implementation 
of the conservation provisions under 
this title. 

‘‘(b) COORDINATION.—Each State technical 
committee shall be coordinated by the State 
Conservationist of the Natural Resources 
Conservation Service. 

‘‘(c) COMPOSITION.—Each technical committee 
shall be composed of persons with relevant 
expertise that represent a variety of 
disciplines in the soil, water, wetland, and 
wildlife and social sciences, including representatives 
of— 

‘‘(1) the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service; 

‘‘(2) the Farm Service Agency; 

‘‘(3) the Forest Service; 

‘‘(4) the Cooperative State Research, Education 
and Extension Service; 

‘‘(5) the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service; 

‘‘(6) the Environmental Protection Agency; 

‘‘(7) the United States Geological Service; 

‘‘(8) State departments and agencies that 
the Secretary considers appropriate, including— 


‘‘(A) the State fish and wildlife agency; 

‘‘(B) the State forester or equivalent State 
official; 

‘‘(C) the State water resources agency; 

‘‘(D) the State department of agriculture; 
and 

‘‘(E) the State association of soil and water 
conservation districts, or natural resources 
districts; 

‘‘(9) agricultural producers utilizing a 
range of conservation farming systems and 
practices; 

‘‘(10) other nonprofit organizations with 
demonstrable expertise; 

‘‘(11) persons knowledgeable about the economic 
and environmental impact of conservation 
techniques and programs; and 

‘‘(12) agribusiness. 

‘‘SEC. 1262. RESPONSIBILITIES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) MEETINGS.—Each State technical committee 
shall meet regularly to provide information, 
analysis, and recommendations to 
the Secretary regarding implementation of 
conservation provisions and programs. 

‘‘(2) MANNER.—The information, analysis, 
and recommendations shall be provided in a 
manner that will assist the Department of 
Agriculture in determining conservation priorities 
for the State and matters of fact, 
technical merit, or scientific question. 

‘‘(3) BEST INFORMATION AND JUDGMENT.—Information, 
analysis, and recommendations 
shall be provided in writing and shall reflect 
the best information and judgment of the 
committee. 

‘‘(b) OTHER DUTIES.—Each State technical 
committee shall provide assistance and offer 
recommendations with respect to the technical 
aspects of— 

‘‘(1) wetland protection, restoration and 
mitigation requirements; 

‘‘(2) criteria to be used in evaluating bids 
for enrollment of environmentally sensitive 
lands in the conservation reserve program; 

‘‘(3) guidelines for haying or grazing and 
the control of weeds to protect nesting wildlife 
on setaside acreage; 

‘‘(4) addressing common weed and pest 
problems and programs to control weeds and 
pests found on acreage enrolled in the conservation 
reserve program; 

‘‘(5) guidelines for planting perennial cover 
for water quality and wildlife habitat improvement 
on set-aside lands; 

‘‘(6) criteria and guidelines to be used in 
evaluating petitions by farmers to test conservation 
practices and systems not currently 
covered in Field Office Technical 
Guides; 

‘‘(7) identification, prioritization, and coordination 
of Water Quality Incentives Program 
initiatives in the State; and 

‘‘(8) other matters determined appropriate 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(c) AUTHORITY.— 

‘‘(1) NO ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—Each 
State technical committee is advisory and 
shall have no implementation or enforcement 
authority. 

‘‘(2) CONSIDERATION.—The Secretary shall 
give strong consideration to the recommendations 
of State technical committees 
in administering the program under this 
title, and to any factual, technical, or scientific 
finding of a committee.’’. 

FORD (AND OTHERS) 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 3299–3302 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. FORD (for himself, Mr. HELMS, 
Mr. FAIRCLOTH, Mr. WARNER, Mr. ROBB, 
and Mr. MCCONNELL) submitted by Mr. 
BROWN to amendment No. 3184 proposed 
by Mr. LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; 
as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3299 
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . ELIMINATION OF FEDERAL BUDGETARY 

OUT-LAYS FOR TOBACCO PRO


GRAMS. 

Section 315(g)(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and re-
designated by section 110(b)(1)(A) is amended— 


(1) by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(2) by inserting after ‘‘equal to’’ the following 
‘‘a pro rata share of the total amount 
of the costs of other Department of Agriculture 
programs related to tobacco production 
or processing that are not required to be 
covered by user fees or by contributions or 
assessments under section 315A(d)(1) or 
315B(d)(1), but in no event less than’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3300 
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert the following. 

SEC. . ELIMINATION OF FEDERAL BUDGETARY 

OUT-LAYS FOR TOBACCO PRO


GRAMS. 

Section 315(g)(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and re-
designated by section 110(b)(1)(A)) is amended— 


(1) by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(2) by inserting after ‘‘equal to’’ the following: 
‘‘a pro rata share of the total amount 
of the costs of other Department of Agriculture 
programs related to tobacco production 
or processing that are not required to be 
covered by user fees or by contributions or 
assessments under section 315A(d)(1) or 
315B(d)(1), but in no event less than’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3301 
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . ELIMINATION OF FEDERAL BUDGETARY 

OUT-LAYS FOR TOBACCO PRO


GRAMS. 

Section 315(g)(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and re-
designated by section 110(b)(1)(A)) is amended— 


(1) by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(2) by inserting after ‘‘equal’’ to the following: 
‘‘a pro rata share of the total amount 
of the costs of other Department of Agriculture 
programs related to tobacco production 
or processing that are not required to be 
covered by user fees or by contributions or 
assessments under section 315A(d)(1) or 
315B(d)(1), but in no event less than’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3302 
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . ELIMINATION OF FEDERAL BUDGETARY 

OUT-LAYS FOR TOBACCO PRO


GRAMS. 

Section 315(g)(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (as transferred and re-
designated by section 110(b)(1)(A)) is amended— 


(1) by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
and 
(2) by inserting after ‘‘equal’’ to the following: 
‘‘a pro rata share of the total amount 
of the costs of other Department of Agriculture 
programs related to tobacco production 
or processing that are not required to be 
covered by user fees or by contributions or 
assessments under section 315A(d)(1) or 
315B(d)(1), but in no event less than’’. 
COCHRAN AMENDMENT NO. 3303 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. COCHRAN submitted an amendment 
to amendment No. 3138 submitted 
by Mr. CONRAD to the bill S. 1541, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end insert the following: 

SEC. . WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVES PROGRAM. 


The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation 
with the State Technical Committee, 
shall establish a program within the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service to be known 
as the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program. 
The program shall make cost-share payments 
to landowners to develop upland wildlife, 
wetland wildlife, threatened and endangered 
species, fisheries, and other types of 


S856 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

wildlife habitat approved by the Secretary. 
To carry out this section, $10,000,000 for each 
of the fiscal years 1996 through 2002, shall be 
made available from the program authorized 
by subchapter B of Chapter 1 of Subtitle D of 
title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985. 

COCHRAN AMENDMENT NO. 3304 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. COCHRAN submitted an amendment 
to amendment No. 3135 submitted 
by Mr. CONRAD to the bill S. 1541, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end insert the following: 

SEC. . WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVES PROGRAM. 


The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation 
with the State Technical Committee, 
shall establish a program within the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service to be known 
as the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program. 
The program shall make cost-share payments 
to landowners to develop upland wildlife, 
wetland wildlife, threatened and endangered 
species, fisheries, and other types of 
wildlife habitat approved by the Secretary. 
To carry out this section, $10,000,000 for each 
of the fiscal years 1996 through 2002, shall be 
made available from the program authorized 
by subchapter B of Chapter 1 of Subtitle D of 
title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985. 

COCHRAN AMENDMENT NO. 3305 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. COCHRAN submitted an amendment 
to amendment No. 3136 submitted 
by Mr. CONRAD to the bill S. 1541, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end insert the following: 

SEC. . WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM. 


The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation 
with the State Technical Committee, 
shall establish a program within the Natural 
Resources Conservation Service to be known 
as the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program. 
The program shall make cost-share payments 
to landowners to develop upland wildlife, 
wetland wildlife, threatened and endangered 
species, fisheries, and other types of 
wildlife habitat approved by the Secretary. 
To carry out this section, $10,000,000 for each 
of the fiscal years 1996 through 2002, shall be 
made available from the program authorized 
by subchapter B of Chapter 1 of Subtitle D of 
title VII of the Food Security Act of 1985. 

HELMS AMENDMENTS NOS. 3306– 

3308 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. HELMS submitted three amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 3306 
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert: 

SEC. . CHANGES TO ELIMINATE FEDERAL BUDG


ETARY OUTLAYS FOR TOBACCO PRO


GRAMS. 

(a) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 106A OF THE AGRICULTURAL 
ACT OF 1949.—Section 106A of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445–1) is 
amended by— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) striking out ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(6) 
(B) striking out the period at the end of 
paragraph (7) and inserting in lieu thereof ’’; 
and’’; and 
(C) adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(8) the term ‘programs related to tobacco 
production or processing’ means extension 

pest management projects, economic forecasting 
and projections, market news services, 
and crop insurance payments and activities 
as they are implemented with respect 
to tobacco production or processing; 
administrative expenses of the Consolidated 
Farm Services Agency in administering the 
tobacco programs operated under the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 and this Act; 
and any other program of the Department of 
Agriculture so designated by the Secretary.’’; 


(2) inserting immediately before the semicolon 
at the end of subsection (d)(1) the following: 
‘‘and (effective beginning with fiscal 
year 1996) to cover the costs of programs related 
to tobacco production or processing’’; 
and 
(3) in subsection (d)(5), inserting ‘‘and (effective 
beginning with fiscal year 1996) to 
cover the costs of programs related to tobacco 
production or processing’’ immediately 
after ‘‘under paragraph (5)’’. 
(b) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 106B OF THE AGRICULTURAL 
ACT OF 1949.—Section 106B of the 
Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445–2) is 
amended by— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) striking out ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(7); 
(B) striking out the period at the end of 
paragraph (8) and inserting in lieu thereof ‘‘; 
and’’; and 
(C) adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(9) the term ‘programs related to tobacco 
production or processing’ means extension 
pest management projects, economic forecasting 
and projections, market news services, 
and crop insurance payments and activities 
as they are implemented with respect 
to tobacco production or processing; 
administrative expenses of the Consolidated 
Farm Services Agency in administering the 
tobacco programs operated under the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 and this Act; 
and any other program of the Department of 
Agriculture so designated by the Secretary.’’; 


(2) in subsection (d)(2)(A), inserting immediately 
before the period at the end of the 
fourth sentence the following: ‘‘and (effective 
beginning with fiscal year 1996) to cover 
the costs of programs related to tobacco production 
or processing’’; and 
(3) in subsection (e), inserting ‘‘and (effective 
beginning with fiscal year 1996) to cover 
the costs of programs related to tobacco production 
or processing’’ immediately before 
the period at the end. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3307 
Strike all after the first word and insert 
the following: 

SEC. . REDUCTION FOR CERTAIN OFFERS FROM 
HANDLERS. 

The Secretary of Agriculture shall reduce 
the loan rate for quota peanuts by 5 percent 
for any producer who had an offer from a 
handler, at the time and place of delivery, to 
purchase quota peanuts from the farm on 
which the peanuts were produced at a price 
equal to or greater than the applicable loan 
rate for quota peanuts. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3308 
Strike all after the first word and insert 
the following: 

SEC. . LOSSES IN PEANUT QUOTA LOAN POOLS. 

(a) OFFSET WITHIN AREA.—After transfers 
from additional loan pools and reducing the 
gain of any producer by the amount of pool 
gains attributed to the producer from the 
sale of additional peanuts, further losses in 
an area quota pool for peanuts shall be offset 
by any gains or profits from additional peanuts 
(other than separate type pools established 
for Valencia peanuts produced in New 
Mexico) owned or controlled by the Commodity 
Credit Corporation in that area and 
sold for domestic edible use, in accordance 
with regulations issued by the Secretary of 
Agriculture. 

(b) OFFSET GENERALLY.—If losses in an 
area quota pool have not been entirely offset 
under subsection (a), further losses shall be 
offset by any gains or profits from additional 
peanuts (other than separate type pools established 
for Valencia peanuts produced in 
New Mexico) owned or controlled by the 
Commodity Credit Corporation and sold for 
domestic edible use, in accordance with regulations 
issued by the Secretary. 
KERREY AMENDMENT NO. 3309 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. KERREY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert: ‘‘in consultation 
with the State Technical Committee’’ 
after ‘‘Secretary’’. 

CONRAD AMENDMENTS NOS. 3310– 
3311 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. CONRAD submitted two amendments 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendments submitted by him to 
the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 3310 
Beginning on page 1, strike line 4 and all 
that follows through page 2, line 25, and insert 
the following: 

(1) WHEAT.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for wheat shall be not less 
than 85 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of wheat, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 
crops of wheat, excluding the year in which 
the average price was the highest and the 
year in which the average price was the lowest 
in the period. 
(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistance loan for corn 
shall be not less than 85 percent of the simple 
average price received by producers of 
corn, as determined by the Secretary, during 
the marketing years for the immediately 
preceding 5 crops of corn, excluding the year 
in which the average price was the highest 
and the year in which the average price was 
the lowest in the period. 
(B) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate for 
a marketing assistance loan for grain sorghum, 
barley, and oats, respectively, shall be 
established at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the rate that loans are made available for 
corn, taking into consideration the feeding 
value of the commodity in relation to corn. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3311 
Beginning on page 1, strike line 4 and all 
that follows through page 2, line 25, and insert 
the following: 

(1) WHEAT.—The loan rate for a marketing 
assistance loan for wheat shall be not less 
than 85 percent of the simple average price 
received by producers of wheat, as determined 
by the Secretary, during the marketing 
years for the immediately preceding 5 
crops of wheat, excluding the year in which 
the average price was the highest and the 
year in which the average price was the lowest 
in the period. 

February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S857 

(2) FEED GRAINS.— 
(A) LOAN RATE FOR CORN.—The loan rate 
for a marketing assistant loan for corn shall 
be not less than 85 percent of the simple average 
price received by producers of corn, as 
determined by the Secretary, during the 
marketing years for the immediately preceding 
5 crops of corn, excluding the year in 
which the average price was the highest and 
the year in which the average price was the 
lowest in the period. 
(B) OTHER FEED GRAINS.—The loan rate for 
a marketing assistance loan for grain sorghum, 
barley, and oats, respectively, shall be 
established at such level as the Secretary determines 
is fair and reasonable in relation to 
the rate that loans are made available for 
corn, taking into consideration the feeding 
value of the commodity in relation to corn. 
HELMS AMENDMENT NO. 3312 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 
Mr. HELMS submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to amendment No. 3184 proposed by Mr. 
LEAHY to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 
On page 1–50, between lines 21 and 22, insert 
the following: 

(5) REDUCTION FOR CERTAIN OFFERS FROM 
HANDLERS.—The Secretary shall reduce the 
loan rate for quota peanuts by 5 percent for 
any producer who had an offer from a handler, 
at the time and place of delivery, to 
purchase quota peanuts from the farm on 
which the peanuts were produced at a price 
equal to or greater than the applicable loan 
rate for quota peanuts. 
On page 1–55, strike lines 4 through 23 and 
insert the following: 

(3) OFFSET WITHIN AREA.—Further losses in 
an area quota pool shall be offset by any 
gains or profits from additional peanuts 
(other than separate type pools established 
under subsection (c)(2)(A) for Valencia peanuts 
produced in New Mexico) owned or controlled 
by the Commodity Credit Corporation 
in that area and sold for domestic edible 
use, in accordance with regulations issued by 
the Secretary. 
(4) USE OF MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall use funds collected under 
subsection (g) (except funds attributable to 
handlers) to offset further losses in area 
quota pools. The Secretary shall transfer to 
the Treasury those funds collected under 
subsection (g) and available for use under 
this subsection that the Secretary determines 
are not required to cover losses in 
area quota pools. 
(5) CROSS COMPLIANCE.—Further losses in 
area quota pools, other than losses incurred 
as a result of transfers from additional loan 
pools to quota loan pools under section 358– 
1(b)(8) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 
1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b)(8)), shall be offset by 
any gains or profits from quota pools in 
other production areas (other than separate 
type pools established under subsection 
(c)(2)(A) for Valencia peanuts produced in 
New Mexico) in such manner as the Secretary 
shall by regulation prescribe. 
(6) OFFSET GENERALLY.—If losses in an area 
quota pool have not been entirely offset 
under paragraph (3), further losses shall be 
offset by any gains or profits from additional 
peanuts (other than separate type pools established 
under subsection (c)(2)(A) for Valencia 
peanuts produced in New Mexico) 
owned or controlled by the Commodity Credit 
Corporation and sold for domestic edible 
use, in accordance with regulations issued by 
the Secretary. The authorities provided in 
the preceeding paragraphs is not sufficient 
to cover losses in an area quota pool. The 
Secretary shall increase the marketing assessment 
established under subsection (g) by 
such an amount as the Secretary considers 
necessary to cover the losses. The increased 
assessment shall apply to quota peanuts in 
the production area covered by the pool. 

SEC. 106. PEANUT PROGRAM. 

(a) QUOTA PEANUTS.— 
(1) AVAILABILITY OF LOANS.—The Secretary 
shall make nonrecourse loans available to 
producers of quota peanuts. 
(2) LOAN RATE.—The national average 
quota loan rate for quota peanuts shall be 
$610 per ton. 
(3) INSPECTION, HANDLING, OR STORAGE.— 
The loan amount may not be reduced by the 
Secretary by any deductions for inspection, 
handling, or storage. 
(4) LOCATION AND OTHER FACTORS.—The 
Secretary may make adjustments in the loan 
rate for quota peanuts for location of peanuts 
and such other factors as are authorized 
by section 411 of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938. 
(b) ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
nonrecourse loans available to producers of 
additional peanuts at such rates as the Secretary 
finds appropriate, taking into consideration 
the demand for peanut oil and peanut 
meal, expected prices of other vegetable 
oils and protein meals, and the demand for 
peanuts in foreign markets. 
(2) ANNOUNCEMENT.—The Secretary shall 
announce the loan rate for additional peanuts 
of each crop not later than February 15 
preceding the marketing year for the crop 
for which the loan rate is being determined. 
(c) AREA MARKETING ASSOCIATIONS.— 
(1) WAREHOUSE STORAGE LOANS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out subsections 
(a) and (b), the Secretary shall 
make warehouse storage loans available in 
each of the producing areas (described in section 
1446.95 of title 7 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations (January 1, 1989)) to a designated 
area marketing association of peanut 
producers that is selected and approved 
by the Secretary and that is operated primarily 
for the purpose of conducting the 
loan activities. The Secretary may not make 
warehouse storage loans available to any cooperative 
that is engaged in operations or 
activities concerning peanuts other than 
those operations and activities specified in 
this section and section 358e of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359a). 
(B) ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPERVISORY AC-
TIVITIES.—An area marketing association 
shall be used in administrative and supervisory 
activities relating to loans and marketing 
activities under this section and section 
358e of the Agricultural Adjustment Act 
of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359a). 
(C) ASSOCIATION COSTS.—Loans made to the 
association under this paragraph shall include 
such costs as the area marketing association 
reasonably may incur in carrying out 
the responsibilities, operations, and activities 
of the association under this section and 
section 358e of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359a). 
(2) POOLS FOR QUOTA AND ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall require 
that each area marketing association 
establish pools and maintain complete and 
accurate records by area and segregation for 
quota peanuts handled under loan and for additional 
peanuts placed under loan, except 
that separate pools shall be established for 
Valencia peanuts produced in New Mexico. 
(B) ELIGIBILITY TO PARTICIPATE.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clause (ii), in the case of the 1996 and subsequent 
crops, Valencia peanuts not physically 
produced in the State of New Mexico shall 
not be eligible to participate in the pools of 
the State. 
(ii) EXCEPTION.—A resident of the State of 
New Mexico may enter Valencia peanuts 
that are produced outside of the State into 
the pools of the State in a quantity that is 
not greater than the 1995 crop of the resident. 
(C) TYPES OF PEANUTS.—Bright hull and 
dark hull Valencia peanuts shall be considered 
as separate types for the purpose of establishing 
the pools. 
(D) NET GAINS.—Net gains on peanuts in 
each pool, unless otherwise approved by the 
Secretary, shall be distributed only to producers 
who placed peanuts in the pool and 
shall be distributed in proportion to the 
value of the peanuts placed in the pool by 
each producer. Net gains for peanuts in each 
pool shall consist of the following: 
(i) QUOTA PEANUTS.—For quota peanuts, 
the net gains over and above the loan indebtedness 
and other costs or losses incurred on 
peanuts placed in the pool. 
(ii) ADDITIONAL PEANUTS.—For additional 
peanuts, the net gains over and above the 
loan indebtedness and other costs or losses 
incurred on peanuts placed in the pool for 
additional peanuts. 
(d) LOSSES.—Losses in quota area pools 
shall be covered using the following sources 
in the following order of priority: 
(1) TRANSFERS FROM ADDITIONAL LOAN 
POOLS.—The proceeds due any producer from 
any pool shall be reduced by the amount of 
any loss that is incurred with respect to peanuts 
transferred from an additional loan pool 
to a quota loan pool by the producer under 
section 358–1(b)(8) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b)(8)). 
(2) OTHER PRODUCERS IN SAME POOL.—Further 
losses in an area quota pool shall be offset 
by reducing the gain of any producer in 
the pool by the amount of pool gains attributed 
to the same producer from the sale of 
additional peanuts for domestic and export 
edible use. 
(4) USE OF MARKETING ASSESSMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall use funds collected under 
subsection (g) (except funds attributable to 
handlers) to offset further losses in area 
quota pools. The Secretary shall transfer to 
the Treasury those funds collected under 
subsection (g) and available for use under 
this subsection that the Secretary determines 
are not required to cover losses in 
area quota pools. 
(6) INCREASED ASSESSMENTS.—If use of the 
authorities provided in the preceding paragraphs 
is not sufficient to cover losses in an 
area quota pool, the Secretary shall increase 
the marketing assessment established under 
subsection (g) by such an amount as the Secretary 
considers necessary to cover the 
losses. The increased assessment shall apply 
only to quota peanuts in the production area 
covered by the pool. Amounts collected 
under subsection (g) as a result of the increased 
assessment shall be retained by the 
Secretary to cover losses in that pool. 
(e) DISAPPROVAL OF QUOTAS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, no loan 
for quota peanuts may be made available by 
the Secretary for any crop of peanuts with 
respect to which poundage quotas have been 
disapproved by producers, as provided for in 
section 358–1(d) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(d)). 
(f) QUALITY IMPROVEMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to peanuts 
under loan, the Secretary shall— 
(A) promote the crushing of peanuts at a 
greater risk of deterioration before peanuts 
of a lesser risk of deterioration; 
(B) ensure that all Commodity Credit Corporation 
inventories of peanuts sold for domestic 
edible use must be shown to have 
been officially inspected by licensed Department 
inspectors both as farmer stock and 
shelled or cleaned in-shell peanuts; 

S858 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

(C) continue to endeavor to operate the 
peanut program so as to improve the quality 
of domestic peanuts and ensure the coordination 
of activities under the Peanut Administrative 
Committee established under Marketing 
Agreement No. 146, regulating the 
quality of domestically produced peanuts 
(under the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted with amendments 
by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement 
Act of 1937); and 
(D) ensure that any changes made in the 
peanut program as a result of this subsection 
requiring additional production or handling 
at the farm level shall be reflected as an upward 
adjustment in the Department loan 
schedule. 
(2) EXPORTS AND OTHER PEANUTS.—The Secretary 
shall require that all peanuts in the 
domestic and export markets fully comply 
with all quality standards under Marketing 
Agreement No. 146.
(g) MARKETING ASSESSMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
for a nonrefundable marketing assessment. 
The assessment shall be made on a per 
pound basis in an amount equal to 1.1 percent 
for each of the 1994 and 1995 crops, 1.15 
percent for the 1996 crop, and 1.2 percent for 
each of the 1997 through 2002 crops, of the national 
average quota or additional peanut 
loan rate for the applicable crop. 
(2) FIRST PURCHASERS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided under 
paragraphs (3) and (4), the first purchaser of 
peanuts shall— 
(i) collect from the producer a marketing 
assessment equal to the quantity of peanuts 
acquired multiplied by— 
(I) in the case of each of the 1994 and 1995 
crops, .55 percent of the applicable national 
average loan rate; 
(II) in the case of the 1996 crop, .6 percent 
of the applicable national average loan rate; 
and 
(III) in the case of each of the 1997 through 
2002 crops, .65 percent of the applicable national 
average loan rate; 
(ii) pay, in addition to the amount collected 
under clause (i), a marketing assessment 
in an amount equal to the quantity of 
peanuts acquired multiplied by .55 percent of 
the applicable national average loan rate; 
and 
(iii) remit the amounts required under 
clauses (i) and (ii) to the Commodity Credit 
Corporation in a manner specified by the 
Secretary. 
(B) DEFINITION OF FIRST PURCHASER.—In 
this subsection, the term ‘‘first purchaser’’ 
means a person acquiring peanuts from a 
producer except that in the case of peanuts 
forfeited by a producer to the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the term means the person 
acquiring the peanuts from the Commodity 
Credit Corporation. 
(3) OTHER PRIVATE MARKETINGS.—In the 
case of a private marketing by a producer directly 
to a consumer through a retail or 
wholesale outlet or in the case of a marketing 
by the producer outside of the continental 
United States, the producer shall be 
responsible for the full amount of the assessment 
and shall remit the assessment by such 
time as is specified by the Secretary. 
(4) LOAN PEANUTS.—In the case of peanuts 
that are pledged as collateral for a loan 
made under this section, 1/2 of the assessment 
shall be deducted from the proceeds of the 
loan. The remainder of the assessment shall 
be paid by the first purchaser of the peanuts. 
For purposes of computing net gains on peanuts 
under this section, the reduction in 
loan proceeds shall be treated as having been 
paid to the producer. 
(5) PENALTIES.—If any person fails to collect 
or remit the reduction required by this 
subsection or fails to comply with the requirements 
for recordkeeping or otherwise as 
are required by the Secretary to carry out 
this subsection, the person shall be liable to 
the Secretary for a civil penalty up to an 
amount determined by multiplying— 

(A) the quantity of peanuts involved in the 
violation; by 
(B) the national average quota peanut rate 
for the applicable crop year. 
(6) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary may enforce 
this subsection in the courts of the 
United States. 
(h) CROPS.—Subsections (a) through (f) 
shall be effective only for the 1996 through 
2002 crops of peanuts.
(i) MARKETING QUOTAS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Part VI of subtitle B of 
title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act 
of 1938 is amended— 
(A) in section 358–1 (7 U.S.C. 1358–1)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1991 THROUGH 1997 CROPS OF’’; 
(ii) in subsections (a)(1), (b)(1)(B), (b)(2)(A), 
(b)(2)(C), and (b)(3)(A), by striking ‘‘of the 
1991 through 1997 marketing years’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘marketing 
year’’; 

(iii) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ‘‘1990’’ 
and inserting ‘‘1990, for the 1991 through 1995 
marketing years, and 1995, for the 1996 
through 2002 marketing years’’; 
(iv) in subsection (b)(1)(A)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘each of the 1991 through 
1997 marketing years’’ and inserting ‘‘each 
marketing year’’; and 
(II) in clause (i), by inserting before the 
semicolon the following: ‘‘, in the case of the 
1991 through 1995 marketing years, and the 
1995 marketing year, in the case of the 1996 
through 2002 marketing years’’; and 
(v) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘1997’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(B) in section 358b (7 U.S.C. 1358b)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘1991 THROUGH 1995 CROPS OF’’; and 
(ii) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘1995’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2002’’; 
(C) in section 358c(d) (7 U.S.C. 1358c(d)), by 
striking ‘‘1995’’ and inserting ‘‘2002’’; and 
(D) in section 358e (7 U.S.C. 1359a)— 

(i) in the section heading, by striking 
‘‘FOR 1991 THROUGH 1997 CROPS OF PEANUTS’’; 
AND 

(ii) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘1997’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2002’’. 
(2) ELIMINATION OF QUOTA FLOOR.—Section 
358–1(a)(1) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(a)(1)) is 
amended by striking the second sentence. 
(3) TEMPORARY QUOTA ALLOCATION.—Section 
358–1 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1358–1) is 
amended— 
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘domestic 
edible, seed,’’ and inserting ‘‘domestic 
edible use’’; 
(B) in subsection (b)(2)— 
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘subparagraph 
(B) and subject to’’; and 
(ii) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(B) TEMPORARY QUOTA ALLOCATION.— 

‘‘(i) ALLOCATION RELATED TO SEED PEANUTS.—
Temporary allocation of quota 
pounds for the marketing year only in which 
the crop is planted shall be made to producers 
for each of the 1996 through 2002 marketing 
years as provided in this subparagraph. 


‘‘(ii) QUANTITY.—The temporary quota allocation 
shall be equal to the pounds of seed 
peanuts planted on the farm, as may be adjusted 
under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary. 

‘‘(iii) ADDITIONAL QUOTA.—The temporary 
allocation of quota pounds under this paragraph 
shall be in addition to the farm poundage 
quota otherwise established under this 
subsection and shall be credited, for the applicable 
marketing year only, in total to the 
producer of the peanuts on the farm in a 
manner prescribed by the Secretary. 

‘‘(iv) EFFECT OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS.— 
Nothing in this section alters or changes the 
requirements regarding the use of quota and 
additional peanuts established by section 
358e(b).’’; and 

(C) in subsection (e)(3), strike ‘‘and seed 
and use on a farm’’. 
(4) UNDERMARKETINGS.—Part VI of subtitle 
B of title III of the Act is amended— 
(A) in section 358–1(b) (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b))— 

(i) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking 
‘‘including—’’ and clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting 
‘‘including any increases resulting 
from the allocation of quotas voluntarily released 
for 1 year under paragraph (7).’’; 
(ii) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ‘‘include—’’ 
and clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting 
‘‘include any increase resulting from the allocation 
of quotas voluntarily released for 1 
year under paragraph (7).’’; and 
(iii) by striking paragraphs (8) and (9); and 
(B) in section 358b(a) (7 U.S.C. 1358b(a))— 
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(including 
any applicable under marketings)’’ both 
places it appears; 
(ii) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘of 
undermarketings and’’; 
(iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘(including 
any applicable under marketings)’’; and 
(iv) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘(including 
any applicable undermarketings)’’. 
(5) DISASTER TRANSFERS.—Section 358–1(b) 
of the Act (7 U.S.C. 1358–1(b)), as amended by 
paragraph (4)(A)(iii), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(8) DISASTER TRANSFERS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), additional peanuts produced 
on a farm from which the quota 
poundage was not harvested and marketed 
because of drought, flood, or any other natural 
disaster, or any other condition beyond 
the control of the producer, may be transferred 
to the quota loan pool for pricing purposes 
on such basis as the Secretary shall by 
regulation provide. 

‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—The poundage of peanuts 
transferred under subparagraph (A) shall not 
exceed the difference between— 

‘‘(i) the total quantity of peanuts meeting 
quality requirements for domestic edible 
use, as determined by the Secretary, marketed 
from the farm; and 

‘‘(ii) the total farm poundage quota, excluding 
quota pounds transferred to the farm 
in the fall. 

‘‘(C) SUPPORT RATE.—Peanuts transferred 
under this paragraph shall be supported at 
not more than 70 percent of the quota support 
rate for the marketing years in which 
the transfers occur. The transfers for a farm 
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total farm 
quota pounds, excluding pounds transferred 
in the fall.’’. 

MCCONNELL AMENDMENT NO. 3313 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. MCCONNELL submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert the following: 
‘‘Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, tobacco marketing assessments 
required to be collected for budget deficit reduction 
purposes shall be used first to offset 
any administrative expenses that are incurred 
in carrying out the tobacco price support 
and production adjustment program to 
the extent that such costs are not otherwise 
subject to reimbursement under other assessments 
specific to tobacco.’’ 

GRAHAM AMENDMENT NO. 3314 
(Ordered to lie on the table.) 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S859 

Mr. GRAHAM submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1541, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SECTION 1. SUBJECTION OF IMPORTED TOMATOES 
TO PACKING REQUIREMENTS. 

Section 8e(a) of the Agricultural Adjustment 
Act (7 U.S.C. 608e–1(a)), reenacted with 
amendments by the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937, is amended— 

(1) in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘or maturity’’ and inserting 
‘‘, maturity, or (with respect to tomatoes) 
packing’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘and maturity’’ and inserting 
‘‘maturity, and (with respect to tomatoes) 
packing’’; and 
(2) in the second sentence by striking ‘‘and 
maturity’’ and inserting ‘‘maturity, and 
(with respect to tomatoes) packing’’. 
f 

CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL 
LEGISLATION 

FAIRCLOTH AMENDMENT NO. 3315 
Mr. DOLE (for Mr. FAIRCLOTH) proposed 
an amendment to the bill (H.R. 
2657) to award a congressional gold 
medal to Ruth and Billy Graham; as 
follows: 
On page 4, following the period on line 7, 
strike all that follows: 

f 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES 

Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Armed Services be authorized 
to meet at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, 
February 1, 1996, to consider the nomination 
of Gen. Henry H. Shelton, USA 
for appointment to the grade of general 
and to be commander in chief, U.S. 
Special Operations Command and Lt. 
Gen. Eugene E. Habiger, USAF for appointment 
to the grade of general and 
to be commander in chief, U.S. Strategic 
Command. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION 

Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Rules and Administration be 
authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Thursday, February 1, 
1996, beginning at 9 a.m. until business 
is completed, to hold a hearing on campaign 
finance reform. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE 

Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Select 
Committee on Intelligence be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Thursday, February 1, 1996, 
at 2 p.m. to hold a closed hearing on intelligence 
matters. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

LIMITING STATE TAXATION OF 

CERTAIN PENSION INCOME—H.R. 

394 

S Mr. D’AMATO. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to support this bill and would 
like to clarify that the language contained 
in the proposed legislation adds 
to the types of retirement income eligible 
for exemption. This language 
clearly intends to exempt from tax 
nonqualified deferred compensation 
that constitutes legitimate retirement 
income. Because it affects retirement 
income, only income form qualified retirement 
plans and nonqualified retirement 
plans that are paid out over at 
least 10 years, or from a mirror-type 
nonqualified plan after termination of 
employment, is exempt from State taxation. 


The language does not prohibit states 
from imposing an income tax on non-
residents’ regular wages or compensation. 
Cash bonuses or other compensation 
arrangements that defer the receipt 
of salary, bonuses, and other 
types of wage-related compensation 
that are not paid out over at least 10 
years or from a mirror-type non-
qualified retirement plan are not exempt 
from State taxation. One example 
would be if a salary is earned in a 
State by an individual, whether a resident 
or nonresident, but is voluntarily 
deferred for a few years until the individual 
exits the State, and then is paid 
over in a lump-sum, even while the individual 
is still employed by the company, 
that kind of payment should not 
qualify for exemption from nonresident 
taxation of pensions. It is the intent of 
this bill to permit the States to continue 
to tax this income, while protecting 
from taxation those deferred 
payments that are for retirement income, 
paid from plans designed for that 
purpose.S 

f 

CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM 
SMrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I rise 
today to speak once again on the need 
to address an issue that continues to 
haunt the inner core of our political 
system: campaign financing laws. 
Mr. President, we debate many issues 
in the U.S. Senate. We debate everything 
from national security to local 
roads and bridges. We spent a lot of 
time the past 12 months debating the 
need to balance the Federal budget and 
maintain access to health care services. 
During these times, it always strikes 
me as I sit in the Senate Chamber that 
we do not debate these issues by ourselves. 
In fact, far more than just 100 
Senators participate in these debates. 
We are joined by the thoughts and 
opinions of people representing special 
interests—some good, some not so 
good, in my opinion—who far too often 
today make large financial contributions 
in hopes of tilting the scales of 
Senate deliberations in their favor. 
Mr. President, this is big a problem, 
and I’ll tell you why. I urge my col


leagues to look around their States and 
listen to the people. Voters in this 
country are angry, frustrated, and in 
general less than confident about the 
future. A series of articles has run in 
the Washington Post the past few days 
documenting this angst. But we don’t 
need to read about it in the Post; we 
can see it and hear it in every town 
meeting, editorial board, and public 
event we attend. 

I believe a lack of faith in Government 
lays at the root of peoples’ concerns 
about the future. If people don’t 
trust the politicians, how can they 
have faith in congressional decisions? 
When the agencies are forced to shut 
down, with absolutely no meaningful 
result, how can people have any other 
reaction than greater disaffection? 

I firmly believe the Senate is filled 
with honorable, dedicated public servants. 
This Senate has been as passionate 
and principled as any in memory. 
But we could have 100 Jimmy 
Stewarts here in 1996, and the public 
would still question their character. 
Until we do something dramatic to address 
public confidence, we can expect 
the gap between the people and their 
government to widen. 

There is nothing I can think of that 
would be worse for this country; for 
alienation breeds apathy, and apathy 
erodes accountability. America is the 
greatest democracy the world has ever 
known, and it was built on the principle 
of accountability: government of 
the people, by the people, for the people. 
We simply must restore peoples’ 
faith in their government. 

At the core of the problem is money 
in politics. Right now the system is designed 
to favor the rich, at the expense 
of the middle class. It benefits the incumbents, 
at the expense of challengers. 
And most of all, it fuels Washington, 
DC, Inc., at the expense of the 
average person on Main Street, U.S.A. 

The average person feels like they 
can no longer make a difference in this 
system. Just the other day my campaign 
received a $15 donation from a 
woman in Washington State. She included 
a note to me that said, ‘‘Senator 
MURRAY, please make sure my $15 has 
as much impact as people who give 
thousands.’’ She knows what she is up 
against, but she is still willing to make 
the effort. Unfortunately people like 
her are fewer and farther between, and 
less able than ever to make that difference. 


We see her problem when people like 
Malcolm Forbes, Jr., are able to use inherited 
personal wealth to buy their 
way into the national spotlight. Ninety-
nine percent of the people in America 
could never even imagine making 
that kind of splash in politics. Are we 
to rely solely on the benevolence of the 
wealthy to ensure strong democracy in 
this country? I don’t think that is what 
the Founding Fathers had in mind. 

All of this occurs against the backdrop 
of a campaign finance system that 
hasn’t been reformed since Watergate, 
over 20 years ago. I would even say 


S860 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

public faith in Government today has 
sunk below what it was in 1974. I should 
know; this lack of faith is what inspired 
me to seek this office in 1992. If 
I’ve learned anything in my brief career, 
it’s this: If you give any good set 
of political lawyers 20 years, they will 
find a way to exploit even the best system 
to maximum personal advantage. 
We have to reform the campaign financing 
laws, and we have to do it 
soon. 

Given the voters’ unambiguous message 
in the 1992 election, we tried to 
enact significant reform in the 103d 
Congress. The Senate overwhelmingly 
passed a bipartisan bill in 1993, and the 
House followed suit later. As a newly 
elected Senator at the time, I was 
proud to support that bill. Unfortunately, 
this effort fell prey to partisan 
rancor in 1994, and ultimately died in a 
Republican filibuster in the Senate. 

So here we are again, considering 
various reform proposals in the 104th 
Congress. There are two bills currently 
pending in the Senate that reflect my 
concerns about campaign reform: S. 
1219, introduced by Senators MCCAIN 
and FEINGOLD, and S. 1389, introduced 
by Senator FEINSTEIN. 

The McCain-Feingold bill is very 
broad, and treats nearly every aspect 
of the system. It restricts Political Action 
Committee contributions; it imposes 
voluntary spending limits; it provides 
discounted access to broadcast 
media for advertising; it provides reduced 
rates for postage; it prohibits 
taxpayer-financed mass mailings on behalf 
of incumbents during an election 
year; it discourages negative advertising; 
it requires full disclosure of 
independent expenditures; and it reforms 
the process of soft money contributions 
made through political parties. 


Mr. President, these are very strong, 
positive steps. If enacted as a package, 
they would make our system of electing 
Federal officials more open, competitive, 
and fair. I feel strongly that 
we must take such steps to reinvigorate 
peoples’ interest in the electoral 
process, and in turn to restore their 
confidence in the system. 

There are some provisions in S. 1219 
that could be problematic, however. 
For example, the bill would require a 
candidate to raise 60 percent of his or 
her funds within the State. This might 
work fine for someone from New York 
or California. However, it could put 
small State candidates at a real disadvantage, 
particularly if their opponent 
is independently wealthy. The 
fact remains that modern Federal elections 
are very expensive. Therefore, I 
think we should review this provision 
of S. 1219 very carefully before making 
a final decision. 

Mr. President, the Feinstein bill, S. 
1389 is slightly different. It proposes 
some similar reforms, such as voluntary 
spending limits, free broadcast 
access under specified conditions, discounted 
media in general, and reduced 
postage rates. The bill also discourages 

the use of personal wealth for election 
campaigns, and takes a hard line 
against negative advertising. Like the 
McCain-Feingold bill, these are positive 
steps which, as a package, could 
significantly improve the quality of 
our elections. 

S. 1239 differs from S. 1219 in one respect: 
It does not restrict Political Action 
Committees. In taking this approach, 
the bill suggests that PAC’s 
have a legitimate role in the process, 
and I am inclined to agree for two reasons. 
First, PAC’s are fully disclosed, 
and subject to strict contribution limits. 
That means we have a very detailed 
paper trail from donor to candidate 
for everyone to see. Second, 
they give a voice to individual citizens 
like women and workers and teacher 
who, if not organized as a group, might 
not be able to make a difference in the 
process. 
A serious question about PAC’s remains, 
however: Do they unfairly benefit 
incumbents at the expense of challengers? 
This is a legitimate question, 
and one I think we should address in 
any final reform legislation. 

Mr. President, these are not the only 
two bills on campaign reform pending 
in the Senate, but they are the two 
that most closely reflect my thinking. 
We need to reduce, or at a minimum 
control, the amount of campaign 
spending. We need to make campaigns 
more civil. Most of all, we need to 
make campaigns more fair, more competitive, 
and more inclusive of all citizens. 
I think these two bills would 
move us substantially in that direction. 


Therefore, I am happy to announce 
today that I have become a cosponsor 
of both S. 1219 and S. 1389. S. 1219 in 
particular is the product of the strongest 
bipartisan reform effort in many 
years, and I commend senators MCCAIN 
and FEINGOLD for moving the issue forward. 
I also commend Senator FEINSTEIN 
for bringing her personal experience 
and ideas to this issue. After two 
California campaigns in 2 years, she 
knows the flaws in the current system 
as well as anyone. 

Mr. President, I hope real reform is 
enacted in 1996. The President of the 
United States made it very clear in his 
State of the Union Address the other 
night: This is a high personal priority 
for him, and he will sign a bill if we 
send him one. It may not be exactly 
these two bills, and I know there are 
several others on this issue currently 
pending. For example, the Democratic 
leader, Senator DASCHLE, has a bill 
that is very similar to the one filibustered 
in 1994. It will be our responsibility 
as legislators to find the best elements 
among these bills and refine 
them into a workable reform package. 

The people in this country want to 
feel ownership over their elections; 
they want to feel like they, as individuals, 
have a role to play that can make 
a positive difference. Right now, for 
better or worse, not many people feel 
that way, and the trend is in the wrong 

direction. Campaign reform isn’t the 
silver bullet; but it is very important. 
I believe real campaign reform efforts 
by Congress would be one of the strongest, 
easiest steps we could take to 
begin restoring peoples’ faith in the 
process.S 

f 

FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY 

COMMISSION 
S Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, as 
part of its strategic realignment and 
downsizing proposal, the Department 
of Energy has transmitted proposed 
legislation to transfer the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission outside of 
the Department of Energy. Presently, 
although FERC is part of DOE, it functions 
as a hybrid agency, neither truly 
independent, nor quite a part of the executive 
branch. 

In 1977, President Carter, in response 
to continuing repercussions from the 
1973–74 Arab oil embargo and wintertime 
shortages of natural gas, proposed 
a reorganization of the disjointed Federal 
energy establishment. The purpose 
of the reorganization was the creation 
of a single agency that would possess 
the responsibility for coordinating all 
national energy matters and policy. To 
this end, the Carter administration 
proposed legislation that was to assign 
all of the Government’s energy regulatory 
and policy functions to one cabinet-
level Department of Energy. 

Although the Carter administration’s 
goal of creating a unitary energy agency 
was, to a certain extent, shared by 
Congress, Congress also wished to preclude 
executive branch control of various 
regulatory functions formerly performed 
by the Federal Power Commission, 
including the establishment of 
rates for the transportation and sale of 
wholesale natural gas and electricity. 
These two conflicting objectives resulted 
in the anomaly of an independent 
agency being established within 
an executive department. 

Thus, although FERC is part of the 
Department of Energy, the power of 
the Secretary of Energy to influence 
the policies of the FERC is circumscribed. 
Specifically, the Department 
of Energy Organization Act gives 
the Secretary the authority to propose 
rules, regulations, and statements of 
policy of general applicability with respect 
to any function under the jurisdiction 
of the Commission. The Secretary 
may set reasonable time limits 
for action by the Commission, but the 
Commission has exclusive jurisdiction 
over, and takes final action, if any, 
upon, such proposals. Although limited, 
this authority has proven to be 
valuable to past administrations as 
they attempt to implement a coherent 
energy policy. 

Thus, although DOE claims that its 
proposed legislation would make the 
FERC a fully independent agency, the 
proposed legislation retains the special 
authority given to the President by existing 
law. As a result, the proposed 
legislation has no practical effect. By 
taking the FERC off of DOE’s books, 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S861 

the bill would make the DOE budget 
appear to be smaller, but would not 
change the substantive relationship between 
DOE and FERC or save the Government 
money. 

Because I believe the proposed legislation 
achieves no substantive purpose, 
I will not introduce this legislation. 
However, I acknowledge receipt of the 
proposed legislation and ask that its 
text be printed in the RECORD as part of 
this statement. 

The text follows: 

PROPOSED BILL 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission Act of 1995’’. 

SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF THE FEDERAL ENERGY 
REGULATORY COMMISSION. 

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
established by section 204 and title IV of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7134, 7171–7177) is transferred outside 
the Department of Energy. The Commission 
shall continue to be an independent regulatory 
commission with the same organization, 
functions, and jurisdiction as it had 
prior to the effective date of this Act, except 
as is otherwise provided in this Act. 
SEC. 3. AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION. 

(a) Except as is provided in subsection (b), 
there are transferred to and vested in the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission all 
functions and authority of the Secretary of 
Energy and the Department of Energy under 
the— 
(1) Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a–825r), 
(2) Interstate Commerce Act (title 49, 
United States Code, App.) related to transportation 
of oil by pipeline, 
(3) title IV of the Natural Gas Policy Act 
of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3391–3394), and 
(4) Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717–717w). 
(b) The Secretary of Energy shall retain 
the authority— 
(1) under section 402(f) of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7172(f)); 
(2) to initiate rulemaking proceedings before 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
under section 403 of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7173); and 
(3) to intervene as a matter of right in Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission proceedings 
under section 405 of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7175). 
(c) After the effective date of this Act, the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
shall not exercise authority or jurisdiction 
under— 
(1) section 503(c) of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7193(c)), except 
for a remedial order or a proposed remedial 
order pending before the Department or 
the Commission on the effective date of this 
Act; 
(2) subsection 402 (d) and (e) of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7172 (d) and (e)), except for a matter pending 
before the Commission on the effective date 
of this Act, or which by that date has been 
assigned to the Commission with its consent 
under section 402(e); 
(3) section 504(b) of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7194(b)), except 
for a review pending before the Commission 
on the effective date of this Act; or 
(4) section 404 of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7174). 
(d) Section 3(c) of the Natural Gas Act (15 
U.S.C. 717b(c)) is amended by— 
(1) striking ‘‘For purposes of subsection 
(a),’’ and inserting ‘‘Subsection (a) shall not 
apply to’’ and 
(2) striking all that follows ‘‘trade in natural 
gas,’’ and inserting ‘‘except to the extent 
provided by the President by Executive 
Order.’’. 
(e) Notwithstanding section 401(j) of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7171(j)), the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission shall submit budget requests 
and legislative recommendations directly 
to the Office of Management and 
Budget. 
(f) The Inspector General for the Department 
of Energy shall serve as the Inspector 
General for the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission. The Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission shall reimburse the Department 
of Energy Inspector General for the cost of 
annual audits of Commission financial statements 
that the Department Inspector General 
performs or contracts with another person 
to perform in the course of fulfilling the 
duties as Inspector General of the Commission. 
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

This Act takes effect on October 1, 1996.S 

f 

PARAMOUNT CHIEF LETULI 

TOLOA, PRESIDENT OF THE SEN


ATE OF AMERICAN SAMOA 

S Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, it is my 
sad duty to advise my distinguished 
colleagues of the passing of a great 
friend of our Nation and a great leader 
of the people of American Samoa. On 
January 30, 1996, Paramount Chief 
Punefu-ole-motu Letuli Toloa peacefully 
passed away at his home after 
over four decades of public service. 

Since 1989 until his untimely death, 
Chief Letuli Toloa served as president 
of the senate of American Samoa. He 
was a retired U.S. Coast Guardsman, 
after more than 20 years of service. He 
served as governor of his district from 
1974 to 1977 and was appointed commissioner 
of public safety for American 
Samoa in 1978. In 1981, Chief Letuli 
Toloa became a senator from his district 
and 8 years later was elected by 
his peers to be senate president. 

As a cultural and government leader, 
Chief Letuli Toloa did his utmost to 
protect the culture of American Samoa 
from the negative aspects of western 
influence and culture. This difficult 
task was carried out with great diplomacy. 
The fa’aSamoa continues to survive 
because of great leaders like Chief 
Letuli Toloa. 

In addition to his distinguished government 
service, Chief Letuli served 
for many years as deacon elder for his 
church. He will be remembered as a 
kind and gentle man who was noted for 
his great skill as a peacemaker in his 
extended family, in government, in his 
village and in his district. Though endowed 
with great power, he was always 
humble, and never succumbed to arrogance 
or vanity. 

I have had the pleasure of working 
with the son of Chief Letuli, who mirrors 
the many virtues and strengths of 
his great father. 

Paramount Chief Letuli Toloa is survived 
by his wife, Saolotoga Savali 
Letuli, 6 children, and 10 grandchildren. 
American Samoa has lost a 
great leader, and America has lost a 
good friend.S 

RURAL MANAGED CARE 
COOPERATIVES 

S Mr. HATFIELD. Mr. President, real 
health care reform has eluded us the 
past several years and there are sectors 
of our population that are suffering. 
Today I speak of a particular segment 
of our society that, at least in discussions 
of health care, is too often overlooked—
rural America. Rural communities 
face the unique challenge of obtaining 
health care in isolated areas. 
Economic depression, geographic isolation, 
an inability to retain qualified 
providers, and a lack of primary care 
facilities are a few of the barriers to 
quality health care in our rural and agricultural 
sectors. To meet this challenge, 
I have filed an amendment to 
support the development of rural managed 
care cooperatives—a small investment 
in the health of our farmers, 
their families and all those who make 
up the communities we call rural 
America. 

There is no dispute that the economic 
base and the economic vitality 
of a given community is directly correlated 
to the health of the individuals 
who serve it. As we discuss the farm 
bill, under whatever guise it may be 
considered, we must not forget this important 
fact. The health of our farm industry 
is of the utmost importance, 
but it must not be separated from the 
health of the men and women who support 
it. 

Cooperatives, in one form or another, 
have been second nature to farming 
communities for over a century. 
Whether farmers join together to form 
a purchasing cooperative, one of the 
most common types, or a marketing 
cooperative, the style of business has 
proven itself fair, efficient, and effective. 
Furthermore, its laws of operation 
translate remarkably well to sectors 
such as housing, service, and even 
rural health care. 

Make no mistake. This idea of a rural 
health care cooperative is not new. In 
1929, Elk City, OK, became home to the 
first health maintenance organization 
run by the farmers cooperative. Since 
then, several attempts to create rural 
health cooperatives have failed as a result 
of being unable to meet the necessary 
startup costs. My amendment 
provides this startup support. 

It would allow the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, acting 
through the Health Resources and 
Services Administration and the Secretary 
of Agriculture, acting through 
the Rural Business and Cooperative Development 
Service, to award competitive 
grants to those communities 
which wish to form a rural managed 
care cooperative. The purpose of the 
cooperative is to establish a structure 
and approach that will keep rural hospitals 
and health care systems financially 
sound and competitive with 
urban health care systems. 

Especially in recent years, rural 
areas have found it increasingly difficult 
to attract the physicians and 
other health care providers necessary 


S862 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

to meet even minimum community 
health standards. This shortage of providers 
results from the inability of 
rural communities to compete with 
comparatively rich urban markets. The 
resources of these larger markets are 
alluring incentives for health care providers 
to avoid or stray away from 
their rural practices. By establishing a 
systematic case management and reimbursement 
system designed to support 
the communities’ needs, a cooperative 
will provide an effective framework for 
negotiating contracts with payers and 
a framework for assuring a defined 
level of quality. 

Through the combination of medical 
resources, streamlined managerial and 
reimbursement responsibilities, and 
shared liability, rural managed care 
cooperatives have proven themselves 
able to attract health care providers, 
thus improving access to and quality of 
rural care and enhancing the economic 
vitality of rural health care systems 
and, commensurately, the economic vitality 
of surrounding rural industries. 

Of concern to participants in such cooperatives 
is the threat of antitrust 
lawsuits. Such a threat serves to undermine 
the goal of rural managed care 
cooperatives. While the Capper-Volstead 
Act of 1922 recognized farmers’ 
rights to form cooperatives without 
violating antitrust laws, these rights 
have not transferred to rural health 
care providers. Therefore, language in 
my amendment would protect those 
providers who participate in cooperatives 
from antitrust laws. This antitrust 
law exemption is necessary to facilitate 
the development of rural networks 
and developments. 

More than once, I have expressed my 
concern for the crisis in rural health 
care. Between 1989 and 1993, 141 rural 
community hospitals have closed. In 
my State alone, five rural hospitals 
have closed since 1986 and several others 
face the threat of closure. Rural 
health care cooperatives are not the 
panacea to this crisis, but it is a dose 
potent enough to make a difference. As 
we consider the health of our Nations’ 
farm industry, I would urge us to remember 
the health of the rural communities 
which house it.S 

f 

HONORING MILWAUKEE’S 

SESQUICENTENNIAL 
S Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise 
to pay tribute to a great American 
city, Milwaukee, WI, on its birthday. 

Yesterday, Milwaukee celebrated the 
150th anniversary of its incorporation. 

The residents of that small trading 
center of 1846 would be astonished if 
they walked the streets of the lively, 
diverse city of more than 625,000 people 
today. 

Milwaukee was born as a city during 
a very important year in Wisconsin 
history. Congress passed enabling legislation 
admitting Wisconsin to the 
Union in 1846, and delegates gathered 
that year in Madison for the State’s 
constitutional convention. 

Milwaukee sits astride the Milwaukee, 
Menomonee, and Kinnickinnic 
Rivers on Lake Michigan at the site of 
three former settlements— 
Juneautown, Kilbourntown and Walker’s 
Point—that themselves grew up in 
the area that had been camping 
grounds of the indigenous Native 
American population, including members 
of the Potawatomi, Ottawa, Chippewa, 
and Menomonee nations. French 
explorers, including, notably, Father 
Jacques Marquette, began visiting the 
area in the late 1600’s, and by the mid-
1700’s, a trading post had been established. 


Mr. President, vigorous commerce 
has been central to Milwaukee’s existence 
from its beginning. What was to 
become Milwaukee began as three competing 
commercial ventures by Byron 
Kilbourn, a surveyor; George Walker, a 
trader and land speculator; and a fur 
trader, Solomon Juneau, who brought 
along a partner, Morgan Martin. By 
the late 1830’s, each venture had 
spawned individually incorporated settlements 
whose inhabitants competed 
fiercely, even coming to blows during 
local hostilities that flared up into the 
Great Bridge War of 1845. 

Realizing that conflict was not the 
handmaiden to progress, all three settlements 
eventually agreed to form one 
city, Milwaukee. 

Mr. President, Milwaukee, once incorporated, 
grew quickly; its population 
soaring from about 20,000 in 1850 
to more than 285,000 by the turn of the 
century and to more than 575,000 by 
1930. 

Immigrants came in several waves, 
each group establishing its unique imprimatur 
on the city. In the early 
1800’s, they were mostly New 
Englanders and New Yorkers whose 
roots reached back to England. The 
first African-American settler, a man 
named Joe Oliver, arrived in 1835 and 
worked for Solomon Juneau. By the 
middle of the 1840’s, German immigrants 
were arriving at the rate of 
more than 1,000 per week. Irish immigrants 
arrived, too, settling largely in 
the city’s third ward, on the southeast 
side of the downtown. The Polish community 
grew quickly in the late 19th 
century, giving the South Side its 
character. The city was eventually 
populated with settlers from Italy, 
Hungary, the Balkans, Mexico, nearly 
every point on the compass. In terms of 
the diversity of ethnic backgrounds of 
its residents, Milwaukee is as cosmopolitan 
a city as one can find. 

By the arrival of the Civil War, Milwaukee 
had become a busy center for 
the quintessential Midwestern hog and 
wheat industries. In 1868, an iron and 
steel mill was built south of the Milwaukee 
River, kicking off a vigorous 
industrialization. By 1890, the leading 
industry was the one for which Milwaukee 
is probably best-known 
throughout the world—brewing. 

Nowadays, the city is the home to 
companies like Harley-Davidson, Miller 
Brewing, Master Lock and North


western Mutual Life Insurance. Area 
firms annually create goods with an 
aggregate value of approximately $19 
billion. 

Mr. President, Milwaukee also has 
had a lively political history, not just 
limited to Democrats and Republicans. 
Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meier 
grew up and was educated in Milwaukee 
before leaving to later make 
her mark in history. From 1910 through 
1960, several socialists were elected 
mayor, running the city for 38 of those 
50 years. One of them, Frank Zeidler, 
was the city’s chief executive from 1948 
until 1960. Elected to office on a public 
enterprise program, he doubled the 
city’s size from about 48 square miles 
to about 96 square miles with an energetic 
annexation program. 

Stability has been one hallmark of 
Milwaukee government, earning the 
city a reputation for efficiency, honesty 
and fiscal responsibility, traits 
that would serve any government well. 
Three men—Daniel Webster Hoan, 
Frank Zeidler, and Henry Maier 
—served as mayor for a total of 64 
years. 

Milwaukee is the home of some wonderful 
architecture, from some of the 
impressive homes along Lake Drive to 
city hall. The city boasts an array of 
cultural opportunities, including its 
symphony, a zoological park, the Pabst 
Theatre and big-league basketball and 
baseball franchises, as well as other 
sports teams. 

Like all modern cities, Milwaukee 
faces challenges in a rapidly-changing, 
ever-more-complex world, but, given 
what I know of the character of the 
people who live there, I am confident 
Milwaukee will rise to those challenges. 


So, Mr. President, let me say, happy 
anniversary, Milwaukee, and my best 
wishes for many more.S 

f 

GRACE SOOTHES MOTHER NATURE 

S Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, last 
month the people of the Catskills region 
suffered some of the worst floods 
of their history. The waters swept 
away homes and property, roadways 
and bridges, schools, and businesses. 
There was injury and death. But the 
people endured with grace and courage 
and, as a recent editorial by Paul 
Smart in the Mountain Eagle attests, 
they have harnessed that same spirit 
to begin rebuilding their dreams. 

Mr. President, I ask that this editorial 
be printed in the RECORD following 
my remarks. 

The editorial follows: 

[From the Mountain Eagle, Tannersville, 

NY] 

THE FORCE OF NATURE 

The past week has been a wearying one for 
us here in the Catskills. Friday saw us all 
battling against floodwaters. Saturday 
morning was a time of assessment and reassessment. 
By Sunday, clean-up had begun. 

Driving around our coverage region, which 
enfolds most of the damaged areas, the largeness 
of real disaster crept up on us. Snapping 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S863 

photos and gathering stories, we went from 
an unconscious comparison of one township’s 
horrors to others to an almost overbearing 
sense of tragedy. 

The damage is everywhere. The most visible 
cataclysms of Margaretville, Walton and 
the Schoharie Valley are the tip to a sad iceberg. 
Roads and bridges were damaged in 
nearly every township. Basements and yards 
and driveways, not to mention whole first 
floors and entire homes, have been trashed 
by the oft-forgotten force of nature. The 
damage totals, still being added up as we go 
to press, are staggering. 

In the midst of all this, though, were incredible 
moments that defined man’s hope, 
that characterized people’s resilience better 
than any example we’ve encountered. Everyone 
chipped in to help each other. Battered 
business people and homeowners laughed at 
their fate, then vowed recovery. Outside help 
started pouring in. Bitterness was given no 
toehold amongst the destruction. 

Of course, much of this can be chalked up 
to the closeness between invigoration and 
enervation. There are times when one has no 
alternative but to look up. The call of the 
moment has been deafening; we’ve had no 
choice but to focus on the now, on the jobs 
at hand. It will only be later that the real 
pain of what we’ve been through will hit. We 
must prepare for then. 

We must remember that the recent floods 
have proven our region’s cohesion, at least in 
nature’s eyes. And we must remember that it 
has only been through our shared efforts 
that we’ve come through all this. The outside 
world has not forsaken us, just as we 
have not forsaken each other. 

Nature is a cruel mistress. We sometimes 
scoff at the ideas of 100-year flood plains that 
rule our planning documents, sometimes 
think that we’ve reached an age where our 
human efforts can thwart all. But then matters 
fall out of our hands. We are forced to 
realize where we live, what we must deal 
with for our choices. And when we rebuild 
our dreams, we must do so cogniscent of the 
tragedies that have preceded our actions. 

Good times still lie ahead of us, just as 
they occupy our memories. As humans, we 
know how to persevere, how to rebuild and 
fortify. The future is always ours. 

Please let us know what we can do to help. 
We care for this region. We know its days of 
glory have yet to come. 

And we bless all our angels for helping us 
through this past week: our local officials, 
our emergency volunteers, our neighbors and 
saviors. We even thank dear Mother Nature 
for having dropped our temperatures below 
freezing last Friday night so the waters 
would abate and we could get on with the 
hard business of life.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MARY M. STEFON 
S Mr. DODD. Mr. President, it was 
once said: ‘‘Leadership is not bestowed. 
It is only yours for as long as it is continually 
earned.’’ Today, I rise to pay 
tribute to Mary M. Stefon, a leader and 
public servant who truly personifies 
this adage. 
Mary recently retired from her post 
as town clerk of the Town of Sprague, 
CT—the town she served in various 
elective capacities for 34 years. Those 
of us in political life know it is rare to 
be continually returned to office by 
one’s fellow citizens for so many years, 
and for Mary Stefon to be so honored 
by her constituents is a testament to 
the great respect and faith she has 
earned from them. 

Mary’s service to her hometown grew 
out of her firmly planted roots there. 
She has lived in Sprague since 1927, 
graduating from school and raising her 
family there. She took an active role in 
many community affairs, serving in official 
positions on the Board of Education 
of St. Joseph School, the 
Sprague Housing Authority, and the 
Sprague Grist Mill Committee. She was 
active in Democratic politics, serving 
as chairman, vice-chairman, secretary 
and treasurer of the Democratic Town 
Committee. And in elective office, 
Mary served not only as town clerk 
until last year, but also as town treasurer 
until 1977 and agent of town deposit 
fund until 1982. As if serving in 
all three elected posts is not impressive 
enough, consider that for 16 years, 
she occupied them simultaneously. 

But Mary Stefon’s schedule was apparently 
not busy enough, and she participated 
in many volunteer activities 
in addition to her other duties. After 
serving in the U.S. Navy Waves during 
World War II, her later volunteer activities 
included speaking to elementary 
school children as part of the 
Northeast Utilities Career Motivation 
Program, working as a volunteer bookkeeper 
for a Youth Employment Program, 
and volunteering at St. Mary’s 
Church in Baltic. 

Fine people like Mary M. Stefon— 
wife, mother, grandmother, volunteer, 
mentor, leader, and public official—are 
indeed the people who create the sense 
of community in Connecticut’s and 
America’s towns. And it is people like 
her, who always find time to give of 
themselves to others, who are role 
models for us all. 

Mr. President, this year, sadly, many 
of the best public servants this country 
has ever known have made the decision 
to retire from public life. Mary M. 
Stefon is without question among 
them. I wish her well, and join the citizens 
of Connecticut and the Town of 
Sprague in thanking her for her dedicated 
and outstanding public service.S 

f 

AUTHOR WILLIAM MAXWELL HON


ORED WITH PEN-MALAMUD 

AWARD 

S Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, just 
over a half century ago, as a young 
sailor, Harry Hall, also in the Navy at 
that time, sent me a copy of ‘‘The 
Folded Leaf,’’ a novel by William Maxwell. 
It may have been the first novel I 
ever read seriously, or at least the first 
that seemed seriously addressed to my 
own experience as a young man. Whatever, 
it has remained with me ever 
since, not least the lines from Tennyson, 


Lo! In the middle of the wood, 

The folded leaf is woo’d from out the bud 

I am happy to report that William 
Maxwell has just received the PEN-
Malamud Award. It was given to him 
at the Folger Shakespeare Library, a 
mere two blocks from the Capitol, and 
I know the Senate would wish to join 
in congratulations. 

William Maxwell spent nearly 40 
years as a staff writer and fiction editor 
at the New Yorker. ‘‘Talk of the 
Town’’ celebrated his award. Mr. President, 
I ask that this article be printed 
in the RECORD following my remarks. 

The article follows: 
[From the New Yorker, Dec. 25, 1995 and Jan. 

1, 1996] 

MAXWELL’S SMARTS 

‘‘The lights are so bright I can’t see your 
faces,’’ William Maxwell said, stepping up to 
the podium at the Folger Shakespeare Library, 
in Washington, D.C. ‘‘Being here 
makes me think of ghosts,’’ he went on. ‘‘I 
had a dear friend who spent many days and 
weeks here, researching to write a book on 
Shakespeare. And I had another who worked 
in the library for a time. I hope they are 
both present tonight.’’ He was standing on 
the stage of the Folger theatre, an antique-
feeling space with high galleries, square columns, 
and a wood-and-plaster Elizabethan 
stage house, all of which give it a ponderous 
elegance. The occasion was the eighth annual 
PEN/Malamud Award reading, and Maxwell 
was being honored, along with Stuart 
Dybek, for excellence in the practice of the 
short story. A large, warmly appreciative audience 
was present, including Maxwell’s wife, 
Emily; members of Bernard Malamud’s family, 
and the writers Charles Baxter, Nicholas 
Delbanco, Alan Cheuse, Maxine Clair, Michael 
Collier, Patricia Browning Griffith, 
Howard Norman, Susan Richards Shreve, 
William Warner, and Mary Helen Washington. 


A few minutes earlier, Dybek had spoken 
of how privileged he felt to be on the same 
stage with William Maxwell. He then honored 
the elder writer in the best way one 
writer can honor another: by being terribly 
good. He read a densely lyrical and dramatic 
story called ‘‘We Didn’t.’’ It charmed the 
house and made everyone glad of the short 
story, this superior form of entertainment. 

And now Maxwell was standing on the podium. 
Well into his eighties, with the slightest 
hesitation in his movements, he still 
seemed wonderfully calm, a man spending a 
little time with friends. He wore a dark suit 
and looked very trim; his dark eyes were animated 
with the same humor and interest one 
finds in his stories. As a staff writer and fiction 
editor at The New Yorker for nearly 
forty years, Maxwell worked with such writers 
as John Cheever, Eudora Welty, and 
Mavis Gallant. Meanwhile, he wrote stories 
and novels that are as good as or better than 
those of just about anyone else: ‘‘Over by the 
River,’’ for instance, and the short novel ‘‘So 
Long, See You Tomorrow,’’ which is set in 
his native Illinois and, like so much of his 
work, evokes the simple grandeur of life in a 
small Midwestern community in the recent 
past. 

Now, opening the bound galleys of his recently 
published collected stories, ‘‘All the 
Days and Nights,’’ Maxwell looked into the 
brightness again and said, ‘‘I’m going to read 
a story called ‘The French Scarecrow.’’’ 
There was a murmur of recognition from the 
crowd. Very gracefully and somehow confidingly, 
he began to read. He read softly, pausing—
without seeming to monitor the 
sound—for the laughs. His precise, elegant, 
and quietly humorous study of unease was a 
perfect complement of the electricity of the 
Dybek story. 

When Maxwell finished and the applause 
died down, Janna Malamud Smith was introduced. 
In the name of her father, she presented 
the award to both writers, and then 
everyone adjourned to the Great Hall for 
wine and finger food. The wine tasted as 
though it had been aged in a stone jar, but 
nobody seemed to mind. Maxwell and Dybek 
signed their books and answered questions 


S864 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

amid a general feeling of well-being and affection. 
If the ghosts of Maxwell’s friends 
were somewhere in the sculptured brown 
lines of the Folger theatre and Great Hall, 
then they must certainly have been travel-
ling in the company of Bernard Malamud, for 
the spirit of that marvelous writer of stories 
was invoked by every facet of the evening.S 

f 

FRENCH NUCLEAR TESTING 
S Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise 
today to join my colleagues in welcoming 
to the United States, the President 
of France, Jacques Chirac, who 
will address a joint session of the Congress 
this morning. I look forward to 
his remarks and observations, not only 
on historically close French-American 
bilateral relations, but on developments 
on the international scene. The 
political, economic, and cultural ties 
which link the French and American 
people go beyond mere trade of goods 
and ideas, however important those 
may be. Our relations with the French 
are almost as with brothers and sisters; 
more often than not, France and the 
United States have stood as allies in 
the struggle for freedom. The debt we 
owed France for its assistance during 
our Revolution, for example, was repaid 
on the beaches of Normandy. 
Though we may be friends, Mr. President, 
it is a strength and beauty of the 
relationship that permits us to air our 
differences over some fundamental 
questions. One of those issues has been 
the French program of testing nuclear 
devices in the South Pacific, a regrettable 
series of tests which, literally 
and figuratively, have served only to 
poison the environment and endangered 
U.S.-led efforts to conclude a 
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty this 
year. 
Since September 5, 1995, Mr. President, 
the Government of France has exploded 
six nuclear devices at underground 
testing sites in the South Pacific. 
The most recent explosion was 
made only 4 days ago and came despite 
French acknowledgement that there 
had been some leakage of radioactive 
material into the seabed around the 
Mururoa Atoll. The French Government 
ignored, as well, the vociferous 
protests of various governments of Pacific 
Rim nations, whose people would 
be affected by the potentially dangerous 
effects of leaked radiation. 
France justified this somewhat colonial 
action by claiming that its sovereign 
interest in assuring its security 
overrode the health and safety of those 
affected by these tests. These should 
never have happened. 
But I do believe, Mr. President, that 
we can take some satisfaction in President 
Chirac’s January 28 announcement 
that the testing is now finally 
and forevermore at end. I salute, too, 
his claim that France will now seek a 
lead role in working for a comprehensive 
test ban. I also applaud President 
Clinton’s leadership in seeking a true 
‘‘zero yield’’ CTBT. On October 10, 1995, 
I wrote to the President expressing my 
concerns about U.S. involvement in the 

French nuclear weapons program. 
President Clinton responded with a 
statement of regret about France’s decision 
on testing, and a pledge to continue 
to press for a CTBT. I ask that 
these letters be printed in the RECORD. 

The letters follow: 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, October 10, 1995. 

President BILL CLINTON, 

The White House, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: We want to draw 
your attention to recent reports concerning 
close cooperation between the U.S. and 
France in developing the French nuclear 
weapons program. 

An article in the Washington Post September 
19 suggests that a decades-long period 
of U.S. support for technical assistance 
to the French program not only continues, 
but may soon reach new, unprecedented levels 
of cooperation. Particularly disturbing 
are the reports that the U.S. and France are 
currently negotiating a pact by which the 
two sides will begin to share sensitive computer 
codes that describe how nuclear weapons 
behave when exploded. Further, it is reported 
that a senior-level American scientist 
will also help the French government in 
building and designating a new facility for 
weapons-related research. 

These reports are deeply troubling. They 
serve to undermine the strong political leadership 
you consistently exhibited in successfully 
urging the nations of the world to extend 
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty 
(NPT) and in your continuing efforts to secure 
a comprehensive test ban treaty. It also 
seems to contradict the Administration’s 
very public criticisms of recent French nuclear 
testing in the Pacific. 

Moreover, we can speculate that once the 
French government has access to computer 
code data generated by the U.S., and designs 
weapons with technical assistance provided 
by the U.S., it will seek to test the weapons 
in the Pacific which, it could be said, will 
have been god-fathered by the U.S. More 
troubling still is the possibility that the U.S. 
itself will share in the data generated by 
French tests. 

Cooperation with the French government 
on matters of mutual security is important. 
But in order to continue to lead with moral 
authority on the question of deterring nuclear 
non-proliferation and on ending unnecessary 
and harmful nuclear weapons testing, 
we urge you to carefully review these policies. 
We believe that taking measures which 
discourage—rather than facilitate—nuclear 
weapons testing should remain the lodestar 
which guides Administration policy. 

We thank you for your efforts to date and 
look forward to hearing from you. 

Sincerely, 

RUSSELL D. FEINGOLD. 

DANIEL K. AKAKA. 

TOM HARKIN. 

BYRON DORGAN. 

THE WHITE HOUSE 

Washington, November 7, 1995. 

Hon. RUSSELL FEINGOLD, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
DEAR RUSS: Thank you for your recent letter 
regarding nuclear cooperation with 
France. 

The United States has had an ongoing cooperative 
program with France in the nuclear 
area. My Administration recently conducted 
a review of this program and I have 
concluded that such a program of cooperation 
with France remains in the U.S. national 
interest. I have also directed that this 
program focus on stockpile stewardship (i.e., 
maintenance of existing nuclear stockpiles 
without nuclear testing) and that it not in


clude activities that would materially aid 
the development of new nuclear weapons. 

Of course, such a program of cooperation 
can only take place in the overall context of 
positive United States-French relations. 
While I regret France’s decision to resume 
nuclear testing, we must also take note of 
France’s strong commitment to sign a Comprehensive 
Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) banning 
all nuclear tests, ‘‘regardless of level,’’ no 
later than the fall of 1996. This position is 
consistent with my own decision to seek a 
true ‘‘zero yield’’ CTBT. We will continue to 
work with France and all other states participating 
in the CTBT negotiations to ensure 
that a Treaty is ready for signature as 
early as possible next year. 

Sincerely, 

BILL. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, only 
last week the Senate ratified the 
START II Treaty, putting us firmly 
back on the road to ending the threat 
of nuclear annihilation. The next step 
is to bring to reality the Comprehensive 
Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which 
would serve to put an end to the practice 
of testing weaponry which—we 
pray and can increasingly say with 
confidence—will never be put to use. 
This effort was seriously undermined 
by the French tests, and it has caused 
other nations to question the point and 
sincerity of the CTBT. While I harbor 
deep regrets about the effect of 
France’s unwarranted tests, I want to 
say now to President Chirac, ‘‘welcome 
aboard.’’ We look forward to close cooperation 
with France in reaching the 
goal of ridding the world of nuclear 
weapons, and will work to ensure that 
its series of tests will be the last ever 
conducted on the globe.S 

f 

ROBERT A. BUDUSKY 
S Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, I 
rise today to pay my respects to Robert 
A. Budusky of Meriden, CT, who 
was the victim of a senseless murder on 
Tuesday. Mr. Budusky, a letter carrier 
for the U.S. Postal Service, was delivering 
mail along his route in Hartford 
when he was suddenly and fatally shot 
in the back of his head. His alleged 
murderer is a man on parole for an earlier 
weapons conviction. 
I did not have the honor of knowing 
Robert Budusky, but from what I have 
learned, he was a dedicated public servant 
and a wonderful human being. ‘‘Everybody 
on his route loved him. 
They’re all telling me so,’’ said Martin 
Torres, according to an article in today’s 
Hartford Courant. Torres, also a 
letter carrier, volunteered to take over 
Mr. Budusky’s route ‘‘to make sure 
they get the service today that Bob 
gave them every day.’’ 
Robert Budusky is the first letter 
carrier to be killed on the job in New 
England in more than thirty years. But 
his death is a reminder that all letter 
carriers brave much more than the elements 
every day as they deliver our 
mail. Too often we take for granted 
their service, and fail to provide them 
the respect they all richly deserve. 
Mr. Budusky reportedly had enough 
seniority to request mail routes in 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S865 

other communities, but he chose to remain 
on the job in Hartford, where he 
‘‘loved the people on his route,’’ said 
his supervisor, Dwight Davies, according 
to an Associated Press report. That 
report also quotes Mary Asberry, a 
resident along Robert Budusky’s route, 
saying, ‘‘He was a friend, to me and to 
a lot of other people around here.’’ 

Flags are at half staff in front of post 
offices across Connecticut today, and 
thousands of black ribbons are being 
worn by postal employees in honor of 
their fallen colleague. At the young 
age of 35, Robert Budusky will be buried 
this Saturday. My prayers go out to 
his family and his many friends.S 

f 

REPEAL MANDATORY DISCHARGE 

FOR HIV-POSITIVE MILITARY 

PERSONNEL 

S Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, a very 
important article appeared in today’s 
Washington Post that I commend to all 
my colleagues. Its title is ‘‘Army Sergeant 
with HIV Feels Deserted by Policy.’’ 
This article tells the story of a 
woman—a sergeant in the Army—who 
faces discharge because of a horrible 
provision in the Department of Defense 
authorization bill that mandates the 
release of HIV positive personnel. 

This provision is not supported by 
the military. It has been forced upon 
them by this Congress. In my view, it 
is nothing less than shameful. 

The sergeant, who used the pseudonym 
‘‘Marie’’ for this article, is a 
good soldier. She exhibits no signs of 
illness. Were it not for this provision in 
the DOD authorization bill, Marie 
would likely get a promotion this year. 

Marie may not get that promotion. 
Instead she may get shown the door. I 
want to share with my colleagues what 
Marie thinks about this provision, 
mandating the discharge of HIV positive 
personnel like herself. She says, 
‘‘no one is looking at the work I’ve 
done. No one is looking at the commitment 
I made—I defend the Constitution. 
It feels like the United States has 
turned its back on me.’’ 

Mr. President, I have been in Congress 
for nearly 15 years. During that 
time, I have seen a lot. But I never 
thought that I would see the day that 
the United States would turn its back 
on a soldier. The United States military 
has a proud tradition of standing 
by those courageous enough to dedicate 
their lives to the defense of our 
Nation. And if this provision becomes 
law, that proud tradition will end. 
That would be a sad day for this country. 


Supporters of this provision argue 
that it is needed because non-worldwide 
deployable personnel degrade the 
readiness of our forces. 

But I hope all Members realize that 
the substance of this new policy contradicts 
the rhetoric of its backers. 
They say that nonworldwide 
deployable personnel degrade readiness, 
but they only target a small fraction 
of that group. 

Military personnel are placed on non-
deployable status if they have severe 
asthma, or diabetes, or cancer. But this 
provision doesn’t affect them. It targets 
only HIV positive personnel—only 
about 20 percent of all nondeployable 
personnel. 

It is therefore perfectly clear: This 
provision is not about readiness or 
about deployable status, it is about 
targeting people with HIV. It is about 
discrimination. 

Mr. President, on Tuesday I was 
proud to stand with all Californians— 
and indeed all Americans—to cheer the 
return of ‘‘Magic’’ Johnson to the Los 
Angeles Lakers. The Lakers wanted 
Magic back neither because he was HIV 
positive nor in spite of it. They wanted 
Magic back because he makes their 
team better. 

The Army needs sergeants like Marie 
because she makes their team better. 
She can do the job. And for as long as 
she can do the job, Congress should not 
intervene to mandate her discharge. 

Mr. President, this forced discharge 
policy is worse than wrong; it is immoral. 


As soon as the President signs the 
DOD authorization bill, bipartisan legislation 
will be introduced to repeal 
this outrageous policy. I will be an 
original cosponsor and I urge my colleagues 
to cosponsor. 

I believe the military’s existing policy 
is adequate. As Asst. Secretary of 
Defense Fred Pang has said: 

As long as these members can perform 
their required duties, we see no prudent reason 
to separate and replace them because of 
their antibody status. However, as with any 
Service member, if their condition affects 
their performance of duty, then the Department 
initiates separation action . . . the 
proposed provision would not improve military 
readiness or the personnel policies of 
the Department. 

We must repeal this provision within 
6 months, or else people like Marie will 
feel the consequences for a lifetime. I 
ask that the article be printed in the 
RECORD. 

The article follows: 

[From the Washington Post, Feb. 1, 1996] 

ARMY SERGEANT WITH HIV FEELS DESERTED 

BY POLICY 

(By Dana Priest) 

Marie, a staff sergeant who has been in the 
Army 10 years, figures she has done what has 
been expected of her, and more. She has 
worked hard, spent months away from her 
family on assignments, ‘‘given 110 percent’’ 
to her job and is in line for an important promotion. 


Except now she expects to be forced out of 
the Army. 

That is because last week Congress passed 
and President Clinton agreed to sign a defense 
bill that includes a provision to discharge 
service members with the AIDS virus, 
regardless of whether they are sick or can 
still perform their jobs. 

Marie, who is 34 and has a daughter in elementary 
school, was infected by her late 
husband before he knew he had the disease. 

‘‘I’m widowed from it, I have a child and 
now I’m going to lose my job,’’ she said in a 
three-hour interview yesterday at a friend’s 
home in Northern Virginia. ‘‘No one’s looking 
at the work I’ve done. No one’s looking 

at the commitment I made. . . . I signed a 
contract to uphold freedom of speech, freedom 
of religion, I defend the Constitution. It 
feels like the United States has turned its 
back on me.’’ 

Marie noted that she was being forced from 
her profession for having HIV, the virus that 
causes AIDS, just when many people this 
week applauded basketball star Earvin 
‘‘Magic’’ Johnson’s return to professional 
play despite having the virus. 

Afraid of being stigmatized, she will not 
allow her full name to be used in this article—
Marie is her middle name. She has not 
told her daughter or most of her co-workers 
she is HIV-positive and only informed her 
mother last month, although the virus was 
diagnosed five years ago and she informed 
her Army supervisors. 

‘‘It’s my family I’m concerned about,’’ she 
said. 

The HIV measure in the defense bill was 
introduced by Rep. Robert K. Dornan (R-
Calif.), a conservative presidential aspirant 
and former combat pilot who has become a 
lightning rod for anger among AIDS activists 
and others, including Marie. 

Dornan has attracted their criticism for 
comments such as one he made on the House 
floor in November, when he defended the provision 
by saying that AIDS ‘‘is spread by 
human God-given free will’’ and then listing 
what he described as the three ways service 
members get AIDS: ‘‘Rolling up your white, 
khaki or blue uniform sleeve and sticking a 
contaminated, filthy needle in your arm . . . 
heterosexual sex with prostitutes . . . and 
having unprotected [homosexual] sex with 
strangers in some hideaway or men’s room 
somewhere.’’ 

‘‘I feel outraged’’ at Dornan, said Marie. ‘‘I 
can’t go out into the public and talk about 
my disease because the American people 
don’t understand this disease. How can I feel 
safe if I have a leader on Capitol Hill who 
says things like this? 

‘‘Everything I worked for he’s taking away 
from me, everything I know,’’ she said. ‘‘I’ve 
left my family to go to school, I’ve left my 
family to go overseas. I did it because that 
was what the military expected of me. If I 
didn’t want to make it my career, I wouldn’t 
have done it. I love my family.’’ 

There are 1,049 male and female service 
members who have the AIDS virus. They 
have been allowed to continue to work and 
to reenlist as long as they are able to perform 
their jobs. But the military tests personnel 
for HIV about every two years, and 
those with the virus are prohibited from 
being sent to overseas posts or into combat. 
Marie went abroad before being infected. 

‘‘It sounds like a tragic case,’’ Dornan said 
of Marie in an interview yesterday. But, he 
added, AIDS sufferers put an undue burden 
on other service members who have to fill in 
for them overseas. ‘‘She can’t go to Bosnia. 
She can’t go to Haiti. She can’t go to Somalia. 
She can’t go anywhere in this world . . . 
and she obviously had unprotected sex with 
someone whose entire background she didn’t 
know. . . . She should be a good patriot and 
take her honorable discharge.’’ 

Defense Department statistics show that 
half of the service members with the AIDS 
virus are married. 

Several high-ranking military officials and 
military organizations have supported Dornan’s 
provision because they believe HIV-
positive service members are a drain on military 
readiness. In 1993, Adm. Frank B. Kelso 
II, then chief of naval operations, wrote Dornan 
to say that retaining HIV-positive service 
members ‘‘imposes significant problems 
for all services, especially the Navy. Assignment 
limitations cause significant disruption 
in the sea/shore rotation for all our personnel.’’ 



S866 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

Clinton is set to sign the defense bill early 
next week. After he does, Marie, who works 
on personnel issues at the Pentagon, will be 
discharged within six months. She will retain 
her medical benefits but will not be entitled 
to retirement benefits or the kind of 
substantial disability pay she could have 
gotten had she remained in the Army until 
she became too sick to work. She will also 
lose the health insurance she has for her 
daughter. 

White House officials said they hope to 
have some alternative to the provision ready 
when Clinton signs the bill. Among the options 
under consideration is to have Clinton 
sign an executive order that would allow 
service members to retain health insurance 
for their dependents or to support legislation 
to repeal the provision. 

f 

AUTHORIZING TESTIMONY BY 

FORMER SENATE EMPLOYEE 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Senate Resolution 221, a resolution 
submitted earlier today by Senators 
DOLE and DASCHLE; further, that 
the resolution be agreed to, the preamble 
agreed to, and the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table, and 
that any statements relating to the 
resolution appear at the appropriate 
place in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

So the resolution (S. Res. 221) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution, with its preamble, is 

as follows: 
S. RES. 221 
Whereas, the plaintiff in Margaret C. Carlson 
v. Mike Eassa, et al., No. MDA 7203, a civil 
action pending in the Superior Court of California, 
County of Monterey, is seeking testimony 
through submission of a declaration by 
Amy L. Silvestri, a former employee of the 
Senate on the staff of Senator William V. 
Roth, Jr.; 
Whereas, by the privileges of the Senate of 
the United States and Rule XI of the Standing 
Rules of the Senate, no evidence under 
the control or in the possession of the Senate 
can, by administrative or judicial process, be 
taken from such control or possession but by 
permission of the Senate; 
Whereas, when it appears that evidence 
under the control or in the possession of the 
Senate is needed for the promotion of justice, 
the Senate will take such action as will 
promote the ends of justice consistent with 
the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore, 
be it 
Resolved, That Amy L. Silvestri is authorized 
to submit a declaration in the case of 
Margaret C. Carlson v. Mike Eassa, et al., except 
concerning matters for which a privilege 
should be asserted. 

Mr. DOLE. President, the plaintiff in 
a child support controversy pending in 
California Superior Court has requested 
that a former caseworker for 
Senator WILLIAM V. ROTH, Jr., submit a 
declaration for use in that proceeding. 
The plaintiff, who resides in Delaware, 
obtained assistance from Senator 
ROTH’S office in aid of her efforts to obtain 
child support. 

The substance of telephone conversations 
between Senator ROTH’S case


worker and the Monterey County District 
Attorney’s office, which has responsibility 
in child support matters in 
California, has become an issue in the 
case, as a contention has been made 
that Senator ROTH’S caseworker had 
authority to speak for the constituent 
regarding proposed settlement of the 
case. Senator ROTH’S former caseworker 
has informed the plaintiff’s attorney 
to the contrary that she never 
sought to convey to the District Attorney 
instructions about settling the 
case or represented herself as authorized 
to speak for the constituent in approving 
a settlement. 

Senator ROTH’S believes that it is appropriate 
for his former caseworker to 
submit a declaration describing her 
conversations with the District Attorney’s 
office to ensure that the Court is 
accurately informed about the limited 
role played by his office. 

Mr. President, this resolution would 
authorize Senator ROTH’S former caseworker 
to submit a declaration in this 
matter. 

f 

AUTHORIZING THE PRODUCTION 
OF DOCUMENTS BY THE PERMANENT 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS 


Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Senate Resolution 222, a resolution 
submitted earlier today by Senators 
DOLE and DASCHLE; further, that 
the resolution be agreed to, the preamble 
agreed to, and the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table, and 
that any statements relating to the 
resolution appear at the appropriate 
place in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

So the resolution (S. Res. 222) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution, with its preamble, is 

as follows: 
S. RES. 222 
Whereas, the Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations of the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs conducted an investigation 
into allegations concerning the Department 
of Justice’s handling of a computer software 
contract with INSLAW, Inc.; 
Whereas, in the case of INSLAW, Inc., et al. 

v. United States of America, Cong. Ref. No. 95– 
338X, pending in the United States Court of 
Federal Claims, counsel for the plaintiffs 
have requested that the Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations of the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs provide copies 
of records from its investigation; 
Wheeas, by the privileges of the Senate of 
the United States and Rule XI of the Standing 
Rules of the Senate, no evidence under 
the control or in the possession of the Senate 
can, by administrative or judicial process, be 
taken from such control or possession but by 
permission of the Senate; 

Whereas, when it appears that evidence 
under the control or in the possession of the 
Senate is needed for the promotion of justice, 
the Senate will take such action as will 
promote the ends of justice consistent with 
the privileges of the Senate: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That the chairman and ranking 
minority member of the Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations of the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs, acting 
jointly, are authorized to provide records to 
all parties in the case of INSLAW, INC., et al. 

v. United States of America, except concerning 
matters for which a privilege should be asserted. 
Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, earlier this 
year, the Senate agreed to Senate Resolution 
114, referring to the Court of 
Federal Claims S. 740, a private bill for 
the relief of a computer software firm, 
INSLAW, Inc., and its owners, William 

A. and Nancy Burke Hamilton. The 
purpose of the referral was to obtain a 
report from the court about allegations 
that the Department of Justice appropriated 
computer software developed 
by the INSLAW firm without paying 
for it and whether INSLAW has legitimate 
legal or equitable claims against 
the government arising out of its contractual 
relations with the government. 
Some of the matters at issue in this 
congressional referral case were earlier 
the subject of an inquiry by the Senate 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. 
As part of the civil discovery 
plan that the parties are undertaking 
under the court’s supervision in this 
case, the plaintiffs’ counsel has written 
to the leadership of the Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations seeking 
access to evidence obtained by the 
subcommittee in the course of its inquiry 
on subjects covered by the congressional 
referral. 

In Senate Resolution 302 of the 102d 
Congress, the Senate authorized the Investigations 
Subcommittee to provide 
evidence from its inquiry to a Justice 
Department special counsel conducting 
an earlier investigation into these matters. 


The leadership of the Subcommittee 
would like to assist the court by responding 
to the plaintiffs’ request for 
relevant evidence from its investigation. 
Such assistance appears particularly 
warranted in this matter inasmuch 
as this litigation results from a 
referral initiated by the Senate. 

Mr. President, this resolution would 
authorize the Investigations Subcommittee, 
acting through its chairman 
and ranking member, to provide 
copies of relevant investigative records 
to the plaintiffs, with copies to the 
Justice Department, in response to this 
request. 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S867 

COMMEMORATING THE SESQUI


CENTENNIAL OF TEXAS STATE


HOOD 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Senate Resolution 223, submitted 
earlier by Senators HUTCHISON 
and GRAMM. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 223) to commemorate 
the sesquicentennial of Texas statehood. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the immediate consideration 
of the resolution? 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I 
rise today to offer a resolution commemorating 
a very special event in the 
history of my State. This resolution is 
almost identical to one passed by the 
Texas State Legislature on March 7, 
1995. 

Just last month, on December 29, 
1995, Texans celebrated the sesquicentennial 
of their statehood. Unlike 
all other states ever admitted, we gave 
up the sovereignty of an independent 
republic to join the Union. 

On March 1, 1845, Congress passed a 
resolution inviting the Republic of 
Texas to join the Union, and a special 
convention of Texans met to consider 
it, under the leadership of Thomas Jefferson 
Rusk. The convention accepted 
the offer on July 4, and its decision was 
ratified by the people in October. We 
submitted a constitution, which Congress 
accepted on December 29. 

Rusk went on to become the first 
United States Senator from Texas, and 
I, the great granddaughter of his law 
partner, now hold his seat. Taylor and 
Rush had signed the Texas Declaration 
of Independence from Mexico in 1836. 

Texans mark the 29th, quietly, as the 
commencement of our statehood, although 
we didn’t lower the Lone Star 
and post the Stars and Stripes until 
February 19, 1846. We must have been 
happy with statehood in 1955, because 
we expressly renounced the right to fly 
the flag of our old Republic at the same 
level as that of our Union. Our legislature 
mandated that it fly in a subordinate 
position, in a manner followed by 
all other states. 

Although independence remains the 
signal day in Texas history, Texans 
look upon their statehood with pride, 
as a means of ‘‘conferring blessings 
upon the people of all the States.’’ 
When Old Glory was raised for the first 
time in Austin, Anson Jones, the last 
President of the Republic of Texas, 
stated with eloquence: 

The lone star of Texas, which ten years 
since arose amid cloud, over fields of carnage, 
and obscurely shone for a while, and 
following an inscrutable destiny has passed 
on and become fixed forever in that glorious 
constellation which all . . . lovers of freedom 
in the world must . . . adore—the American 

Union. Blending its rays with its sister stars, 
long may it continue to shine, and may a 
gracious heaven smile upon this consummation 
with the wishes of the two republics, 
now joined together in one. 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the resolution 
be considered and agreed to, the 
preamble be agreed to, the motion to 
reconsider be laid upon the table, and 
that any statements relating to the 
resolution appear at appropriate place 
in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 223) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution, with its preamble, 

reads as follows: 
S. RES. 223 
Whereas 1995 marks 150 years since the 
United States of America admitted Texas as 
the 28th State in the Union; 
Whereas the sesquicentennial of Texas 
statehood is a truly momentous occasion 
that allows all Texans to reflect on their 
State’s proud heritage and bright future; 
Whereas acting on the advice of President 
John Tyler, the United States Congress 
adopted a joint resolution on February 28, 
1845, inviting the Republic of Texas to enter 
the Union as a State with full retention of 
its public lands; today, a century and a half 
later, Texas enjoys the distinction of being 
the only State admitted with such extensive 
rights; 
Whereas the citizens of the Republic of 
Texas were deeply committed to the goals 
and ideals embodied in the United States 
Constitution, and, on June 16, 1845, the Congress 
of the Republic of Texas was convened 
by President Anson Jones to consider the 
proposal of statehood; 
Whereas Texas took advantage of the offer, 
choosing to unite with a large and prosperous 
Nation that could more effectively 
defend the borders of Texas and expand its 
flourishing trade with European countries; 
by October 1845, the Congress of the Republic 
of Texas had approved a State constitution, 
charting a bold new destiny for the Lone 
Star State; 
Whereas the proposed State constitution 
was sent to Washington, D.C., and on December 
29, 1845, the United States of America 
formally welcomed Texas as a new State; the 
transfer of governmental authority, however, 
was not complete until February 19, 
1846, when Anson Jones lowered the flag that 
had flown above the Capitol for nearly 10 
years and stepped down from his position as 
president of the Republic of Texas; and 
Whereas with the poignant retirement of 
the flag of the Republic, Texas emerged as a 
blazing Lone Star in America’s firmament, 
taking its place as the 28th State admitted 
into the Union: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) commemorate the sesquicentennial of 
Texas statehood; and 
(2) encourage all Texans to observe such 
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities 
on this historic occasion. 
The Secretary of the Senate shall transmit a 
copy of this resolution to the Texas Congressional 
Delegation, to the Governor of Texas, 
to the National Archives, and to the Texas 
Archives. 

f 

EXECUTIVE SESSION 

EXECUTIVE CALENDAR 
Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Sen


ate immediately proceed to executive 
session to consider Executive Calendar 
No. 330, and all military nominations 
reported out of the Armed Services 
Committee today. 

I further ask unanimous consent that 
the nominations be confirmed en bloc, 
the motions to reconsider be laid upon 
the table en bloc, and any statements 
relating to the nominations appear at 
the appropriate place in the RECORD, 
the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate’s action and that the 
Senate then return to legislative session. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The nominations considered and confirmed 
en bloc are as follows: 

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
Derrick L. Forrister, of Tennessee, to be an 
Assistant Secretary of Energy (Congressional 
and Intergovernmental Affairs). 
The above nomination was approved subject 
to the nominee’s commitment to respond 
to requests to appear and testify before 
any duly constituted committee of the 
Senate. 
IN THE AIR FORCE 
The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of general while assigned 
to a position of importance and responsibility 
under title 10, United States Code, 
Section 601: 

To be general 

Lt. Gen. Eugene E. Habiger, 000–00–0000, 
United States Air Force. 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general on 
the retired list pursuant to the provisions of 
Title 10, United States Code, Section 1370: 

To be lieutenant general 

Lt. Gen. Stephen B. Croker, 000–00–0000, 
United States Air Force. 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general on 
the retired list pursuant to the provisions of 
Title 10, United States Code, Section 1370: 

To be lieutenant general 

Lt. Gen. Arlen D. Jameson, 000–00–0000, 
United States Air Force. 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general 
while assigned to a position of importance 
and responsibility under Title 10, United 
States Code, Section 601: 

To be lieutenant general 

Maj. Gen. Michael D. McGinty, 000–00–0000, 
United States Air Force. 

The following named officers for appointment 
in the Regular Air Force of the United 
States to the positions and grade indicated 
under title 10, U.S.C., section 8037: 

THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL OF THE 
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 

To be major general 

Brig. Gen. Bryan G. Hawley, 000–00–0000. 
THE DEPUTY JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL OF 
THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 

To be major general 

Brig. Gen. Andrew M. Egeland, Jr., 000–00– 
0000. 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general 
while assigned to a position of importance 
and responsibility under Title 10, United 
States Code, Section 601: 

To be lieutenant general 

Maj. Gen. Phillip J. Ford, 000–00–0000, 
United States Air Force. 


S868 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

The following named officer for reappointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general 
while assigned to a position of importance 
and responsibility under Title 10, United 
States Code, Section 601: 

To be lieutenant general 

Lt. Gen. Kenneth A. Minihan, 000–00–0000, 
United States Air Force. 
IN THE ARMY 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of general while assigned 
to a position of importance and responsibility 
under Title 10, United States Code, 
Section 601(a): 

To be general 

Lt. Gen. Henry H. Shelton, 000–00–0000, 
United States army. 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general in 
the United States Army while assigned to a 
position of importance and responsibility 
under title 10, U.S.C., section 601(a): 

To be lieutenant general 

Maj. Gen. John M. Keane, 000–00–0000, 
United States Army. 

The following named officer for appointment 
to the grade of lieutenant general in 
the United States Army while assigned to a 
position of importance and responsibility 
under title 10, U.S.C., section 601(a): 

To be lieutenant general 

Maj. Gen. Patrick M. Hughes, 000–00–0000, 
United States Army. 
NAVY 

The following named officer to be placed 
on the retired list of the United States Navy 
in the grade indicated under section 1370 of 
title 10, U.S.C. 

To be vice admiral 

Vice Adm. David B. Robinson, 000–00–0000. 

The following named officer to be placed 
on the retired list of the United States Navy 
in the grade indicated under section 1370 of 
title 10, U.S.C. 

To be vice admiral 

Vice Adm. John B. LaPlante, 000–00–0000. 

The following named officer to be placed 
on the retired list of the United States Navy 
in the grade indicated under section 1370 of 
title 10, U.S.C. 

To be Vice admiral 

Vice Adm. John M. McConnell, 000–00–0000. 

f 

LEGISLATIVE SESSION 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senate 
will now return to legislative session. 


f 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST— 
S. 1028 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
present a unanimous-consent agreement 
which we have been working on 
all day. It is my understanding that 
there is still one objection to this 
agreement, and the majority leader is 
hoping this will be solved by next Tuesday 
when we are back in session. 

I will read this agreement. It has, as 
I said, been worked on all day. I am 
very appreciative of the majority leader’s 
efforts to bring this to an agreement. 
I ask unanimous consent that 
prior to Friday, May 3, the majority 
leader, after consultation with the 
Democratic leader, turn to the consideration 
of calendar No. 205, S. 1028, the 

Health Insurance Reform Act of 1995; it 
would further be a unanimous consent 
that it not be in order to offer any 
amendment relative to health insurance 
to any legislation not including 
matters relating to health care prior to 
the execution of this agreement. 

I am very appreciative of efforts that 
have gone into this today. It would certainly 
be my hope, given the consideration 
of everyone, that we can agree to 
this next Tuesday. 

f 

ORDERS FOR MONDAY, FEBRUARY 
5 AND TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1996 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today it 
stand in recess until the hour of 10 a.m. 
on Monday, February 5, for a pro forma 
session only, and that the Senate immediately 
stand in adjournment until 
12 noon on Tuesday, February 6, 1996; 
that following the prayer, the Journal 
of proceedings be deemed approved to 
date, the time for the two leaders be 
reserved for their use later in the day, 
and there then be a period for morning 
business until the hour of 12:30 p.m., 
with Senators permitted to speak for 
up to 5 minutes each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

CLOTURE VOTE 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. I ask unanimous 
consent that the pending cloture vote 
be postponed to occur on Tuesday, February 
6, with the time to be determined 
by the majority leader after consultation 
with the Democratic leader, and 
that first-degree and second-degree 
amendments be allowed to be filed 
until 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, notwithstanding 
rule XXII. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mrs. KASSEBAUM. It is the hope of 
this Senator, and I know others, that 
negotiations will continue with respect 
to a compromise amendment to the 
farm bill. 

However, if no agreement can be 
reached, then the cloture vote on the 
Craig-Leahy substitute would occur on 
Tuesday. In the event an agreement 
can be reached, votes can be expected 
with respect to the farm bill on Tuesday. 


f 

ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT 
Mrs. KASSEBAUM. If there is no further 
business to come before the Senate, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate stand in recess under the previous 
order following the remarks of 
Senator DASCHLE, the Democratic leader. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ACCOLADES TO CHAIR OF THE 

EDUCATION AND LABOR COM


MITTEE 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, let me 
just say how gratified we are that the 

distinguished Chair of the Senate 
Labor and Human Resources Committee 
has made such a remarkable effort 
to resolve the outstanding reservations 
that some may have with regard 
to the bill that she and Senator KENNEDY 
have worked on now for some 
time. She has been persistent, and I believe 
that ultimately she will be successful. 
I am very hopeful that we can 
continue to work to pass this important 
health reform legislation in a 
timely way. I believe she has demonstrated 
remarkable patience in her 
effort. 

I feel confident that at some point in 
the future when we are able to bring 
this piece of legislation to the floor, it 
will not take long. I think there is 
broad recognition of the need to do 
much of what she has proposed in the 
legislation. I think it would be significant 
movement forward, and I think it 
could be one of the most consequential 
of our accomplishments in the 104th 
Congress. I commend her for her effort 
and look forward to working with her. 

f 

THE FARM BILL 
Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I just 
briefly want to make a couple of final 
remarks with regard to the debate on 
the farm legislation. I do not want to 
belabor what has already been said. I 
know that there are many who want to 
retire. 
Let me say three things. First, I do 
not think there is a person in the Senate 
Chamber who does not want to get 
farm legislation passed at the earliest 
possible date. Frankly, many of us 
hoped we would not have had to see the 
delays that we have already experienced, 
for a lot of different reasons. 
There have been scheduling delays. I do 
not believe we have put the efforts in 
at the committee level that we should 
have. 
Others have noted this bill has never 
been reported out of committee. For a 
piece of legislation of this magnitude 
not to be reported out of committee, 
not to come to the floor in the entire 
first session of the 104th Congress, is 
some indication, in my view, of the priority 
the majority has placed on farm 
legislation. Certainly we could have 
found time somewhere during the summer 
months or at some time during the 
fall or perhaps during the winter during 
many of these long breaks we have 
taken to take up this legislation, to 
recognize how pressing a problem it is, 
to deal with it, as complex as it is, in 
a meaningful way—over a long period 
of time, if necessary, to accommodate 
the many different decisions that any 
farm legislation reflects. 
That is the first point, Mr. President. 
We really have to recognize that there 
have been delays, unnecessary ones, in 
our view, that have brought us to this 
point. 
This legislation was never subject to 
a vote on the Senate floor. It was buried 
in a budget resolution that the 
President, for a lot of reasons, was required 
to veto. So it is not accurate to 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S869 

say that the farm bill was vetoed. The 
budget resolution was vetoed; buried 
within that budget resolution we found 
farm legislation which had not been 
considered prior to that time. 

The second issue over which there 
ought not be any concern or confusion 
is our mutual desire to provide the 
maximum degree of flexibility to farmers. 
Let there be no mistake: Recognizing 
as late as it is, we simply cannot 
constrain farmers in any way as they 
begin to put their management plans 
together. Farmers have to be given 
flexibility. Farmers have to be given 
the assurance that they can make their 
decisions, unencumbered by farm policy 
at this late date. 

It is our desire every bit as much as 
it is the desire of many Republicans to 
ensure that farmers are given flexibility, 
that they have the latitude to 
go farm as we want them to farm. 
Flexibility is not the issue. No one 
ought to be using that argument as a 
reason for the fact that we have not 
reached an agreement today. We want 
flexibility. We want simplicity. We 
want to give farmers the chance to 
farm. 

The third issue, and the one that I 
think will divide us perhaps in perpetuity—
the reason we have not yet 
come to a resolution—is that in the 
name of some change, in the name of 
bringing about this so-called flexibility, 
what many on the other side are 
prepared to say is, ‘‘We will be so flexible 
that we will give you the payment 

whether you farm or not. We do not 

care whether you farm. We do not 

care what you farm. We do not care 
what the prices are. We are going to 
give you a huge lump-sum payment upfront, 
regardless of price, regardless of 
your management, regardless of your 
circumstances, regardless of how big 
you are, regardless of whether or not 
you are even on the farm. You will 
have an opportunity to get this huge 
payment.’’ 

Mr. President, as others have said 
today, I do not think it will take long 
for this army of investigative journalists 
we have in Washington and elsewhere 
to call attention to the fact that 
while we are cutting every single aspect 
of the Federal budget, there will 
be people out there getting not $100,000, 
not $200,000, but perhaps $300,000 in 
lump-sum payments for doing absolutely 
nothing at all. That is how some 
would view this so-called concept of 
‘‘freedom to farm.’’ It is the freedom 
not to farm. It is the freedom not to do 
anything. It is the freedom not to be 
responsible. 

So that is the fundamental disagreement 
we have today. We have had it for 
a long time. We will have it tomorrow. 
The question is, can we bridge that difference? 
Can we say we are not adverse 
to providing the advance deficiency 
payments or the advance payments 
that we provided agriculture in the 
past, but you have to farm to get a 
farm payment; you have to be responsible 
if you expect us to be responsive? 

So, let us hope that over the course 
of the next couple of days we can 

bridge that. We know we want simplicity 
and flexibility. We know we 
want a decision as quickly as we can 
get it. What I hope we can also agree 
upon is that we also must recognize the 
need for farmers to be responsible—to 
have the freedom to farm, but to be responsible 
with taxpayer dollars. If we 
can do that, then, indeed, I am optimistic 
that we will reach an agreement. 
We will be able to send the farm 
community a clear message that, indeed, 
we have done what we should 
have done a long time ago—pass a farm 
bill that will take us well into the future. 


With that, I yield the floor. 

Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to be permitted to 
speak for not in excess of 5 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

THE 44TH ANNUAL NATIONAL 
PRAYER BREAKFAST 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, the Nation’s 
Capital today hosted the 44th 
Annual National Prayer Breakfast, and 
I take note that the Presiding Officer 
was likewise the presiding officer at 
this historic moment, attended by the 
President and the First Lady, the Vice 
President and his lady and a number of 
Members of the House of Representatives 
and the U.S. Senate. 

I say to my good friend, the Presiding 
Officer, the distinguished Senator 
from Utah, that he mastered a 
unique and challenging situation, given 
the number of speakers and knowing 
that the President would conclude, as 
he did, with very moving remarks. 

I think the Presiding Officer would 
agree with me that above all, the remarks 
of the principal speaker, that of 
the distinguished senior Senator from 
Georgia, SAM NUNN, were of such merit 
that they deserve preservation for posterity 
for future generations. Likewise, 
our other colleague, Senator SIMPSON, 
made a very valued contribution. Of 
course, the Scripture was read by a 
third distinguished Senator, the Senator 
from Illinois, CAROL MOSELEY-
BRAUN. I had the privilege earlier 
today to place into the RECORD the remarks 
of the distinguished Senator 
from Wyoming [Mr. SIMPSON] and the 
distinguished Senator from Georgia 
[Mr. NUNN]. 

But as I watched the proceedings of 
the Senate tonight, it occurred to me 
that the hour is late, and knowing that 
the Presiding Officer, in preparation to 
meet today’s challenge, probably arose 
at around 5 in the morning, I think it 
most appropriate that he be relieved of 
his official duties, and I propose to do 
so at this time. 

Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. WARNER). 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 
141 

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I regret 
that we were not able to accommodate 
the House of Representatives with reference 
to House Concurrent Resolution 

141. I am not certain what action the 
House will take. It will be up to them. 
We have tried it for an hour and a half. 
My view is that it should not be our 
concern what the House does. They are 
a separate body and they wish to adjourn 
until the 26th of February. We 
are not able to get the Democratic 
leader to agree. 
f 

RECESS UNTIL 10 A.M., MONDAY, 
FEBRUARY 5, 1996 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate stands 
in recess until Monday 10 a.m., February 
5. 

Thereupon, the Senate, at 9:28 p.m., 
recessed until Monday, February 5, 
1996, at 10 a.m. 

f 

NOMINATIONS 
Executive nominations received by 
the Senate February 1, 1996: 

NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR LITERACY ADVISORY 
BOARD 

TONI G. FAY, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE A MEMBER OF 
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR LITERACY ADVISORY 
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 12, 1998, VICE 
RONALD M. GILLUM, TERM EXPIRED. 

AUDREY TAYSE HAYNES, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A MEMBER 
OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR LITERACY ADVISORY 
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 13, 1998, 
VICE BADI G. FOSTER, TERM EXPIRED. 

MARCIENE S. MATTLEMAN, PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR LITERACY 
ADVISORY BOARD, FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 12, 
1998. (REAPPOINTMENT) 

IN THE AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL WHILE ASSIGNED 
TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY 
UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 
601: 

To be lieutenant general 

MAJ. GEN. KENNETH E. EICKMANN, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR 
FORCE 

IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF GENERAL IN THE U.S. ARMY WHILE 
ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY 
UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 
601(A): 

To be general 

LT. GEN. JOHNNIE E. WILSON, 000–00–0000, U.S. ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER TO BE PLACED ON 
THE RETIRED LIST OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY IN 
THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER SECTION 1370 OF TITLE 10, 
UNITED STATES CODE: 

To be general 

GEN. LEON E. SALOMON, 000–00–0000, U.S. ARMY 


S870 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE February 1, 1996 

MERL A. STRODER, 000–00–0000 
JEFFREY A. STYERS, 000–00–0000 

IN THE NAVY MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF ADMIRAL IN THE U.S. NAVY WHILE ASSIGNED 
TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY 
UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTIONS 
601 AND 5035: 

VICE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS 

To be admiral 

VICE ADM. JAY L. JOHNSON, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF VICE ADMIRAL IN THE U.S. NAVY 
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND 
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, 
SECTION 601: 

To be vice admiral 

REAR ADM. VERNON E. CLARK, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF VICE ADMIRAL IN THE U.S. NAVY 
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND 
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, 
SECTION 601: 

To be vice admiral 

REAR ADM. (SELECTEE) RICHARD W. MIES, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF VICE ADMIRAL IN THE U.S. NAVY 
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND 
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, 
SECTION 601: 

To be vice admiral 

REAR ADM. DENNIS A. JONES, 000–00–0000 

IN THE AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OFFICERS 
FOR APPOINTMENT AS RESERVE OF THE AIR 
FORCE IN THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER THE PROVISIONS 
OF SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212, TITLE 10, UNITED 
STATES CODE, TO PERFORM DUTIES AS INDICATED. 

JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERALS DEPARTMENT 

To be lieutenant colonel 

JEFFREY K. SMITH, 000–00–0000 
BIO-MEDICAL SERVICES CORPS 

To be lieutenant colonel 

STANLEY A. STRAUSS, 000–00–0000 

MEDICAL CORPS 

To be lieutenant colonel 

LOWRY C. SHROPSHIRE, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING OFFICERS, U.S. AIR FORCE OFFICER 
TRAINING SCHOOL, FOR APPOINTMENT AS SECOND LIEUTENANTS 
IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE, UNDER THE PROVISIONS 
OF SECTION 531 OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES 
CODE, WITH DATES OF RANK TO BE DETERMINED BY THE 
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE. 

LINE 

MATTHEW D. ATKINS, 000–00–0000 
SARAH W. BLOODWORTH, 000–00–0000 
PATRICK J. BOWAR, 000–00–0000 
WILLIAM D. BOWER, 000–00–0000 
KENNETH B. BRATLAND, 000–00–0000 
STEVEN R. BUCKWALTER, 000–00–0000 
BRITT M. BURBRIDGE, 000–00–0000 
GERALD B. BURKE, 000–00–0000 
DANIEL C. CHAMBERS, 000–00–0000 
NORMAN E. CHUCHUL, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL A. COOLEY, 000–00–0000 
CEIR CORAL, 000–00–0000 
GEORGE T.M. DIETRICH III, 000–00–0000 
MARK R. DOMINGUEZ, 000–00–0000 
JAMES S. DOUGLAS, 000–00–0000 
CHARLES B. ERICSON, 000–00–0000 
JOHN M. FITZHUGH, 000–00–0000 
JEFFREY L. FRYE, 000–00–0000 
DONALD L. GILLES, 000–00–0000 
EDWARD C. GOETZ, 000–00–0000 
BRENT R. HATCH, 000–00–0000 
ROBERT L. HENDERSON, 000–00–0000 
JEFFREY D. HEYSE, 000–00–0000 
SCOTT A. HOFFMAN, 000–00–0000 
DANIEL W. HOLT, 000–00–0000 
SCOTT S. JOHNSON, 000–00–0000 
GREGORY KREUDER, 000–00–0000 
TRACY A. LINDGREN, 000–00–0000 
TONY S. LOMBARDO, 000–00–0000 
ZANE G. MARSHALL, JR, 000–00–0000 
CHRISTOPHER E. MAZZEI, 000–00–0000 
WHITNEY P. MC CLOUD, 000–00–0000 
REGAN E. MC CLURKIN, 000–00–0000 
JAMES G. MEAD, 000–00–0000 
RAY V. ONDREJECH, 000–00–0000 
NATHAN A. PALMER, 000–00–0000 
CHRISTOPHER L. PARSONS, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL C. SCHOENBEIN, 000–00–0000 
ROBERT J. SHERWOOD, 000–00–0000 
CHRISTINA L. SIMPERS, 000–00–0000 
ERIC A. SMITH, 000–00–0000 
DANIEL W. STONE, 000–00–0000 
KERRY L. STRAIT, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL D. STRICKLER, 000–00–0000 

BERT G. WINSLOW, 000–00–0000 
TAMARA L. WISE, 000–00–0000 
STEPHEN R. WOOD, 000–00–0000 
STEVEN J. YOUD, 000–00–0000 

IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY, UNDER THE PROVISIONS 
OF TITLE 10 UNITED STATES CODE, SECTIONS 12203, 12204 
AND 12320. 

DENTAL CORPS 

To be lieutenant colonel 

RICKY J. ROGERS, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS, ON THE ACTIVE 
DUTY LIST, FOR PROMOTION TO THE GRADE INDICATED 
IN THE U.S. ARMY IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 624 OF 
TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE: 

CHAPLAIN 

To be colonel 

RALPH G. BENSON, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL R. DURHAM, 000–00–0000 
WILLARD D. GOLDMAN, 000–00–0000 
CHARLES E. GUNTI, 000–00–0000 
JEROME A. HABEREK, 000–00–0000 
PHILIP D. KALYANAPU, 000–00–0000 
ROGER D. KAPPEL, 000–00–0000 
JERRY L. ROBINSON, 000–00–0000 
JESSE L. THORNTON, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF 
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR PROMOTION IN THE 
RESERVE OF THE ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES, UNDER 
THE PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, 
SECTIONS 12203 AND 3385: 

ARMY PROMOTION LIST 

To be colonel 

JAMES C. FERGUSON, 000–00–0000 
JACOB C. HUFFMAN, JR., 000–00–0000 
CLYDE H. JOHNSON, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL C. JOHNSEN, 000–00–0000 
STEPHEN S. KAPPA, 000–00–0000 
CLEAVE A. MC BEAN, 000–00–0000 
BRIAN J. MC CRODDEN, 000–00–0000 
DAVID D. MC DOUGALL, 000–00–0000 
TIMOTHY J. SANKEN, 000–00–0000 
RONALD M. SPANIOL, 000–00–0000 
CLAUDE A. WILLIAMS, 000–00–0000 

CHAPLAIN CORPS 

To be colonel 

EUGENE P. BRENNAN, 000–00–0000 
THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS 

To be colonel 

GEORGE A. BUSKIRK, JR., 000–00–0000 
ROBERT P. COYNE, 000–00–0000 
WILLIAM P. DUBORD, 000–00–0000 

MEDICAL CORPS 

To be colonel 

DOUGLAS A. DUNHAM, 000–00–0000 

ARMY PROMOTION LIST 

To be lieutenant colonel 

EDDY L. ANTHONY, 000–00–0000 
PETER D. ANZULEWICZ, 000–00–0000 
JAMES D.H. BACON, 000–00–0000 
JOHN I. BARNES III, 000–00–0000 
BRUCE E. BECK, 000–00–0000 
ALLEN E. BREWER, 000–00–0000 
GREGORY D. CHRISTENSEN, 000–00–0000 
DONALD L. CHU, 000–00–0000 
MAURO A. COOPER, 000–00–0000 
CHARLES P. ECK, 000–00–0000 
GARY C. EVANS, 000–00–0000 
CLARENCE L. FAUBUS, 000–00–0000 
JOHN L. GRAHAM, 000–00–0000 
JOHNNIE W. HARPER, 000–00–0000 
FREDERICK E. HENDRICKS, 000–00–0000 
ALAN R. LANCASTER, 000–00–0000 
GLENN M. LEACH, 000–00–0000 
WILLIAM C. MARTIN, 000–00–0000 
HENRY C. MC CANN, 000–00–0000 
RODNEY D. MONTANG, 000–00–0000 
OLIVER L. NORRELL III, 000–00–0000 
WALTER S. O’REILLY, 000–00–0000 
JAMES M. STEWART, 000–00–0000 
JOHN M. STOEN, 000–00–0000 
RICHARD E. SWAN, 000–00–0000 
LAYNE J. WALKER, 000–00–0000 
JAMES M. WELLS, 000–00–0000 
IVA E. WILSON-BURKE, 000–00–0000 

THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS 

To be lieutenant colonel 

JAMES B. BRIMLEY, 000–00–0000 
JOSEPH A. WANNEMACHER, 000–00–0000 

MEDICAL CORPS 

To be lieutenant colonel 

RONALD A. LARSEN, 000–00–0000 

To be lieutenant colonel 

DENNIS R. MILLER, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL M. WERTZ, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
IN THE REGULAR ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE 
GRADE OF CAPTAIN, UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF TITLE 
10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTIONS 531, 532, AND 533: 

ROMNEY C. ANDERSEN, 000–00–0000 
ERIN L. BALDEN, 000–00–0000 
MARY J. BARNES, 000–00–0000 
JOHN A. BOJESCUL, 000–00–0000 
BENJAMIN B. CABLE, 000–00–0000 
YONG U. CHOI, 000–00–0000 
BRYAN L. CHRISTENSEN, 000–00–0000 
JIMMY L. COOPER, 000–00–0000 
WILLIAM P. CRUM, 000–00–0000 
LOUIS A. DAINTY, 000–00–0000 
ALAN W. DAVIS, 000–00–0000 
THOMAS E. DYKES, 000–00–0000 
JOHN T. EANES, 000–00–0000 
JOHN A EDWARDS, 000–00–0000 
MINELA FERNANDEZ, 000–00–0000 
JASON A. FRIEDMAN, 000–00–0000 
GEORGE D. GARCIA, 000–00–0000 
DANIEL G. GATES, 000–00–0000 
GEORGE R. GOODWIN, 000–00–0000 
GEOFFREY G. GRAMMER, 000–00–0000 
MARIA L. GRAPILON, 000–00–0000 
SHARETTE K. GRAY, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL A. HELWIG, 000–00–0000 
DANIEL P. HSU, 000–00–0000 
SHANNON A. KANE, 000–00–0000 
BERNARD J. KOPCHINSKI, 000–00–0000 
RUSS S. KOTWAL, 000–00–0000 
DAVID T. KRAMER, 000–00–0000 
CHRISTINE M. MACENCZAK, 000–00–0000 
CHRISTOPHER B. MAHNKE, 000–00–0000 
RICHARD G. MALISH, 000–00–0000 
JAMES S. MC CELLAN, 000–00–0000 
CURT A. MISKO, 000–00–0000 
DAN S. MOSELY, 000–00–0000 
CLINTON K. MURRAY, 000–00–0000 
ANGELA G. MYSLIWIEC, 000–00–0000 
VENCENT MYSLIWIEC, 000–00–0000 
CHRIS G. PAPPAS, 000–00–0000 
SHEAN E. PHELPS, 000–00–0000 
AARON C. PITNEY, 000–00–0000 
THOMAS L. POULTON, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL W. QUINN, 000–00–0000 
JOHN C. RAYFIELD, 000–00–0000 
MARK T. REED, 000–00–0000 
STUART A. ROOP, 000–00–0000 
ALEX ROSIN, 000–00–0000 
EARLE G. SANFORD, 000–00–0000 
SAMUEL W. SAUER, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL J. SEBESTA, 000–00–0000 
EDWARD J. SWANTON, 000–00–0000 
JOEL T. TANAKA, 000–00–0000 
KENNETH F. TAYLOR, 000–00–0000 
LAURA B. VARNADO, 000–00–0000 
MICHAEL A. WEBER, 000–00–0000 
PETER J. WEINA, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR REAPPOINTMENT 
IN THE REGULAR ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES, 
FROM THE TEMPORARY DISABILITY RETIRED LIST, IN 
HIS ACTIVE DUTY GRADE OF CAPTAIN, UNDER THE PROVISIONS 
OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 
1211: 

MARK P. HADA, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED HONOR GRADUATE FROM THE 
OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE 
REGULAR ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE GRADE 
OF SECOND LIEUTENANT, UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF 
TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTIONS 531, 532, AND 
533: 

MICHAEL N. PERRY, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING 
CORPS CADET FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE REGULAR 
ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE GRADE OF SECOND 
LIEUTENANT, UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, 
UNITED STATES CODE, SECTIONS 531, 532, AND 533 AND 
2106. 

DAVID F. TASHEA, 000–00–0000 

IN THE NAVY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED U.S. NAVAL ACADEMY GRADUATES 
TO BE APPOINTED PERMANENT ENSIGN IN THE 
LINE OF THE U.S. NAVY, PURSUANT TO TITLE 10, UNITED 
STATES CODE, SECTION 531: 

MAURICE J. CURRAN, 000–00–0000 
GREGGORY A. GRAY, 000–00–0000 
MATTHEW T. KIRBY, 000–00–0000 
JAMES D. MORGAN, 000–00–0000 
PAUL E. PEVERLY, 000–00–0000 
TODD D. WILSON, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED NAVAL RESERVE OFFICER 
TRAINING CORPS GRADUATES TO BE APPOINTED PERMANENT 
ENSIGN IN THE LINE OF THE U.S. NAVY, PURSUANT 
TO TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 531: 

BRIAN C. DAVISON, 000–00–0000 
JONATHAN M GREEN, 000–00–0000 
MATTHEW T. POTTENBURG, 000–00–0000 
KIM M. VOLK, 000–00–0000 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S871 

CONFIRMATIONS To be lieutenant general To be general 

Executive nominations confirmed by 
the Senate February 1, 1996: 

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 

DERRICK L. FORRISTER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE AN ASSISTANT 
SECRETARY OF ENERGY (CONGRESSIONAL AND 
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS). 

The above nomination was approved subject 
to the nominee’s commitment to respond 
to requests to appear and testify before 
any duly constituted committee of the 
Senate. 

IN THE AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF GENERAL WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION 
OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER 
TITLE 10, UNITED STATES, CODE SECTION 601: 

To be general 

LT. GEN. EUGENE E. HABIGER, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL ON THE RETIRED 
LIST PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, 
UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 1370: 

To be lieutenant general 

LT. GEN. STEPHEN B. CROKER, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL ON THE RETIRED 
LIST PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, 
UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 1370: 

To be lieutenant general 

LT. GEN. ARLEN D. JAMESON, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL WHILE ASSIGNED 
TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY 
UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 
601: 

MAJ. GEN. MICHAEL D. MC GINTY, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR 
FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE OF THE UNITED STATES TO 
THE POSITIONS AND GRADE INDICATED UNDER TITLE 10, 
UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 8037: 

THE JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL OF THE U.S. AIR 

FORCE 

To be major general 

BRIG. GEN. BRYAN G. HAWLEY, 000–00–0000 

THE DEPUTY JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL OF THE 

U.S. AIR FORCE 
To be major general 

BRIG. GEN. ANDREW M. EGELAND, JR., 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL WHILE ASSIGNED 
TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY 
UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 
601: 

To be lieutenant general 

MAJ. GEN. PHILLIP J. FORD, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR REAPPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL WHILE 
ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY 
UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 
601: 

To be lieutenant general 

LT. GEN. KENNETH A. MINIHAN, 000–00–0000, U.S. AIR 
FORCE 

IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF GENERAL WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION 
OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER 
TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, SECTION 601(A): 

LT. GEN. HENRY H. SHELTON, 000–00–0000, U.S. ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL IN THE U.S. 
ARMY WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE 
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES 
CODE, SECTION 601(A): 

To be lieutenant general 

MAJ. GEN. JOHN M. KEANE, 000–00–0000, U.S. ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE OF LIEUTENANT GENERAL IN THE U.S. 
ARMY WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE 
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, UNITED STATES 
CODE, SECTION 601(A): 

To be lieutenant general 

MAJ. GEN. PATRICK M. HUGHES, 000–00–0000, U.S. ARMY 

IN THE NAVY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER TO BE PLACED ON 
THE RETIRED LIST OF THE U.S. NAVY IN THE GRADE INDICATED 
UNDER SECTION 1370 OF TITLE 10, UNITED 
STATES CODE: 

To be vice admiral 

VICE ADM. DAVID B. ROBINSON, 000–00–0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER TO BE PLACED ON 
THE RETIRED LIST OF THE U.S. NAVY IN THE GRADE INDICATED 
UNDER SECTION 1370 OF TITLE 10, UNITED 
STATES CODE: 

To be vice admiral 

VICE ADM. JOHN B. LA PLANTE, 000–00–0000. 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER TO BE PLACED ON 
THE RETIRED LIST OF THE U.S. NAVY IN THE GRADE INDICATED 
UNDER SECTION 1370 OF TITLE 10, UNITED 
STATES CODE: 

To be vice admiral 

VICE ADM. JOHN M. MC CONNELL, 000–00–0000 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 123 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

A SALUTE TO BLACK HISTORY 
MONTH 

HON. CHARLES E. SCHUMER 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues 
to join me this February in celebrating 
Black History Month. I would like to take a moment 
to reflect on the courageous leadership 
and civic duty that has shaped the communities 
of New York throughout this decade. As 
we approach a new century, New Yorkers of 
all ethnic backgrounds will face a new set of 
economic, social, and political challenges. If 
we stop and recognize the perseverance of 
African-Americans in times of change, their 
record of commitment to the pursuit of prosperity, 
integrity, and opportunity for their families 
and friends speaks for itself. 

The tireless work of community and religious 
leaders in guiding African-American 
communities have done much to improve the 
quality of life in our city. I am proud to honor 
this important occasion where African-Americans 
join hands to acknowledge their accomplishments 
and their unique contributions to 
our society and the world. 

The level of civic participation in today’s culture 
is depressingly low among average American 
citizens. However, I am always inspired 
by the surge of community spirit and leadership 
from African-Americans in New York. Our 
society would be a better place if more Americans 
emulated the civic duty and moral 
strength of their African-American counterparts. 
I hope that Black History Month is recognized 
and honored by citizens of all backgrounds. 
I honor the work and vision of my African-
American colleagues in Congress and 
throughout New York. May our city continue to 
be blessed with their leadership. 

f 


HONORING LIVERMORE PUBLIC 
SCHOOLS 

HON. BILL BAKER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. BAKER of California. Mr. Speaker, 
Money Magazine is generally recognized as 
one of the most reliable financial guides in the 
country. That’s why, when Money recognized 
the public schools in Livermore, CA as among 
the ‘‘100 Top Schools in Towns You Can Afford,’’ 
America took notice. 

Livermore is a lovely community situated 
amid rolling hills and farmland in central California’s 
east bay region. Home of the Lawrence 
Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore 
is committed to the community values 
that make for a high quality of life. It is not 
surprising to me that its school system would 
be cited for excellence. 

Money set demanding criteria as the basis 
of its selections. Money said the school sys


tems on its list are rated in the academic top 
20 percent of all systems. Money also scored 
its ‘‘Top 100’’ in the context of housing afford-
ability. In other words, Money combined high 
scholastic standards with community liveability—
and Livermore was one of the top 100 
school systems out of 16,665 systems in the 
Nation to meet this stringent test. 

It is an honor for me to recognize the parents, 
teachers, administrators, and students of 
the Livermore public school system for achieving 
this exceptional honor. I am proud to represent 
this remarkable group of people in Congress, 
and appreciate all they have done to 
make their schools and community the wonderful 
places they are. 

f 


AUTISM SOCIETY OF AMERICA 

CELEBRATES NATIONAL AUTISM 

AWARENESS MONTH 

HON. RICHARD A. GEPHARDT 

OF MISSOURI 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. GEPHARDT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to join the Autism Society of America [ASA] in 
recognition of January as National Autism 
Awareness Month. 

This has been a year of progress and 
achievement for the ASA. Last spring, in response 
to a request from Congress, the National 
Institutes of Health [NIH] held an Autism 
State-of-the-Science Conference. The conference 
brought researchers, clinicians and 
parents together in an effort to evaluate existing 
science and identify new areas for research. 


The conference highlighted the fact that autism 
affects some 400,000 Americans. While 
the exact cause of autism is still unknown, 
conference participants agreed that, at least 
for some individuals with autism, there appears 
to be a genetic link—one that could very 
probably be identified with the work being conducted 
by the NIH National Center for Human 
Genome Research. 

Undoubtedly the most important outcome of 
the conference was the conclusion that more 
research is desperately needed. Autism is a 
lifelong disability. Its social, emotional, and financial 
costs are staggering, ranging from 
$30,000 to $100,000 per year per person— 
millions of dollars for each individual over the 
course of a normal lifespan. These numbers 
speak to the need for more research on the 
possible causes of autism as well as medical, 
social, and behavioral interventions. 

The ASA was the major force behind this 
conference. Backed by the strength and 
knowledge of its 18,000 parent members, the 
ASA has been the primary source of information 
and referral on autism and the largest collective 
voice representing the autism community. 
Founded over three decades ago, its 
members are now connected through a volunteer 
network of over 220 chapters in 48 
States. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in congratulating the Autism Society of America 
for its 30 years of service and in sharing 
in their celebration of National Autism Awareness 
Month. 

f 


TIME TO CLARIFY THE ROLE OF 

CHURCHES IN THE POLITICAL 

SPHERE 

HON. PHILIP M. CRANE 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. CRANE. Mr. Speaker, today I am introducing 
legislation along with my colleague 
from New York, CHARLIE RANGEL, which will 
allow churches to carry on a minimal degree 
of grassroots lobbying and campaign activity 
without jeopardizing their tax exempt status. 

The proposal can best be described in two 
parts, with the first part focusing on the grassroots 
lobbying activity of churches. Section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code states 
that ‘‘no substantial part of [church] activities 
[can] consist of carrying on propaganda or 
otherwise attempting to influence legislation.’’ 

While this language clearly suggests that 
some such activity is acceptable, churches 
have had a hard time determining just exactly 
what level will pass muster with the Internal 
Revenue Service. Because of the verbiage 
‘‘no substantial part,’’ and varying court interpretations 
as to just exactly what ‘‘substantial’’ 
means, churches are very shy about engaging 
in any lobbying activity on issues at all because 
of the fear that they could lose their tax 
exempt status. In an effort to give churches a 
better idea of just exactly how much in the 
way of resources they can devote to grass 
roots lobbying, we have drafted a proposal 
which would give churches and the IRS a 
bright line test. 

Working with legislative counsel, we have 
crafted a proposal which allows churches to 
continue to maintain their tax exempt status as 
long as they do not make lobbying expenditures 
in a taxable year ‘‘in excess of an 
amount equal to 20 percent of such organization’s 
gross revenue for such year.’’ This ‘‘20 
percent rule’’ for lobbying activity parallels another 
provision in the Code for nonprofits 
(501(h)). 

The second part of the proposal addresses 
church involvement in actual campaign activity. 
The Code currently states that churches 
cannot engage in ‘‘any political campaign on 
behalf of—or in opposition to—any candidate 
for public office.’’ In other words, a church is 
prohibited from campaigning for or against a 
specific candidate. 

The current language begs some questions. 
Is allowing a candidate to come into a church 
to speak from the pulpit or allowing a meeting 
of a candidate’s volunteers in the church 
basement really something we want to prohibit? 
Shouldn’t a certain minimal degree of 
activity be acceptable? Without getting into a 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E 124 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

lengthy debate on the subject of separation of 
church and state, I do need to make some observations 
on that matter at this juncture. As 
a Ph.D. in American History, I have taken 
great pains to study our Constitution and the 
writings of the Founding Fathers. There is no 
question in my mind that the so-called wall 
erected to separate church and state was 
erected to prevent the state from interfering 
with the activities of the church—not to prevent 
the church from being involved in the activities 
of the state. In other words, it is my 
view that church involvement in the political 
process is not something that would have 
been frowned upon at all by the Founding Fathers. 
Indeed, I would imagine that they might 
be surprised if there were no such activity. 

Frankly, plenty of churches on both the right 
and left currently allow such activity, and that 
fact raises the question of selective enforcement 
by the IRS. If the IRS decides to step up 
enforcement in this area, are we going to see 
some churches lose their tax exempt status 
simply because of a volunteer meeting in the 
church basement? Will we see a situation 
where, depending on the political party in 
power at the time, harassment of churches exclusively 
on the right or churches exclusively 
on the left? If the reality is that the IRS currently 
looks the other way when it comes to 
such minimal activity, putting a bright line test 
in law for such minimal activity will put everyone’s 
mind at ease and would seem reasonable. 


To address these concerns and questions, 
the second part of this bill states that it is acceptable 
for a church to devote up to 5 percent 
of the organization’s gross revenues to 
campaign on behalf of—or in opposition to— 
any political campaign or candidate for public 
office. This would allow for the very limited 
and modest activities given as examples 
above. 

Finally, I would note that the legislation contains 
an aggregate limit which states that both 
the grass roots lobbying activity and the campaign 
activity combined cannot exceed 20 percent 
of gross revenues. 

It is my hope that this proposal will generate 
broad bipartisan support, and I encourage my 
colleagues to join us and cosponsor this legislation. 


f 


A TRIBUTE TO THE CREW OF 
SPACE SHUTTLE ‘‘CHALLENGER’’ 

HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS 

OF FLORIDA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise to pay tribute to the seven crew members 
of the space shuttle Challenger. Ten years 
ago on January 28, 1986, these brave astronauts 
fell victim to one of our Nation’s most 
horrific tragedies—the Challenger explosion. 
Indeed, human space exploration is and has 
always been inherently risky but this should 
not deter us from reaching for the stars or 
from exploring this new frontier. 

Forty nine space shuttle missions have 
been succssfully completed since 1986. The 
safety features of the space shuttle have improved 
substantially since the Challenger tragedy. 
It is possible, NASA officials believe, that 
if a similar accident happened today, crew 
members could escape with their own oxygen 
supply and parachutes. 

A healthy shuttle program is fundamental to 
construction of the international space station—
starting in late 1997, which will be the 
basis of further human exploration of Mars 
and beyond. NASA plans to launch 26 shuttle 
flights between 1997 and 2002 to help assemble 
this station. Additionally, a preliminary plan 
designed by NASA and the Russian Space 
Agency envisions using the space shuttle to 
deliver Russian hardware to resupply the orbiting 
Mir station. Therefore, the space shuttle 
program will be instrumental in the enhancement 
of international cooperation, the forerunner 
of world space. Furthermore, the reusable 
space shuttle is the way of the future for 
launching commercial and military satellites. 

As one of the parents of the astronauts remarked, 
he was ‘‘pleased that the crew’s footsteps 
were being followed’’ and ‘‘that their 
hopes and dreams are marching forward.’’ On 
the 10th anniversary of this disaster, we must 
express support for the continuation of the 
space exploration mission in order to truly 
honor those seven brave explorers. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO GERARD KLUPP 

HON. GERALD D. KLECZKA 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. KLECZKA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to a lifelong friend and resident of 
Milwaukee, my hometown, Mr. Gerard Klupp, 
as he is honored as Person of the Year by the 
South Side Advancement Association at the 
49th annual Lincoln Day banquet. 

Jerry Klupp is devoted to his family, his 
God, and his Nation. He is the proud father of 
two children and grandfather of five and has 
served his parish, St. Adalbert’s, in many capacities. 
Enlisting in the Air National Guard in 
1949, Jerry was activated into the Air Force in 
1951, and was honorably discharged in 1953 
as a sergeant. He is currently active in his 
American Legion Post and the AMVETS. 

Jerry Klupp is also a successful businessman. 
Working in his father’s business, Frank 

J. Klupp & Sons, a construction firm, Jerry has 
had a personal, hands-on influence to many 
public and private projects, both big and small, 
in the Milwaukee area. 
Many Milwaukee civic organizations have 
also been graced with Jerry’s service over the 
years. Beneficiaries of Jerry’s gifts of time and 
talents include the South Side Business Club, 
the Milwaukee Society—Polish National Alliance, 
the South Side Advancement Association, 
and Polish Fest. 

Mr. Speaker, Jerry Klupp’s dedication to his 
community should serve as an example to us 
all. 

With all of this in mind, I am pleased to 
present Jerry Klupp with an American flag 
which has proudly flown over our Nation’s 
Capitol. Keep up the good work, God Bless, 
and thanks for being a model citizen, Jerry. 

f 


TELEVISION VIOLENCE 

HON. LEE H. HAMILTON 

OF INDIANA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. HAMILTON. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
insert my Washington Report for Wednesday, 

January 17, 1996 into the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD: 

TELEVISION VIOLENCE 
Most of us have seen something offensive 
on television—portrayals of casual sex, talk 
shows which glorify all the wrong values, or 
graphic violence. Adults can, and often do, 
turn off the set in disgust; but these images 
can be both powerful and confusing to children. 
While many parents try to closely 
monitor what their children watch, in this 
age of cable television they are frequently 
confounded by the proliferation of new programs. 
TV has become a very strong competitor to 
families, schools, and other community institutions 
in shaping young people’s attitudes 
and values about acceptable behavior. 
Television is cheap, accessible and convenient. 
Most research on the effects of television 
on children has centered on violent 
programming. Congress has also discussed a 
number of approaches to lessen TV violence. 

RESEARCH 

Virtually every American household has at 
least one television set, and children are 
among the most avid viewers. The average 
pre-schooler and school-aged child watches 
two to four hours of TV per day. By the time 
children finish elementary school, they have 
on average viewed 8,000 murders and over 
100,000 additional acts of violence on television. 
A 1994 report analyzed ten television 
channels for 18 hours one day and found over 
1,800 acts of violence—more than 10 violent 
scenes per hour, per channel, all day. But 
perhaps most disturbing is the finding that 
TV violence is most common on Saturday 
morning, when children are most likely to be 
watching. 

No one believes that television by itself 
causes aggression, but research indicates 
convincingly that violent programming contributes 
to the problem. Most of the 1,000 or 
so studies on TV violence show that it can 
influence viewers of all ages and socioeconomic 
levels toward more violent and aggressive 
behavior. Watching the more violent 
shows can easily lead a person to develop 
an image of a mean world in which 
people cannot be trusted and in which violence 
is commonplace, even acceptable. 

WHAT CAN BE DONE 

The public has increasingly demanded that 
broadcasters show more restraint, but 
progress was slow. The industry for many 
years denied that violent programming was 
harmful to children, and argued that restrictions 
could limit creativity and interfere 
with First Amendment protections on free 
speech. However, the four major television 
networks agreed in 1993 to place parental 
warnings on programs that might contain 
excessive violence. In early 1994, network 
and cable television executives agreed to 
have their programming independently monitored 
for two years. 

Meanwhile, pressure for greater government 
involvement in limiting violent programming 
has also mounted. The federal 
government generally has imposed only limited 
restrictions on the content of television 
shows. The Supreme Court this month 
upheld federal regulations that ban indecent 
programming between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 

p.m. However, this ban has usually been enforced 
against programming which is sexually 
explicit or contains vulgar language— 
not against violent programming. 
Attention has recently focused on the so-
called ‘‘V-chip,’’ which would allow parents 
to block violent programming. Under this 
proposal, television programs would be rated 
much as movies are. These ratings would be 
electronically transmitted to the V-chip, a 
receptor inside the television set. Parents 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 125 

could then program their TVs not to receive 
programs with certain ratings. 

During consideration of a telecommunications 
reform bill in August 1995, I voted for 
an amendment to require that all 13-inch and 
larger TVs sold in the United States include 
a V-chip. The measure, which was approved 
by the House, would give broadcasters one 
year to establish voluntary rules for rating 
video programming and to begin transmitting 
such ratings. If the industry failed to 
act, the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) would develop its own guidelines. 
A House-Senate conference committee has 
agreed to the V-chip provisions. 

Critics of the V-chip charge that it would 
impose unconstitutional restrictions on TV 
programming. However, the V-chip proposal 
does not bar broadcasters from showing violent 
programs—it simply allows consumers 
to regulate the reception of such programs in 
their homes. Just as the system of voluntary 
movie ratings has survived legal scrutiny, I 
believe that the V-chip will as well. 

In addition, the Chairman of the FCC has 
proposed greater requirements on broadcasters 
to air educational programs for children. 
Some schools have also begun media 
literacy programs to encourage students to 
view TV more critically. 

OUTLOOK 

Many parents feel bombarded by ideas and 
images hostile to the values they want to instill 
in their children. Television is not the 
only source of trouble—music, video games, 
movies, and the Internet can also be conduits 
for violence or vulgarity. But TV remains 
by far the most influential type of 
media, and how we deal with it will be instructive 
in dealing with other types. 

Many questions remain: How can the V-
chip technology be made more affordable? 
What distinctions should we make between 
different violent images—for example, Wile 

E. Coyote attacking the Road Runner vs. a 
documentary on the Holocaust? How should 
violence depicted on television news be 
treated? Not all instances of violent programming 
are necessarily inappropriate, but 
we must figure out how to protect children 
from violence that is clearly excessive. I 
think it might help to require each broadcaster 
to say when it applies to the FCC for 
renewal of its license what it intends to do 
for the children that it serves and how it intends 
to discourage violence. 
It is clear that there are no easy solutions 
to this problem, but we cannot abandon our 
children to the wasteland of television violence. 
I believe the V-chip can come to be an 
important tool for parents to use in combat-
ting the effects of TV violence. But I do not 
believe that technology will ever serve as a 
substitute for the role parents play in 
screening the programs their children watch 
and discussing with them what they see. 
Right now, violence sells. It is up to the public 
to remove this perverse economic incentive 
by voting with our feet—or more accurately, 
with our remote controls. Without 
any doubt public pressure will be more important 
than a federal statute to make the 
purveyors of media violence display good 
judgment and exercise self-restraint. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO WILLIE JULIUS 
MORRISON 

HON. CARRIE P. MEEK 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mrs. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to announce the retirement of Willie Ju


lius Morrison, assistant director Metro-Dade 
Police Department. After serving 4 years in 
the Air Force, on January 17, 1966 Willie Morrison 
became a patrol officer with the public 
safety department. 

This was the beginning of a quick and 
steady rise to leadership. In 1970 Officer Morrison 
became Sergeant Morrison. Three years 
later, he was promoted to lieutenant. By 1979 
he was the police major for the north region. 
In February 1980, he was designated as chief 
of the newly formed special services division. 

During this rapid rise within the leadership 
ranks, Willie Morrison achieved several firsts. 
He was the first black lieutenant in the Metro-
Dade Police Department, the first black police 
major; the first black police chief; and the first 
and only black assistant director within the department. 


Willie Morrison has served in a variety of 
professional positions and he faithfully serves 
as husband and father to Rose and Julius respectively. 


It is important for you to know that this distinguished 
leader has served the Metropolitan 
Dade County community well. We thank him 
for 30 years of public service. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO BENJAMIN LONGMAN 

HON. MARTIN OLAV SABO 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. SABO. Mr. Speaker, our Nation recently 
celebrated the 50th anniversary of our hard-
fought victory in World War II. During this conflict, 
many people at home and abroad made 
sacrifices for their country. One of these was 
my constituent, Mr. Benjamin Longman. 

Mr. Longman served in World War II as a 
flight trainee and later as a flight instructor. 
Due to an administrative error, however, military 
records did not accurately reflect his service 
until they were corrected in May of 1982. 
At that time, the U.S. Air Force confirmed that 
Mr. Longman did in fact serve on active military 
duty in 1943. 

Mr. Longman, now 82 years old, was honorably 
discharged from military service in 1945. 
As his representative in Congress, I wish to 
publicly thank him for his military service to 
the United States of America. All of our fellow 
citizens should be grateful for his patriotism. 
Mr. Speaker, I commend Benjamin Longman’s 
example of service to all Members of Congress 
and to all Americans. 

f 


ODELL JOHNSON, JR., AND HIS 

COMMITMENT TO HIGHER EDU


CATION 

HON. RONALD V. DELLUMS 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
share with my colleagues the fact that Mr. 
Odell Johnson, Jr., has dedicated over 25 
years of committed service to the education of 
Oakland and the bay area. 

Odell served as Laney College president for 
15 years, longer than any other president in 
the history of the Peralta Community College 

District. He received his education from Fresno 
City College, St. Mary’s College, and the 
California State University at Hayward. He 
then became the dean of students of St. 
Mary’s College and dean of instruction at the 
College of Alameda. 

He continued to make important contributions 
to increase standards for higher education 
as president of Laney College, where 
he oversaw the educational opportunities afforded 
to the most ethnically diverse of the 
California community colleges. 

Odell’s many contributions as a respected 
leader extend beyond the boundaries of the 
bay area. They include State and national recognition 
for his outstanding service to higher 
education. In addition to his services as an educator, 
he has been active on boards in community-
based organizations such as the West 
Oakland Health Center, the Black Adoption 
Placement and Research Center, the Oakland 
Ensemble Theater, and the Bay Area Dance 
Series. 

Odell also maintains a strong commitment 
to assisting young people in identifying and 
achieving their personal, educational, and career 
goals. Through his leadership, he has assisted 
many students in developing and understanding 
a respect and an appreciation for 
people from diverse backgrounds and cultures. 


f 


THE TOWING VESSEL SAFETY ACT 
OF 1996 

HON. PATRICK J. KENNEDY 

OF RHODE ISLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to announce the introduction of 
the Towing Vessel Safety Act of 1996. This bill 
was brought to the top of my legislative agenda 
due to the recent oil spill that occurred off 
the coast of Rhode Island. 

Almost 1 million gallons of home heating oil 
spilled into our waters when the Scandia tugboat 
caught fire and caused the North Cape 
barge to run aground. Sadly, this incident has 
had serious environmental and economic repercussions 
in my State. Most notable is the 
damage to our coastal ecosystems. Thousands 
of lobsters and other wildlife were heavily 
impacted by this tragedy. In all, it will take 
months to remediate the damage and restore 
our environment and industries like commercial 
fishing and tourism to their full health. 

The Towing Vessel Safety Act will establish 
guidelines that every tugboat have navigational, 
fire prevention, and various other safety 
provisions necessary to avoid incidents like 
the one in Rhode Island. Moreover, the bill will 
ensure that the master and crew of tugboats 
are properly trained and licensed in the operation 
of the vessel and its equipment. Lastly, 
the Towing Vessel Safety Act will require the 
Coast Guard to make routine inspections to 
guarantee that all guidelines are followed. 

Mr. Speaker, I am deeply saddened by what 
has happened in Rhode Island. I am hopeful, 
however, that the Towing Vessel Safety Act 
will be an important first step in avoiding similar 
tragedies. 

I am looking forward to working with the 
Coast Guard, the House Transportation Committee, 
and all my colleagues in Congress to 


E 126 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

ensure that this important legislation becomes 
law. 

Mr. Speaker, I insert the text of the Towing 
Vessel Safety Act for the RECORD. 

H.R. — 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Towing Vessel 
Safety Act of 1996’’. 

SEC. 2. MINIMUM NAVIGATIONAL SAFETY EQUIPMENT 
FOR TOWING VESSELS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 4102 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘(f)(1) In prescribing regulations for towing 
vessels, the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(A) consider the characteristics, methods 
of operation, and nature of the service of 
towing vessels; 

‘‘(B) consult with the Towing Safety Advisory 
Committee; and 

‘‘(C) require, to the extent appropriate, the 
installation, maintenance, and use of and familiarity 
with the following equipment on 
each towing vessel, other than a towing vessel 
that is used only for towing disabled vessels: 


‘‘(i) A radar system. 

‘‘(ii) An electronic position-fixing device. 

‘‘(iii) A sonic depth finder. 

‘‘(iv) A compass or swing meter. 

‘‘(v) Adequate towing wire and associated 
equipment. 

‘‘(vi) Up-to-date navigational charts and 
publications for the areas normally transited 
by the vessel. 

‘‘(vii) Other safety equipment the Secretary 
determines to be necessary. 

‘‘(2) The Secretary shall establish in regulations 
under this chapter requirements 
that— 

‘‘(A) any equipment required on a towing 
vessel under paragraph (1) shall be maintained 
in effective operating condition; and 

‘‘(B) if such equipment on a vessel ceases 
to operate, the master of the vessel shall exercise 
due diligence to restore the equipment 
to effective operating condition, or cause it 
to be restored to that condition, at the earliest 
practicable date.’’. 

(b) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary of Transportation 
shall issue regulations by not later 
than 12 months after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, prescribing navigational 
publication and equipment requirements 
under subsection (f) of section 4102 of title 46, 
United States Code, as added by subsection 
(a) of this section. 
SEC. 3. REPORTING MARINE CASUALTIES. 

(a) EXPEDITED REPORTING REQUIRED.—Section 
6101(b) of title 46 United States Code, is 
amended by striking ‘‘within 5 days’’ and inserting 
‘‘by as soon as practicable, but in no 
case later than within 5 days,’’. 
(b) PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO REPORT A 
CASUALTY.—Section 6103(a) of title 46, United 
States Code is amended by striking ‘‘$1,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘not more than $25,000’’. 
SEC. 4. REPORT ON FEASIBILITY OF ESTABLISHING 
A DIFFERENTIAL GLOBAL POSITIONING 
SATELLITE NAVIGATION 
SYSTEM AND ELECTRONIC CHARTS 
FOR INLAND WATERWAYS. 

Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall submit a report to the 
Congress on the feasibility of establishing a 
differential global positioning satellite navigation 
system and creating electronic charts 
for the inland waterways of the United 
States. 

SEC. 5. PROTECTION OF SEAMEN AGAINST DISCRIMINATION. 


Section 2114 of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended— 

(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(a) An owner, charterer, managing operator, 
agent, master, or individual in charge of 
a vessel may not discharge, temporarily remove, 
or in any manner discriminate against 
a seaman because the seaman— 

‘‘(1) in good faith has reported or is about 
to report to the Coast Guard that the seaman 
believes that a violation of this subtitle, 
or a regulation issued under this subtitle, 
has occurred; or 

‘‘(2) refuses to violate this subtitle or a 
regulation issued under this subtitle.’’; and 

(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘and’’ 
after the semicolon; 
(B) in paragraph (2) by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(3) an award of cost and reasonable attorney’s 
fees to the prevailing plaintiff.’’. 

SEC. 6. MANNING AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS 
FOR TOWING VESSELS. 

(a) MANNING REQUIREMENTS.—Section 8904 
of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(c) A towing vessel, other than a vessel 
referred to in subsection (b), shall— 

‘‘(1) while being operated, have on board an 
individual licensed by the Secretary as a 
master of that type of towing vessel; and 

‘‘(2) be operated by an individual licensed 
by the Secretary to operate that type of towing 
vessel.’’. 

(b) REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING LICENSES 
FOR MASTERS AND OPERATORS.—Section 7101 
of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j)(1) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations 
which establish licenses for masters 
and mates of towing vessels. 

‘‘(2) Regulations under this subsection 
shall provide that an individual may be issued 
a license as a master or mate of a towing 
vessel only if the individual— 

‘‘(A) demonstrates proficiency in the use of 
the equipment required pursuant to section 
4102(f)(1)(C) of this title; and 

‘‘(B) demonstrates proficiency in operating 
a towing vessel. 

‘‘(3) Regulations under this subsection may 
establish standards and procedures under 
which the Secretary may delegate, to individuals 
who have experience in the operation 
of towing vessels and to other qualified persons, 
the authority to conduct examinations 
required for the issuance of a license as a 
master or mate of a towing vessel.’’. 

(c) EXISTING UNINSPECTED TOWING VESSEL 
OPERATOR LICENSE HOLDERS.—An 
uninspected towing vessel operator license 
that is valid on the date of enactment of this 
Act shall be valid as a master or mate license 
required under section 8904 of title 46, 
United States Code, as amended by this section, 
until otherwise required to be renewed. 
The Secretary shall require that an individual 
applying for a first renewal of such a license 
as a master or mate license under that 
section demonstrate proficiency under the 
requirements of section 7101(j) of title 46, 
United States Code, as added by this section. 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
(e) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—The 
Secretary of the department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating shall issue regulations 
under the amendments made by this 
section by not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 7. INSPECTION OF TOWING VESSELS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3301 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘(14) towing vessels.’’. 

(b) EXCEPTION.—Section 3302 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘(n) A towing vessel is not subject to inspection 
under section 3301(14) of this title if 
the vessel— 

‘‘(1) is used only for towing disabled vessels; 
or 

‘‘(2) is not used to pull, push, or haul 
alongside a barge that is subject to inspection 
under section 3301 of this title.’’. 

(c) EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.—Section 
3306 of title 46, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j) In prescribing regulations for towing 
vessels, the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) consider the characteristics, methods 
of operation, and nature of the service of 
towing vessels; 

‘‘(2) consult with the Towing Safety Advisory 
Committee; and 

‘‘(3) require, to the extent appropriate, 
the installation, maintenance, and use of the 
following equipment on each towing vessel, 
other than a towing vessel that is used only 
for towing disabled vessels: 

‘‘(A) A radar system. 

‘‘(B) An electronic position-fixing device. 

‘‘(C) Adequate communications equipment. 


‘‘(D) A sonic depth finder. 

‘‘(E) A compass or swing meter. 

‘‘(F) Adequate towing equipment. 

‘‘(G) Up-to-date navigational charts and 
publications for the areas normally transited 
by the vessel. 

‘‘(I) Adequate fire fighting equipment. 

‘‘(I) Other equipment the Secretary de


termines will minimize the risk of injury to 
the crew or the risk of a vessel or barge casualty.’’. 


(d) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary of 
Transportation shall prescribe regulations 
implementing this section within 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 8. CIVIL PENALTIES. 

(a) PROHIBITED OPERATION OF 
UNINSPECTED TOWING VESSEL, GENERALLY.— 
Section 4106 of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ and inserting 
‘‘$25,000’’. 
(b) OPERATION OF UNINSPECTED TOWING 
VESSEL IN VIOLATION OF MANNING REQUIREMENTS.—
Section 8906 of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘$1,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘not more than $25,000’’. 
f 


HONORING DR. RON GALLOWAY 

HON. CHARLIE NORWOOD 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. NORWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased 
to bring to your attention the distinguished career 
of Dr. Ronald Frost Galloway. Dr. Galloway 
is retiring today from University Hospital 
in Augusta, GA. He has practiced at University 
Hospital since 1963, where he established the 
first cardiac surgical program at the hospital in 
1974. He has served on the Richmond County 
Hospital Authority for 7 years helping shape 
what University Hospital is today. 

Mr. Speaker, Dr. Galloway has enhanced 
the quality of life for the people of the Augusta 
community for many years. He is a man of uncompromising 
integrity, a truly remarkable 
physician, and a gentleman. I am pleased to 
honor him today before the House of Representatives. 



February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 127 

SMALL BUSINESS 

HON. LEE H. HAMILTON 

OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. HAMILTON. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
insert my Washington Report for Wednesday, 
January 24, 1996 into the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD: 

SMALL BUSINESS: CREATING OPPORTUNITY 

Small businesses are the backbone of the 
American economy. They generate a majority 
of our new jobs and provide many important 
technological innovations. They also 
play a vital role in satisfying the country’s 
need for opportunity and choice. For years, 
small businesses have repeatedly led this 
country out of troubled economic times and 
into prosperity. 

There are over 5.8 million small businesses 
in the U.S. today, employing more than 92 
million private sector workers. Small businesses 
account for 50% of the nation’s sales, 
50% of private sector output, 53% of U.S. employment, 
and 99.7% of all employers. There 
are over 129,000 small businesses in Indiana, 
employing over 2.1 million people. By any 
measure, small businesses are a key source 
of growth and dynamism in our economy. 

WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE 

The small business community, however, 
does face numerous challenges in the national 
and global marketplaces. Last summer 
a bipartisan delegation of over 2,000 
small business men and women, including 
representatives from southern Indiana, met 
in Washington to identify the key concerns 
of America’s entrepreneurs and develop specific 
recommendations for maintaining and 
encouraging the economic viability of small 
business. 

The White House Conference on Small 
Business made 60 recommendations, focus-
sing on three critical areas: improving access 
to capital; easing regulatory burdens; 
and making investments in our workforce. 
Congress and the President took some steps 
over the last year to address these concerns, 
but more work needs to be done. 

CAPITAL FORMATION 

Access to capital is a critical problem for 
many small businesses. More than two-thirds 
of all new firms begin with less than $10,000 
in total capital, much of it provided by the 
owner, family members or friends. Once established, 
a small firm must face interest 
rates on bank loans two or three percentage 
points above the prime rate. The White 
House Conference made several recommendations 
to improve access to the capital needed 
to finance the survival and growth of small 
businesses, and Congress has acted on some 
of those proposals. 

Congress, with my support, approved the 
Small Business Lending Enhancement Act 
which will allow SBA to increase total loan 
volume at a lower cost to the taxpayers, and 
SBA has acted independently to simplify the 
application process for small businesses. 
Furthermore, federal bank regulators have 
reduced regulation and paperwork burdens 
for small national banks, and securities regulators 
have eased registration and filing 
burdens for small business. 

Small business is also keenly interested in 
tax relief, particularly relating to capital 
gains and estate taxes. I agree that the federal 
government should encourage investment, 
and have been supportive of carefully 
designed efforts to increase savings and investment. 
I would expect to support such 
changes again in the context of comprehensive, 
fiscally responsible tax reform. 

REGULATORY RELIEF 

Federal, state and local governments impose 
too many requirements on the operation 
of businesses. The burdens often include 
substantial paperwork and record-
keeping requirements. The White House Conference 
made several recommendations for 
easing or eliminating federal regulations, 
some of which have been acted upon and others 
of which are under consideration in Congress. 


Congress, with my support, approved a 
measure to minimize the paperwork burden 
for regulatory compliance. I have also supported 
bills, approved by the House and 
pending in the Senate, to impose a temporary 
moratorium on regulations; require 
federal agencies to conduct risk assessment 
and cost-benefit analysis of federal regulations; 
permit small businesses to challenge 
proposed federal rules in court; require compensation 
for property owners adversely affected 
by regulations; reform product liability 
laws; and change federal procurement 
laws to increase government use of commercial 
items. 

We need a commonsense regulatory system 
that works for small businesses, not against 
them. The system should protect health, 
safety and the environment without imposing 
unacceptable or unreasonable costs on 
small business. Regulations should recognize 
that the private sector is the best engine for 
economic growth, respect the role of state 
and local governments, and be effective, sensible 
and understandable. 

WORKFORCE INVESTMENT 

As business technology has become more 
complex and the world economy more competitive, 
the strength of the American economy 
depends on the skills and training of 
our workforce. Small business owners often 
tell me of the need to improve the quality of 
education and access to skill training. The 
White House Conference echoed these views. 

The task of preparing our workers falls on 
many of us: parents, educators, businesses, 
and the public sector. The federal government 
has a secondary, though, important 
role. Congress, with my support, is currently 
reforming federal job training efforts— 
streamlining various programs and giving 
more flexibility to the states. I do not support, 
however, the deep cuts in job training 
and school-to-work programs favored by 
Speaker Gingrich. 

The White House Conference also focused 
attention on the rising cost of providing 
workplace benefits, urging various pension 
and health care reforms to ease these pressures. 
Congress, with my support, approved a 
measure to reinstate the 25% health insurance 
premium deduction for the self-employed 
and raise the deduction level to 30% 
in tax year 1996. I favor a 100% deduction. 
Congress is also debating proposals to encourage 
greater retirement savings. 

CONCLUSION 

We Americans should try to help small 
businesses compete by increasing their productivity—
by increasing the quality and 
quantity of capital their workers use, by improving 
their employee skills through training, 
and by enhancing their management 
skills. Ensuring that financing is available 
and affordable will be critical to allowing 
small business to achieve these goals. Their 
competitiveness will also be improved by 
easing regulations. Small firms must also 
continue to do what they do best—experiment 
with new products and process innovations—
if they are to hold their important position 
at the leading edge of the American 
economy. 

ELLA LEE COLLINS TURNS 100 
FEBRUARY 20 

HON. JAMES T. WALSH 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. WALSH. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues 
to join me today in wishing a special 
happy birthday to Ella Lee Collins of Syracuse, 
NY, who turns 100 on February 20. 

On behalf of her 3 children, 19 grandchildren, 
and 26 great-grandchildren, all of 
whom turn to her for advice and guidance as 
she remains an active matriarch and all of 
whom have never been neglected a birthday 
wish from her—I wish her a happy, happy 
centennial celebration. 

On my own behalf I want to thank her for 30 
years of service as an active member of the 
Board of Elections in Baldwinsville, NY. Fulfilling 
civic responsibility in this way, she has 
gained many admirers through her career. 

Having spent her life in service to family and 
community, Ella Lee Collins now lives in the 
Bishop Ludden Apartments and spends her 
private time on some favorite TV watching: 
The Guiding Light soap opera and New York 
Yankees games. 

May God grant us all the longevity and vitality 
of Mrs. Collins. 

f 


BILL TO AUTHORIZE THE ARMY 
CORPS OF ENGINEERS TO MAKE 
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO 
WASHINGTON AQUEDUCT 

HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON 

OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, since 1859, the 
Washington Aqueduct has provided Washington, 
DC, and the metropolitan region with safe 
drinking water. Each and every day, 24 hours 
each day, the Aqueduct collects, treats, and 
transports water to the District, Arlington 
County, Falls Church, the Pentagon, National 
Airport, and Arlington Cemetery. The Army 
Corps of Engineers owns and operates the 
Aqueduct on behalf of the Department of the 
Army and in fiscal year 1994 alone, delivered 
67 billion gallons of water to Aqueduct customers—
60 percent of that amount to the District 
of Columbia. 

In his February 1, 1996 report, The Washington 
Aqueduct: Financing and Ownership 
Study, Secretary of the Army Togo West reports 
that throughout its history, the Aqueduct 
has been continually upgraded and improved 
to meet changing regulations and new technology. 
The Secretary, however, admits that 
Aqueduct facilities currently are ‘‘in need of 
modernization to meet future drinking water 
and water quality.’’ Evolving Safe Water Drinking 
Act standards in fact require upgrading Aqueduct 
facilities. 

Last November, Virginia Senator JOHN WARNER, 
chair of the Senate Subcommittee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, included a 
provision in both the Water Resources Development 
Act (S. 640) and the Safe Drinking 
Water Act (S. 1316) which authorizes the 
Army Corps of Engineers to borrow the funds 
from the Treasury necessary for improving the 


E 128 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

Washington Aqueduct. This loan would have 
to be repaid by the Aqueduct’s customers and, 
as such, the Congressional Budget Office 
scores it as no cost to the Federal government. 
The measure I introduce today is identical 
to Senator WARNER’s legislation. 

This bill will provide a financial mechanism 
for the repairs so that the hundreds of millions 
of dollars for the work do not result in exorbitant 
hikes in water rates. Under current rules, 
any needed capital improvements at the Aqueduct 
must be paid for in advance by District 
consumers and consumers in Arlington County 
and the city of Falls Church. 

In response to more stringent water quality 
requirements being implemented nationally by 
the EPA, substantial costly improvements of 
$200–$500 million will be necessary at the Aqueduct 
over the next 10–15 years. Affordable 
water rates can be maintained only if payments 
are spread out over an extended period 
of time. This bill will ensure the long term future 
of the Aqueduct at reasonable consumer 
rates. 

I urge my colleagues to support this important 
measure granting the Corps of Engineers 
the authority to provide vital improvements to 
the Aqueduct and ensuring safe drinking water 
for all of those served by this facility. 

H.R. —— 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FOR THE 
WASHINGTON AQUEDUCT. 

(a) AUTHORIZATIONS.— 
(1) AUTHORIZATION OF MODERNIZATION.— 
Subject to approval in, and in such amounts 
as may be provided in appropriations Acts, 
the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of 
Engineers is authorized to modernize the 
Washington Aqueduct. 
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Army Corps of Engineers borrowing authority 
in amounts sufficient to cover the full 
costs of modernizing the Washington Aqueduct. 
The borrowing authority shall be provided 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
under such terms and conditions as are established 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
after a series of contracts with each public 
water supply customer has been entered into 
under subsection (b). 
(b) CONTRACTS WITH PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY 
CUSTOMERS.— 
(1) CONTRACTS TO REPAY CORPS DEBT.—To 
the extent provided in appropriations Acts, 
and in accordance with paragraphs (2) and 
(3), the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps 
of Engineers is authorized to enter into a series 
of contracts with each public water supply 
customer under which the customer commits 
to repay a pro-rata share of the principal 
and interest owed by the Army Corps of 
Engineers to the Secretary of the Treasury 
under subsection (a). Under each of the contracts, 
the customer that enters into the 
contract shall commit to pay any additional 
amount necessary to fully offset the risk of 
default on the contract. 
(2) OFFSETTING OF RISK OF DEFAULT.—Each 
contract under paragraph (1) shall include 
such additional terms and conditions as the 
Secretary of the Treasury may require so 
that the value to the Government of the contracts 
is estimated to be equal to the 
obligational authority used by the Army 
Corps of Engineers for modernizing the 
Washington Aqueduct at the time that each 
series of contracts is entered into. 
(3) OTHER CONDITIONS.—Each contract entered 
into under paragraph (1) shall— 
(A) provide that the public water supply 
customer pledges future income from fees assessed 
to operate and maintain the Washington 
Aqueduct; 
(B) provide the United States priority over 
all other creditors; and 
(C) include other conditions that the Secretary 
of the Treasury determines to be appropriate. 
(c) BORROWING AUTHORITY.—Subject to an 
appropriation under subsection (a)(2) and 
after entering into a series of contracts 
under subsection (b), the Secretary, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers of the Army 
Corps of Engineers, shall seek borrowing authority 
from the Secretary of the Treasury 
under subsection (a)(2). 
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY CUSTOMER.—The 
term ‘‘public water supply customer’’ means 
the District of Columbia, the county of Arlington, 
Virginia, and the city of Falls 
Church, Virginia. 
(2) VALUE TO THE GOVERNMENT.—The term 
‘‘value to the Government’’ means the net 
present value of a contract under subsection 
(b) calculated under the rules set forth in 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 502(5) of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
U.S.C. 661a(5)), excluding section 502(5)(B)(i) 
of the Act, as though the contracts provided 
for the repayment of direct loans to the public 
water supply customers. 
(3) WASHINGTON AQUEDUCT.—The term 
‘‘Washington Aqueduct’’ means the water 
supply system of treatment plans, raw water 
intakes, conduits, reservoirs, transmission 
mains, and pumping stations owned by the 
Federal Government located in the metropolitan 
Washington, District of Columbia, 
area. 
f 


TRIBUTE TO HELEN G. JACOB 

HON. JACK QUINN 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. QUINN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the distinguished community service of 
Helen G. Jacob, on the occasion of the opening 
of the Department of Veteran’s Affairs 
Western New York Healthcare System Women’s 
Wellness Center dedicated in her honor. 

Ms. Jacob has served the State of New 
York as the chairperson of the Rehabilitation 
Committee for Women Veterans, a project 
which she initiated in 1984. She has also 
served as the vice president of the National 
Historians’ Association, Area I, which encompasses 
12 States and 3 separate countries. 

In addition to these remarkable duties, 
Helen Jacob is also the women’s coordinator 
for the Veterans Administration Medical Center 
in Buffalo, NY. In this capacity, she has selflessly 
dedicated countless hours on a volunteer 
basis to the personal needs of both inpatient 
and outpatient women in the medical 
center’s care. 

Helen also holds the prestigious honor of 
being the only women elected as Commander 
of the American Legion of Erie County, a position 
responsible for approximately 14,000 
members in over 50 posts. 

Since its inception in 1992, Ms. Jacob has 
provided insight and expertise in veteran related 
issues on my 30th Congressional District 
Veterans Advisory Committee. Helen’s insight 
and sage advise on matters concerning our 
Nation’s veterans is truly appreciated, and I 
unreservedly offer her my enthusiastic con


gratulations and commendations for this dedication. 


The dedication of the Helen G. Jacob Women’s 
Wellness Center is also testimony to the 
innovative spirit of the hospital itself, as it is 
the only one of its kind nationwide in a veterans 
hospital or medical center. 

Mr. Speaker, today I join with the Jacob 
family, her colleagues, friends, all of those 
who served our Nation in the Armed Forces, 
and indeed, the entire western New York community 
to honor Ms. Helen G. Jacob for her 
dedication, hard work, and commitment to 
western New York and its veterans. 

f 


AMERICORPS: INVESTMENTS 

WORTH MAKING IN OUR CHIL


DREN AND COMMUNITIES 

HON. BRUCE F. VENTO 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of a valuable initiative that is an investment 
in both our Nation’s communities 
and the citizens who live in them, the 
AmeriCorps Program. AmeriCorps participants 
earn money for their education by giving their 
time to efforts that improve communities and 
help people in need. The goal of the 
AmeriCorps Program is to support communities’ 
efforts to provide for the human, educational, 
environmental, and public safety 
needs in their area. AmeriCorps initiatives 
serve to strengthen communities, increase 
civic responsibility, and expand opportunities 
for our Nation’s citizens in need. These goals 
mean the AmeriCorps Program benefits our 
Nation on two fronts. It expands the knowledge 
and skill of our Nation’s next generation 
of workers while simultaneously benefiting 
community organizations that are struggling to 
deliver essential assistance to our most vulnerable 
citizens, a struggle that will only increase 
in future years as budgets tighten and 
these organizations are asked to take a more 
prominent role in the delivery of such assistance. 


When discussing AmeriCorps, some of my 
colleagues have referred to a General Accounting 
Office [GAO] study that shows higher 
costs per participant in the AmeriCorps Program 
than first calculated. The study states 
that the average cost per AmeriCorps member 
is $26,654. The study, however, neglects to 
calculate the benefits, economic or social, that 
the program provides. In fact, the very objective 
of this GAO study was solely to calculate 
the per participant cost figure, not to determine 
whether the AmeriCorps Program provides 
higher benefits than those costs or 
whether the program has been effective in 
reaching its goals. The GAO analysis, therefore, 
is a one dimensional study because 
major value is added by AmeriCorps participants 
that is not considered. 

The University of Minnesota recently completed 
a study of the benefits of the 
AmeriCorps Program in Minnesota and how 
those benefits compare with program costs. 
The study noted a number of economic and 
social benefits that the GAO study ignores, 
concluding that AmeriCorps initiatives benefit 
communities far more than they cost. One example 
is an AmeriCorps project in Minneapolis 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 129 

where nine AmeriCorps youths, some having 
a prior brush with the law, renovated four 
homes. The resulting benefits to the city include 
property appreciation, increased tax 
payments, decreased cost to the justice system, 
and the benefit of having the participating 
youth learn valuable skills and a strong work 
ethic. The University of Minnesota study concludes 
that the community received a benefit 
of $3.90 per every dollar put into the project; 
that is nearly a 4 to 1 benefit ratio. 

In West St. Paul, 14 dedicated AmeriCorps 
members coached and tutored 800 students, 
contributing to a 30-percent drop in theft and 
vandalism in the area. This drop in crime 
saved taxpayers $160,000 in law enforcement 
and property costs, and helped earn this program 
a $2.94 benefit to each dollar of cost. In 
addition to the direct economic benefits measured 
by the study, this project helped to educate 
hundreds of students who will benefit 
from that education long after their participation 
in the project is finished. AmeriCorps 
members in Minnesota also ran a program to 
help high school drop-outs gain their diplomas. 
Forty young people earned their diploma from 
this effort. The community, however, gained 
much more in the form of increased income 
tax revenue resulting from these new graduates’ 
higher expected incomes and, more importantly, 
it gained a more educated population 
which is more likely to see the value of 
voluntarism and give back to their community 
in later years. 

AmeriCorps is working for our communities 
and youth in Minnesota and, I expect, throughout 
the Nation. In Minnesota, the AmeriCorps 
Program has indeed been effective in reaching 
its goals and has proven to be an efficient use 
of public funds. Minnesota members of 
AmeriCorps work with organizations such as 
the Boys and Girls Clubs, the Salvation Army, 
the YMCA, Habitat for Humanity, and the National 
Multiple Sclerosis Society as well as 
with public entities like Minneapolis Public 
Schools and the Minnesota Department of 
Natural Resources. Their activities include tutoring 
and mentoring young students, reducing 
adult illiteracy, rehabilitating and constructing 
low-income housing, restoring deteriorating 
parks and green spaces, aiding elderly citizens 
with independent living, and providing 
outreach services to victims of domestic violence, 
to name only a fraction of their past and 
ongoing efforts. These are civic endeavors 
that make a real difference in peoples’ lives in 
our State, and the AmeriCorps members that 
are achieving these successes are young people 
who, because of AmeriCorps, will gain the 
opportunity to go to college or acquire other 
types of training so that they can build better 
lives for themselves and their families. 

A recent Gallup Poll found that 94 percent 
of Americans agree that national service initiatives 
like AmeriCorps are important efforts for 
the Federal Government to organize and 
maintain. Furthermore, 75 percent of Americans 
object to reducing or eliminating the program. 
Nonetheless, the Republican majority 
has, ironically, targeted national service initiatives 
such as AmeriCorps for elimination while 
citing a study that only analyzes costs and is 
blind to the benefits of the program, therefore, 
concluding erroneously that our Nation cannot 
afford such an effort. 

Proposed reductions in funding for education, 
welfare, and other programs that help 
our children and disadvantaged families make 

the work of AmeriCorps even more essential. 
The AmeriCorps Program is a double investment 
in the future of this Nation. The program 
not only gives struggling social service organizations 
a helping hand assisting our most vulnerable 
children, adults and elderly citizens, it 
helps AmeriCorps participants become relevant, 
productive, successful members of their 
communities and teaches all participants the 
value and importance of giving back to the 
communities in which they live. The 
AmeriCorps Program is a good investment in 
our Nation, and it is working. Let us keep 
AmeriCorps in place to serve our youth and 
our communities. 

f 


MILLIONS SUFFER UNDER INDIAN 
REPRESSION 

HON. DAN BURTON 

OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, last 
week the nation of India celebrated its Republic 
Day, the 46th anniversary of the adoption 
of its constitution in 1950. On this occasion, it 
seems fitting to step back and assess India’s 
progress in the areas of human rights and 
conflict resolution with its neighbors. 

It is unfortunate to report that India’s 
progress in many areas has not been very 
good. In terms of making peace with its neighbor, 
Pakistan, India’s record has frankly been 
abysmal. In fact, on the very day that India 
was celebrating Republic Day, two rockets 
were fired into a small town in the Kashmiri region 
of Pakistan. One struck a mosque just 
after noon prayers, killing 20 civilians and injuring 
many more. It is widely assumed that 
the rockets were fired by the Indian Army. The 
next day, India took the very belligerent step 
of test-firing its Prithvi II missile. This new missile 
is nuclear-capable and able to reach any 
major city in Pakistan. 

India’s refusal to negotiate seriously with its 
neighbor Pakistan, and with the Kashmiri people, 
over the status of Kashmir has been a 
major disappointment to the world community. 
Much more disappointing has been India’s inhuman 
record of government-sanctioned murder 
and torture in Kashmir. For years, India’s 
security forces have run amuck in Kashmir, 
committing gang-rapes, extrajudicial killings, 
burning down entire villages, spraying gunfire 
into crowds of civilians and committing unspeakable 
acts of torture on the Kashmiri people. 
India has conducted a carefully orchestrated 
campaign of rape, torture, and murder 
in order to keep the people of Kashmir from 
demonstrating for independence. 

I was particularly struck by one story reported 
by Professor William Baker in a recent 
book: 

He interviewed a young woman who had 
been abducted by Indian soldiers who had just 
searched her village. They dragged her off to 
their compound, where they kept her naked in 
a pit. They raped her in a pit for 10 days. 
They extinguished their cigarettes all over her 
body. When they were through with her, they 
took her to the bank of a river, stabbed her in 
the head with a bayonet, and left her for dead. 
Today she is so traumatized, she has lost 
most of her memory. 

For the people of Kashmir, such treatment 
is all too common. In neighboring Punjab, 

where the Sikh people have also been fighting 
for their right to self-determination, the human 
rights situation has been just as dismal. In 
June of 1984, 11 years ago, as the movement 
for a free Khalistan was gaining steam, the Indian 
Army launched an assault on the holiest 
Sikh shrine—the Golden Temple in Amritsar. 
Thirty-eight other temples were also attacked, 
and over 20,000 Sikh civilians were murdered. 
Since that time, life in Punjab has been a 
nightmare of repression. Thousands of Sikhs 
are imprisoned without charges and tortured. 
Young men are abducted by security forces 
and disappear forever. Entire families are brutalized. 


Mr. Speaker, recently, the Indian Government 
has been making the claim that the 
human rights situation in Punjab has improved 
dramatically. Unfortunately, there is no truth to 
the claim. It has been estimated that as many 
as 70,000 Sikhs languish in Indian prisons 
without charges. Asia Watch has reported that 
‘‘virtually everyone detained in Punjab is tortured.’’ 


Last month, I sent around a Dear Colleague 
letter detailing a particularly horrible encounter 
that happened late last year. A human rights 
activist was detained by Indian police along 
with his driver. The driver’s legs were tied to 
two separate jeeps that drove off in opposite 
directions, tearing the man into pieces. The 
human right activist had disappeared. 

In another case that has received widespread 
attention, well-known human rights figure 
Jaswant Singh Khalra was abducted by 
police last September. Mr. Khalra earned the 
wrath of the Indian Government by publicizing 
charges that the army had murdered over 
25,000 Sikhs and cremated their bodies to 
cover up their crimes. Despite international 
protests, including a letter from myself and 64 
of my House colleagues, Mr. Khalra has disappeared 
into the Indian prison system. 

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Khalra should be released 
immediately, along with all prisoners of conscience 
in Punjab and Kashmir. It is long past 
time for India’s reign of terror to come to an 
end. The Indian Government cannot achieve 
its goals through the systematic abuses of 
basic human rights. The time has come for the 
Government of India to sit down and negotiate 
agreements with Sikh and Kashmiri political 
leaders that respect their rights to democracy, 
self-determination, and human rights. 

I would like to make one final observation. 
In the very near future, India’s Ambassador to 
the United States, Mr. S.S. Ray, will be returning 
to India. Mr. Ray has been a controversial 
figure. During the late 1980’s, he was the 
Governor of the State of Punjab. This was at 
the time when some of the worst atrocities 
were taking place there, and Ambassador Ray 
was, at the time, in command of the security 
forces who were committing them. It was highly 
inappropriate for the Government of India to 
send to us an ambassador who has been 
widely charged with responsibility for a campaign 
of human rights abuses by security 
forces under his watch. I hope that, in selecting 
a new ambassador, the Indian Government 
will be more sensitive to the concerns of 
the American people and the international 
community. 


E 130 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

TRIBUTE TO CHARLES H. CURLEY 

HON. LYNN C. WOOLSEY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor one of my district’s more dedicated and 
caring individuals, Charles H. Curley. Chuck is 
being honored as Marin Citizen of the Year for 
1995. I wish that I could be with his colleagues, 
friends, and family tonight as we celebrate 
his remarkable accomplishments. 

Chuck has been a devoted resident of Marin 
County since he moved here over 35 years 
ago. Chuck’s work has come as both monetary 
support and as direct participation on task 
forces and focus groups. Serving as mayor of 
Larkspur, councilman, planning commissioner, 
president of the Police Commission, Chuck 
has spent countless hours working with community 
leaders in an effort to create a strong 
alliance throughout Marin. I wish to recognize 
Chuck for his commitment to the people of 
Marin County, and to thank him for his long 
record of public service. 

The enthusiasm that Chuck has for both the 
arts and the environment is seen through his 
participation in various activities throughout 
the county. In addition to serving as president 
of the Marin Arts Council, Chuck is also a patron 
of the Marin Society of Artists. His effort 
and dedication has opened the door for numerous 
artists and has introduced young children 
to the world of art. Chuck and his wife 
Nancy were honored in 1994 for their outstanding 
contribution to the Arts of Marin. 

Chuck is also committed to protecting our 
environment. He was vice-president of the 
Marin Conservation League, and is currently a 
member of the Pt. Reyes Bird Observatory 
and the Sierra Club. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my great pleasure to pay 
tribute to Charles H. Curley during this special 
evening at the Marin Civic Center. Marin 
County owes a great deal of gratitude for the 
tireless efforts of Chuck over the years. He 
has worked hard time and time again on behalf 
of many people and for many important 
causes. I extend my hearty congratulations 
and best wishes to Chuck and his wife Nancy 
for continued success in the years to come. 

f 


LET’S DON’T RISK THE AVOCADO 
INDUSTRY 

HON. RON PACKARD 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. PACKARD. Mr. Speaker, growers in my 
district produce the most and the best avocados 
in the world. In order to ensure that we remain 
competitive we need to make sure our 
crops remain the best in the world. 

For that reason, I rise to urge the USDA to 
stop the rulemaking process that would modify 
the quarantine on Mexican Hass avocados. I 
ask Secretary Glickman, to prevent a rule from 
going forward which risks the entire avocado 
industry, especially when there is so much disagreement 
about the quality of the science underlying 
the USDA’s determination. 

As a member of the appropriations Committee, 
I worked with my colleagues to address 

this issue in the fiscal year 1996 agriculture 
appropriations legislation. The bill, which the 
President signed into law back in October, expects 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture to 
use scientifically credible pest risk assessment 
and risk management before lifting the current 
quarantine on Mexican avocados. 

During the appropriations process, we 
asked for the USDA to conduct an independent 
review of the science. Unfortunately, the 
Secretary turned us down and suggested that 
the avocado industry take the lead in this regard. 


The Center for Exotic Pest Research at the 
University of California at Riverside reviewed 
the proposed rule and published an extremely 
troubling report. Their findings were strikingly 
different from those of the USDA and give me 
great cause for concern. UC Riverside found, 
and I quote: 

The proposed rule’s risk assessment contains 
undocumented assertions, highly questionable 
estimates, and improper methodology, 
and as a result, we find it to be invalid. 

Free trade is the engine that drives a vibrant 
economy. I know that growers in my district 
will compete against any avocado grower in 
the world. However, the UC Riverside report 
gives credence to their fears that Mexican avocados 
coming across the border could carry 
infestation that could spread throughout the 
country. I certainly don’t believe Secretary 
Glickman wants to usher in another disaster 
like the Mediterranean fruit fly. 

I think it just makes sense to learn our lesson 
and take a cautious approach. I urge the 
Secretary to listen to the experts at UC Riverside 
and craft a rule that does not put the 
American avocado industry at risk. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO EUGENE JUNETTE 

HON. GEORGE P. RADANOVICH 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. RADANOVICH. Mr. Speaker, I want to 
bring to the attention of my colleagues an extraordinary 
program that began in government 
but has for the past 20 years been supported 
by the private sector to the benefit of millions 
of children in this country and countries 
around the world. 

Most particularly I wish to point with pride to 
the individual who has carried this splendid 
program forward from its beginning in a U.S. 
Justice Department agency in the 1970’s to 
the worldwide anticrime program that is has 
become today. He is my constituent, Eugene 
Junette of Fresno, CA. 

The program that Mr. Junette has spearheaded 
since 1976 is Play It Safe, a crime 
prevention program launched by the Law Enforcement 
Assistance Administration [LEAA] 
Office of Public Affairs in 1974 by its director, 
Malcolm Barr. Mr. Junette has asked that Mr. 
Barr, who retired Feb. 3, 1996, as an Associate 
Director of Public Affairs, U.S. Department 
of Commerce, following an illustrious 26-year 
government career, and other Federal Government 
officials who helped him—Wilbur 
Brantley, the late Cornelius Cooper, and Joseph 
Mulvey—share credit for this highly acclaimed 
program. 

Play It Safe is, in fact, a simple coloring 
book, originally approved by the U.S. Justice 

Department and various sheriffs, police, and 
juvenile justice organizations. 

It began in Mr. Barr’s office on a shoestring 
budget and was visualized and developed by 
Mr. Barr and his small staff. When funds ran 
out, Mr. Barr approached Kiwanis International 
which agreed to promote, print, and distribute 
the booklet among preschool, kindergarten, 
and elementary school children in the United 
States, at no cost to the Government. Eugene 
Junette was appointed chairman. 

Under Mr. Junette’s enthusiastic guidance, 
the Play It Safe program multiplied to all 50 
States and into 61 foreign countries. The 
coloring book is translated into 31 languages. 
Thousands of volunteers now work with what 
has become Play It Safe International, Inc., 
whose address is 1289 N. Temperance Avenue, 
Fresno, CA 93727. 

Numerous service clubs and other nonprofit 
organizations are responsible for the distribution 
of some 26 million copies of the coloring 
book. Play It Safe, through Mr. Barr, used the 
nationally syndicated children’s television program 
‘‘Romper Room’’ in Baltimore, MD, to 
jump-start the project that I am told cost the 
American taxpayer no more than $20,000. As 
a result, millions of young children have been 
effectively educated about how to minimize 
criminal opportunities against themselves and 
their friends. 

Play It Safe volunteers have also helped develop 
a parent/teacher guide and home safety 
check list. Mr. Junette has dedicated the last 
20 years of his life, often working 16 to 18 
hour days, to help protect children from criminal 
activity. I join him in drawing attention to 
Mr. Barr, of Alexandria, VA, who he credits as 
the man with the vision to see the future possibilities 
of Play It Safe, not as a Government-
sponsored project, but as a private sector program 
dedicated to the safety and wellbeing of 
children in this and many nations around the 
world. Mr. Barr described Play It Safe as a 
major accomplishment of his long Government 
career. I join his colleagues and friends wishing 
him well in his retirement. 

As the Play It Safe program completes its 
20th year of private sector sponsorship, I wish 
to particularly salute my constituent Mr. 
Junette, and all the thousands of volunteers 
who have helped in furthering the Play It Safe 
project, and to point to this amazing display of 
volunteerism that I am proud to say has emanated 
from my congressional district for two 
decades. 

f 


ACADEMY REVIEW BOARD 

HON. RODNEY P. FRELINGHUYSEN 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, every 
year, more high school seniors from the 11th 
Congressional District trade in varsity jackets 
for Navy peacoats, Air Force flight suits, and 
Army brass buckles than any other district in 
the country. But this is nothing new: our area 
has repeatedly sent an above average proportion 
of its sons and daughters to the Nation’s 
military academies for decades. 

This shouldn’t come as a surprise. The educational 
excellence of our area is well known 
and has long been a magnet for families looking 
for the best environment in which to raise 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 131 

their children. Our graduates are skilled not 
only in mathematics, science, and social studies, 
but also have solid backgrounds in sports, 
debate teams, and other extracurricular activities. 
This diverse upbringing makes military 
academy recruiters sit up and take note—indeed, 
many recruiters know our towns and 
schools by name. 

Since the 1830’s, Members of Congress 
have enjoyed meeting, talking with, and nominating 
these superb young people to our military 
academies. But how did this process 
evolve? 

In 1843, when West Point was the sole 
academy, Congress ratified the nominating 
process and became directly involved in the 
makeup of our military’s leadership. This was 
not an act of an imperial Congress bent on 
controlling every aspect of the Government. 
Rather, the procedure still used today was and 
id one further check and balance in our democracy. 
It was originally designed to weaken 
and divide political coloration in the officer 
corps, provide geographical balance to our 
armed services, and to make the officer corps 
more resilient to unfettered nepotism that 
handicapped European armies. 

In 1854, Representative Gerrit Smith of New 
York added a new component to the academy 
nomination process—the academy review 
board. This was the first time a Member of 
Congress appointed prominent citizens from 
his district to screen applicants and assist with 
the serious duty of nominating candidates for 
academy admission. Today, I am honored to 
continue this wise tradition in my service to 
the 11th Congressional District. 

The Academy Review Board is composed of 
nine local citizens who have shown exemplary 
service to New Jersey, to their communities, 
and to the continued excellence of education 
in our area—many are veterans. Though from 
diverse background and professions, they all 
share a common dedication to seeing that the 
best qualified and motivated graduates attend 
our academies. And, as is true for most volunteer 
panels, their service goes largely unnoticed. 


I would like to take a moment to recognize 
these men and women and to thank them 
publicly for participating in this important 
panel. Being on this board requires hard work 
and an objective mind. Members have the responsibility 
of interviewing upwards of 50 outstanding 
high school seniors every year in the 
academy review process. 

The nomination process follows a general 
timetable. High school seniors mail personal 
information directly to the Military Academy, 
the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, 
and the Merchant Marine Academy once they 
become interested in attending. Information includes 
academic achievement, college entry 
test scores, and other activities. At this time, 
they also inform their Representative of their 
desire to be nominated. 

The academies then assess the applicants, 
rank them based on the data supplied, and return 
the files to my office with their notations. 
In mid-December, our Academy Review Board 
interviews all of the applicants over the course 
of 2 days. They assess a student’s qualifications 
and analyze character, desire to serve, 
and other talents that may be hidden on 
paper. 

Last year, the board interviewed 41 applicants. 
Nominations included 20 to the Naval 
Academy, 10 to the Military Academy, 6 to the 

Air Force Academy, and 1 to the Merchant 
Marine Academy (the Coast Guard Academy 
does not use the Congressional Nomination 
process). The Board then forwards their recommendations 
to the academies by January 
31, where recruiters review files and notify applicants 
and my office of their final decisions 
on admission. 

It is both reassuring and rewarding to know 
that many of our military officers hail from our 
hometowns or close by. When we consider 
the role of these officers in peace or war, we 
can rest easier knowing that the best and 
brightest are in command. Wherever they are 
sent, be that Bosnia, Somalia, Haiti, or Vietnam, 
many of these officers have academy 
training. 

And while a few people may question the 
motivations and ambitions of some young people, 
the academy review process shows that 
the large majority of our graduates are just as 
highly motivated as the generation before 
them. They still seek guidance from loving 
parents, dedicated teachers, and schools, and 
from trusted clergy and rabbis. Indeed, every 
time I visit a school, speak at a college, or 
meet a young academy nominee, I am constantly 
reminded that we as a Nation are 
blessed with fine young men and women. 

Their willingness and desire to serve their 
country is perhaps the most persuasive evidence 
of all. 

ACADEMY NOMINEES FOR 1995, 11TH 
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT, NEW JERSEY 

NAME, HOMETOWN, HIGH SCHOOL, AND ACADEMY 

Justin White, Basking Ridge, Ridge, Naval. 

Robert Vuolo, Morris Plains, Delbarton, 
Naval. 

Renuka Vijayanathan, N. Caldwell, West 
Essex, Naval. 

Kevin Orisini, Sparta, Sparta, Naval. 

Meghan Neumann, Succassunna, Roxbury, 
Military. 

John Eure, Rockaway, Morris Catholic, 
Naval. 

Michael Kester, Bridgewater, Bridgewater/ 
Raritan, Naval. 

Patrick Nelson, Hackettstown, Bridgeton 
Academy, Naval. 

Brian Fitzgerald, Mendham, West Morris 
Mendham, Naval. 

Daniel Figenshu, Madison, Delbarton, 
Naval. 

Richard Evans, Flanders, Mt. Olive, Naval. 

Robert Poggio, Long Valley, West Morris 
Central, Naval. 

Cory Winer, Wharton, Choate Rosemary 
Hall, Military. 

Anthony Bruno, East Hanover, Hanover 
Park, Naval. 

Louis Amorosa, Somerville, Immaculata, 
Naval. 

Jason Corbisiero, Rockaway, Morris Catholic, 
Naval. 

Andrew Gassman, Chatham, Oratory Prep, 
Naval. 

Damon Finaldi, Florham Park, Hanover 
Park Regional, Naval. 

Frederic Haeussler, Florham Park, Choate 
Rosemary Hall, Naval. 

John Neuhart, Chatham, Ohio State ROTC, 
Naval. 

Mary Faulkner, Long Valley, West Morris 
Central, Air Force. 

Brent Kruel, Dover, Randolph, Air Force. 

Jeffrey Melitski, Bernardsville, 
Bernardsville, Air Force. 

Hunter Lonsberry, Morristown, Morristown 
Beard, Air Force. 

Timothy Larkin, Long Valley, West Morris 
Central, Merchant Marine. 

James Wong, Randolph, Randolph, Military. 


Scott Magaziner, Randolph, Randolph, Air 
Force. 

Mark Chiarvalloti, Rockaway, Penn State 
USMA Prep., Military. 

Victor Camaya, Pompton Plains, 
Pequannock, Military. 

Andrew Moan, Far Hills, Pingry, Naval. 

Louis Kuo, Parsippany, Parsippany, Military. 


Michael DeCicco, Raritan, Bridgewater/ 
Raritan, Military. 

David Esposito, Caldwell, James Caldwell, 
Military. 

Joel Tompkins, Chatham, Chatham, Military. 


Tatiana Kazdoba, Denville, Villa Walsh 
Academy, Naval. 

Shane Rowe, Dover, New Mexico Military 
Institute, Military. 

Thomas Rogers, Rockaway, Morris Knolls, 
Air Force. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO SIDDHARTHA 
SHANKAR RAY 

HON. THOMAS J. MANTON 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. MANTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to Siddhartha Shankar Ray for 
serving with distinction as India’s Ambassador 
to the United States for the past 31/2 years. 
During his tenure, relations between the United 
States and India have reached a new plateau 
of strength, friendship, and understanding. 
The United States has become India’s 
largest investor, and India has been named by 
the Department of Commerce as one of the 
key emerging markets for United States business 
for this decade and the next century. 

There are many reasons for this dramatic 
improvement in relations between our two 
countries. However, I believe it is clear that no 
one has made a greater contribution or played 
a more central role in this transformation than 
Siddhartha Shankar Ray. He has worked tirelessly 
with the Congress and the executive 
branch as well as State and local officials 
around the country to help ensure that our 
Government fully understands India’s needs 
and concerns. He has been a bridge builder 
between the United States business and investment 
community and the Indian private 
and public sector. He has been a sought after 
speaker and commentator in the academic 
community here, along with numerous important 
think tanks and private foundations. Finally, 
Ambassador Ray has been an ambassador 
‘‘par excellence’’ in the Indian-American 
community. He has travelled to almost every 
State and city with an Indian-American population 
reminding Americans of Indian descent 
and of the important economic reforms unfolding 
on the subcontinent, while urging Indian-
Americans to be active participants in the 
transformation of the Indian economy. 

Mr. Speaker, Ambassador Ray has greatly 
impressed many of us in the Congress with 
his artful diplomacy, his keen logic and his 
persuasive skills. He has taken the thorniest 
issues in the Indo-United States relationship 
and presented them to decision makers in the 
United States in a manner which has been 
both convincing and reassuring. It is obvious 
to anyone who has worked with him during the 
past several years that Ambassador Ray’s 
skills as an imminent India barrister have 


E 132 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

served India well during his term as Ambassador. 


Of course, Ambassador Ray has not 
achieved all of these successes by himself. 
He possesses another invaluable asset: his 
lovely wife, Maya, who also is a noted barrister 
and former elected official. Maya Ray 
has been a gracious host, trusted advisor and 
articulate spokesperson. Together, they have 
proven to be a superb team. 

Mr. Speaker, later this month, Siddhartha 
Shankar Ray will leave his position as Ambassador 
to the United States to return to Calcutta, 
his home city, to stand for election to 
the Lokh Sabha, India’s House of Parliament. 
While it would be improper for any Member of 
this body on either side of the aisle to endorse 
a candidate for office in India, I am certain all 
of my colleagues agree that Ambassador Ray 
will approach the coming campaign with the 
same level of energy, dedication and articulate 
persuasion that were the hallmark of his years 
in Washington. 

Mr. Speaker, I know my colleagues join me 
in wishing Siddhartha Shankar Ray and Maya 
every good wish in the months and years to 
come. We invite them to visit us in Washington 
often to witness the fruits of Ambassador 
Ray’s labor as the Indo-United States relationship 
continues to grow and prosper. 

f 


SUPPORT PEACE AND DEMOCRACY 

IN TURKEY: SUPPORT HOUSE 

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 136 

HON. STENY H. HOYER 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, on January 25, 
1995, I joined the chairman of the Helsinki 
Commission, CHRIS SMITH, in introducing H. 
Con. Res. 136, legislation which advocates a 
peaceful end to the conflict between the Government 
of Turkey and Kurdish militants. I 
urge my colleagues to join us as cosponsors 
of this important resolution aimed at ending a 
vicious cycle of violence and terror which has 
claimed so many lives over the past decade 
and has eroded the impressive strides made 
by a government committed to achieving full-
fledged democracy. 

Mr. Speaker, for more than a decade Turkey’s 
citizens, especially those residing in the 
southeast, have suffered the horrors of terrorism 
and the excesses of a government committed 
to eradicating terrorism at any cost. 
More than 20,000 people have died in clashes 
among security forces, the Kurdistan Workers 
Party [PKK] and shadowy Muslim fundamentalist 
groups. Turkish troops in southeast Turkey 
have forcibly evacuated or destroyed 
more that 2,650 Kurdish villages, burned 
crops, killed livestock, and displaced more 
than three million people. Citizens are detained, 
tortured, extrajudicially executed or disappear 
without a trace. The PKK has also 
killed innocent civilians, mined local roads, 
and set off bombs in populated areas—contributing 
to the cycle of violence and the climate 
of fear that pervades southeast Turkey. 

Mr. Speaker, earlier this month, European 
newspapers printed color pictures of Turkish 
soldiers posing with the heads of decapitated 
Kurdish guerrillas. These gruesome and despicable 
photos all too graphically underline the 

hatred and brutality fueling this conflict. But 
even more, the pictures reinforce the urgent 
need for reconciliation. Violence and terrorism 
will not resolve this conflict. Only dialog can 
help overcome bitterness inspired by 12 years 
of war. House Concurrent Resolution 136 promotes 
an end to violence and a beginning for 
efforts promoting reconciliation and understanding. 


Mr. Speaker, Chairman SMITH and I are 
sending letters to officials of the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe 
[OSCE] urging them to initiate and support 
steps to resolve the escalating conflict in Turkey. 
We believe the OSCE should establish a 
million of long-duration to monitor human 
rights abuses and help defuse sources of conflict 
and have asked that the OSCE chairmanin-
office send a personal representative to develop 
recommendations concerning the mandate 
and scope of future OSCE activities in 
Turkey. We have also asked the president of 
the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to designate 
a parliamentary delegation to Turkey to 
assist in this task. The OSCE has played a 
critical role in conflict prevention, mediation, 
and human rights monitoring in the former 
Yugoslavia, the Caucasus, the Baltic States, 
and elsewhere. An OSCE presence in Turkey 
would be especially helpful as local non-governmental 
organizations, international humanitarian 
groups, including the International Committee 
of the Red Cross, and even journalists 
are not allowed by authorities to operate freely 
in this region. 

Mr. Speaker, Turkey and Israel are the only 
functional democratic states in the Middle 
East. Turkey is a NATO ally and OSCE member. 
The government’s inability to peacefully 
and democratically resolve the Kurdish conflict 
jeopardizes Turkey’s democratic foundations, 
drains a stumbling economy, threatens regional 
stability, and makes closer relations 
with Europe and the United States problematic. 
Our Government has been instrumental 
in helping resolve conflicts in the Middle East, 
the Balkans and elsewhere. Mr. Speaker, if we 
truly value our strategic, economic and political 
partnership with Turkey, and I believe we 
do, we must act now to help end this brutal 
conflict. It is precisely because of that partnership 
that we seek to assist Turkey in ending 
this conflict. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to review 
House Concurrent Resolution 136. I believe it 
represents a balanced and thoughtful first step 
that our Government can and should take to 
promote peaceful resolution of a difficult and 
divisive conflict. I call on all my colleagues 
who value human rights and our partnership 
with Turkey to cosponsor this resolution. We 
must try to help stop the violence. 

f 


THE STATE OF THE UNION 

HON. LEE H. HAMILTON 

OF INDIANA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. HAMILTON. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
insert my Washington Report for Wednesday, 
January 31, 1996 into the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD: 

THE PRESIDENT’s STATE OF THE UNION 
ADDRESS 
Declaring that the era of big government is 
over, the President embraced a centrist view 

of government in his State of the Union address. 
The speech had no soaring rhetoric, 
and it was rather blandly written and probably 
too long, but he delivered it forcefully 
and appeared robust and strong. By complimenting 
his chief political opponent he 
came across as gracious and fair minded. As 
usual, he threw about everything into the 
speech. Most observers felt that he had a 
very good night. 

OVERVIEW 
He gave an upbeat view of the nation, saying 
that the state of the union is strong and 
that America has made progress in reducing 
the deficit, creating new jobs, and keeping 
unemployment and inflation low. He emphasized 
that the crime rate, teen pregnancies, 
high school drop out rates, poverty and welfare 
rolls are all down, and that we have had 
great success in lowering air pollution, cutting 
tons of pesticides from water and food 
supplies. He emphasized progress made 
abroad, with the United States leading toward 
peace in Haiti, Northern Ireland, 
Bosnia, and the Middle East. 
But the President did not dwell upon the 
progress; he emphasized the challenges that 
are before us—to balance the budget, keep 
families together, provide educational opportunities 
and economic security, continue the 
fight against crime and drugs, protect the 
environment, continue American world leadership, 
and make our government and its democracy 
work better for less money. 
SIZE OF GOVERNMENT 
Throughout the speech the President highlighted 
the theme of smaller government, 
saying that big government does not have all 
the answers, that there’s not a program for 
every problem. He’s right. He said that we 
need a smaller, less bureaucratic government 
in Washington, one that lives within 
its means, and he noted that the federal 
workforce is now at its lowest level in 30 
years. He laid out the challenges for an age 
of possibility. He hit hard on the point that 
the government shutdowns are a mistake, 
also now acknowledged by Speaker Gingrich, 
and he challenged Congress never to shut the 
federal government down again. The President 
was equally sharp in his comments on 
the efforts to threaten the full faith and 
credit of the U.S. to try to force presidential 
budget or other policy concessions. 
ECONOMY 
The President was both optimist and critic 
of the American economy. He mentioned the 
impressive list of economic statistics that 
now characterize the American economy. 
The economy overall is in good shape, with 
low inflation and interest rates, steady 
growth, and relatively low unemployment. 
Yet at the same time, many Americans are 
fearful of layoffs, concerned about the growing 
gap between the rich and the poor, worried 
that wages are not keeping up with inflation, 
and doubtful about the future of the 
American dream. 
MAJOR POINTS 
As usual in a State of the Union address 
there was something in it for most everybody. 
The President hit very popular themes 
emphasizing a balanced budget, a strengthened 
American family, moving people from 
welfare to work, making health care more 
available to every American, and supporting 
the efforts of state and local police to catch 
criminals and prevent crime. He also 
stressed improving educational opportunities, 
reducing the drug problem, working 
with business to cut pollution, curbing the 
influence of special interests in politics, attacking 
the problem of illegal immigration, 
and maintaining America’s role as a peacemaker 
in the world. 
Strongly applauded were his references to 
education and cultural values, and his calls 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 133 

for responsible parents, decency on tele-from being a deputy sheriff to becoming Ambassador and Mrs. Ray for their outstand


vision and in the movies, and a crackdown 

undersheriff, and has served in every rank in ing work in Washington and we wish them

on gangs. Reiterating themes he has often 

the investigation division. success in all of their future endeavors. 

expressed in the past, he put heavy emphasis 

One of the highlights of his career came 

f

on working together as a community and 

when he was involved in the felony investiga


reaching across the lines that divide us in 

tion involving members of the Symbionese INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT

order to find common ground and to make 

Liberation Army, which resulted in the arrest WILLIAM J. CLINTON

America work better. Again and again he 
said that the future can only be achieved by warrants for the kidnappers of Patty Hearst. 
teamwork between Republicans and Demo-His diligence in this effort was characteristic of HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

crats and between government and the private 
sector. 

He spent remarkably little time talking 
about the protracted struggle over the budget, 
sounding at times as if the fight was already 
over. His eyes were clearly focused on 
the future and not the contentious and hostile 
battles going on with Congress. He did 
not lambast the Republicans, indeed he complimented 
their commitment to a balanced 
budget and took the high road throughout 
his speech. 

The speech was significant in that it proposed 
few if any bold new initiatives and basically 
repeated calls the President has made 
in the past. He is clearly constrained by the 
fact that he has little money to play with 
and his emphasis on the limitations of government. 
The prominence of the traditional 
values of family and work were strong 
themes in his speech. A significant omission 
in the speech was any reference to his and 
the First Lady’s problems with Whitewater. 

PROTECTING AGAINST EXCESSES 

I think the President sought to portray 
himself as a reasonable man who shared 
many of the goals of his political opponents 
but thought their means were too harsh. He 
conceded that government programs had become 
too costly and inefficient, but he did 
not abandon the fundamental obligations to 
the people who rely on Medicare and Medicaid, 
stating: ‘‘America cannot become 
stronger if they become weaker.’’ I think the 
President is saying that he will cut back big 
government but he will do it compassionately, 
that he will keep many government 
programs but he will run them more efficiently. 


CONCLUSION 

The themes the President hit in his 
speech—limited government, an optimistic 
view of the future of America with great 
challenges and possibilities—hit responsive 
chords among Americans. In outlining the 
challenges to the country, the President for 
the most part chose not to attack his political 
opponents’ positions but rather to emphasize 
common ground, and that also was 
well received. The key test for the President 
will be whether he is able to follow through 
on the themes and vision he laid out. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO OFFICER RUSSELL F. 
PITKIN 

HON. BILL BAKER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. BAKER of California. Mr. Speaker, in 
March, one of California’s finest law officers 
will retire after 31 years of dedicated service. 
Russell F. Pitkin has been an integral part of 
the Contra Costa Sheriff’s Office for more than 
three decades, providing the kind of leadership 
and excellence that sets the standard for 
his peers. 

During the course of his career, Mr. Pitkin 
participated in the 99th session of the FBI 
Academy in Quantico, VA. A holder of a master’s 
degree in public administration, he rose 

his assiduous performance throughout his time 
in the sheriff’s office. 

The men and women who daily put their 
lives on the line for our safety and well-being 
are among the true heroes of our time. Russell 
Pitkin is one of the foremost of these heroes, 
and all Contra Costans owe him a debt 
of gratitude for all he has done to make the 
east bay the wonderful place it is. I am honored 
to recognize him today in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD, and to wish him every success 
in his retirement. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO H. E. AMBASSADOR 
SIDDHARTHA SHANKAR RAY 

HON. BENJAMIN A. GILMAN 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. GILMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay tribute 
to my friend and colleague, Ambassador 
Siddhartha Shankar Ray, India’s envoy to the 
United States. During his 4 years in the United 
States, Indo-United States relations significantly 
improved. Ambassador Ray’s efforts on 
behalf of his nation helped to educate so 
many of us in the Congress about the important 
economic reforms currently being implemented 
in the world’s largest democracy. A 
distinguished diplomat, gentleman, and friend, 
Ambassador Ray and his wife, Maya, will be 
missed in Washington. 

Prior to coming to Washington, both Ambassador 
and Mrs. Ray had distinguished legal 
careers and both also served their nation as 
Members of Parliament. Immediately preceding 
his current post, Ambassador Ray served 
with distinction as Governor of Punjab. Those 
of us who closely follow events in South Asia 
fully recognize the challenges Ambassador 
Ray faced in Punjab. Despite the seemingly 
intractable problems in that region, Ambassador 
Ray left Punjab, as he now leaves 
Washington with an impressive list of accomplishments. 


Mr. Ray was appointed Ambassador to the 
United States on October 10, 1992, with the 
rank of Federal Cabinet Minister. That appointment, 
at that level, demonstrates Prime Minister 
Rao’s confidence in Ambassador Ray. As 
chairman of the House International Relations 
Committee, I fully agree that the Prime Minister’s 
confidence was well-placed. 

It was during Ambassador Ray’s tenure in 
Washington that Prime Minister Rao addressed 
a joint session of the U.S. Congress—
the highest honor our Nation can convey 
upon a foreign dignitary. It was during 
Ambassador Ray’s tenure in Washington that 
the United States and India moved beyond almost 
all of the difficulties of the cold war. The 
improved climate in Indo-United States relations 
can be tangibly measured by the number 
of high-level United States official visits to 
Washington. 

It is with great regret that we bid farewell to 
Siddhartha and Maya Ray. We commend the 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, in a very succinct 
and incisive interview with Middle East Insight 
president and editor George Nader in the 
magazine’s 15th anniversary issue in December 
President Clinton articulated his vision for 
the future of the Middle East and for American 
interests in the region. The President said, 
‘‘We want to see the establishment of a 
peaceful and prosperous region in which all 
nations and people can live in freedom and 
security.’’ 

Real progress made in the Middle East 
peace process under the Clinton administration 
has been unprecedented. As the Israeli-
Syrian talks continue to move ahead, and our 
attention remains focused on further process 
toward lasting peace in the Middle East, I 
commend the entire interview to my colleagues. 


[From Middle East Insight, November-

December, 1995] 

INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT WILLIAM J. 

CLINTON 

(By George A. Nader) 

In this 15th Anniversary issue, President 
Bill Clinton gives an exclusive interview 
about U.S. interests in the Middle East to 
Middle East Insight editor George A. Nader. 
This interview is a follow-up to President 
Clinton’s first interview with Middle East Insight 
as President-elect. 

President Clinton’s term in office has been 
marked by historic agreements between Israel 
and the PLO, a formal peace treaty between 
Israel and Jordan, ongoing negotiations 
under U.S. auspices between Israel and 
Syria and Lebnanon, and continued enforcement 
of dual containment of Iraq and Iran. 
President Clinton had developed a warm and 
productive relationship with Israeli Prime 
Minister Yitzhak Rabin before his assassination 
last November, and will now be working 
closely with his successor, Shimon Peres, on 
many vital areas of interest to the United 
States in the Middle East. 

We are privileged to have President Clinton 
share his views below on these subjects 
as well as his vision for the future of the region. 


Q: Mr. President, as spiral of violence in 
the Middle East, capped by the assassination 
of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, has 
challenged the peace process. What are your 
thoughts about the impact of this assassination 
on the state of the peace process? 
A: The tragic death of Prime Minister 
Rabin was an attempt to stop the historic 
progress which has been made toward a comprehensive 
and lasting settlement of the 
Arab-Israeli conflict. But the reaction in Israel, 
the Middle East, and around the world 
to this crime demonstrates the 
marginalization of those who would use violence 
to achieve their ends and the overwhelming 
support which exists for the peace 
process. The world lost a great man and I— 
along with all Americans—a great friend in 
Yitzhak Rabin. A champion of his nation in 
conflict, he became a hero for reconciliation 

E 134 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

and understanding as well. His life paralleled 
that of the Middle East in his time: he 
fought tirelessly for the security and prosperity 
of his people, and then turned that 
same strength and wisdom to forging a peace 
that would ensure that this security and 
prosperity would live on after him. 

His death reminds us all that the cost of 
leadership is sometimes very high. But his 
life serves as an example for what can be 
achieved through courage and determination 
to do what is right. The tributes paid to 
Prime Minister Rabin by King Hussein, 
President Mubarak, and other leaders from 
the region and around the world have been 
mirrored in the unprecedented outpouring of 
support expressed by the people of Israel for 
his living legacy, the pursuit of a just and 
enduring peace of all the people of the Middle 
East. I am committed to continue doing 
all I can to ensure that this goal is realized. 

Q: What is your view of the importance of 
Palestinian economic development to the 
success of the peace process? 
A: We agree that Palestinian economic 
development is a key ingredient in building 
a lasting peace. It is essential that the Palestinian 
people see that the peace process 
has produced tangible benefits in their daily 
lives, that their future—and that of their 
children—has changed for the better because 
of the decision to pursue dialogue and reconciliation 
over confrontation. Since October 
1993, the United States has taken the 
lead in mobilizing the international donor 
effort to support the Palestinian Authority 
and to help provide the foundations for a better 
and more prosperous life for the Palestinian 
people. 
The United States has met fully its pledge 
of $100 million per year in assistance and we 
are encouraging other donors to ensure that 
their aid commitments are fulfilled as rapidly 
as possible. In order to help the Palestinian 
Authority meet its responsibilities 
under the Interim Agreement and to move 
forward on infrastructure development 
projects critical to the building of a vibrant 
economy, we are a major organizer of the 
Conference on Assistance to the Palestinians 
to be held in Europe this December. 

In addition to our leading role in the international 
donor effort, we are also working to 
improve the environment for private sector 
economic growth and investment. We are 
discussing with Israel and the Palestinians 
the possible establishment of industrial 
zones, as well as ways in which Israel’s justifiable 
security concerns can be addressed 
consistent with our shared desire to promote 
development of the Palestinian economy. 
Consistent with our desire to promote Palestinian 
entrepreneurship, US Trade Representative 
Kantor has recently announced 
an agreement to extend duty-free treatment 
to Palestinian goods entering the United 
States. 

Q: With the recent imposition of Presidential 
sanctions on Iran, US-Iranian relations 
have reached a new low. What are the 
prospects for the success of sanctions on Iran 
and what is the potential value of a dialogue 
with Iran? 
A: Our problem is not with the people of 
Iran; it is with the unacceptable behavior of 
the Iranian government: direct and indirect 
support for and use of terror; subversion of 
states friendly to the United States; military 
intimidation of its neighbors; and acquisition 
of weapons and technologies of mass destruction—
including nuclear. 
The Executive Order I signed earlier this 
year, imposing a complete ban on US financial 
and commercial dealings with Iran, is 
intended to demonstrate our resolve that 
Tehran pay a price for continuing its threatening 
activities. To be fully successful, we 
need the support of Iran’s other trading part


ners in Europe, Asia, and around the world. 
We are urging them to follow our example 
and help ensure that sustained and meaningful 
economic pressure is brought to bear 
until the behavior of the Iranian government 
changes. 

While we are prepared to have a dialogue 
with authoritative representatives of the 
government of Iran at any time, it must be 
made clear that normal relations cannot 
exist until such time as Iran ceases its objectionable 
activities. 

Q: UN economic sanctions have been imposed 
on Iraq for five years now. While the 
sanctions seem to have checked the military 
capabilities of Saddam Hussein, he still remains 
in power and the Iraqi people suffer. 
How successful can sanctions be? 
A. The United States is committed to the 
maintenance of sanctions against Iraq until 
Baghdad complies fully with all its UN Security 
Council obligations. Recent revelations 
by Iraqi defectors and the work of UN inspectors 
provide compelling evidence that Saddam 
Hussein has consistently attempted to 
deceive the United Nations. They also show 
that as recently as last summer, Saddam was 
planning new threats against his neighbors. 
We are deeply concerned about the humanitarian 
plight of Iraqi people. But there must 
be no doubt that Saddam is responsible for 
their suffering. He has refused to avail himself 
of the opportunity under UNSC resolutions 
to sell oil to pay for food and medicine, 
preferring to divert resources to his supporters 
and military and to use his own people as 
hostages in the pursuit of international sympathy 
for lifting of the sanctions. 

Sanctions are the primary means available 
to the international community to compel 
Iraqi compliance with Security Council resolutions 
and to ensure that Iraq does not 
again become a threat to the region. Given 
Saddam Hussein’s track record, the Council 
has a responsibility to hold him to the highest 
possible standard. With respect to the future 
of Saddam Hussein and his regime, that 
is a matter for the Iraqi people alone to decide. 


Q. As you are involved in the peace process, 
and as the region undergoes important 
changes, what is your vision for the future of 
the Middle East and for America’s interests 
there? 
A. Our vision for the future of the Middle 
East is a simple one. We want to see the establishment 
of a peaceful and prosperous region 
in which all nations and peoples can 
live in freedom and security. 
There is much work still before us, but we 
are making real progress toward our goal. 
The peace process has made unprecedented 
advances in the last two years, and despite 
the loss of one of its greatest champions, it 
continues to gather momentum. The enemies 
of peace such as Iran, Iraq, and Libya are increasingly 
isolated. More and more regional 
governments are recognizing that dialogue 
and reconciliation—and the trade and development 
that accompany and reinforce 
peace—are the best means of ensuring a better 
future for their nations. The United 
States will continue to stand by those who 
take risks for peace and work together with 
them to ensure that our mutual vision is realized. 


f 


OCEAN TOWNSHIP HADASSAH 

PAYS TRIBUTE TO ISRAEL 

PRIME MINISTER RABIN 

HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR. 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, in memory and 
honor of the late Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak 

Rabin, Ocean Township Hadassah in Monmouth 
County, NJ, has pledged a donation to 
the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center 
at Ein Karem, Israel, so that it may continue 
its life-saving work of healing, teaching, 
and research. I rise today, both to pay tribute 
to the slain Israeli soldier, statesman, and 
peacemaker, and to my friends from the Jersey 
shore area who are striving to pay a lasting 
tribute to this great world leader. 

Mr. Speaker, I shall never forget September 
13, 1995. On that brilliantly sunny day I was 
fortunate to be among those on the White 
House lawn to witness the signing of the Israel-
PLO treaty by Prime Minister Rabin and 
PLO Chairman Yasir Arafat. We witnessed in 
person, as did millions of others the world 
over who watched on television, an event we 
had hoped for but never really thought we 
would see. In his moving speech, the Prime 
Minister summed up the feelings of the people 
of Israel and their many strong supporters 
here in America: ‘‘Enough of blood and tears. 
Enough.’’ 

Yitzhak Rabin’s life in many ways mirrored 
the history and destiny of his country. He 
fought valiantly in Israel’s War of Independence 
in 1948. In the Six Day War of 1967, he 
brilliantly led the Israel Defense Forces in a 
stunning victory that greatly enhanced Israel’s 
security. Yet it would still be many years before 
Israel’s recalcitrant Arab neighbors were 
ready to negotiate with the Jewish State. First, 
Egypt’s President Anwar Sadat came forward 
in the cause of peace—and, like Yitzhak 
Rabin, paid with his life at the hands of fellow 
countrymen who were not yet ready to say 
‘‘Enough’’ to war. Finally, PLO Leader Arafat 
and, more recently, Jordan’s King Hussein, 
also chose the road of peace with Israel. During 
the years that the Arab state of war and 
economic boycott against Israel remained in 
effect, Yitzhak Rabin stood ready to fight, if 
necessary, to defend Israel’s security. Yet, late 
in his career, the Prime Minister had the courage 
to recognize a changing world and to accept, 
indeed embrace, change. The huge turnout 
of world leaders at Mr. Rabin’s funeral 
demonstrates—including many of his former 
Arab enemies—just how rare and impressive 
his courage was. While most of us will remember 
Mr. Rabin’s gruff demeanor and military 
bearing, minutes before his death, Yitzhak 
Rabin was smiling and singing a song of 
peace with thousands of Israelis in Tel Aviv. 

On the day of the historic signing of the 
peace accord, my guest was Sharon Portman 
of Ocean Township, a long-time supporter and 
leader in Ocean Township Hadassah and 
many other community organizations. Sadly, 
Sharon passed away last summer. Sharon 
had dedicated so much of her time and energy 
to working for a strong and secure Israel, 
and believed passionately that one day Israel 
would achieve peace with her Arab neighbors. 
Whenever I think back to that signing ceremony 
on the White House Lawn, there is a 
tinge of sadness as I think about Sharon. 

Mr. Speaker, Ocean Township Hadassah is 
a volunteer organization of close to 450 
women ranging in age from their midtwenties 
to their midfifties. After the assassination of 
Prime Minister Rabin, members of the organization, 
as well other members of the community, 
sought a way to make a lasting tribute 
consistent with Mr. Rabin’s life-long dedication 
to the betterment of the Jewish State. Prime 
Minister Rabin spoke to the women of Hadassah 
at their convention in Israel last summer, 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 135 

praising their fundraising efforts to build and 
maintain hospitals in Israel. The Prime Minister 
expressed the fervent hope that Hadassah 
Hospital would treat Israeli children for 
many years—but ‘‘never again to be treated 
due to the ravages of war.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to pay particular 
tribute to Elynn Shapiro, president of Ocean 
Township Hadassah, for her leadership in this 
tribute to Yitzhak Rabin, and to the many 
other citizens of our community who have contributed 
to this most worthy effort. 

f 


SECRETARY OF VETERANS 
AFFAIRS, JESSE BROWN 

HON. JAMES P. MORAN 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
express my gratitude for the noteworthy accomplishments 
achieved by Secretary Jesse 
Brown on behalf of the veterans of this great 
Nation. Since his selection as the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs, the women and men who 
served our country have had a knowledgeable 
and responsive supporter in that post. 

Among some of Secretary Brown’s greatest 
accomplishments are: 

The creation of new clinics allowing veterans 
more access to VA health care. 

Assistance to one and a half million veterans 
with employment services in a joint venture 
with the Department of Labor to increase 
the number of veterans hired in the Federal 
Government. 

The expansion of programs for homeless 
veterans by doubling the resources dedicated 
to these initiatives, and the institution of a 
grant program to assist public and non-profit 
organizations in assisting homeless veterans. 

A more complete accounting on the register 
of Vietnam veterans’ diseases for which services-
connected compensation is awarded 
based on exposure to herbicide agents. 

The expansion and great improvement in 
health care services for those combat veterans 
who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder. 


The increased attention given to the needs 
of women veterans including mammography 
quality control and counseling, and medical 
programs for women veterans who suffer the 
after-effects of service-related sexual trauma. 

The establishment of a home refinancing 
program that enables veterans to obtain lower 
home loan rates, thus saving an average of 
$1,500 a year. 

There are about 70,000 veterans in the 
Eighth Congressional District of Virginia, so I 
am very concerned about the service these individuals 
receive. Even with such a large number 
of veterans’ needs to be processed from 
just northern Virginia, the VA procedures are 
exceptional. The VA under Secretary Brown 
has worked so well, in fact, that my need for 
inquiries has declined from several cases a 
month to several cases a year. 

Secretary Brown’s initiative to improve services 
to veterans also saved money through 
streamlining, privatizing or consolidating activities. 
I could not ask for better support for 
those who served this country. 

While Secretary Brown’s promotion of a decent 
budget to support these benefits has fre


quently been rebuffed, the services his Department 
provides shows his steadfast commitment 
to our Nation’s veterans and their 
families. We should not forget the responsibility 
this Nation has to our service members and 
their survivors. Budgets and associated dollars 
cannot replace the sacrifices these veterans 
have made. 

As a combat veteran himself, Secretary 
Brown has walked the walk. He has ensured 
that VA benefits and the health care system 
are efficient and support our veterans. He is a 
true American, a friend, and a great man. 

f 


CONGRATULATIONS TO CITIBANK 
FOR EXCELLENCE 

HON. ROBERT A. UNDERWOOD 

OF GUAM 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, as the 
saying goes ‘‘we reap what we sow.’’ In my 
home district of Guam, one of our local banking 
institutions is showing a commitment to 
our island in a wonderful way: They are sowing 
seeds, or in this case ‘‘seed money.’’ 

Since 1992, Citibank of Guam has awarded 
$10,000 in cash to our island’s top teacher of 
the year. This is a competition for public and 
private school teachers from kindergarten 
through high school, but the winners are the 
children. 

We have many noteworthy teachers on 
Guam, and I know they work under difficult 
conditions which demand commitment and integrity. 
As a former educator, I salute the 
teachers of Guam and also Citibank for honoring 
excellence among professional educators. 

Citibank helped to form a private corporation 
to expand this fine program. In addition to 
Citibank, the newly formed Excellence in 
Teaching Foundation now includes corporate 
citizens Ernst & Young and the Pacific Daily 
News. Kudos to them as well. 

It is events like this program that display the 
character of our island community. Our corporate 
citizens took this task upon themselves. 
They know that a quality education for our 
children is the key to their company’s success. 

Our teachers are vital, yet their work requires 
much more than Government can fund, 
more than parents can give and more than the 
private sector can donate. This program provides 
a little incentive, or seed money, to push 
an already taxed teacher corps. To our 1993 
winner, Ms. Jelly Flores and to our 1994 winner 
Ms. Sandra Bojtos, I commend you. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO JOSEPH O. BUSICK 

HON. JAMES C. GREENWOOD 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. GREENWOOD. Mr. Speaker, today I 
rise to pay tribute to an outstanding businessman 
from the Eighth District of Pennsylvania 
upon the occasion of the 50th anniversary of 
his business, Delaware Landscape Stone and 
Delaware Quarries, Inc. 

Mr. Busick served in the Air Force in World 
War II and was decorated as a bomber pilot 
flying the Flying Fortress B–17. 

At the end of his active duty in 1946, Mr. 
Busick returned to Bucks County and started 
a small quarry in Mt. Pleasant. He continued 
to serve in the Air Force Reserve and retired 
as a lieutenant colonel in 1969. 

In the intervening years his business grew 
from that small quarry to a company with four 
operational locations and between 80 and 125 
employees, depending upon the time of year. 
In 1955 Mr. Busick took over an abandoned 
quarry that has been in existence since 1758. 
In the first year of operation that quarry was 
flooded out, but Mr. Busick was undaunted 
and continued to work for the growth of his 
business. The company produces decorative 
stone of all kinds and also building stone for 
facades. Stone from these quarries graces 
universities, churches, and commercial buildings 
all over the country as well as private 
homes and garden walls. Mr. Busick also sells 
stone produced by other quarries throughout 
the United States. 

It was in 1972 that the company’s newest 
operation was opened near Orlando, FL. That 
operation, called Pebble Junction, creates 
most of Disney World’s stone work. Mr. Busick 
and his son, J. Kevan Busick, who is now 
CBO of the business, have recently created a 
park in Sanford, FL. The park which is open 
to the public is beautified with waterfalls, 
ponds and landscaping stone from their quarries. 


Joe Busick continues to be active in the 
business with his son, Kevan, but he is also 
an avid gardener and staunch defender of the 
environment. He has turned more than 300 
acres of his own land into a wildlife preserve 
to protect animals from the rapid development 
taking place in our district. 

Mr. Busick has contributed much to our 
communities through his successful business 
and through his many other endeavors. 

f 


ED MEYER: 25 YEARS AT THE 

HELM OF GREY ADVERTISING 

HON. TOM LANTOS 

OF CALIFORNIA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, today marks a 
very important milestone for one of the most 
respected and enduring leaders of the business 
world. Ed Meyer celebrates his 25th anniversary 
as chairman and chief executive officer 
of Grey Advertising, during which time he 
has been a shining example of a good corporate 
citizen. I feel it is important to bring Ed 
Meyer’s many extraordinary accomplishments 
to the attention of this body so that we may 
appreciate and honor this exemplary American. 


There are many successful executives in 
this country, but relatively few have been at 
the helm of an industry giant for so long. Indeed, 
Grey Advertising is an industry giant— 
largely because of the vision, skill, integrity 
and humaneness of Ed Meyer. When he 
joined the firm, Grey had 1 office and 14 clients. 
Today, under Ed’s leadership, there are 
277 offices in 72 countries, including APCO 
public affairs here in Washington. 

As a highly successful international entrepreneur, 
Ed Meyer has been a pioneer in 
leading U.S. firms to new markets throughout 
the world, thereby advancing America’s position 
as a leader in the global marketplace of 


E 136 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

products and ideas. Ed has been an ambassador 
of the American way of doing business 
and an example of the best of American executives. 


Ed is also a good employer. No one can run 
an organization for 25 years without building a 
lasting relationship of trust and respect with 
the individuals who are behind the successes. 
Ed is a good citizen, generously giving his valuable 
time and energy to the community. Grey 
Advertising is a model American company and 
Ed Meyer is a model executive. 

Ed Meyer is truly an invaluable American resource 
and I invite my colleagues to join me 
in congratulating Ed Meyer on the 25th anniversary 
of his enlightened leadership of Grey 
Advertising. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO AMBASSADOR 

SIDDHARTHA SHANKAR RAY, IN


DIA’S ENVOY TO WASHINGTON 

HON. ROBERT MENENDEZ 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I would like 
to pay tribute and bid a fond farewell to Ambassador 
Siddhartha Shankar Ray, India’s 
envoy to Washington since 1992. I am certain 
he will be successful in achieving his goals 
when he returns to India. 

During his service, relations between the 
United States and India have grown to new 
heights. In his position, he has stressed the 
importance of ties to India. High level visits by 

U.S. officials have increased significantly since 
Ambassador Ray came to Washington. Since 
Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao instituted 
his historic economic reform program for India 
in 1991, United States investment in India has 
grown at a substantial rate. 
In Washington, Ambassador Ray has been 
able to express India’s concerns in an articulate 
manner. He has publicized the huge market 
potential that India possesses for business 
investments and consumer goods. Also, he 
has worked to improve the strategic relationship 
between the United States and India in 
South Asia. 

Since 1957, Ambassador Ray has served 
the citizens of the world’s largest democracy. 
He has been a member of the West Bengal 
Assembly, a member of the Lower House of 
the Indian Parliament, Governor of Punjab, 
Chief Minister of West Bengal, and Minister of 
Education, Social Welfare and Culture for 
India. The appointment of such an experienced 
and respected public servant demonstrates 
the level of importance that the Government 
of India places on its relations with 
the United States. 

Both Ambassador Ray and his wife, Mrs. 
Maya Ray, have played an important role in 
building United States-India relations during 
the post cold war era. When he returns to 
India, I am confident that Ambassador Ray will 
continue to be a strong advocate of cordial 
and fruitful United States-India relations. 

I ask that my colleagues join me in paying 
tribute to Ambassador Ray for his service, and 
I wish him and his wife best wishes for the future. 


INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF 

MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE ACT 

OF 1995 

SPEECH OF 

HON. RICK LAZIO 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 30, 1996 

Mr. LAZIO of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
in support of this flow control legislation that 
we are voting on today, but I want to express 
my concerns with a certain provision of the 
bill. 

This legislation grandfathers communities 
with solid waste facilities that were financed 
with bonded debt or under a contractual obligation. 
Without this legislation, municipalities 
run the risk of not being able to meet their financial 
obligations. The relief offered by this 
bill will allow communities to pay off their 
bonds and avoid having to raise local taxes. It 
will also help prevent a potential torrent of lawsuits 
and bond defaults, or a possible downgrading 
of a municipality’s bond rating, all of 
which could occur if Congress delays in passing 
a flow control bill. I am supporting this bill, 
not only to move it along in the legislative 
process, but more importantly, to protect taxpayers. 


I am concerned that the bill’s interim contracts 
provision may ultimately erode the ability 
of many towns on Long Island to utilize 
flow control. As a result of the Supreme 
Court’s decision in C&A Carbone versus 
Clarkstown, some waste haulers have entered 
into contracts that would still be honored despite 
the enactment of a Federal flow control 
statute. My concern is that these waste haulers 
may have contracted to deliver solid waste 
collected within the boundaries of a municipality 
to a facility outside of the community’s jurisdiction. 
At this point, municipalities located in 
my district, such as the towns of Islip and 
Babylon, cannot determine the volume of 
refuse that might be diverted out of their waste 
stream as a result of these interim contracts, 
thus subverting the spirit of authorizing local 
flow control laws. Furthermore, the interim 
contract provision would make it difficult for 
municipalities to enforce their taxing powers in 
municipal collection districts. Municipalities 
would have to trace interim contract waste. 
This would present tremendous tracking and 
administrative problems. Consequently, this 
potential loss of revenue for the municipalities 
may increase their financial burdens associated 
with waste storage facilities. 

Communities need flow control legislation to 
ensure they can effectively plan and pay for 
their resource recovery programs. In some instances, 
the intent of Congress has been perverted 
by the discriminate application by localities 
of the provision, Expenses incurred on 
behalf of all residents for the administration of 
waste disposal must not fall disproportionately 
on a few. They must be fairly applied to all. 

The Senate has already passed a flow control 
bill and the House should do the same. I 
then look forward to working with House-Senate 
conferees to resolve the problems and uncertainties 
that exist with the interim contract 
provision. 

LAND DISPOSAL PROGRAM 
FLEXIBILITY ACT OF 1995 

SPEECH OF 

HON. BART STUPAK 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 30, 1996 

Mr. STUPAK. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
commend the majority on their handling of this 
legislation. H.R. 2036 is a bipartisan bill based 
on negotiations between the majority, minority 
and the administration. This bill will relieve 
companies from the expense of spending over 
$800 million of dollars in unnecessary and 
burdensome regulation with minimal environmental 
benefit. 

Due to previous judicial action, it is vital we 
pass this legislation and have it signed into 
law by early May. I want to especially thank 
Subcommittee Chairman OXLEY for his support 
of this measure and his willingness to seek 
Democratic input. 

The gentlelady from Arkansas Mrs. LINCOLN, 
and Chairman OXLEY and myself offered an 
amendment to require EPA to complete the 
study of impoundments that is called for in the 
bill. Simple common sense dictates that if you 
order someone to conduct a study, you should 
expect it to be completed. Even though the 
EPA believes these impoundments do not 
pose any risk to human health, prudence dictates 
we should have the agency make sure 
we do not put our groundwater and communities 
at risk. Although, I’m not an expert in 
surface impoundments, I’ll take very seriously 
the agreement between the majority, minority, 
EPA, and industry that this bill is a positive 
step in requiring more sensible environmental 
regulation. 

I was glad to work with Mr. OXLEY and hope 
the process used in the consideration of this 
measure will become a blueprint for future improvement 
of environmental regulation in the 
House. 

f 


INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF 

MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE ACT 

OF 1995 

SPEECH OF 

HON. BOB FRANKS 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 30, 1996 

Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, 
in 1970 my home State of New Jersey exported 
80 percent of its garbage. In order to 
achieve self-sufficiency and address complaints 
about sending our garbage elsewhere, 
New Jersey invested $2 billion to develop an 
extensive flow-control program. Now, thanks 
to flow control, New Jersey exports less than 
20 percent of its solid waste. 

The application of this bill is limited. This 
measure will allow States to continue their 
flow-control programs only if they had exercised 
their flow-control authority before May 
16, 1994. 

The spirit of this Congress has been to give 
more power and responsibility to the States to 
manage their own affairs. It is wrong, after 
having once given that power, to now forbid a 
State like New Jersey to manage its own 
waste through methods that have proven to 
work. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 137 

If New Jersey cannot continue its effective I hope that all of my colleagues and many IN MEMORY OF EFFIE OLIVER 
system of flow control, the $2 billion burden of readers of the RECORD from all across the 
flow-control bonds will fall on the backs of the country will take time to read this and pass it HON. GLENN POSHARD 
residents of New Jersey in the form of new on to others: 

OF ILLINOIS 

and higher taxes. I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on this A FATHER’S LETTER TO SANTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

bill. 

DEAR SANTA: My five-year-old boy scrib-

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

f 
bled out his Christmas list. It’s there by the 
fireplace. The Coke and M&Ms are from him, Mr. POSHARD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to

TRIBUTE TO HY ROSENBLUM 

in case you’re hungry. You know five-year-remember the passing of Effie Oliver of Deca-

HON. GERALD B.H. SOLOMON 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
pay my final tribute to a man I have praised 
before on this floor, Hy Rosenblum of East 
Greenbush, NY. 

May he rest in peace. His life was one long 
act of giving to his community. 

Had he only served as assistant State attorney 
general, town attorney for Schodack and 
East Greenbush, and village attorney for 
Castelton, he would have inscribed his name 
on the honor roll of outstanding citizens. But 
he also gave 41 years of his life to Hudson 
Valley Community College. 

He was appointed to the college’s original 
board of trustees by Gov. Thomas Dewey. He 
was later named secretary of the board, and 
served in that capacity for more than 40 years. 
He did not miss a graduation at the college for 
41 years. 

But that was not all. In 1943 he created the 
Consideration Award for local high school 
graduates who had shown high regard for the 
personal and property rights of others. In 
1946, he incorporated the Hudson Valley 
Broadcasting Corp., which led to the creation 
of radio station WROW and WROW–TV. He 
served on that board of directors as well. In 
1957 he chaired the Rensselaer County Park 
Committee, and played a major role in establishing 
the Grafton Lakes State Park. He also 
participated in such community efforts as lobbying 
for more State police, and preventing 
the closing of the Fort Orange Paper Co. 

As you can see, Mr. Speaker, Mr. 
Rosenblum’s contributions were many and 
lasting. I was proud to call him a friend, and 
I speak for many others when I say I will miss 
him. You do not replace someone like Hy 
Rosenblum. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask you and other Members 
to join me in a final salute to a great American, 
Hy Rosenblum, and in offering our condolences 
and deepest regret to his wife, Doris, 
and grieving family. 

f 


A FATHER’S LETTER TO SANTA 

HON. JOHN J. DUNCAN, JR. 

OF TENNESSEE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Speaker, one of the most 
respected men in Tennessee, Jim Haslam, 
chairman of the Pilot Oil Corporation, recently 
sent me a copy of ‘‘A Father’s Letter to 
Santa.’’ 

This letter was sent to Mr. Haslam by Kevin 
O’Neill, the head basketball coach of the University 
of Tennessee. This piece was originally 
written by David Chartrand, a columnist for the 
Olathe, KS, Daily News. 

olds these days. The Cheezits are from me. 

Santa, if you don’t mind, I thought I’d go 
ahead and leave my list, too. It’s long, but do 
what you can. 

It’s all I want for Christmas. 

CHRISTMAS LIST FROM HIS FATHER 

Santa, let my little boy grow up still believing 
that he has the funniest dad in the 
neighborhood. 

Give him many close friends, both boys 
and girls. May they fill his days with adventure, 
security and dirty fingernails. 

Leave his mom and me some magic dust 
that will keep him just the size he is now. 
We’d just as soon he stayed five years old 
three feet, four inches. 

If he must grow up, make sure he still 
wants to sit on my lap at bedtime and read 
‘‘The Frog and the Toad.’’ 

If you can help it, Santa, never let him be 
sent into war. His mother and I love our 
country, but we love our five-year-old boy 
more. 

While you’re at it, give our world leaders a 
copy of the ‘‘The Killer Angels,’’ Michael 
Shaara’s retelling of the Battle of Gettysburg. 
May it remind them that too many 
moms and dads have wept at Christmas for 
soldiers who died in battles that needn’t 
have been fought. 

Let our house always be filled with slamming 
doors and toilet seats, which are the official 
sounds of little boys. 

Break it to him gently, Santa, that his dad 
won’t always be able to carry him to bed at 
night or brush his teeth for him. Teach him 
courage in the face of such change. 

Let him understand that no matter how 
nice you are to everyone, the world will 
sometimes break your heart. As you know, 
Santa, a child’s feelings are fragile as moth 
wings. 

Let him become a piano player, a soccer 
star or a priest. Or all three. Anything but a 
tax-and-spend Democrat. 

Give him a hunger for books, music and geography. 
May he be the first kid in Kindergarten 
to be able to find Madagascar on a 
map. 

The kid’s a born artist, Santa, so send 
more crayons. May our kitchen window and 
refrigerator doors be ever plastered with his 
sketches of surreal rainbows and horse with 
big ears. 

Through the years steer him oh so carefully 
to that little girl destined to be his 
bride. Let his mother and me still be around 
when he walks her down the aisle. If there’s 
a just God, let her daddy be obscenely rich. 

Grant him a heart that will cherish what 
his parents did right and forgive us for the 
mistakes we surely will have made over a 
lifetime of raising him. 

Let him not hold it against us that he was 
born with my chin and his mother’s ears. 
Time will teach him that these are God’s 
ways of girding him for life’s adversities. 

Hold him steady on the day that he learns 
the truth about you and the Easter Bunny. 
May he take the news better than I did. 

While you’re flying around the heavens, 
Santa, make sure God has heard our prayer 
for this child: Lead my little boy not into 
temptation; deliver him from evil. 

Be careful out there, Santa. And close the 
flue on your way up. 

tur, IL. Mrs. Oliver died last March after serving 
that community for decades in numerous 
caring capacities. Known especially for her devotion 
to children, the Longview Day Care 
Center of Decatur was renamed last October 
the Effie Oliver Child and Family Center in her 
honor. I would like to join the people of Decatur 
in offering my thanks in recognition of Mrs. 
Oliver’s hard work, and my condolences to her 
surviving family. 

Leadership and caring were a way of life for 
Effie. She donated her time and energy to numerous 
organizations, including the National 
Association for the Advancement of Colored 
People, the Democratic Women’s Club, and 
the Women’s Progressive Club. Mrs. Oliver 
was also a deaconess at St. Peter’s AME 
Church and served on the advisory council at 
the Longview Day Care Center. Her husband, 
Bill Oliver, still serves the community as a Decatur 
city councilman. 

In her over 20 years of service to the children 
of Longview Day Care Center Effie 
touched many lives. She improved the environment 
in which these kids spent their days, 
so it was utterly appropriate that when the 
center was renamed for her, it also was improved. 
The Effie Oliver Child and Family 
Care Center has expanded classrooms, brand 
new restrooms, and beautiful interior additions. 
A portrait of Mrs. Oliver hangs inside. 

Mr. Speaker, in this day of increasing distrust 
in our neighbors and institutions, the life 
of Effie Oliver should be a remainder to us all 
of what great things can be accomplished 
when we give of ourselves. She led an exemplary 
life, and I am proud to have represented 
her in the U.S. Congress. 

f 


FAREWELL TO THE HONORABLE 
KWEISI MFUME 

HON. RONALD V. DELLUMS 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. DELLUMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor 
an esteemed Member of the House as he departs 
to fulfill the role of chief executive officer 
and president of the National Association for 
the Advancement of Colored People. As I bid 
farewell to my colleague, I am saddened, but 
I rejoice and am pleased that my friend goes 
forward to guide and nurture our Nation’s premier 
civil rights organization in its continued 
struggle on behalf of those less fortunate. He 
leaves an indelible mark on the institution and 
in the hearts of many. He has set himself 
apart as a distinguished Member of the 
House. 

Since the 1960’s, KWEISI MFUME has been a 
staunch supporter of civil rights and economic 
development and economic empowerment 
through his seven-point plan to revitalize 
urban areas. As a member of the Banking and 
Financial Institutions Committee, KWEISI has 
proposed amendments to voice the concerns 


E 138 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

of public housing residents, and has sought to 
strengthen the Community Reinvestment Act. 

As chair of the Congressional Black Caucus 
he heightened substantially the CBC’s influence 
on major policy issues of concern, both 
domestically and internationally. In his efforts 
to ensure security, growth, and development 
for the African-American community, Kweisi 
has exercised his adeptness to build coalitions. 
His resourcefulness and ability to make 
allies is only one of his tremendous leadership 
qualities. 

He leaves a legacy of leadership, commitment, 
and responsibility that must be carried 
on and preserved in this institution. He serves 
as an example to our youth and others who 
aspire greatness. 

In fondly remembering his first days in Congress 
and his dear colleague advising Members 
of the correct pronunciation of his name, 
today we all know who he is and how to pronounce 
his name, and now we all cheer for 
his future and success. 

Go forward my friend and do good work. 

f 


INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF 

MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE ACT 

OF 1995 

SPEECH OF 

HON. STEPHEN E. BUYER 

OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, January 30, 1996 

Mr. BUYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
strong opposition to the Flow Control Act of 
1996, House Resolution 349, as it is currently 
drafted. While I support the provisions of this 
resolution, I do not in any way support this effort 
to address flow control without addressing 
the issue of interstate transportation of municipal 
solid waste. It is my feeling that doing so, 
the House of Representatives is again failing 
to provide a national framework of controls 
and incentives for states and localities to implement 
responsible, solid waste management 
programs. 

Failure of this House to include comprehensive 
waste control legislation, including granting 
States the authority to control the flow of 
waste as well as to limit the amount of out-of-
State waste which can be dumped within their 
borders, reveals that the real intent is not to 
encourage responsible waste management. 
Instead, taking this action sends the message 
that this House is more concerned with the financial 
resources which are being depleted by 
the lack of flow control authority, than it is with 
the limited, natural resources being depleted 
by the lack of State authority to regulate the 
amount of municipal waste which can be imported 
and dumped. 

The Supreme Court has acknowledged that 
Congress has sole jurisdiction over the regulation 
of interstate commerce. Over the past 5 
years, the Congress has acknowledged it 
should exercise this authority with regard to 
the issue of municipal waste. 

In the 104th Congress, the Senate passed 
comprehensive legislation which addresses 
the issue of municipal waste management affecting 
all 50 states. Early last year, I introduced 
H.R. 1288, the Interstate Transportation 
of Municipal Waste Act, which is identical to 
the bill introduced by Senator COATS. Senator 
COATS and I did so recognizing the necessity 

of developing a comprehensive national waste 
management policy, one which addresses the 
severe problems facing our own State of Indiana. 


I represent a district in Northcentral Indiana 
which received two-thirds, or around 1 million 
tons, of the amount of out-of-State waste 
dumped in Indiana last year. House Resolution 
349 does not address this problem of outof-
State waste which faces many States such 
as Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and 
Virginia. These States are forced to deal with 
the millions of tons of waste generated by 
other States and localities, and dumped within 
their borders. I am greatly concerned over the 
lack of progress this House has made on this 
issue. I believe this House is ignoring its responsibility 
and addressing only the financial 
problems of a limited number of states. 

I believe that Congress’ lack of action penalizes 
States like Indiana, which have not only 
reduced their production of solid waste, but 
have devised a responsible management plan 
to dispose of it. I am here in support of a national 
system which will enable and encourage 
each State and locality to develop and implement 
responsible, solid waste management 
plans. The only way to do so is to address the 
issue of municipal solid waste management, 
which includes both the problems of flow control 
and interstate waste. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge this House to continue 
the work of the past 5 years, to follow the 
work of the Senate, and to consider the work 
of Chairman OXLEY and his colleagues on the 
Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Hazardous 
Material, who have approved H.R. 
2323, a comprehensive waste management 
reform bill. That is why I must stand here 
today and call on my colleagues to oppose 
this resolution. 

f 


OPPOSES FRENCH GOVERNMENT 
NUCLEAR TESTING PROGRAM 

HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO 

OF OREGON 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I wish to voice 
my strong disapproval with the French Government’s 
nuclear testing program. I join with 
many of my colleagues—and most the world 
community—in protesting the detonation of six 
French nuclear weapons in the South Pacific. 
That is why I am joining the congressional 
boycott of the French President’s visit to Congress. 


French President Jacques Chirac will appear 
February 1 before a joint session of Congress. 
I can not of good conscience attend. 
France and the United States have a proud 
relationship of cooperation extending back to 
the beginning of our Nation. However, 
France’s conduct in the South Pacific can not 
be justified. Exploding nuclear weapons in pursuit 
of further weapons development contradicts 
the view of 175 nations—including 
France and the United States—who signed 
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. It also 
needlessly endangers the environment and 
people of the region. 

Just last week, France acknowledged the 
presence of radioactive iodine in the lagoon 
near the Mururoa test site. Despite their declaration 
that the tests blast are perfectly safe, 

we have no way to know if this is true. Since 
the French Government refuses to allow independent 
assessment of the environmental impact 
of these nuclear explosions, I must remain 
suspicious. Are the people who live in 
the South Pacific threatened by nuclear poison 
in their region of the world? What will the ecological 
and human health threats 10, 20, or a 
100 years from now? 

Although the Clinton administration has officially 
denounced the French nuclear testing 
program, its actions hardly match its rhetoric. 
I urge the White House to put real pressure on 
the Chirac government. Let us not forget our 
responsibility in this matter: the United States 
has long supported the French nuclear weapons 
program. 

I must take special exception to the U.S. decision 
to allow French military aircraft to flying 
to the South Pacific test site the use of U.S. 
airspace. How can the world take seriously a 
United States criticism of the French nuclear 
weapons testing program when the United 
States refuse to take even the most basic action 
to resist the French action. The only assurance 
Congress can get from the U.S. State 
Department is that no nuclear materials are 
being transported ‘‘according to the best of our 
knowledge.’’ This hardly represents strong 
scrutiny by our Government. 

Now that the French Government has 
ended its series of nuclear detonations, I call 
on President Chirac to firmly commit his nation 
to end all future test. At the very least, France 
should declare the permanent closing of the 
South Pacific test site. France should also 
clean up the nuclear mess if left behind and 
allow independent monitoring the area. It is 
the least they can do for the South Pacific 
peoples who will have to live with the legacy 
of decades of nuclear weapons testing. 

The rationale for nuclear testing ran out 
years ago. If the world governments won’t 
stop this cold war relic now, then when? I look 
forward to the recognition by France that their 
ongoing nuclear weapons testing program was 
simply wrong. Perhaps we can now move toward 
a international ban on all future such explosive 
tests. The United States must continue 
to press for a comprehensive ban on all such 
future nuclear test explosions. And France 
must become an active player in these negotiations. 


It is my hope that a change in the behavior 
of France’s Government will allow me to participate 
in Mr. Chirac’s next visit to Congress. 
I also look forward to a successful conclusion 
to the ongoing comprehensive nuclear talks so 
the world can take an important step toward 
nuclear disarmament. 

f 


HONORING WALTER HAGAN 

HON. BILL RICHARDSON 

OF NEW MEXICO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, few of us 
have the opportunity, desire, or even the ability 
to spend 50 years in any one profession. 
Those of us who do accomplish this amazing 
feat deserve special commendation. 

I urge my colleagues to join me in congratulating 
Walter Hagan of Dallas, TX, as he celebrates 
his 50th year in the airline business. 
Mr. Hagan’s half-century tenure is particularly 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 139 

remarkable as the airline industry is highly 
competitive, oftentimes turbulent, and never a 
cake walk. 

Mr. Hagan started working for American 
Overseas Airline at LaGuardia Field on January 
10, 1946. After working as an operations 
representative, he was transferred to Paris, 
Copenhagen, and then London where he was 
appointed relief station manager for Europe. 
He returned to the United States where he 
worked his way up at American from lead 
agent in Dallas in 1949 to Dallas sales representative 
in 1964. After holding various positions 
with Braniff Airlines in the late 1960’s 
and 1970’s, Mr. Hagan returned to American 
Airlines in 1982 to serve as manager of special 
services. 

It was in this latest position that I had the 
opportunity to see Mr. Hagan in operation and 
understand why he’s been such a valued employee 
for 50 years. Mr. Speaker, Walter 
Hagan has extended hospitality to many Members 
of Congress, Senators, and other VIP’s 
at the Dallas Airport. Luminaries such as Dolly 
Parton, Roger Staubach, and many others 
celebrated his 50 years with a January 10 
luncheon in Dallas. 

While Mr. Hagan recently announced his 
formal retirement, Mr. Hagan’s admirers were 
not surprised to learn that he’s still helping out 
at his office. So, even in retirement, Walter 
Hagan is still contributing and adding on to his 
now 50-plus years in the airline industry. 

f 


TOMHANNOCK UNITED METHODIST 
CHURCH 

HON. GERALD B.H. SOLOMON 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, the 22d district 
of New York is one of the most historic in 
the country. Our oldest churches, in particular, 
are virtual repositories of history. 

The growth of those churches paralleled 
that of the communities they served. And 
nearly every one of them has a wealth of interesting 
anecdotal information worth preserving. 
One of these churches is the 
Tomhannock United Methodist Church in the 
Rensselaer County community of Valley Falls. 

A constituent of mine, Mrs. Zillah S. 
Herrington of Johnsonville, was kind enough 
to forward a letter from the church’s pastor, 
Rev. Gaylord Campbell. I’d like to share the 
letter with you, Mr. Speaker, and proudly place 
it in today’s RECORD. 

DEAR GERRY: We learn that the first sermon 
preached by a Methodist minister near 
Tomhannock was in 1788. From that small 
beginning, a service in Tomhannock that 
particular Sabbath Day, Methodism has a 
start in June 1789. Tomhannock had a 
preaching appointment is the erection of a 
church—it was built the summer of 1811 at a 
cost of about $1000. This church later burned 
and the present one was built on the same 
site in 1845. 

Before continuing the appointments of 1832 
an interesting story of Christian adventure 
must be told. James Caughey, an Irish lad, 
was licensed to preach by the Tomhannock 
Class. For eight years he preached in our 
conference. Then on one special occasion following 
a season for prayer, he felt a call to 
return to Europe. On July 19, 1841, he set sail 
for England. His ministry took him to Dub


lin Limerick, Cork in Ireland and Liverpool, 
Sheffield in England. During those six years 
of untiring ministry fully 20,000 were converted 
by his preaching. While in England, 
he met a boy by the name of Wm. Booth and 
led him to Christ. That boy became the famous 
General Booth, head of the Salvation 
Army. Our interest is intensified when we 
learn that a man from Tomhannock was instrumental 
in leading this famous leader of a 
worldwide known, religious organization to 
Christ. This is a great heritage that comes 
down to us. 

In 1845, this present church building was 
erected on the site of the old church. The 
total cost of the building was $3300. Subscriptions 
of $300 and less made possible the building 
of the church. Roswell Brown had the 
contract for the mason work. This came to 
$1200. Two men from Cambridge had the contract 
to the carpenters work. This bill totaled 
$1400. This did not include the steeple 
which was extra. While the church was being 
built, a committee was busy raising funds to 
repair the parsonage. This also was done. In 
1855, the Social Rooms in back of the church 
were added at cost of $626.38. In 1859, the 
church bell was purchased at a cost of 
$53,876. In 1866, the parsonage was rebuilt at 
a cost of $2000. In 1871, the church was repaired 
and refurnished at an expense of $1188. 

The period from 1870 to 1880 reveals that 
Tomhannock Methodist Church was the outstanding 
rural church of the Conference in 
points of membership, missionary zeal and 
local activity. 

In 1896, a building committee raised $2100 
which was used to redecorate the interior of 
the church. Three Gothic Pulpit Chairs 
(these are in the church today and used each 
Sunday) and a Pulpit were presented to the 
church by the pastor, Rev. Thomas Munro. 
The Rededication of the church occurred October 
14, 1896. Dr. John H. Coleman preached 
the sermon. 

f 


DR. CORRIE ENDURES 

HON. JOHN J. DUNCAN, JR. 

OF TENNESSEE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 

Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Speaker, there are two 
causes for the exorbitant, excessive cost of 
healthcare in this country—the Federal Government 
and large insurance companies. 

If it were not for the involvement of these 
two entities, medical care would cost only a 
tiny fraction of what it does. 

If we paid for anything else through a third-
party payor system, costs would skyrocket. 

That is why I read with great interest the 
opening comments of a recent feature article 
about Dr. Corrie Blair in the Knoxville News-
Sentinel. 

I also would like to call attention to a similar 
story in today’s Wall Street Journal entitled ‘‘A 
Magnificent Misfit’’ by W.E. Gutman. 

I wish we had more old-fashioned doctors 
like Dr. Blair and Dr. Gutman. 

[From the Knoxville News-Sentinel] 

LOUDON WOMAN HAS BEEN PRACTICING 

MEDICINE FOR MORE THAN 54 YEARS 

(By Don Williams) 

‘‘I’m one of a dying breed,’’ says Dr. Corrie 
Blair. 

‘‘I don’t like government medicine, I don’t 
like insurance medicine. I don’t like pharmacists 
telling you how to practice medicine.’’ 


If Blair seems set in her ways, she has reason 
to be. 

She is 80 years old, although with her clear 
brown eyes and brown hair, she doesn’t look 
it. She started practicing medicine when 
common sense directed how to treat common 
colds. 

In this age of HMOs, TennCare and other 
programs brought in by big business and government, 
the bureaucrats and politicians 
have laid down a thick stratum of regulation 
on what used to be an uncluttered profession. 


When Blair entered medicine more than 54 
years ago, so-called innovations, such as preventive 
medicine, boiled down to using good 
common sense. 

These organizations and things they’re 
doing now are all based on economics rather 
than treating the patient,’’ says Blair in a 
clear, high voice. There was a time, however, 
a time when . . . 

Blair was a child when the bridge was put 
across the Tennessee River in Loudon, cutting 
her family out of the ferry business. Her 
family’s ownership of choice real estate 
made life easy for her. Maybe too easy. 

It could be that’s one reason she chose 
medicine. For a young lady in the 1930s, 
training to be a doctor was far from easy. 

Blair made good grades in Loudon County 
High School, but while the boys were studying 
biology and algebra, she was studying 
‘‘domestic science’’ with the other girls. 

‘‘The only thing they thought we could do 
was get married or teach school, but when I 
got out there was no one I wanted to marry 
who wanted to marry me, so I went to college.’’ 


She attended two years at Agnes Scott 
College in Decatur, Ga., taking her first real 
science course there as a sophomore. 

‘‘I like science better than anything, so I 
thought, I’ll study more science and be a 
doctor.’’ 

She returned to Tennessee and entered the 
University of Tennessee pre-med program. 

‘‘It wasn’t too popular for women to do,’’ 
she says, and her family and friends needed 
convincing that she was serious. Her first 
cousin, Dr. Blair Harrison, was chief of staff 
at Knoxville General Hospital, and he offered 
to let her take nurse’s training to test her 
mettle. 

‘‘After that was over, I told them, why yes, 
I still want to be a doctor, and I applied to 
the UT College of Medicine in Memphis. 
Back then there were no dormitories and we 
lived in houses with residents. My family 
thought it would be OK. There was another 
girl in my class, and we went all the way 
through together.’’ 

It was while in Memphis that she met Dr. 
William Thomas McPeake. 

‘‘He was an old country boy, and I was an 
old country girl. We were staying at the 
same boarding house, and every evening we 
would get together on the front porch. I’d go 
for a walk and he’d go with me. He was working 
his way through.’’ 

McPeake graduated ahead of Blair, but 
stayed in Memphis to intern until she graduated 
in 1941. When he was called up for military 
training in Pennsylvania, Blair went to 
Philadelphia to serve her medical internship. 

There, on Jan. 25, 1942, they were married. 
When McPeake shipped out to North Africa 
for service under Gen. George S. Patton, he 
left behind a pregnant wife. 

‘‘Our daughter, Molly, was 3 years old 
when he got back,’’ she remembers. She was 
the first of four children. 

Molly Peeler is a physician at Fort Sanders 
Regional Medical Center. 

William T. McPeake is an orthopedic specialist, 
practicing mostly at St. Mary’s. 

Sara Louise Gilkey, now a lawyer in 
Lynchburg, Va., married a doctor. 

Ed Blair McPeake operates the family 
farm, raising cattle in Loudon. 


E 140 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

The children were all born in Loudon, and 
it was there where McPeake rejoined his wife 
after the war. 

‘‘I told him this is the garden spot of the 
world, and this is where I want to live.’’ 

By the time he returned, Blair had cobbled 
together a family practice. 

Together they made house calls, mostly in 
a Jeep, like those McPeake knew in the 
Army. 

‘‘We used to deliver all the babies. We’d 
carry a little ether into the home and knock 
’em out if they needed it. We’d spend the 
night with them and charge about $25. If 
they didn’t have the money, sometimes 
they’d give us something. If they were killing 
hogs, they’d give you some part of it, or 
maybe a chicken. 

‘‘We had real good luck. The Lord took 
care of us.’’ 

The pair bought a little house downtown, 
where they conducted their practice. Later 
they built the modern Loudon Health Care 
Clinic, of concrete and steel, and moved the 
little house out to their farm. 

Blair, who kept her maiden name rather 
than face a mountain of paperwork to 
change it on licenses, certificates and other 
forms, was ahead of her time. 

‘‘I was the first in our hospital (the old 
Charles H. Bacon Hospital, now Fort Sanders 
Loudon Medical Center) to let a man come in 
for the delivery of his baby. It worked out 
well. I’ve had husbands jumping up and down 
when the baby came out. 

‘‘One of the old things, which is good, is 
stressing preventive care. I’ve stressed it all 
my life. We told people they shouldn’t 
smoke. We had tobacco allotments on the 
farm, but quit growing it. We got to feeling 
guilty.’’ 

McPeake died three years ago, and despite 
hands, swollen at times from arthritis, Blair 
still wears her wedding rings on a chain 
around her neck. 

People in town call her Dr. Corrie, and she 
has a personal relationship with literally 
thousands of them. 

‘‘I think it’s real important for doctors to 
know their patients. In these new programs 
they just rush you through like a herd of 
cattle. They don’t talk to you. They don’t 
listen to you.’’ 

Blair still listens, even though specialists 
have taken away many of her patients. 

She quit delivering babies, for instance, 
shortly after babies she had delivered began 
having babies of their own. These days, more 
often than not, find her visiting area nursing 
homes, a practice she enjoys. 

Asked when she plans to retire, she says 
resolutely, ‘‘When something comes along 
and knocks me over. Of course, these new 
medical programs might put me out of business. 
If that happens, I’ll find something else 
I like to do, but not any better.’’ 

[From the Wall Street Journal, Jan. 31, 1996] 

A MAGNIFICENT MISFIT 

(By W.E. Gutman) 

My father the doctor did everything himself 
without benefit of nurses, clerical staff, 
or drafty assembly-line consultation cubicles. 
He took your temperature as you sat on 
a white enamel swivel chair. He even drew 
blood from your finger and let it run up a 
thin graded tube as you marveled at the 
strange powers of capillary action. 

This wonderful man had his own centrifuge, 
a gleaming autoclave and an old 
Roentgen that hummed with imperturbable 
omnipotence in a bright, cheerful room that 
smelled of lavender and cloves. When he administered 
injections, he’d deaden the point 
of impact with a dry little slap, and he’d talk 
about this and that with neighborly solicitude 
long after the needle was out. 

You were never surprised to learn that he’d 
pedaled several kilometers at night in the 
rain to deliver a baby on an old kitchen 
table, or to hold the hand of a dying village 
patriarch as family and friends looked on. 
Sometimes it lasted till morning. He’d go 
straight back to his office looking tired, but 
he’d smile, put on a fresh smock and patch 
up scraped elbows and knees, and he’d even 
ask how Aunt Lucy or Uncle John was feeling 
these days. 

‘‘How much do I owe you, doctor?’’ I’d 
often hear his patients ask. 

‘‘Oh I don’t know,’’ he’d answer, staring at 
his feet, clearly embarrassed by the question. 
‘‘Whatever you can.’’ Then he’d quickly 
add, ‘‘Don’t worry if you’re short. You can 
pay me next time.’’ 

Money made him feel uncomfortable. He 
had an almost prudish disdain toward it, 
‘‘There is something incongruous about 
charging money to heal, relieve pain or save 
lives,’’ he once told me. ‘‘I shall never get 
used to it’’—a remarkable ethos for a man 
who, by his own admission, had embraced 
medicine to escape the abject poverty of his 
childhood. 

‘‘It all happened in dissection class,’’ he recalled 
in a rare moment of wishful introspection. 
‘‘I wept at the sight of my first cadaver. 
He was so very young, so very much alone, 
forgotten. Who is this wretched mass no one 
had claimed, I asked myself. Has he no family? 
Is there no one to mourn him? He was 
alive, he felt pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow. 
He had dreams. He loved. Was he loved 
in return? Could he have been saved? did poverty 
deprive him of good health or rob him of 
a decent funeral? 

A pre-med student who now boasts a Fifth 
Avenue practice, a New Canaan estate, and a 
yacht at anchor in a secluded cove on some 
Caribbean coral archipelago once asked my 
father what he considered to be the three 
most important medical taboos. My father 
replied: 

‘‘Do not operate unless your patients’s life 
clearly is in danger. Do not overmedicate. 
Never charge more than patients can afford. 
Ignore the first two injunctions and you are 
unprincipled. Break the third and I shall call 
you a vampire’’ 

I miss my father, He was incorruptible. He 
had no time for sophistry, no patience for 
equivocation, no room for the shaded areas 
separating right and wrong. Compassion was 
his guide, his patients’ health and welfare 
his sole mission and reward. He lived frugally—‘‘
how much does one really need to 
live with dignity?’’ he once asked a wealthy 
colleague who found the question incongruous 
and contentious. My father died poor 
but debtless. 

I wish I had a dollar in my pocket for every 
patient this 1935 summa cum laude graduate 
of the Paris Faculty of Medicine treated for 
nothing, for every leg of lamb or basket of 
eggs he accepted in lieu of honorarium, for 
every debt he forgave. I would have had more 
than enough to afford the thorough checkup 
doctors denied me when I lost my job, when 
unemployment benefits ran out and I could 
no longer afford medical insurance. 

I was 45 then. I am now 58. Will I find a 
doctor like my father when I retire and my 
meager scribblings barely cover the cost of a 
simple pine casket? They say it’s cheaper to 
die than to live. My father devoted his career 
to reconstructing aphorisms. He was the 
magnificent misfit lesser men do not have 
the courage to be. 

LEGISLATION TO REIMBURSE 
WHITE HOUSE TRAVEL OFFICE 
EMPLOYEES FOR LEGAL EXPENSES 


HON. WILLIAM F. CLINGER, JR. 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. CLINGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
with several of my colleagues, including Majority 
Leader ARMEY, to introduce legislation to 
reimburse the seven White House Travel Office 
employees for legal expenses incurred as 
a result of their firings on May 19, 1993. 

It was nearly 3 years ago that seven men 
who had served in the Travel Office for anywhere 
from 9 to 32 years were fired summarily 
and placed under a cloud of suspicion when 
the White House announced they were the 
subjects of a criminal investigation. Only one 
of the seven men was indicted and, in the 
wake of a 30-month long investigation, a jury 
took only 2 hours to acquit Billy Dale of the 
two charges against him. 

The seven men fired from the White House 
Travel Office on May 19, 1993, appeared before 
the Committee on Government Reform 
and Oversight last Wednesday. Individually 
and collectively, they spoke, with an eloquence 
which has touched the Nation, of the 
pride they took in serving the White House 
under Democrat and Republican Presidents. 
Mr. McSweeney put it best when he said, and 
I quote: 

I would hope that people would understand 
that, for me and thousands of others, when 
Air Force One would arrive, the markings on 
the side were not Democratic Party or Republican 
Party—it read ‘‘United States of 
America.’’ The emblem on its side was not a 
political poster, it was the seal of the Executive 
Office of the President of the United 
States. When the door opened, the man or 
woman chosen by the people of this country 
to fill that office had my complete loyalty 
and support. I did that for 13 of the proudest 
years of my life. 

I know that Mr. McSweeney spoke for all six 
of his colleagues when he said those words 
and he spoke for the pride of a nation in the 
Office of the President. 

It pains me to say that I now believe that 
the charges made against those seven men 
by this administration appear to have been 
baseless, unwarranted, and intended to provide 
cover for an act of political cronyism. The 
fact that these men were, and are, innocent, 
however, does not mitigate their suffering as 
FBI and IRS agents trooped through their 
neighborhoods inquiring into their character, 
their conduct, and their families. Nor does it 
make up for nearly three-quarters of $1 million 
in legal expenses they incurred in the course 
of mounting their own defense. 

Billy Dale’s legal defense has cost him nearly 
$500,000. His six colleagues spent more 
than $200,000 in their own defense, some 
$150,000 of which was reimbursed in a Transportation 
appropriations bill in 1994. 

While this bill will make financially whole the 
seven fired Travel Office workers for their 
legal expenses, I regret that nothing I can do 
will ever erase the needless, baseless suffering 
inflicted upon them and their families as 
their reputations were trashed before the world 
to make way for friends of the First Family and 
Harry Thomason. For that, I am deeply sorry. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 141 

I want to commend the White House 
spokesman for publicly admonishing Mr. Robert 
Bennett, the attorney representing President 
Clinton and Harry Thomason for continuing 
the administration’s attack on Mr. Dale and 
his colleagues. I wrote the President asking 
him to call off his attack squad and that now 
seems to be happening. 

The White House spokesman also indicated 
that the President will sign this legislation. I 
anticipate these bills will pass both Chambers 
relatively quickly. 

I am pleased to introduce this bill on behalf 
of the seven Travel Office employees. They 
served their country for many years with pride, 
integrity, and ethics. All of these characteristics 
are essential if we ever hope to restore 
people’s faith in their Government. 

H.R. — 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN 

LEGAL EXPENSES AND RELATED 

FEES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall pay, from amounts in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such 
sums as are necessary to reimburse former 
employees of the White House Travel Office 
whose employment in that Office was terminated 
on May 19, 1993, for any legal expenses 
and related fees they incurred with respect 
to that termination. 
(b) VERIFICATION REQUIRED.—The Secretary 
shall pay an individual in full under subsection 
(a) upon submission by the individual 
of documentation verifying the legal expenses 
and related fees. 
(c) NO INFERENCE OF LIABILITY.—Liability 
of the United States shall not be inferred 
from enactment of or payment under this 
section. 
f 


HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND 

UNFRIENDLY FOREIGN POLICY 

IN INDIA 

HON. DANA ROHRABACHER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, India recently 
celebrated the anniversary of the adoption 
of its constitution. While I applaud India’s 
embrace of democratic principles, we should 
not overlook India’s brutal repression of Sikhs, 
Christians, and Muslims. India and the United 
States should be friends, but our friendship 
will become increasingly strained unless India 
starts to practice the democratic values it 
claims. 

Also troubling are India’s testing of the 
Prithvi–II missile. The missile’s 156-mile range 
is a clear threat to Pakistan. In context of this 
blatant intimidation of Pakistan, India’s desire 
to test another nuclear device can only be 
seen as an extension of its threats to Pakistan. 
I share India’s suspicion of China’s regional 
intentions, but that mutual suspicion 
does not give it leeway to threaten force 
against its other neighbors. 

According to the United States State Department 
the Indian Government paid over 
41,000 cash bounties to police officers for the 
killing of Sikhs since 1991. Sikhs are not the 
only victims of India’s state terrorism. In addition 
to the estimated 150,000 Sikhs who have 

been murdered by the Indian Government 
since 1984, tens of thousands of Christians 
and Muslims have also been killed. In fact, all 
non-Hindus are at risk, of oppression in India. 
If India is ‘‘the world’s largest democracy,’’ as 
it claims to be, then how can it pile up such 
a gruesome death toll? If India respects the 
human rights of the people who live in India, 
why do so many citizens of India want to get 
out from under Indian rule? 

I have criticized the absence of religious 
freedom in Burma, Vietnam, China, and other 
totalitarian countries. India’s record does not 
seem much better. Just this week, the Indian 
Government jailed an 88-year-old Catholic 
priest and a 50-year-old nun on charges of 
violating a law outlawing religious conversion. 

Beyond India’s systematic abuse of human 
rights in Kashmir, Nagaland, and Khalistan, I 
am deeply concerned with India’s growing 
negative role in Afghanistan. India’s support 
for the Rabbani regime in Kabul troubles me 
because of Mr. Rabanni’s rejection of efforts 
to return Afghanistan to peace. I have proposed 
that former King Zahir Shah serve as a 
transitional Head of State of Afghanistan while 
the Afghan people write a constitution, organize 
elections, and ultimately, establish a 
peaceful and democratic Afghanistan. Unfortunately, 
Mr. Rabanni has opposed this possible 
solution in favor of continued fighting and 
chaos. Indian’s support for Rabanni makes 
him less likely to accept reasonable efforts to 
end Afghanistan’s bloodshed. 

India should be our friend. But, Mr. Speaker, 
the more we learn about India, the harder that 
friendship will be to sustain. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO THOMAS FRANCIS 
CORCORAN 

HON. JERRY WELLER 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. WELLER. Mr. Speaker, I want to inform 
my colleagues in the House of Representatives 
of the recent death of Thomas Francis 
Corcoran of Ottawa, IL, at the age of 86. 
Through his son, former Illinois Congressman 
Tom Corcoran, I first became acquainted with 
the late Mr. Corcoran many years ago. He 
was a true man of the land, loved and respected 
by all who knew him. Moreover, he 
was representative of the hard working, honest, 
good men and women who farm our Nation’s 
fields to produce food for our own people 
and others around the world. 

One of the privileges of serving in Congress 
is meeting America’s unsung heroes, either in 
our congressional district or across this great 
country of ours. Thomas Francis Corcoran 
was one of those unsung heroes. 

Mr. Corcoran’s grandson, Evan, worked on 
the staff of our friend and colleague from Virginia, 
Mr. WOLF, and he served on the staff of 
the House Appropriations Committee before 
becoming an assistant U.S. attorney here in 
Washington. In the eloquent eulogy which follows, 
given by his grandson, Evan, at the funeral 
on December 9, 1995, we are reminded 
once again about the everyday greatness of 
our people and therefore the greatness of our 
country. 

Mr. Speaker, I commend the following Corcoran 
eulogy to my colleagues: 

THOMAS FRANCIS CORCORAN 

What better place is there in the world 
when you are 11 years old on a sunny summer 
afternoon than to be at your grandfather’s 
side, in a field, mending fences? 
What better place to learn what is valuable 
in life? My brothers and sisters and I learned 
many lessons from Thomas Francis Corcoran 
when we lived on the family farm just outside 
of Ottawa. 

We learned not by being told—for Grandpa 
was a man who chose his words carefully, 
and used them sparingly—but by observing. 
He taught by example. We saw his quiet dignity, 
his discipline, his economy, and his 
honesty. We saw a man at peace with himself 
and with the world. He gave unqualified love, 
a love my sister Camilla described yesterday 
as the purest she had encountered. He left an 
enduring imprint. 

Thomas Francis Corcoran was a lifelong 
farmer. He loved the land. He was in concert 
with the great silent forces that shape the 
world. His work connected him with his community 
and with the world. He came from a 
time when you would call your neighbors in 
the evening and say, ‘‘The crops are in, be 
here early.’’ And the men would come and 
work in the fields until lunch. There would 
be two tables set up outside, and after washing 
at the pump, they would try to sit down 
at the first table, because there were some 
great eaters in that crowd and you could not 
be sure that the food would hold out. At the 
end of the day no money would change 
hands. 

He took pride in the visible return that the 
earth makes for labor. He took pride in passing 
the land on to the next generation, when 
his son returned to farm. At the end of each 
season, he had increased the stock and store 
of the world. And today, at the close of his 
final season, he has added to the storehouse 
of memories of each of us. 

Grandpa was a strong man, who did hard 
physical labor all his life. In recent years the 
time had taken a toll. One of his great loves 
was training and racing horses. Remember 
that in a race the horse and jockey do not 
stop when they reach the line: there is a little 
canter before reaching a standstill. It is 
then that the jockey hears the cheers of the 
crowd, and thinks back on the race just run. 
I like to think that Grandpa was in a canter 
these last years: and special thanks is due to 
those who on a daily basis cared for him and 
gave him cheer. 

Thomas Francis Corcoran was not a man of 
sorrow, he was a man of great humor. He 
never spoke a harsh word to anyone, and 
never lost his smile. He would not think it 
inappropriate to have humor at a funeral. 
His humor gave him strength and stability 
to meet the challenges life presents. A story 
illustrates the point. 

One day in late summer when I was 11 and 
my brother Phil 10, we worked an afternoon 
with Grandpa and there came a time when 
we needed to return a small tractor to a 
shed, some distance away. Always encouraging 
us, Grandpa asked Phil if he knew how to 
drive the tractor. Phil, always eager to 
please his grandfather, said ‘‘Yes.’’ Well we 
started off down the narrow lane with Phil 
on the tractor and Grandpa and me in the 
truck behind. I watched first with amusement, 
then with concern, as the tractor 
began to pick up speed. It began to go faster 
and faster, and as it did it moved from one 
side of the lane, bounded by a field of corn, 
to the other, bounded by a fence, and back 
and forth again. Well eventually the tractor 
took out a couple of rows of corn for a distance 
and then came to rest against the 
fence. We stopped and Grandpa walked over 
to Phil. With not a hint of anger in his voice, 
he said, ‘‘I thought you said you knew how 


E 142 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

to drive it.’’ Phil replied, ‘‘I know how to 
drive it Grandpa. I just don’t know how to 
stop.’’ Well, Grandpa just loved that. He 
would appreciate the humor in life. 

Grandpa was a man who, in his own humble 
way, walked with God. When he drove a 
combine into a new field, he would make the 
sign of the cross. He is with God now. The 
monument to Thomas Francis Corcoran is 
his contribution to our collective spirit, his 
place in the hearts and minds of the family 
and friends and neighbors gathered here in 
prayer. In a world where so many forces 
work to keep us all apart, memories of him 
bind us together. What greater legacy from a 
decent and a fine man. 

M. EVAN CORCORAN, 
Ottawa, IL. 

f 


HONORING THREE STATE 
CHAMPIONSHIP FOOTBALL TEAMS 

HON. CHARLIE NORWOOD 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. NORWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased 
to bring to your attention three Georgia high 
school championship football teams from my 
district. T.W. Josey High School won the 
group AAA championship. The Eagles were 
undefeated, going 15–0 under Coach John 
Starr. Elbert County High School won the 
group AA championship. The Blue Devils finished 
the year 14–1 under Coach Tom 
McFerrin. Lincoln County High School won the 
group A championship. The Red Devils were 
undefeated, going 15–0 under Coach Larry 
Campbell. I am very proud of the efforts of 
these young men, there coaches, teachers, 
and the communities that supported them. 
They are a credit to the State of Georgia. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct pleasure to 
herald the accomplishments of these three 
champions. 

f 


SALUTING COACH NEAL QUILLIN 

AND THE HUMBLE WILDCATS ON 

ANOTHER GREAT SEASON 

HON. JACK FIELDS 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, the 
1995 football season was yet another outstanding 
season for the Humble High School 
Wildcats. The same ‘‘experts’’ who predicted 
that Humble would finish seventh in their district 
in 1994—only to see them win the District 
21–5A championship—were again proven 
wrong last year. Humble, predicted to finish 
fifth in their district in 1995, instead fought 
their way to a 9–4–2 record, ending their season 
in a Division II state semi-final game. 

Coach Neal Quillin and the members of the 
Humble Wildcats football team have earned 
the gratitude of their community and fans, and 
have earned the respect not only of their opponents, 
but of high school football ‘‘experts’’ 
as well. As an Humble native, and a graduate 
of Humble High School, I want to take a moment 
to salute the remarkable success of the 
Humble High School Wildcat football team this 
past season. 

The Wildcats began the 1995 season on a 
low note—a 24–21 loss to Baytown Sterling, 

before recovering to defeat Katy Taylor 27–23. 
A narrow 21–20 loss to Westfield followed before 
the Wildcats defeated MacArthur 28–7; 
defeated Aldine 26–7; tied Spring 24–24; and 
defeated Kingwood 20–3. 

Next, Humble lost to Eisenhower 42–20— 
putting the Wildcats in a must-win situation to 
secure a playoff spot. The Wildcats were up to 
the challenge; in their regular-season finale, 
they defeated Nimitz 23–7, winning a place in 
post-season play. 

In the playoffs, the Wildcats, and their 
coaching staff, showed what they were made 
of. They defeated Baytown Lee 17–14, overcoming 
the area’s number one-ranked offense. 
Next, they tied Texas City 21–21, before going 
on to defeat Madison 20–7, and Elkins, 9–5. 

While the Wildcats’ 17–7 loss to San Antonio 
Roosevelt was disappointing, Humble’s 
players and coaching staff demonstrated last 
year what they demonstrated the year before: 
that the experts mediocre expectations can be 
exceeded through hard work, dedication, 
teamwork and planning. 

In addition, to the outstanding record compiled 
last year by the Wildcats, I want to point 
out that last year’s season also saw Coach 
Quillin achieve his 100th career victory—a testament 
to his coaching skills. 

In the Wildcats’ third-round playoff game 
against Madison, the 17–5A champions—a 
game held in Houston Astrodome—Humble 
quarterback Steve O’Neill showed just how talented 
he is. In that game, O’Neill passed for 
92 yards, rushed for 141 yards, and caught 
two critical passes. His performance in that 
game impressed even those who were already 
familiar with his playing skills earlier in the 
season. 

While those of us who cheer for the Humble 
Wildcats were disappointed by their loss to 
San Antonio Roosevelt, we remember that 
during their five-game playoff run, the Wildcats 
won bidistrict, area and regional championships. 
And that’s not bad for a team picked to 
finish fifth in their district! 

Mr. Speaker, thank you for allowing me to 
do this little hometown boasting. I know you 
join with me in congratulating the Humble 
Wildcats and their coaching staff on a truly remarkable 
1995 football season, and in wishing 
them continued success on an off the field in 
the years ahead. They have made all of us 
proud of their accomplishments, and to them 
we say ‘‘thank you.’’ 

f 


SMALL BUSINESS EXPORT WORK


ING CAPITAL ENHANCEMENT 

ACT 

HON. JOHN ELIAS BALDACCI 

OF MAINE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. BALDACCI. Mr. Speaker, as a small 
businessman, I am acutely aware of the fact 
that small businesses are the engines that 
drive our Nation’s economy. I also recognize 
that these businesses often need assistance 
so that they can expand and increase employment. 


As part of their efforts to expand, many 
small businesses have begun to recognize the 
potential of markets outside of the United 
States. In fact, the percentage of small firms 
involved in exporting is projected to increase 

from 23 percent to 33 percent by the year 
2005. Realizing the potential of foreign markets, 
delegates to the White House Conference 
on Small Business recommended that 
the Federal Government provide export assistance 
to small businesses, and make export finance 
more available to these firms through 
Federal guarantees. 

Currently, the Small Business Administration 
has a short-term financing program for export 
transactions. The SBA’s Export Working Capital 
Program, which works in conjunction with 
the Export-Import Bank, provides loan guarantees 
to finance small business exports. Until 
last year, the SBA and the Eximbank harmonized 
their export loan programs to ensure 
that all borrowers would have the same loan 
terms. Both provided a 90 percent guarantee 
rate on loans. Businesses seeking to borrow 
less than $750,000 would apply for an SBA 
guaranty. Those seeking more than $750,000 
would deal with the Eximbank. Unfortunately, 
the SBA guarantee rate was reduced in small 
business legislation we enacted last year. As 
a result, a disparity has been created between 
the guarantee rate offered to small businesses 
by the SBA, and the rate offered to larger 
businesses by the Eximbank. This will likely 
have a chilling effect on small business lenders 
who will have to incur greater risk in financing 
small business exports. 

Mr. Speaker, that is why I am introducing 
legislation today to restore the 90 percent 
guarantee rate for small businesses who finance 
their export transactions through the 
SBA’s Export Working Capital Program. My 
bill will place small businesses back on a level 
playing field with larger businesses. This is 
only fair. 

Exporting can be a very lucrative business 
for many of these firms. It’s also beneficial for 
our Nation’s economy. The Labor Department 
Estimates that for every $1 billion in increased 
trade, 20,000 manufacturing jobs and 40,000– 
60,000 service and support jobs are created. 
Moreover, wages are 22 percent higher on exported 
goods. 

I don’t believe anyone in this Chamber 
would intentionally discriminate against small 
businesses who wish to export their products. 
That is why it is important that we restore the 
90 percent guaranty rate to the Export Working 
Capital Program. 

The SBA has been invaluable in helping 
small businesses enter international markets. 
Nationally, exporters received a total of 1,161 
loan from the SBA for more than $481 million 
in fiscal year 1994. It is imperative that we 
continue to help the SBA help on small businesses 
through the Export Working Capital 
Program. I urge my colleagues to show their 
support for small business exports by cosponsoring 
this legislation. 

f 


IN RECOGNITION OF ARMSTRONG 
WORLD INDUSTRIES OF MARIETTA 

HON. GEORGE W. GEKAS 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. GEKAS. Mr. Speaker, last April, Americans 
were horrified by the image of a 
bombed-out courthouse in Oklahoma City. We 
prayed that the tired heroes working day and 
night in the rubble would find more victims 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 143 

alive, and return them safely to their worried 
families. 

Nearly a year after the tragedy, there are 
still heroes working to heal the wounds of 
Oklahoma City. One such hero is a well-
known business in central Pennsylvania, Armstrong 
World Industries of Marietta. 

In January, the Marietta plant donated 
40,000 square feet of Armstrong ceiling tiles to 
assist in the rebuilding of the Federal courthouse 
in Oklahoma City. This generous gift 
was delivered to the director of the Oklahoma 
City Customer Service Center of the General 
Services Administration. 

Armstrong World Industries is a shining example 
of the charitable spirit that so exemplifies 
central Pennsylvania. It is this spirit that 
overcomes tragedies and brings people together 
as a community and a nation. 

I am extremely proud of the efforts of the 
Marietta plant and its workers to help their fellow 
Americans in Oklahoma City. I am certain 
their generosity will not soon be forgotten. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO CLAIR A. HILL 

HON. WALLY HERGER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. HERGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning, 
to recognize Clair A. Hill, an outstanding 
leader in the State of California. 

Mr. Hill has been an active public servant in 
northern California for 30 years and has 
served as chairman of the California Water 
Commission, a director of the California 
Chamber of Commerce and an active member 
of the American Society of Civil Engineers. 

His dedication to the balanced management 
of California’s water supply was recognized by 
the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in its citizen 
award to him for outstanding lifelong commitment 
to the wise use and development of California’s 
water resources. 

Mr. Speaker, I wish to submit for the 
RECORD the following written tribute to Mr. Hill 
in recognition of his distinguished public service 
and his extraordinary efforts to improve 
California water management. Thank you. 

IN RECOGNITION OF CLAIR A. HILL FOR 
EXTRAORDINARY PUBLIC SERVICE 

Whereas, Clair A. Hill is leaving the California 
Water Commission after 30 years of 
public service on that body, his tenure having 
spanned the terms of seven governors; 
and 

Whereas, Mr. Hill began his service on the 
California Water Commission in 1949, when it 
was then known as the State Water Resources 
Board, and has ably served as Vice-
Chair and Chair of that body; and 

Whereas, His interest in, and dedication to, 
multi-purposes coordinated management of 
California’s water supply was recognized by 

U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in its Citizen 
Award to him for ‘‘outstanding lifelong commitment 
to the wise use and development of 
California’s water resources’’; and 
Whereas, Mr. Hill’s history of involvement 
in water resources management at the statewide 
level is demonstrated by his long association 
with the California Water Plan. In 
1957, he signed the State Water Resources 
Board’s letter transmitting Department of 
Water Resources Bulletin 3, the first California 
water plan. In his most recent term on 
the California Water Commission, he participated 
in the Commission public hearing on 
the latest update of the plan; and 

Whereas, As fishery issues have increasingly 
become an important component of 
water resources management, Mr. Hill has 
represented the California Water Commission 
before Congress and before federal agencies 
to seek funding for needed federal fishery 
restoration projects; and 

Whereas, Mr. Hill has been a lifelong resident 
of northern California, having been 
founder and present of the Redding engineering 
firm of Clair A. Hill and Associates, now 
grown to the international firm of CH2MHill. 
In addition to his participation on the California 
Water Commission, he has served as a 
director of the California Chamber of Commerce 
and has been involved with the American 
Society of Civil Engineers; and 

Whereas, Mr. Hill’s wealth of knowledge on 
California water resources management and 
long experience in helping the State meet its 
water supply needs have made him an invaluable 
asset to the Water Commission; 

Now, Therefore, I express my sincere 
thanks to Mr. Hill for his service to the people 
of California and of the Nation, and commend 
him for his personal and professional 
contributions throughout his career to helping 
improve California water management. 

WALLY HERGER. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO JOHN E. KUMPF 

HON. SAM JOHNSON 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
it is with a great deal of personal pleasure that 
I recognize the major accomplishments of an 
individual who dedicated his career to serving 
the interests of our country, Mr. John E. 
Kumpf. 

Mr. Kumpf, who has been a resident of Dallas, 
TX, for the past 23 years, distinguished 
himself as a fighter pilot from 1950 to 1954. 
He was a member of the 25th Interceptor 
Squadron and flew an F–86 Sabre jet during 
the Korean war. Mr. Kumpf flew over 100 air 
combat and support missions from his base of 
operations at Suwon, Korea. For his dedicated 
efforts during this campaign, Mr. Kumpf received 
the Distinguished Flying Cross and the 
Air Medal with three clusters. He continued in 
the U.S. Air Force until December 1954 when 
he received an honorable discharge as a captain. 
Mr. Kumpf continued to serve his country 
for 20 years through the U.S. Air Force Reserve 
as a pilot and public information officer, 
retiring as a lieutenant colonel. 

After Korea, he continued his career in the 
defense sector by joining Sperry Rand Corp. 
in 1956. He served them admirably in public 
relations and marketing for 16 years in his 
hometown of Minneapolis, MN. 

In 1972, he joined E-Systems, in Dallas, TX, 
as director of public relations and later as vice 
president, corporate communications. He directed 
the annual U.S. savings bonds drive to 
solicit employees to buy U.S. savings bonds 
through payroll deduction. As a result, over a 
23-year period, E-Systems employees have 
purchased more than $110 million of U.S. savings 
bonds. 

In summary, Mr. Kumpf merits our thanks 
and tribute for the outstanding contribution he 
has made to his country. My personal thanks 
and extraordinary citizen and constituent. 

TRIBUTE TO GENERAL D.O. 
GRAHAM 

HON. DANA ROHRABACHER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, Gen. 
Daniel Graham’s service to this country has 
been matched by few Americans. As a tribute 
to him and his achievements, I would like to 
submit for the RECORD, a letter that Speaker 
NEWT GINGRICH wrote to General Graham last 
year, and General Graham’s obituary as it appeared 
in the January 3, 1996, edition of the 
New York Times. 

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
Washington, DC, May 10, 1995. 

DEAR DAN: I am sorry I am not able to join 
you this evening. However, I do not want my 
appreciation of your achievements to go 
unstated. 

Your contributions to U.S. national security 
and the U.S. space program are exceptionally 
well known in Congress. As Director 
of the Defense Intelligence Agency, your unflinching 
analysis of Soviet capabilities and 
intentions reminded us that the Soviet 
Union was an unfailing adversary that 
wished the United States immense harm. 
Your fortitude in telling elected officials the 
cold, hard truth, even when they sometimes 
did not want to hear it, served as a guidepost 
by which we could reorient U.S. foreign policy 
and win the Cold War. 

Even in retirement, General Graham, you 
were dedicated and forward-thinking which 
you proved by founding High Frontier, a citizen’s 
organization dedicated to leading the 
United States towards a secure future in 
space. Your leadership helped President 
Reagan launch the Strategic Defense Initiative, 
which has brought us ever closer to 
ending the threat of nuclear annihilation. 
However, you were not satisfied to simply 
improve national security, but you led High 
Frontier and its sister organization, the 
Space Transportation Association, to creatively 
think about the U.S. future in space. 
Today, under you care and instruction, these 
two organizations are among the most creative 
sources of thinking on developing outer 
space as a national resource. The X–33 program 
to create a reusable rocket that dramatically 
lowers the cost of access to space, 
for example, would not be happening today 
without the contributions of you and your 
colleagues. 

In closing, I can only say thank you for 
your past service in the Cold War and your 
wonderful contributions to America’s future. 
In formulating a vision for space development, 
you planted, watered, and nurtured a 
seed that is growing as we speak and will one 
day surpass our wildest imagination. Thank 
you Lieutenant General Daniel O. Graham 
for helping save America. 

Your friend, 

NEWT GINGRICH. 

[From the New York Times, Jan. 3, 1996] 
D.O. GRAHAM, 70, CREATOR OF ‘STAR WARS’ 
DEFENSE 
(By Steve Lohr) 

Lieut. Gen. Daniel O. Graham, one of the 
leading architects of President Ronald Reagan’s 
Strategic Defense Initiative, also 
known as ‘‘Star Wars,’’ died on Sunday at his 
home in Arlington, Va. He was 70. 

General Graham died of colon cancer, Brig. 
Gen. Robert Richardson 3d, a friend and 
longtime colleague, said yesterday. 

While others, including Dr. Edward Teller, 
played roles in getting the Reagan Administration 
to adopt the Star Wars plan to shield 


E 144 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks February 1, 1996 

the United States from Soviet nuclear at-two brothers, Patrick of San Diego and company’s surgical sutures. During World War 

tack with space-based missiles, even General James of Colorado Springs, and one sister, 

II, with silk in great demand for parachutes,

Graham’s opponents acknowledge that he Sharon Martinez of Pacifica, Calif. 

Johnson & Johnson began manufacturing its

was probably the most persistent advocate 

f 
floss using nylon. Today, its floss is available

for the approach. 

in a wide variety of forms and flavors. Flossing

‘‘Dan Graham got it on the national agen-

TRIBUTE TO DR. JAMES A DOPPKE 
da and, though it’s been modified recently, 

removes plaque, a sticky colorless substance 
the ballistic missile defense concept has re-that forms on your teeth, from places that canmained 
on the agenda ever since,’’ said John HON. JERRY WELLER not be reached by a toothbrush. If plaque isn’t 

Pike, director of the space policy project of 
the Federation of American Scientists, a research 
group in Washington. 

The Strategic Defense Initiative changed 
its name to the Ballistic Missile Defense 
Project in 1993, Mr. Pike noted, but the 
project is still spending more than $3 billion 
a year on the kind of high-technology programs 
that General Graham championed 

A graduate of West Point, General Graham 
spent 30 years in the military, serving in 
Germany, Korea and Vietnam. Much of his 
career was spent in military intelligence as a 
Soviet specialist, and he became an expert in 
missile defense systems and satellite surveillance. 
He rose to become deputy director of 
the Central Intelligence Agency for two 
years in the 1970’s, before he became the director 
of the Defense Intelligence Agency 
from 1974 to 1976, when he retired. 

The general was known as an ardent hawk, 
even among his Pentagon peers, a man who 
strongly believed in the 1970’s that the rapid 
growth of the Soviet Union’s military was 
being ignored within the American intelligence 
community. And it was after General 
Graham retired from the military that he 
was able to press his views most effectively. 

In 1976, General Graham advised Ronald 
Reagan in his first Presidential campaign, 
which was unsuccessful. In late 1979, the general 
was again asked to advise Mr. Reagan 
on military matters in his bid for the Presidency. 
Even then, General Graham was enthusiastic 
about shifting the nation’s military 
resources to an antimissile defense. But 
as the general recalled later, the invitation 
from Mr. Reagan prompted him to get ‘‘really 
busy’’ on finding a way to pursue an antimissile 
defense policy. 

In his research, General Graham came 
upon a plan developed in the Eisenhower Administration 
to destroy Russian missiles 
early in flight with Ballistic Missile Boost 
Intercepts, or Bambi, an early blueprint for 
space-based battle stations. The project was 
canceled after the Kennedy Administration 
concluded that it would be costly and unworkable. 


Yet General Graham came to the view that 
technical strides in the intervening two decades 
gave the concept of space-based missile 
defense new life, according to ‘‘Teller’s 
War,’’ a 1992 history of Star Wars by William 

J. Broad. 
In 1981, General Graham set up High Frontier 
Inc., a policy organization intended to 
study and promote defense systems in space. 
In the last few years, High Frontier has focused 
more on space transportation and support 
systems instead of missiles, said General 
Richardson, deputy director of High 
Frontier in Arlington, Va. 

Born on April 13, 1925, General Graham 
spent his childhood as the son of farmers 
near Medford, Ore. He came from a poor family, 
working in saw mills and orchards as a 
teen-ager, his son, Douglas, of Arlington, 
said yesterday. 

General Graham is survived by his second 
wife, Adele Piro Graham, whom he married 
in 1994. His first wife, Ruth Maxwell Graham, 
died in 1989. 

Besides his wife and son, General Graham 
is survived by six other children, Daniel Jr. 
of Fairfax, Va.; Melanie of Los Angeles; Laurie 
of Falls Church, Va.; Elizabeth of Falmouth, 
Va.; Julianne Stovall of Alexandria, 
and Margaret Cuccinello of Thomaston, Me.; 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. WELLER. Mr. Speaker, today, I’d like to 
congratulate Dr. James A. Doppke as he is inaugurated 
the seventh president to serve at 
the College of St. Francis in Joliet, IL. 

As part of its 75th anniversary celebration, 
the College of St. Francis will inaugurate Dr. 
Doppke on February 9, 1996. 

Dr. Doppke, who previously served as executive 
vice president of the College of St. 
Francis, was appointed president by unanimous 
board decision, which cited his leadership 
and commitment to the college and its 
growth. 

Before coming to the College of St. Francis, 
Dr. Doppke was vice president for Educational 
Affairs at the College of Lake County. He also 
served as associate provost and professor of 
English at Chicago State University. 

Dr. Doppke holds a baccalaureate degree 
with honors from the University of Notre Dame 
and master’s degree and doctor of philosophy 
degrees in English from the university of Chicago. 


We need dedicated and hard working educators 
like Dr. Doppke as we look to a younger 
generation for our future leaders, workers, 
parents, and citizens. 

Thank you, Dr. Doppke, for your commitment 
to education, and we wish you the best 
of luck during your tenure as President of the 
College of St. Francis. 

f 


NATIONAL CHILDREN’S DENTAL 
HEALTH MONTH 

HON. CHARLIE NORWOOD 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. NORWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to recognize two events which have helped to 
keep America smiling over the years. The year 
1996 marks the 55th year of annual recognition 
of the importance of children’s dental 
health. It also marks the 100th anniversary of 
Johnson & Johnson’s dental floss product. 

The annual observance of children’s dental 
health began as a 1-day event in Cleveland, 
OH, on February 3, 1941. On February 8, 
1949, the American Dental Association held 
the first national observance of Children’s 
Dental Health Day. This single day observance 
became a week-long event in 1995. By 
1981, the program was extended to a month-
long celebration known today as National Children’s 
Dental Health Month. 

As far back as 1850 dental references recommended 
the use of ‘‘waxen silken floss.’’ In 
1896, Johnson & Johnson introduced its dental 
floss by advertising in dental journals. It 
was a welcome alternative to the popular 
method of treating gum disease at the time— 
live leeches. The product was originally made 
out of silk—the same silk that was used in the 

removes, especially from below the gum line, 
the bacteria in the plaque can attack the surrounding 
gums and supporting bone. Flossing 
is an integral part of proper tooth and gum 
care, and is considered by organizations such 
as the American Dental Association and 
American Dental Hygienists’ Association to be 
a major preventative measure against gum 
disease and tooth decay. 

Mr. Speaker, as a Member of the House 
and as a dentist, let me stress that flossing is 
as important for children as it is for adults. Pediatric 
dentists have found that during the cavity 
prone years of childhood, flossing morning 
and night can actually reverse the earliest 
stages of tooth decay by allowing the tooth 
enamel to reharden. 

Attitudes and habits established at an early 
age are critical in maintaining good oral health 
throughout life. During National Children’s 
Dental Health Month, I urge parents to make 
sure their children are following a good oral 
healthcare program that includes regular 
brushing and flossing. I also urge everyone to 
visit their oral healthcare professional to learn 
how to properly care for their teeth and gums. 

I ask my colleagues to join me as I salute 
the American Dental Association for their continued 
responsibility and dedication to the 
health and well-being of America’s children, 
and to congratulate Johnson & Johnson for a 
century of giving Americans a healthy smile. 

f 


SEALY TIGERS WIN CLASS 3A 

STATE HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL 

CHAMPIONSHIP—AGAIN 

HON. JACK FIELDS 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. FIELDS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, we Texans 
take our football pretty seriously. We look 
forward to Sunday afternoons when we can 
watch the Houston Oilers and the Dallas Cowboys. 
Even more, we relish Saturday afternoons—
when our A&M Aggies, UT 
Longhorns, Baylor Bears and other take the 
field. But what we really live for is Friday evenings, 
when young men throughout our State 
don their uniforms and helmets to fight for the 
honor of their high schools and their communities. 


Sealy High School is one such high school, 
and Sealy, TX, is one such community. 

Again last year, the players and coaching 
staff of the Sealy Tigers defended the honor of 
their high school and their home town by compiling 
a 15–0 record, and winning the class 3A 
Texas high school football championship for 
the second consecutive year. The Sealy Tigers 
have compiled a 32–0 record over the 
last two seasons, and a 42–3 record over the 
last three seasons. 

Such an outstanding record is a testament 
to the hard work and dedication of the 
school’s football players, and its coaching 
staff—especially Sealy High School’s head 
football coach and athletic director, T.J. Mills. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E 145 

Throughout his career, coach Mills has re-Wisconsin. In addition to her work at Aurora, IN SUPPORT OF OUR TROOPS 
peated one phrase to his players time and Jestene devotes her time and expertise to 
time again: ‘‘You’ve got to find a way to win.’’ several key Wisconsin organizations. Jestene HON. DAVID E. BONIOR 

And they have. In fact, during the 1995 regular 
season, Sealy outscored its opponents 449 to 
58; during the playoffs, the Tigers outscored 
their opponents 229 to 43. 

The success of the 1995 Sealy Tigers was 
recognized when district 23–AAA coachers 
met recently. Coach Mills was voted coach of 
the year by his colleagues, and 19 Sealy players 
were named to the all district team. 

Among those players named to the all-district 
teams was linebacker Steven Newsome, 
who was voted defensive player of the year. 

Others named to the first team offense were 
running back Chris Tate; kicker Jeremy 
Monsivais; center Ryan Eckelberg; tackle Mike 
Kovar; and quarterback Brad Burttschell. 
Named to the second team were guard Vince 
Doyle; tight end Jarrod Novicke; back Jaron 
Dabney; and receiver Chris Lincecum. 

In addition to Steven Newsome, players 
named to the first team defense were lineman 
Taurus Downey; end Chase Schavrda; linebacker 
Paul Martinez; secondary Gary Hill; 
and secondary Stephen Kaye. Named to the 
second team were lineman Steve Aguado; 
end Nathan Pless; linebacker Mario Tarver; 
and secondary Forrest Wagner. 

To each of them, and to everyone associated 
with the Sealy Tigers football team, I say 
congratulations. You have much to be proud 
of, and you, together with your coaching staff, 
have set an example of excellence for others 
to follow in the years ahead. 

f 


A TRIBUTE TO JESTENE MCCORD, 

A PIONEER IN THE FIELD OF 

HEALTH CARE 

HON. THOMAS M. BARRETT 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, it 
is with great pride that I join with my colleagues 
in commemorating the beginning of 
Black History Month by paying tribute to one 
of Wisconsin’s truly outstanding African American 
women, Ms. Jestene McCord. 

As the director of urban affairs for Aurora 
Health Care, Jestene is a tireless advocate for 
the people of Milwaukee and cities throughout 

is the chairwoman of the Private Industry 
Council Board. She also serves on the State 
Maternal and Child Health Program Advisory 
Committee, the Milwaukee Area Health Education 
Centers of Wisconsin board, the UW-
Milwaukee School of Nursing advisory council, 
the National Black Nurses executive committee, 
and the Wisconsin Black Health Coalition 
advisory council. In addition, Jestene chairs 
the Milwaukee Breast Cancer Awareness 
Project advisory board which received a Thousand 
Points of Light award from former President 
Bush for its unfailing energy in fighting for 
a breast cancer cure. 

Jestene’s record of community service is as 
equally impressive as her professional endeavors. 
She has served as a personal mentor 
for many nursing students and developed 
a school-wide mentor program for Milwaukee’s 
North Division High School. Jestene has further 
coordinated scores of community health 
fairs for Milwaukee public school students and 
at area senior centers—demonstrating that 
health care awareness is critical for people of 
all ages. Jestene is also a familiar face to 
most Wisconsin residents, routinely appearing 
on television and radio programs to discuss 
pressing health issues. 

Jestene has received several awards and 
commendations for her remarkable work, including 
the prestigious Health Advancement 
Award. Throughout my career in the Wisconsin 
State Legislature and here in Congress, I 
have seldom seen a person in public life who 
commands as much respect and admiration 
as Jestene. A countless number of elected officials 
and policymakers including myself, have 
come to rely on Jestene’s expertise, and will 
continue to do so well into the future. Jestene 
is truly at the forefront of the health care profession, 
and her compassion and energy 
knows no bounds. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in saluting the accomplishments of Jestene 
McCord. The people of Milwaukee, and all of 
Wisconsin have indeed been blessed by her 
selfless devotion to both her profession and 
her community. 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Mr. BONIOR. Mr. Speaker, I proudly rise to 
pay tribute to the American troops who are 
helping implement peace in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina. In the words of Mrs. Janet 
Maguire, one of the constituents I have the 
privilege to represent, ‘‘The men and women 
are prepared to give the ultimate sacrifice if 
need be and we should not take them for 
granted.’’ 

Mrs. Maguire epitomizes both the pride and 
concern that Americans have for the members 
of our Armed Forces. In her letter to me she 
states ‘‘They [our troops] have agreed to go to 
a strange land and risk their lives to ensure 
peace and the least we as Americans can do 
is give them our support and let them know 
they will not be forgotten.’’ Because of her efforts, 
the St. Clair Shores City Council passed 
a resolution calling for all citizens to ‘‘support 
our service men and women by flying the flag 
and keeping them and their families in our 
thoughts and prayers.’’ I applaud Mrs. Maguire 
and the city’s leaders for their show of support. 


I am proud of the fact the American troops 
are saving lives in Bosnia. We in the United 
States have a moral duty to stand up for 
peace whenever possible. To do so is in our 
national interest and is in keeping with the 
ideals on which our Nation was founded. For 
220 years we have sent American men and 
women overseas, not just to defend American 
interests, but to defend American values—to 
stand up for freedom, democrary, and human 
rights. This is what America stands for. And 
that is why we should all be proud of our 
troops who are carrying out their missions in 
support of peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina 
with professional excellence, dedicated patriotism, 
and exemplary bravery. 

We have a responsibility to support these 
brave men and women and give them the resources 
needed to protect themselves against 
threats and minimize risk. I ask all Americans 
to join with me, Mrs. Janet Maguire, and the 
St. Clair Shores City Council in flying the flag 
and support our troops while they pave the 
road to peace in the former Yugoslavia. 


Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
Senate and House held a joint meeting to receive an address from His 
Excellency Jacques Chirac, President of the French Republic. 
See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S671–S871 

Measures Introduced: Nine bills and five resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 1549–1557, and 
S. Res. 219–223. Pages S736–37 

Measures Reported: Reports were made as follows: 

Special Report entitled ‘‘Revised Allocation to 
Subcommittees of Budget Totals from the Concurrent 
Resolution for Fiscal Year 1996’’. (S. Rept. No. 
104–228) 

H.R. 2005, to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
to make technical corrections in maps relating to the 
Coastal Barrier Resources System. (S. Rept. No. 
104–229) 
Conference report on S. 652, to provide for a pro-
competitive, deregulatory national policy framework 
designed to accelerate rapidly private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications and information 
technologies and services to all Americans by 
opening all telecommunications markets to competition. 
(S. Rept. No. 104–230) Page S736 

Measures Passed: 

Honoring Ronald Reagan’s 85th Birthday: Senate 
agreed to S. Res. 220, in recognition of Ronald 
Reagan’s 85th birthday. Pages S721–22 

Board of Tea Experts Elimination: Senate passed 

S. 1518, to eliminate the Board of Tea Experts by 
prohibiting funding for the Board and by repealing 
the Tea Importation Act of 1897. Page S724 
Congressional Gold Medal: Senate passed H.R. 
2657, to award a congressional gold medal to Ruth 
and Billy Graham, after taking action on the following 
amendment proposed thereto: Pages S724–25 

Dole (for Faircloth) Amendment No. 3315, to 
strike section 5. Page S725 

Authorization of Testimony: Senate agreed to S. 
Res. 221, to authorize testimony by a former Senate 
employee. Pages S743, S866 

PSI Documents Production: Senate agreed to S. 
Res. 222, to authorize the production of documents 
by the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. 

Pages S743–44, S866 

Commemorating Texas Statehood: Senate agreed 
to S. Res. 223, to commemorate the sesquicentennial 
of Texas statehood. Pages S744, S867 

Social Security Benefits Payment: Senate passed 

H.R. 2924, to guarantee the timely payment of Social 
Security benefits in March 1996, clearing the 
measure for the President. Pages S725–26 
Subsequently, S. 1555, Senate companion measure, 
was indefinitely postponed. Pages S725–26 
Farm Bill: Senate continued consideration of S. 
1541, to extend, reform, and improve agricultural 
commodity, trade, conservation, and other programs, 
taking action on amendments proposed thereto, as 
follows: Pages S672–84 
Pending: 

Craig (for Leahy/Lugar) Amendment No. 3184, in 
the nature of a substitute. Pages S672–84 

During consideration of this measure today, Senate 
took the following action: 

By 53 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. 7), three-fifths 
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn not having 
voted in the affirmative, Senate failed to agree to 
close further debate on the bill. Page S683 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that at a time to be determined on Tuesday, 
February 6, 1996, the Majority Leader, after consultation 
with the Democratic Leader, may proceed 
to the cloture vote on the substitute Amendment 
No. 3184. Pages S721, S725, S868 

Telecommunications Competition and Deregulation 
Act—Conference Report: By 91 yeas to 5 

D 54 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D 55 

nays (Vote No. 8), Senate agreed to the conference 
report on S. 652, to provide for a procompetitive, 
deregulatory national policy framework designed to 
accelerate rapidly private sector deployment of advanced 
telecommunications and information technologies 
and services to all Americans by opening all 
telecommunications markets to competition, clearing 
the measure for the President. Pages S686–S721 

Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the following 
nominations: 

Derrick L. Forrister, of Tennessee, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of Energy (Congressional and Intergovernmental 
Affairs). 

8 Air Force nominations in the rank of general. 
3 Army nominations in the rank of general. 
3 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral. 

Page S871 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Toni G. Fay, of New Jersey, to be a Member of 
the National Institute Literacy Advisory Board for a 
term expiring October 12, 1998. 

Audrey Tayse Haynes, of Kentucky, to be a Member 
of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory 
Board for a term expiring October 13, 1998. 

Marciene S. Mattleman, of Pennsylvania, to be a 
Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory 
Board, for a term expiring October 12, 1998. 

1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general. 

2 Army nominations in the rank of general. 

4 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral. 

Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Navy. 

Pages S869–70 
Messages From the House: Page S736 
Statements on Introduced Bills: Pages S737–42 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S742–43 
Amendments Submitted: Pages S744–S859 
Authority for Committees: Page S859 
Additional Statements: Pages S859–66 

Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today. 
(Total—8) Pages S683, S720 

Recess: Senate convened at 10:30 a.m., and recessed 
at 9:28 p.m., until 10 a.m., on Monday, February 5, 
1996, for a pro forma session. (For Senate’s program, 
see the remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S869.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

NOMINATIONS 

Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favorably 
reported the nominations of Lt. Gen. Henry H. 
Shelton, USA, for appointment to the grade of general 
and to be Commander-in-Chief, United States 
Special Operations Command, and Lt. Gen. Eugene 

E. Habiger, USAF, for appointment to the grade of 
general and to be Commander-in-Chief, United 
States Strategic Command, and 12 routine military 
nominations in the Army, Navy, and Air Force. 
Prior to this action, the committee concluded 
hearings on the nominations of Lt. Gen. Shelton and 
Lt. Gen. Habiger (listed above), after the nominees 
testified and answered questions in their own behalf. 

CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM 

Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee 
held hearings on S. 46, to revise the Federal Election 
Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for a voluntary 
system of spending limits and partial public financing 
of Senate primary and general election campaigns, 
and to limit contributions by multicandidate 
political committees, S. 1219 and S. 1389, bills to 
reform the financing of Federal elections, and S. 
1528, to reform the financing of Senate campaigns, 
receiving testimony from Senators McCain, Feingold, 
Thompson, Wellstone, Feinstein, and Bradley; Joel 

M. Gora, Brooklyn Law School, Brooklyn, New 
York, on behalf of the American Civil Liberties 
Union; Robert M. O’Neil, Thomas Jefferson Center 
for the Protection of Free Expression, Charlottesville, 
Virginia; Archibald Cox, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts; Bradley A. Smith, Capital 
University Law School, Columbus, Ohio, on behalf 
of the CATO Institute; and David M. Mason, Heritage 
Foundation, Ann McBride, Common Cause, and 
Joan B. Claybrook, Public Citizen, all of Washington, 
D.C. 
Hearings were recessed subject to call. 

INTELLIGENCE 

Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed 
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony 
from officials of the intelligence community. 

Committee recessed subject to call. 


D 56 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST February 1, 1996 

WHITEWATER Whitewater Development Corporation, receiving testimony 
from Susan Strayhorn, on behalf of the Madi-

Special Committee to Investigate the Whitewater Develop-

son Guaranty Savings and Loan.

ment Corporation and Related Matters: Committee re-

Committee will meet again on Tuesday, February

sumed hearings to examine issues relative to the 

6. 

h 


House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Bills Introduced: 37 public bills, H.R. 2924–2960; 
1 private bill, H.R. 2961; and 12 resolutions, H.J. 
Res. 159, H. Con. Res. 141–145, and H. Res. 
356–361 were introduced. Pages H1223–26 

Reports Filed: Reports were filed as follows: 

H. Res. 355, providing for the consideration of 
H.R. 2924, to guarantee the timely payment of Social 
Security benefits in March 1996 (H. Rept. 
104–460); and 
H.R. 2406, to repeal the United States Housing 
Act of 1937, deregulate the public housing program 
and the program for rental housing assistance for 
low-income families, and increase community control 
over such programs, amended (H. Rept. 104–461). 
Page H1223 

Recess: House recessed at 10:03 a.m. and reconvened 
at 1:01 p.m. Page H1141 

Address by the President of France: The House 
and Senate met in a joint meeting to receive an address 
by the President of France. His Excellency 
Jacques Chirac was escorted to and from the House 
Chamber by Senators Lott, Cochran, Mack, Thurmond, 
Coverdell, Daschle, Breaux, Pell, Inouye, and 
Reid; and by Representatives Armey, Cox, Gilman, 
Bereuter, Gephardt, Kennelly, Hoyer, and Hamilton. 

Pages H1141–44 

Telecommunications Act: By a recorded vote of 
414 ayes to 16 noes, Roll No. 25, the House agreed 
to the conference report on S. 652, to provide for a 
competitive, deregulatory national policy framework 
designed to accelerate rapidly private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications and information 
technologies and services to all Americans by 
opening all telecommunications markets to competition. 
Pages H1145–79 

H. Res. 353, the rule which waived points of 
order against consideration of the conference report 
was agreed to earlier by a yea-and-nay vote of 337 
yeas to 80 nays, Roll No. 24. Pages H1145–54 
Question of Privilege of the House: The Chair 
ruled that H. Res. 356, to protect the creditworthi


ness of the United States and avoid default of the 
United States Government, did not constitute a 
question of privilege of the House and was not in 
order. Pages H1179–82 

Subsequently, agreed to the Solomon motion to 
table the appeal of the ruling of the Chair (agreed 
to by a recorded vote of 229 ayes to 187 noes, Roll 
No. 26). Page H1182 

Question of Privilege of the House: The Chair 
ruled that H. Res. 354, relating to a question of the 
privileges of the House, did not constitute a question 
of privilege of the House and was not in order. 

Pages H1182–85 

Subsequently, agreed to the Solomon motion to 
table the appeal of the ruling of the Chair (agreed 
to by a yea-and-nay vote of 229 ayes to 181 noes, 
Roll No. 27). Page H1184 

District Work Period: By a recorded vote of 207 
ayes to 199 noes, Roll No. 29, the House agreed to 

H. Con. Res. 141, providing for an adjournment of 
the two Houses. Pages H1196–97 
Social Security Benefits: By a yea-and-nay vote of 
396 yeas, Roll No. 30, the House passed H.R. 2924, 
to guarantee the timely payment of Social Security 
benefits in March 1996. Pages H1197–H1200 

H. Res. 355, the rule under which the bill was 
considered was agreed to earlier by a voice vote. Earlier, 
agreed to order the previous question on the 
resolution by a yea-and-nay vote of 229 yeas to 178 
nays, Roll No. 28. Pages H1185–96 
Committee Resignation: Read a letter from Representative 
Hoekstra wherein he resigns as a member 
of the Committee on the Budget. Page H1200 

Committee Election: House agreed to H. Res. 357, 
electing Representative Neumann to the Committee 
on the Budget. Page H1200 

Designation of Speaker Pro Tempore: Read and 
accepted a letter from the Speaker wherein he designates 
Representative Morella to act as Speaker pro 
tempore to sign enrolled bills and joint resolutions 
through Monday, February 26, 1996. Page H1200 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D 57 

Resignation: Read a letter from Representative 
Mfume wherein he resigns as a Member of the 
House of Representatives effective February 18, 
1996. Page H1200 

Gold Medal for Ruth and Billy Graham: House 
agreed to the Senate amendment to H.R. 2657, to 
award a congressional gold medal to Ruth and Billy 
Graham—clearing the measure for the President. 

Page H1200 

Extension of Remarks: It was made in order that 
all Members shall have the privilege for the legislative 
day of today to extend their remarks and to include 
extraneous material in that section of the 
Record entitled ‘‘Extensions of Remarks’’. 

Pages H1200–01 

Resignations—Appointments: It was made in 
order that, notwithstanding any adjournment of the 
House until Monday, February 26, 1996, the Speaker 
and the Minority Leader be authorized to accept 
resignations and to make appointments authorized 
by law or by the House. Page H1201 

Calendar Wednesday: Agreed to dispense with Calendar 
Wednesday business of February 28. 

Page H1201 

Adjournment Authority: It was made in order that 
when the House adjourns on the calendar day of Friday, 
February 2, 1996 (legislative day of Thursday, 
February 1, 1996), it stand adjourned until 8 p.m. 
on Tuesday, February 6, 1996, unless the House 
sooner receives a message from the Senate transmitting 
its concurrence in H. Con. Res. 141, in which 
case the House shall stand adjourned pursuant to 
that concurrent resolution. Page H1216 

Recess: House recessed at 10:38 p.m. and recon


vened at 12:01 a.m. Page H1222 
Senate Messages: Message received from the Senate 
today appears on page H1196. 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and 
three recorded votes developed during the proceedings 
of the House today and appear on pages 
H1153–54, H1179, H1182, H1184, H1195–96, 
H1197, and H1199–H1200. 

Adjournment: Met at 10 a.m. and, pursuant to the 
previous order of the House, adjourned at 12:01 a.m. 
until Tuesday, February 6. 

Committee Meetings 

PUBLIC UTILITY REGULATORY POLICIES 
ACT—INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE 
ELECTRICITY MARKETS 

Committee on Commerce: Subcommittee on Energy and 
Power held an oversight hearing on the Public Util


ity Regulatory Policies Act and its Role in Increasingly 
Competitive Electricity Markets. Testimony 
was heard from Representative Stearns; the following 
officials of the Department of Energy: Charles Curtis, 
Deputy Secretary; and Elizabeth Moler, Chair, 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and public 
witnesses. 

BOSNIA—PEACE WITH JUSTICE 

Committee on International Relations: Held a hearing on 
Prospects for Peace with Justice in Bosnia. Testimony 
was heard from John Shattuck, Assistant Secretary, 
Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, Department 
of State. 

SOCIAL SECURITY GUARANTEE ACT 

Committee on Rules: Granted, by voice vote, a closed 
rule providing for the consideration in the House of 

H.R. 2924, to guarantee the timely payment of Social 
Security benefits in March 1996. The bill shall 
be debatable for 1 hour. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit. 
The motion to recommit may include instructions 
only if offered by the Minority Leader or 
his designee. Testimony was heard from Chairman 
Archer and Representative Gibbons. 
COMMITTEE BUSINESS 

Committee on Standards of Official Conduct: Met in executive 
session to consider pending business. 

Joint Meetings 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPETITION 
AND DEREGULATION ACT 

Conferees on Wednesday, January 31, agreed to file a 
conference report on S. 652, to provide for a pro-
competitive, deregulatory national policy framework 
designed to accelerate rapidly private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications and information 
technologies and services to all Americans by 
opening all telecommunications markets to competition. 


f 


COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY, 
FEBRUARY 2, 1996 
Senate 

No meetings are scheduled. 

House 

No committee meetings are scheduled. 

Joint Meetings 

Joint Economic Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
the employment-unemployment situation for January, 
9:30 a.m., SD–106. 


D 58 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST February 1, 1996 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD to resume hearings to examine certain issues relative to 
the Whitewater Development Corporation, 10 a.m.,

Week of February 5 through 10, 1996 

SH–216. 

Senate Chamber 

House Committees 

On Monday, Senate will meet for a pro forma session. 


On Tuesday, Senate may resume consideration of S. 
1541, Farm bill. 

During the balance of the week, the Senate’s program 
is uncertain. 

Senate Committees 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 
Committee on Appropriations: February 6, Subcommittee 
on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, to 
hold hearings to examine the effects of fiscal year 1996 
funding on the National Labor Relations Board, 9:30 
a.m., SD–192. 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: February 6, 
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, to hold 
hearings to review trends in Federal land ownership, 2 
p.m., SD–366. 
Committee on Foreign Relations: February 7, Subcommittee 
on East Asian and Pacific Affairs, to hold hearings to 
examine threats and responses to Taiwan’s security, 10 
a.m., SD–419. 
Committee on Governmental Affairs: February 7, to hold 
hearings to examine whether Members of Congress should 
be able to make recommendations for individuals seeking 
Federal employment, 9:30 a.m., SD–342. 
Committee on the Judiciary: February 6, Subcommittee on 
Immigration, to hold hearings on the use of the Supplemental 
Security Income program and other welfare programs 
by immigrants, 10 a.m., SD–226. 
Committee on Labor and Human Resources: February 8, to 
resume hearings on S. 295, to permit labor management 
cooperative efforts that improve America’s economic competitiveness 
to continue to thrive, 9:30 a.m., SD–430. 

Special Committee To Investigate the Whitewater Development 
Corporation and Related Matters: February 6, 7, and 8, 

Committee on Banking and Financial Services, February 8, 
hearing to provide an update on the debt ceiling limit 
issue, 9:30 a.m., 2128 Rayburn. 

Committee on Economic and Educational Opportunities, February 
7, hearing on H.R. 2497, to amend the National 
Labor Relations Act, 10:45 a.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, February 
7, Subcommittee on Government Management, Information 
and Technology, hearing on the Impact of OMB 
2000 Reforms on the Management Practices of the Federal 
Government, 10 a.m., 2157 Rayburn. 

February 8, Subcommittee on Human Resources and 
Intergovernmental Relations, oversight hearing on the use 
of automated screens by Medicare contractors to prevent 
payment of medically unnecessary claims, 9 a.m., 2247 
Rayburn. 

Committee on the Judiciary, February 6, legislative and 
oversight hearing regarding Professional Sports Franchise 
Relocation: Antitrust Implications; H.R. 2740, Fan Freedom 
and Community Protection Act of 1995; and H.R. 
2699, Fans Rights Act of 1995, 9:30 a.m., 2141 Rayburn. 


February 7 and 8, Subcommittee on Courts and Intellectual 
Property, hearings on H.R. 2441, NII Copyright 
Protection Act of 1995, 2 p.m., on February 7 and 9 
a.m., on February 8, 2237 Rayburn. 

Committee on Small Business, February 7, Subcommittee 
on Regulation and Paperwork, hearing to examine the issues 
surrounding the current rulemaking by the NLRB 
concerning single location bargaining units in labor representation 
cases, 10 a.m., 2359 Rayburn. 

Joint Meetings 

Joint Economic Committee: February 5, to hold hearings 
to examine Federal barriers to State and local privatization 
efforts, 1 p.m., SD–106. 


February 1, 1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—DAILY DIGEST D 59 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FOURTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 3 through January 31, 1996 

Days in session .................................... 
Time in session ................................... 
Congressional Record: 

Pages of proceedings ................... 

Extensions of Remarks ................ 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 
Private bills enacted into law .............. 
Measures passed, total ......................... 

Senate bills .................................. 

House bills .................................. 

Senate joint resolutions ............... 

House joint resolutions ............... 

Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 

House concurrent resolutions ...... 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Measures reported, total ...................... 

Senate bills .................................. 

House bills .................................. 

Senate joint resolutions ............... 

House joint resolutions ............... 

Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 

House concurrent resolutions ...... 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Special reports ..................................... 
Conference reports ............................... 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 
Measures introduced, total .................. 

Bills ............................................. 

Joint resolutions .......................... 

Concurrent resolutions ................ 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Quorum calls ....................................... 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 
Recorded votes .................................... 
Bills vetoed ......................................... 
Vetoes overridden ................................ 

Senate House Total 
12 10 . . 
48 hrs., 54¢ 75 hrs., 56¢ . . 
S669 H1139 . . 
. . E121 . . 
0 11 . . 
0 0 . . 
24 23 . . 
5 2 . . 
5 5 . . 
0 0 . . 
1 1 . . 
3 1 . . 
3 1 . . 
7 13 . . 
*25 *12 . . 
24 0 . . 
1 3 . . 
0 0 . . 
0 0 . . 
0 0 . . 
0 0 . . 
0 9 . . 
1 0 . . 
0 3 . . 
187 46 . . 
52 145 . . 
34 83 . . 
3 21 . . 
3 11 . . 
12 30 . . 
0 1 . . 
6 16 . . 
. . 6 . . 
0 1 . . 
0 0 . . 

DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 3 through January 31, 1996 
Civilian nominations, totaling 151 (including 119 nominations carried 
over from the first session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
4 
142 
5 

Civilian nominations (FS, PHS, CG, NOAA), totaling 334 (including 
320 nominations carried over from the first session), disposed of 
as follows: 

Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 334 

Air Force nominations, totaling 6,147 (including 4,952 nominations 

carried over from the first session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,207 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,940 

Army nominations, totaling 2,442 (including 2,304 nominations car


ried over from the first session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,260 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 182 

Navy nominations, totaling 84 (including 21 nominations carried 

over from the first session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 80 

Marine Corps nominations, totaling 15 (including 8 nominations carried 
over from the first session), disposed of as follows: 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 15 

SUMMARY 

Total nominations carried over from the first session ............................ 7,724 
Total nominations received this session ................................................. 1,449 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 6,475 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 2,693 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 5 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 27 reports has been filed in the Senate; a total 
of 15 reports has been filed in the House. 

D 60 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST February 1, 1996 

Next Meeting of the SENATE Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
10 a.m., Monday, February 5 8 p.m., Tuesday, February 6 

Senate Chamber House Chamber 

Program for Monday: Senate will meet for a pro forma Program for Tuesday: Legislative program will be an-
session. nounced later. 

HOUSE 

Baker, Bill, Calif., E123, E133 
Baldacci, John Elias, Maine, E142 
Barrett, Thomas M., Wis., E145 
Bonior, David E., Mich., E145 
Burton, Dan, Ind., E129 
Buyer, Stephen E., Ind., E138 
Clinger, William F., Jr., Pa., E140 
Crane, Philip M., Ill., E123 
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E138 
Dellums, Ronald V., Calif., E125, E137 
Duncan, John J., Jr., Tenn., E137, E139 
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E133 
Fields, Jack, Tex., E142, E144 
Franks, Bob, N.J., E136 
Frelinghuysen, Rodney P., N.J., E130 
Gekas, George W., Pa., E142 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

Gephardt, Richard A., Mo., E123 Packard, Ron, Calif., E130 
Gilman, Benjamin A., N.Y., E133 Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E134 
Greenwood, James C., Pa., E135 Poshard, Glenn, Ill., E137 
Hamilton, Lee H., Ind., E124, E127, E132 Quinn, Jack, N.Y., E128 
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E124 Radanovich, George P., Calif., E130 
Herger, Wally, Calif., E143 Richardson, Bill, N. Mex., E138 
Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E132 Rohrabacher, Dana, Calif., E141, E143 
Johnson, Sam, Tex., E143 Sabo, Martin Olav, Minn., E125 
Kennedy, Patrick J., R.I., E125 Schumer, Charles E., N.Y., E123 
Kleczka, Gerald D., Wis., E124 Solomon, Gerald B.H., N.Y., E137, E139 
Lantos, Tom, Calif., E135 Stupak, Bart, Mich., E136 
Lazio, Rick, N.Y., E136 Underwood, Robert A., Guam, E135 
Manton, Thomas J., N.Y., E131 Vento, Bruce F., Minn., E128 
Meek, Carrie P., Fla., E125 Walsh, James T., N.Y., E127 
Menendez, Robert, N.J., E136 Weller, Jerry, Ill., E141, E144 
Moran, James P., Va., E135 Woolsey, Lynn C., Calif., E130 
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, D.C., E127 
Norwood, Charlie, Ga., E126, E142, E144 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The public proceedings of each House of Congress, as reported by 
the Official Reporters thereof, are printed pursuant to directions 
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate 
provisions of Title 44, United States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very 
infrequent instances when two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed at one time. ¶ Public access to 
the Congressional Record is available online through GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. 
The online database is updated each day the Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the 
beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 1994) forward. It is available on the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) through the 
Internet and via asynchronous dial-in. Internet users can access the database by using the World Wide Web; the Superintendent of 
Documents home page address is http://www.access.gpo.gov/suldocs, by using local WAIS client software or by telnet to 
swais.access.gpo.gov, then login as guest (no password required). Dial-in users should use communications software and modem to call (202) 
512–1661; type swais, then login as guest (no password required). For general information about GPO Access, contact the GPO Access User 
Support Team by sending Internet e-mail to help@eids05.eids.gpo.gov, or a fax to (202) 512–1262; or by calling (202) 512–1530 between 7 a.m. and 
5 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday, except for Federal holidays. ¶The Congressional Record paper and 24x microfiche will be 
furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $112.50 for six months, $225 per year, or purchased for 
$1.50 per issue, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $118 per year, or purchased for $1.50 per issue payable in advance. The semimonthly 
Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per issue prices. Remit check or money order, made payable to the 
Superintendent of Documents, directly to the Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. ¶ Following each session of Congress, the 
daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by 
sets. ¶With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the Congressional Record. 


