UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.04.24 12:56:24 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 113th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 159 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2013 No. 134 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania). 

f 

DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO 
TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

October 2, 2013. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable GLEN 
THOMPSON to act as Speaker pro tempore on 
this day. 

JOHN A. BOEHNER, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 

MORNING-HOUR DEBATE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the order of the House of January 
3, 2013, the Chair will now recognize 
Members from lists submitted by 
the majority and minority leaders for 
morning-hour debate. 

The Chair will alternate recognition 
between the parties, with each party 
limited to 1 hour and each Member 
other than the majority and minority 
leaders and the minority whip limited 
to 5 minutes each, but in no event shall 
debate continue beyond 11:50 a.m. 

f 

THE REAL WORLD OF OBAMACARE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. MCCLINTOCK) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, yesterday 
the President charged that the 
government shutdown is the result of 
an ‘‘ideological crusade to deny affordable 
health insurance to millions of 
Americans.’’ I would beg the President 
to read his correspondence and listen 
to the millions of Americans who are 
losing their affordable health insurance 
as a result of ObamaCare, who are 
seeing their health care premiums sky


rocket or their hours cut back at work 
or who are losing their jobs or the 
health plans they liked and that he 
promised they could keep. 

Here’s a sampling of the emails and 
letters I’ve received last week from 
people who have come face to face with 
the ugly reality of ObamaCare. A 
woman from El Dorado County, California, 
writes: 

Last month, I received a letter from the 
human resources manager at my place of employment 
that states I am going to receive a 
23 percent pay cut as a result of ObamaCare. 
They say they are required by the employer 
mandate to provide insurance for every employee 
or face a fine. My 23 percent pay cut 
is equal to $22,000 and will financially devastate 
my family, as I am the primary income 
of our family. I tried to explain that I 
already have insurance through my husband’s 
employer and Blue Cross/Blue Shield 
and I do not need another policy. However, 
they said ObamaCare does not have an option 
for married employees who are paying 
for coverage through their spouse’s employer. 
I even offered to pay the $2,000 employer 
fine instead of being subject to the 
$22,000 pay cut, but they said that is not an 
option. 

A man from the town of Pioneer, 
California, writes: 

I received a letter from my insurance carrier 
that, as of the end of this year, they will 
drop all individual plans in our State because 
of ObamaCare. 

A woman from Markleeville writes: 

ObamaCare is already affecting me in my 
ability to obtain diabetic testing supplies. 
Please at least defund it; better yet, repeal 
it. And then go to work on real reforms that 
are necessary. 

A man from Sonora writes: 

I have just received my projected health 
care cost for this coming year through Kaiser. 
The premium will be increasing by 43.8 
percent. Health care is becoming increasingly 
unaffordable. The current health care, 
fuel, and power cost is destroying our economy. 
Wages are going down, and the cost of 
living is rising. If the current trend is not reversed, 
our country and all in it are looking 
at financial and economic ruin. 

A man from Amador County, who is 
in the durable medical equipment business, 
writes: 

Obama has already killed our industry, and 
soon your telephone is going to be ringing off 
the hook with disgruntled patients that cannot 
get product. 

A woman from Nevada City writes: 

Please repeal ObamaCare. The health insurance 
for our family this year went up 
more than $450 each month. It’s not possible 
for middle class citizens to pay that. 

From Farmington, California, a 
woman writes: 

I have worked in the health care industry 
as a registered nurse for over 25 years and 
have already seen its negative impact in the 
hospital just in preparing to begin working 
with it. Also, my husband and I have noticed 
the increasing of prices in our own private 

health care charges. 

A woman from Granite Bay writes: 

As a result of ObamaCare, our health insurance 
costs have tripled . . . our copay has 
doubled, and the deductible has also gone up. 
Also, my primary doctor retired, the next 
one closed his practice, and my present doctor 
will close her practice if ObamaCare is 
not repealed. 

A man from Rocklin writes: 

As a result of this legislation, my health 
insurance cost through my employer has 
nearly tripled. Combined with anemic economic 
growth—resulting in 1 percent pay 
raise per year since 2009 and bonus cut by 
two-thirds—increased taxes, et al, I have effectively 
had severe pay cuts. And most of 
my coworkers as well. The ACA is a burden 
on me, my family, my community, and our 
future. 

From Auburn, California, a woman 
writes: 

I did some shopping at Save Mart in Auburn 
today and talked to a woman who 
works there. She said the store is cutting 
back everyone’s hours to 20 hours per week. 
I asked if it was because of ObamaCare, and 
she said yes. This is happening all over the 
country, and it’s outrageous. 

Mr. Speaker, I’m sure that the President 
and our Democratic colleagues are 
hearing these same complaints. I wonder: 
Why aren’t they listening? 

b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H6105 


H6106 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

ISN’T IT TIME TO END THE Senate has been waiting for the House BIPARTISAN IMMIGRATION 
REPUBLICAN SHUTDOWN? Republican leadership for 6 months to REFORM 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. BLUMENAUER) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, 
this is day two of the Republican shutdown, 
holding America hostage. The 
stated objective of their fury is what 
they feel to be the ‘‘unconstitutional’’ 
Affordable Care Act that will wreck 
the economy and destroy health care in 
America. 

They harbor these feelings and will 
not relent until the law is defunded, 
even if it means shutting down the government, 
denying people essential services, 
furloughing Federal employees, 
and raising the specter of default on 
our national debt. This is despite the 
fact that the health care bill passed 3 
years ago. It was declared constitutional 
by the United States Supreme 
Court and was argued extensively in 
the 2012 elections, which the Republicans 
lost. 

We’ve now seen the first day of the 
Affordable Care Act, already about 10 
million visits to the Web site, phone 
lines jammed, hundreds of thousands of 
Americans—doctors, nurses, people in 
hospitals, insurance companies—involved 
in making the biggest advance 
in health care since Medicare 50 years 
ago. 

Are the Republicans afraid that the 
program will succeed, that Americans 
will see that this effort to help 40 to 50 
million Americans with low income or 
people with preexisting conditions will 
actually get help? 

Republicans, in any event, should not 
pull the rug out from underneath the 
people who could benefit from the law 
or the hundreds of thousands of people 
who have made significant investments 
and are working to improve the delivery 
of health care in America at great 
effort and expense for themselves. 

According to the independent Congressional 
Budget Office, this is going 
to provide more access at less cost and 
lead to a deficit reduction on the order 
of $1 trillion over the next 20 years. In 
fact, the Republicans in the House of 
Representatives have taken $500 billion 
of these savings from the Affordable 
Care Act and stuffed it in their budget 
to make it appear that it’s more affordable. 


If they were serious and not cynical, 
they would remove the money from 
their budget that’s attributed to the 
bill they’re working so hard to defund. 
While they’re at it, if they’re serious 
and not cynical, they would have a 
conference committee on the budget. 

Wasn’t it interesting, the 11th hour 
Hail Mary proposal late Saturday night 
to have a conference committee on the 
continuing resolution despite the fact 
that there was nothing to conference— 
it was defund ObamaCare or nothing. 

But if House Republicans really 
think conference committees are such 
a good idea, why don’t we have a conference 
committee on the budget? The 

approve conferees so we can see if we 
can reconcile some of these differences. 

If my friends were serious and not 
cynical about saving money, they 
would bring their own spending bills to 
the floor. Remember, it’s been over 2 
months since they abruptly stopped 
the appropriations process with the 
Treasury-HUD bill still in limbo, just 
walked off the floor halfway through 
the debate. The remaining eight spending 
bills appear to be so bad under the 
Ryan budget, which uses those evil 
ObamaCare savings, that their own 
Members don’t even seem to want to 
vote for them. 

Finally, if they are serious and not 
cynical, they should absolutely take 
the debt ceiling blackmail off the 
table. There’s no reason to threaten to 
destabilize not just our economy, but 
the global economy, by pretending for 1 
minute that America won’t pay its 
bills. We will. But to threaten we 
would do otherwise invites chaos. 

This is day two of the Affordable 
Care Act. The sun came up in the East. 
No one was forced to go to the post office 
for their prostate exam. No women 
had to go to the airport screeners for a 
mammogram. No doctors have been arrested 
or hospitals shut down. What did 
happen is people are getting better insurance 
with more choices at more affordable 
rates. I even bet that the sun 
sets in the West tonight. 

Isn’t it time to end the Republican 
shutdown? 

f 

VA FUNDING 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS) for 1 minute. 

Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, last 
night House Republicans once again 
showed up and took action to stop the 
bleeding of HARRY REID’s government 
shutdown. President Obama has already 
bullied the House by threatening 
to veto these important bills to protect 
our Nation’s veterans, keep D.C. 
schools and services open, and preserve 
and reopen our national parks. 

By voting against these bills, House 
Democrats turned their backs on the 
Nation’s veterans. It’s reprehensible to 
sit back and watch our veterans suffer. 
The Honoring Our Promise to America’s 
Veterans Act would ensure vital 
funding for disability compensation, 
pensions, the GI Bill, and other critical 
benefits that are threatened by HARRY 
REID’s shutdown. 

Today we will give the Democrats another 
chance to vote in favor of veterans. 
This is not a partisan issue, it’s 
an American issue, and we must pass 
this legislation today. House Republicans 
are here. We’re ready to negotiate. 
Mr. Speaker, I would suggest 
that the President should cancel his 
trip to Asia and come negotiate with 
us. 

Simply put, in God we trust. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. GUTIE´ RREZ) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Speaker, we’ve 
all heard that later today an immigration 
bill will be introduced in the 
House of Representatives in order to 
keep the issue moving forward. 

I plan to sign on to that bill. As I understand 
it, it will combine elements of 
the Senate’s bipartisan compromise 
bill with a bipartisan House border security 
bill. I am going to sign on because 
I want to stand with 200 of my 
Democratic colleagues and assert that 
the Democratic Party is ready to move 
forward on immigration reform. The 
bill that Democrats will put forward is 
not a perfect bill. It is the product of 
negotiations, compromise, and bipartisanship. 


Having spent many long hours working 
with Ted Kennedy, JOHN MCCAIN, 
Jim Kolbe, and JEFF FLAKE on bipartisan 
bills in 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2007, I 
know that you never get everything 
you want when you engage in genuine 
bipartisan efforts; but these days, with 
our sharply divided politics, bipartisanship 
is the only way you get anything 
done. The American people are sick of 
the U.S. Congress because we are totally 
divided and can’t seem to come 
together, even to keep our government 
open. 

Yesterday, Puerto Rican Korea war 
veterans and Mississippi and Iowa veterans 
of World War II had to break 
down barricades to visit the monuments 
on The National Mall that celebrate 
their sacrifice and honor. It 
should have never had to come to this. 

And on immigration, I still think we 
have a chance to work together and get 
something done. It’s really rare that 
the AFL–CIO and the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce agree on anything. But you 
know what? They came to agreement 
to move immigration reform forward. 
The largest growers actually worked 
out an agreement to move forward on 
immigration reform with the union 
founded by Cesar Chavez that’s been 
fighting for them for 40 years. 

The New York Times and The Wall 
Street Journal editorial pages represent 
different ends of the political 
spectrum, but their editorials calling 
for Congress to address immigration 
reform are so similar, they could practically 
be accused of plagiarism. 

b 1015 
And I’ve talked with many of my Republican 
colleagues. They too understand 
that our current legal immigration 
system is broken. Many of them 
understand that creating ways for people 
to come legally is necessary to 
spark our economy, reunite families 
and maintain our values in the United 
States. 
They understand that the path to law 
and order is to have a functioning, 
legal immigration system that allows 
people to come with a visa and not a 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6107 

smuggler. Many of my Republican colleagues 
understand that we cannot secure 
the border unless we secure and 
combine border security with a legal 
avenue for people to come here. 

And they understand that we cannot 
establish law and order without getting 
the millions of people here into the 
system, on the books, paying taxes, 
and legitimize their stay in the United 
States, including citizenship for those 
who choose to embrace this country, 
just as every wave of previous immigrants 
have had that choice. 

Many of my Republican colleagues 
realize that the best way, politically 
and practically, to achieve a full implementation 
of things like E-Verify and 
an entry/exit visa system, the only way 
to effectively enforce our law is to 
allow for legal immigration. We can 
and must do the legalization, the border 
security, and all of the enforcement 
together. 

With the introduction of a bill, you 
will see the unity and commitment of 
my party, the Democratic Party. But I 
believe it is only after we emerge from 
this very dark tunnel of partisanship 
and budget bitterness that we can find 
a way for leaders in both parties to 
move forward, work together and get 
the Speaker to give us a vote. 

But the clock is ticking. Two million 
people will have been deported by this 
administration, a Democratic administration, 
by President Barack Obama, 
sometime in October. Believe me, the 
deportation machine does not pause for 
a government shutdown. 

This Saturday, October 5, in 163 cities 
there will be marches and demonstrations 
and activities to push this 
Congress, and especially the Republican 
leadership, to allow a vote on immigration 
reform. 

I will march in Chicago, meet with 
evangelical leaders, and join canvassers 
fanning out across congressional 
districts on Saturday. 

And then, on Tuesday, October 8, I 
invite all my colleagues to join the 
tens of thousands of Americans, immigrants, 
supporters, citizens, for a concert 
and a rally to make sure this 
Chamber knows the truth, and that is 
that the persistent and consistent pressure 
to pass an immigration bill in red 
States, blue States, purple States has 
not subsided and is stronger than ever. 

I ask you all to come and join me and 
our immigrant community from across 
this Nation. 

Mr. Speaker, I will show you the 
faces of families who want this Congress 
to put aside our party differences 
and to act for the families of America, 
for the millions of American citizens 
that need a fair and just immigration 
system. 

Come and join us in your city on October 
5 and, if not, come and join us 
here in the Capitol of the United States 
on October 8. The people will be speaking. 


CR VS. APPROPRIATIONS BILL VS. 

DOD 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, 
the Federal Government is shut 
down, thereby damaging America’s 
economy generally, and the Tennessee 
Valley’s economy in particular, where 
thousands of defense and NASA and 
other Federal Government employees 
have been furloughed because the 
President, in his discretion, designated 
them non-essential. 
I hope my remarks add clarity about 
the shutdown, its cause, and the efforts 
to fund the government. 
City, county and State governments 
across America pass one bill, called a 
budget, that funds services for their 
fiscal years. 
In contrast, Washington uses a three-
step spending process. First, Washington 
should pass a bill that is called 
a budget, yet, does not, in fact, spend a 
dime. Rather, in Washington, the word 
budget is more like a game plan. It is 
much like a football coach’s playbook. 
It lists the team’s plays but does not, 
in and of itself, gain a single yard. 
Second, Washington should pass authorization 
bills that describe the programs 
the Federal Government is to 
operate. For example, the NASA authorization 
bill authorizes NASA to 
work on the Space Launch System so 
that America can have a human space 
flight program. Like budgets, authorization 
bills spend no money. 
Third, Washington must pass appropriation 
bills to actually spend money 
on the programs authorized. If Congress 
fails to pass appropriation bills, 
then Congress uses continuing resolutions 
as crutches for our failure. 
There are 12 appropriation bills that, 
collectively, fund the Federal Government. 
So far this year, the House, 
months ago, passed appropriation bills 
for national defense, energy and water, 
homeland security, military construction, 
and veterans affairs. 
If the Senate passes these appropriation 
bills, then each of these Federal 
programs are fully funded and exempt 
from the Federal Government shutdown. 
That’s correct: exempt from the 
shutdown. 
Unfortunately, the Senate inexplicably 
refuses to vote on any of the 12 
appropriation bills. Senate intransigence 
is why we are here today debating 
a continuing resolution to temporarily 
fund the Federal Government. 
For emphasis, continuing resolutions 
are the worst way to fund the Federal 
Government. By definition, continuing 
resolutions are for a short period. 
Speaker BOEHNER’s CR is for 21/2 
months. Senate Majority Leader 
HARRY REID’s CR is for even less, 11/2 
months. 
Each CR kicks the can down the road 
and forces America to quickly face yet 
another shutdown risk. Each CR means 
Federal agencies cannot plan long-
term, and contracting officers are re


stricted in their ability to let contracts 
for services and goods provided by the 
private sector to the Federal Government 
and American citizens. 

Generally speaking, continuing resolutions 
fund at prior-year spending levels, 
which means spending does not 
change to reflect changing priorities, 
circumstances and challenges. 

In sum, continuing resolutions are 
inherently inefficient, waste tax dollars, 
and retard proper Federal government 
operation. 

Hence, I have historically voted 
against less-than-year-end continuing 
resolutions in hopes of forcing Congress 
to do the compromising necessary 
to pass authorization and appropriations 
bills. This work will not be 
done so long as the continuing resolution 
crutch protects Congress from 
failure. 

Which brings us to today. The Senate, 
White House and Congress agree 
on roughly 99 percent of the appropriation 
bills. Let me emphasize that. The 
Senate, White House and Congress 
agree on roughly 99 percent of the appropriation 
bills. 

The solution, therefore, to our impasse 
is simple. Congress and the White 
House should fully fund the 99 percent 
we agree on, end the government shutdown, 
and work out our differences on 
the remaining 1 percent. 

Instead, the Senate and White House 
use a Federal Government shutdown to 
coerce the House of Representatives 
into spending money America does not 
have on a socialized medicine program 
that does not work and that a majority 
of Americans do not want. 

Yesterday, I spoke with House leadership, 
and I urged them to pass bills 
that, one at a time, fund the 99 percent 
of the Federal Government that we 
agree on. I thank the House leadership 
for doing exactly that yesterday and 
today. Each bill we pass exempts yet 
another part of the Federal government 
from the shutdown. 

I urge my friends across the aisle to 
stop using the 99 percent as a hostage, 
to stop punishing citizens across America 
in their effort to coerce the House 
of Representatives into funding the 1 
percent we have a legitimate disagreement 
on. 

I urge my friends across the aisle to 
join us, to join America, to compromise, 
yes, to compromise, and pass 
as many funding bills as we can to minimize 
and eliminate the harmful effects 
of a Federal Government shutdown. 

f 

THE TIME HAS COME FOR REASON 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. QUIGLEY) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, the time 
has come for reason. No longer can we 
afford to allow a small segment of this 
Congress to drive the debate. It’s not 
just the tail wagging the dog, it is the 
tip of the dog’s tail wagging the entire 
body politic. 


H6108 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

The time has come for those in the 
middle to come together and take back 
the wheel from those intent on crashing 
this Congress into a ditch. 

As I stand here today, the government 
of the United States is shuttered, 
shut down by nothing more than 
brinksmanship. 

Small business loans are not being 
processed. The Centers for Disease Control 
flu prevention program is being 
halted, and the National Institutes of 
Health is no longer accepting kids into 
a cancer research program. Some food 
safety operations have ceased, and 
cleanup at 600 toxic waste sites has 
been suspended. 

It wasn’t always this way though. 
There was a time when we had regular 
order. There was a time when budgets 
were proposed, funding levels and priorities 
were debated, differences were 
hashed out, and bills were passed to 
fund the government. 

And even when regular order broke 
down, we were always able to at least 
pass a continuing resolution to continue 
funding the government. Not this 
time. 

This time, an effort to repeal a law 
that was passed by both houses, signed 
by the President, approved by the Supreme 
Court, has shanghaied all Federal 
spending. 

Many across the aisle acknowledge 
how harmful and irresponsible such a 
plan is. Senator MCCAIN said, ‘‘In the 
United States Senate, we will not repeal 
or defund ObamaCare. And to 
think we can is not rational.’’ 

Budget Chairman PAUL RYAN said, 
‘‘We have to stay on the right side of 
public opinion. Shutting down the government 
puts us on the wrong side.’’ 

My colleague, Senator KIRK said, 
‘‘Let’s not shut down the government 
just because you don’t get everything 
you want.’’ 

The list goes on and on. Chris 
Christie, Mitt Romney, Bruce Josten of 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and 
many more all oppose efforts to shut 
the Federal Government. Yet, we continue 
down this dangerous path. 

When I first came to this Congress, 
Congressman KIRK, now Senator KIRK, 
told me that everything that gets done 
here gets done in the middle. Now is 
the time for the reasonable middle to 
come together and reject the strategy 
that says, ‘‘If I can’t win, I’ll just kick 
the ball in the woods.’’ 

Sorry, Seth. 

Not only is shutting down the government 
harmful to my constituents, 
businesses, and the economy, it doesn’t 
solve the problem. It doesn’t address 
the budget deficit. 

If we really want to get our fiscal 
house in order, let’s fund the government 
and bring back a balanced, big, 
bipartisan deficit deal to the floor. We 
did it before and we can do it again. 

I, along with only 37 colleagues, 
voted for the Cooper-LaTourette budget, 
which mirrored the bipartisan 
Simpson-Bowles plan. 

Where were those so concerned with 
the debt then? 

If the fiscal watchdogs on the other 
side of the aisle really want to solve 
our budget woes, let’s get together on a 
big budget deal, and let’s do it now, because 
every day we waste in this useless 
limbo land is one less day we have 
to address the very real and very harmful 
problems facing this country. 

We have got to pass comprehensive 
immigration reform, a farm bill, an infrastructure 
funding bill, a reauthorization 
of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act, reasonable gun 
reforms, tax reform, and numerous 
other much-needed legislation. 

But without doing the basic work of 
Congress, like passing a budget, we 
can’t address the real issues facing us. 
As long as we continue to look in the 
rearview mirror at a law passed 3 years 
ago, approved by the Supreme Court, 
we will fail to navigate the real obstacles 
before us. 

We need to keep our eyes on the road, 
and come together to solve the real 
challenges that lie ahead. 

f 

WHEN YOU THINK YOU’VE SEEN IT 

ALL, STICK AROUND FOR AN


OTHER DAY 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. MICA) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. MICA. Mr. Speaker, and my colleagues, 
when you think you’ve seen it 
all, just stick around here for another 
day. 

Yesterday, one of the most appalling 
events I’ve seen in our Nation’s Capital 
was the closing of the World War II Memorial, 
putting up barriers to stop our 
veterans from accessing that open 
space area. 

How offensive could you be? 

How much more pain do you want to 
inflict on the American people? 

Now, here is the group that closed 
the White House. This President closed 
the White House and said he didn’t 
have money to open it to the public. 

I would suggest, first of all, maybe 
we need to get a new parks director 
and fire those folks, or furlough those 
folks that can’t leave public spaces and 
memorials open to the public. What an 
offense. 

When I thought that was offensive 
yesterday morning, I came to the 
House last night and saw, again, another 
horrible offense. We passed, Republicans 
passed a measure to make 
certain that our military were paid and 
our servicemen and -women in harm’s 
way were taken care of financially. We 
saw, also, the need, afterwards to help 
our veterans. 

And last night, in one of the most offensive 
actions of the House, the other 
side of the aisle turned down an opportunity 
to keep our veterans whole. 

How offensive could you be? 

But they want to inflict pain. 

I’m telling you, folks, I’ve been 
around here a long time. I’ve never 
seen an operation like this. The chief 
of staff in the U.S. Senate—Ronald 
Reagan would pick up the phone, he 

would even call me, as a chief of staff, 
to get things going in the Senate, talk 
about things. 

He called the Senators. He would 
work with Representatives. He would 
bring them in and have communication. 


Even Bill Clinton, after I voted to 
impeach him, would work with you to 
get things done, and we got things 
done. 

We had a shutdown then. This isn’t 
the end of the world. There were 17 
shutdowns, and some good came out of 
that shutdown. It was a horrible thing. 
We don’t need to repeat them. We don’t 
need to have this one. 

But we did balance the budget. We 
balanced the budget with a Republican 
Congress working with a Democrat 
President. There’s no need for this offensive 
approach that’s being taken, 
not working, not communicating. 

b 1030 

This can and should be resolved. 
Members of Congress have that important 
responsibility and can’t neglect it. 

This is much more difficult than just 
a temporary shutdown. We’re talking 
about a permanent shutdown of the 
Federal Government. Do you think 
having a few of the Federal services 
eliminated or suspended temporarily is 
tough? 

In a few weeks, the government will 
run out of money. Why? Because these 
folks will talk to you about a budget. 
They haven’t passed a budget since 
2008. The only way we got the other 
body—the Senate—to pass a budget 
was to pass a bill to embarrass them 
that said, no budget, no pay. 

This is the group that had control of 
the House, the Senate, and the White 
House. They couldn’t even pass an FAA 
bill. There were 20 extensions. A transportation 
bill. They couldn’t pass a 
budget, and here they’re criticizing us. 

We came to work, and we worked 
until 12:30 into Sunday morning. They 
were absent without leave. The Senate 
never even came to work on Sunday. 
They came to work on Monday at 2 
o’clock in the afternoon. And then they 
rejected every offer. We offered three 
times to compromise and then we said, 
Let’s sit down. Yesterday we had a conference. 
No one showed up. You have to 
show up. The President has to be the 
President. Let him take a little of this 
Malaysia money—he’s not going to Malaysia—
and open the White House, 
open the memorials to our veterans. 
Use some of that money that he’s gaming 
the system, trying to inflict pain 
on our veterans and our citizens. 

There is no reason for this. Good people 
of good intention can come together, 
make this government work, 
make it better, pay our bills, and be responsible 
and bring this out-of-control 
spending under control and get our 
government accountable and responsible. 
That’s what the American people 
want. They’re tired of the blame game. 

Let’s get America going in a positive 
direction. I know we can do it. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6109 

WE NEED LEADERSHIP IN THE 
HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. BERA) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. BERA of California. Mr. Speaker, 
it’s day number two of a government 
shutdown. The American public is 
watching, and they’re not happy with 
what they’re seeing. 

Mr. Speaker, you are the leader of 
this body, the House of Representatives. 
You’re the Speaker of the House. 
This is a House that’s made up of both 
Democrats and Republicans. We need 
leadership at this juncture; and, Mr. 
Speaker, you are the one person who 
can bring it, but you’re not showing 
that leadership. You need to take 
Democratic and Republican ideas and 
help us move forward. 

I’m here to work. I’m a freshman, 
and I came here with the mandate to 
get Washington working again, to get 
people working again. That’s what I intend 
to do. But, Mr. Speaker, you’ve 
got to reach out to Democrats and invite 
us in to bring our ideas forward. 
You are the one person who can do it. 

I talk to my colleagues on the Republican 
side, and I’ll talk to the Republicans 
right now. We want to get the 
country moving forward, but we can 
come up with the best ideas possible, 
and there’s only one person who can 
bring that legislation to the floor. Mr. 
Speaker, that’s you. We need leadership 
at this juncture, and the country 
is watching. Enough with the Washington 
politics. 

We hear that you may shut the government 
down to play more Washington 
politics for 17 days to tie this to 
the faith and credit of the United 
States of America. You are the one person 
who’s going to do that, Mr. Speaker. 
Don’t take us down that path. Too 
many Americans are suffering. 

We need leadership at this juncture, 
Mr. Speaker. There is a clean funding 
bill on your desk. Bring it to the floor. 
Bring it to the floor and let us have a 
chance to vote up or down. That’s regular 
order. Give us a chance. It will 
keep government open for 6 or 10 
weeks. But give us a chance to vote up 
or down on that. If the Republicans 
don’t like it, fine. They’re going to 
vote against it. But give us a chance to 
bring it to the floor. And it’s not a bill 
that Democrats like, but we understand 
it’ll keep the government open 
and it’ll give us a chance to do what we 
were elected to do—pass a real budget, 
put a budget together. 

Mr. Speaker, enough is enough with 
the Washington politics. Now you’re 
going to continue playing politics and 
bring little pieces of legislation here 
and there forward when what we need 
is a big plan and leadership. Bring the 
funding bill to the floor. Let’s continue 
to pay our debt and let’s keep moving 
forward, because people are hurting. 

Mr. Speaker, I’m a doctor. The oath 
I took has two critical elements. One is 
to do good. Well, Mr. Speaker, right 
now you are not doing any good. You 

are not doing the American public any 
good. And to do no harm—the failure of 
this body and you to bring this legislation 
to the floor for us to vote on is 
doing irreparable able harm. 

And as a doctor, do you know what’s 
happening to the NIH? Do you know 
that they have to turn patients away— 
patients who have no place else to go? 
This is their last-ditch effort to get in 
there. That isn’t what we do in America. 


Mr. Speaker, you’re the one person 
who can bring this legislation to the 
floor—and do it. 

As a doctor, do you know what’s happening 
in the CDC? We’re about to 
enter flu season. God forbid we have an 
epidemic of anything. They’re laying 
off almost 70 percent of their staff. 
This is putting America in harm’s way. 

Mr. Speaker, do what my oath says 
as a doctor: do good and do no harm. 
Right now, you are doing the exact opposite. 


Let’s get Washington working again, 
and let’s put the American people first. 
We the people. This is the United 
States of America, united. That means 
we’ve got to come together as a country 
and put the people first. 

Mr. Speaker, the American public is 
watching you. 

f 

THE SENATE MUST ACT 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
MICA). The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) 
for 5 minutes. 
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, this morning, one of my 
colleagues across the aisle said—very 
accurately—in quoting another elected 
official, that everything that gets 
done, gets done in the middle. I happen 
to believe that the only type of legislation 
that really passes and lasts is that 
which is done in a bipartisan way. 
That’s why I commit in every bill that 
I author and I work on to reach across 
the aisle and find a friend to be the 
lead coauthor, and we build support on 
both sides of the aisle. 
But, Mr. Speaker, based on the comments 
of my colleague and my own personal 
beliefs, I believe that’s why this 
health care law is so flawed and has so 
many flaws in it, because it was not 
done in that spirit. It did not honor 
that principle. It was done unilaterally, 
in the most partisan way, and 
shoved upon the American people. 
It is publicly acknowledged that it 
has flaws. The majority of Americans 
are demanding fixes of the publicly acknowledged 
flaws in the health care 
law—flaws that are acknowledged by 
Republicans and Democrats alike. 
So instead of protecting perhaps the 
President’s legacy, it’s time to come 
together. Republicans are only seeking 
commonsense fixes to decrease costs 
and increase access, and fixes that are 
bipartisan and common sense. 
Last night, I was very disappointed 
on this House floor. I voted to protect 
our veterans and to protect the citizens 

of the District of Columbia. Last night, 
we had a bill that would just allow 
them to use their own money—money 
that they pay in taxes to the municipality 
that they contribute through 
the parking meters and the fines and 
the fees that they pay and just be able 
to use their own money, and also be 
able to open our monuments and our 
parks to the American tourists. And 
our American heroes, our honor flights, 
are coming in each and every day, 
World War II, part of that Greatest 
Generation. 

And yet it was defeated by votes 
from my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle for political purposes; and I 
know politics within the Beltway, but 
those were bipartisan solutions to help 
key individuals. 

Mr. Speaker, it’s troubling that the 
Senate leader has prevented consideration 
of even the most commonsense 
changes to the President’s health care 
law, including one that has bipartisan 
support and previously passed his own 
Chamber. Lawmakers on both sides of 
the aisle—in both parties—already 
have overwhelmingly rejected the medical 
device tax. 

Last year, 37 House Democrats voted 
with all Republicans to repeal the tax, 
with a large bipartisan majority of 270– 

146. In March, the Democratic-led Senate 
voted 79–20 to repeal the tax. 
The Senators from my own home 
State of Pennsylvania—one Democrat, 
Senator BOB CASEY, and one Republican, 
Senator PAT TOOMEY—supported 
the bill. In fact, Senator CASEY was its 
chief author and sponsor. 

The medical device tax repeal was 
part of the House continuing resolution. 
It was blocked was consideration 
by Leader REID. For the past 2 weeks, 
the House has worked to fund the government, 
prevent a shutdown, and protect 
the American people from the 
President’s health care law. The Senate 
has decided to drag its feet and reject 
these reasonable proposals. 

There is an appropriate way to conduct 
budget negotiations, and that is 
through the normal procedure of appointing 
a conference committee— 
that’s appointing negotiators, Republicans 
and Democrats alike, from both 
the House and the Senate—to get to 
the table and sit down and work out 
our differences. That is elementary 
civics. Unfortunately, the Senate leader 
has prevented regular order from 
proceeding. 

Mr. Speaker, I was elected to represent 
my constituents and reform government, 
and I will continue fighting 
on their behalf. Congress must act now 
to end this shutdown and get to work 
on the many challenges facing this 
great Nation. 

f 

DAY TWO OF THE GOVERNMENT 
SHUTDOWN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN) for 5 
minutes. 


H6110 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, today 
is day two of the Republican government 
shutdown. It is day two of the Republicans 
throwing a temper tantrum 
because they don’t have the votes to 
overturn the Affordable Care Act. They 
have chosen to hold the Federal Government 
hostage in order to placate a 
small, reckless, extreme faction of 
their conference. It’s shameful and it 
needs to stop. 

Already, National Parks are closed, 
Head Start facilities are beginning to 
close, and paychecks to Federal employees 
could be delayed. And if closing 
Head Start facilities wasn’t bad 
enough, shutting the government down 
could cause great harm to pregnant 
women, infants, and children. 

That’s right, Mr. Speaker. Pregnant 
women, infants, and children will begin 
feeling the impacts of this Republican 
shutdown as funding for the WIC program 
begins to lapse. There are nearly 
9 million pregnant and breastfeeding 
women, infants, and children on WIC. 
Nine million low-income people receive 
healthy food and nutrition education 
from this important and vital program. 

WIC is a critical program that provides 
food and nutrition counseling for 
low-income pregnant and breastfeeding 
women, as well as newborns and infants. 
It is a key program that helps 
pregnant and breastfeeding women 
stay healthy through proper nutrition 
and actually helps prevent many 
health issues associated with nonnutritious 
meals. 

In about a week, funding for WIC will 
dry up. Funding for food and nutrition 
education for low-income women and 
their children will be eliminated. Some 
States will see their funds dry up right 
away; and some, like Massachusetts, 
have budgeted in a way that will allow 
them to patch funds together to prevent 
major shortfalls only for a couple 
of weeks. 

I come to this floor week after week 
to talk about how we can end hunger 
now. A few weeks ago, this House of 
Representatives cut SNAP, formerly 
known as food stamps, by $39 billion. 
Year after year, Budget Committee 
Chairman PAUL RYAN tries to block 
grant SNAP, a $130 billion cut in the 
program. And a few years ago, the Agriculture 
Appropriations Subcommittee, 
chaired then by the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. KINGSTON), 
attempted to cut WIC by hundreds of 
millions of dollars. 

There’s a pattern here of trying to 
balance the budget on the backs of the 
poor, on the backs of the hungry. 
There’s a pattern here of saying to people 
who are struggling to make ends 
meet that they just don’t matter. 

The Republicans, who are forcing 
this government shutdown—those Republicans 
who are cheering on a government 
shutdown like cheerleaders at 
a pep rally—are inflicting real damage 
on real Americans. And those on the 
front lines are, unfortunately, poor 
women and their children. 

We’re not going to end hunger now by 
painting a target on their backs and 

using them to balance our budgets. Income 
disparity is currently at its 
greatest gap since the Great Depression. 
Hunger is not getting any better 
in this country. Yet the Republicans in 
the House think it’s okay to take food 
away from hungry people, including 
veterans and kids, just because they 
don’t like those programs. 

The cut in food stamps that we debated 
and voted on a couple of weeks 
ago would throw 170,000 of our veterans 
off the program—men and women who 
have served our country in battle. 
They’ll be cut from the program. 

What they are doing is wrong. It 
takes my breath away, Mr. Speaker. 

Ending hunger requires real leadership 
and not letting some right-wing 
zealots eviscerate the Federal budget 
so that the hungry in America don’t 
have the ability to put food on their tables. 
What is happening here is cold. It 
is heartless. It is unconscionable. 

We should be working to end hunger 
now instead of shutting down the Federal 
Government. The low-income 
women, infants, and children of this 
country deserve a hell of a lot better 
than they’re getting from this Republican-
led House of Representatives. 

f 

b 1045 

AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE ACT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania). The Chair 
recognizes the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. HOLT) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, the health 
care marketplaces are finally open. 
The only complaint is that people are 
so eager to learn more about their options 
and to sign up that too many people 
logged on yesterday. 

Now, to hear my colleagues from 
across the aisle describe this day, you 
might expect to look out the window 
and witness the beginning of, as 
‘‘Ghostbusters’’ once put it, 40 years of 
darkness—earthquakes, volcanos, the 
dead rising from the grave, dogs and 
cats living together, mass hysteria. 
Perhaps these warnings were overblown. 


The start of the Affordable Care Act 
resulted in exactly zero people locked 
out of their offices with their paychecks 
on hold. By contrast, the Republican 
shutdown has furloughed 
800,000 Federal employees. 

Exactly zero people yesterday were 
deprived of their annual flu shots because 
of the Affordable Care Act. In 
fact, ObamaCare has made preventive 
care for things like vaccines free, without 
copay, to insured patients nationwide. 
By contrast, the Republican 
shutdown has forced the CDC to halt 
its annual seasonal influenza program, 
just as flu season is getting underway. 

Because of the Affordable Care Act, 
exactly zero infants yesterday were deprived 
of healthy food and nutrition information. 
By contrast, the Republican 
shutdown has put at risk the entire 
Women, Infants, and Children program, 

which provides some 9 million Americans 
with the support they need to feed 
their children. 

The Republican shutdown has also 
brought to a standstill critical lifesaving 
biomedical research being conducted 
at the NIH and NSF. Exactly 
zero people yesterday went untreated 
because of the ACA for foodborne illnesses. 
By contrast, the Republican 
shutdown has forced the FDA to cease 
many of its food safety operations. 

The Affordable Care Act has not ushered 
in an era of doom and gloom that 
the Republicans promised. Instead, it 
has offered hope and opportunity for 
good health care coverage. 

Here is the reality: The ACA is helping 
my constituents who previously 
found health insurance out of reach. 
The access provided by ACA is long 
overdue. Rather than seek delay, we 
should be embracing it. 

For years I’ve been hearing from people 
like Nicole, from Lawrence, who 
writes not about the fear of the ACA 
but, rather, ‘‘the fear that the health 
care of your family will bankrupt you 
and that your lack of resources will 
leave you and your loved ones vulnerable 
to sickness and death.’’ 

Now, I also hear optimism—optimism—
that comes from the options 
that can now be found in the new marketplace. 
Just ask Mary, from Princeton, 
who wrote me earlier this week: 

Please do not allow the implementation of 
ObamaCare to be delayed. I’ve been waiting 
and waiting for a time when my adult children 
would be able to afford health insurance. 


She goes on to say that the health 
care marketplace has given her ‘‘the 
opportunity to review plans with them 
and to assist them to choose the best 
plan.’’ 

There is the single mother from 
Scotch Plains who wrote me: 

I am a registered Republican, and I am embarrassed 
by all that has been happening for 
the last few days. The Tea Party and some 
Republicans keep yelling that they’re speaking 
for the people. Well, they’re not speaking 
for me or anyone I know. 

ObamaCare must be given a chance. I have 
been without coverage since my COBRA 
ended 2 years ago. I was unable to get reasonable 
coverage at a reasonable rate. I don’t 
want charity; I’m not looking for a handout. 
I want affordable health care. I’ve been praying 
I stay healthy. I’m patiently waiting for 
the affordable care exchanges so that I can 
finally try my luck there. Please, please 
don’t let the Tea Party take this away from 
me and so many others who need it. 

Now, I wish my colleagues on the 
other side of the aisle would accept 
this as the good news that it is. I wish 
they would accept that their stories of 
doom and gloom for ObamaCare were 
wrong. But instead, we’re learning that 
the dire stories were not a prediction, 
they were a threat. 

The Tea Party, confronted with the 
prospect of a duly passed law that has 
been upheld by the Supreme Court, 
have thrown a temper tantrum. They 
have taken hostage the entire Federal 
Government, and they have sabotaged 
the process of self-government—all to 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6111 

prevent Americans from gaining access 
to affordable health care. 

Let’s make the health care law work 
as well as possible. Let’s, together, 
make our other government services— 
necessary services—work as well as 
possible. 

f 

REPUBLICAN SHUTDOWN AND ACA 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. LEE) for 5 minutes. 
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, 
here we are, day two of the Republican 
shutdown. The Tea Party extremists 
are really achieving their goal of dismantling 
government. Their shutdown 
is step one. 
It’s no secret that the Tea Party Republicans 
came here not as public servants, 
but to destroy and decimate our 
government. Now, millions of families, 
children, seniors, Federal employees, 
and our economy are paying the price. 
The Republican refusal to back off 
their extreme, ideological demands has 
taken our country down a very dangerous 
path that will surely push millions 
more into hunger and poverty. 
In my congressional district and 
throughout the State of California 
families are already feeling the impact 
of the Republican government shutdown. 
The California Women, Infants, 
and Children program is on the brink 
of turning away low-income pregnant 
women and new mothers if this shutdown 
continues. How ruthless can you 
get? 
The California National Guard, the 
largest in the Nation, is forced to furlough 
technicians and aviation mechanics, 
even as the fire season is still 
upon us. And throughout the State of 
California, eighth graders, like my constituents 
from Oakland who wrote to 
me yesterday, are cancelling field trips 
to national parks and monuments 
which are closed to visitors. What are 
they going to do now? 
To add insult to injury, Republicans 
have shut down the government because 
they are obsessed with destroying 
the Affordable Care Act, which is 
the law of the land and which the Supreme 
Court upheld. Most Americans 
continue to see how senseless and 
wrong it is to shut down the government 
because you want to deny health 
care to millions. Two wrongs don’t 
make a right. 
Despite the Republican government 
shutdown, health care exchanges established 
under the Affordable Care Act 
have successfully opened for enrollment, 
and now millions of uninsured 
Americans are just 3 months away 
from having the health care coverage 
they so desperately need. 
California, the first State to commit 
to establishing its own exchange, 
launched the Covered California exchange. 
Covered California’s exchange 
includes health care options for individuals 
and small businesses. In my 
congressional district alone, there are 
nearly 100,000 uninsured constituents, 

and the opening of the exchanges 
means that they are one step closer to 
health care coverage that can literally—
mind you, literally—make the 
difference between life and death. 

Hostage taking really is a deplorable 
tactic. Members of Congress are elected 
to make sure our government functions. 
Time and time again, Democrats 
have reached across the aisle to try to 
negotiate a budget plan that is fair and 
that ensures that the government pays 
our bills on time. Yet, instead of working 
together to do our jobs, Republicans 
continue to double down on the 
Tea Party plan to destroy and decimate 
our government. 

Instead of working on a serious option 
to reopen the government, Republicans’ 
latest strategy now—and this is 
really cynical—is to exploit our veterans 
and to exploit the people of the 
District of Columbia by voting on 
piecemeal bills that will not end impacts 
of a shutdown that extend across 
the country. 

Mr. Speaker, of course we support 
our veterans and of course we support 
our national parks and of course we 
support the District of Columbia to use 
its locally raised funds, but let’s not 
use them to score political points to 
advance an ideological agenda. 

How do Republicans vote this week 
to allow the District to use its discretion 
on local funds during a shut-
down—that they created—yet next 
week block the same funds being used 
for saving reproductive health care 
services or badly needed needle exchange 
programs to fight HIV and 
AIDS? 

Again, this is so cynical and it is so 
wrong. The American people deserve a 
functioning government. This hostage 
taking must end. 

f 

WORKING TO END GOVERNMENT 
SHUTDOWN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. MEADOWS) for 5 
minutes. 

Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I come 
here today just perplexed at what I see 
unfolding here today. My colleague 
just said that two wrongs don’t make a 
right; and indeed, she is correct. But 
today, this fight is really starting to 
get to be more political and we’re not 
focusing on the people. 

Yesterday in this very Chamber, Mr. 
Speaker, we put forth three different 
bills, one that would pay our veterans 
and make sure that those benefits continue 
to flow. And what did the Democrats 
say? They said ‘‘no.’’ One would 
open up our parks and monuments to 
be that economic stimulus once again. 
And what did the Democrats say? They 
said ‘‘no.’’ Then, even in the District of 
Columbia, where we looked, Mr. Speaker, 
at truly putting forth and allowing 
them to use some of their funds to pay 
the teachers and do some of the operations—
I can tell you, I don’t get any 
votes from the District of Columbia. 

For me, that is not a politically expedient 
thing to do, but it was the right 
thing to do. So what did we do, Mr. 
Speaker? We put forth a bill. Yet what 
did the Democrats say? ‘‘No.’’ 

I am so troubled that what we are 
seeing over and over again is this bantering 
back and forth, and yet we are 
willing to open up parts of the government 
and continue to do that every 
single day until we get everything restored. 


This is not about ObamaCare. 
ObamaCare is mandatory spending. 
This is about getting the government 
back open in a responsible way. What 
we’re doing is working very hard, trying 
to work in a bipartisan way to do 
that. 

So, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to just 
say that it is time that the Senate 
comes back to the negotiating table 
and starts to negotiate on behalf of the 
American people that they represent. 
We have a responsibility to our veterans, 
to those that serve in the Reserves. 
So today, we will see more opportunities 
in this very Chamber to 
fund those things that are precious, 
near and dear to all of us. I humbly ask 
my colleagues on the other side to join 
us, in a bipartisan effort, to start 
working for the American people and 
representing them. 

f 

THE PRICE OF PARTISAN GAMES 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Arizona (Mrs. KIRKPATRICK) for 5 minutes. 
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, 
partisan games have serious consequences. 
One of the many consequences 
is in my Arizona district 
where the Grand Canyon National Park 
is closed and our local economy is taking 
a direct hit. 
Instead of acting responsibly and 
funding the government with a clean 
bill, on Monday night the House GOP 
acted recklessly. The bill that they 
passed Monday night was so weighted 
down with partisan baggage that they 
knew it would lead to a government 
shutdown, and yet they chose this approach 
intentionally. 
The price of these partisan games is 
high and the American people are now 
stuck with the tab. Some estimates 
have the shutdown costing our Nation 
about $300 million every day. In Arizona 
and across the country, this hurts 
our working families, small business 
owners, veterans, and seniors. And this 
hurts our tribal communities. I have 12 
Native American tribes in my district. 
All of these folks need and deserve to 
have elected leaders working to help 
them, not hurt them. 
After what happened on Monday, we 
must now do the urgent work of funding 
and reopening our government. But 
instead, the House GOP is stalling with 
more games, introducing piecemeal 
bills that pick winners and losers for 
funding. Last night, they tried to do it 
with piecemeal bills for veterans and 
for national parks. 


H6112 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

I will always fight for our veterans. I 
am proud to serve them in my work on 
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee. The 
first piece of legislation I passed this 
year will help our veterans who are 
stuck in the VA backlog. 

And I will always stand up for our national 
parks. I am grateful to live near 
the Grand Canyon, a national treasure. 
My district has many of these wonderful 
destinations. I recently introduced 
a bill that will protect and expand the 
Casa Grande Ruins National Monument 
in southern Arizona. 

So my support for these issues is 
clear. But the real way to support our 
veterans and support our parks is to reopen 
the government. And if piecemeal 
is their solution, then what about making 
sure Social Security offices are 
open to help our seniors? 

b 1100 

What about making sure programs to 
help women and children are up and 
running? What about our Indian health 
services, which serves the 12 tribes in 
my district? 

We need to restart everything and 
protect our economy. Taking a piecemeal 
approach to the shutdown is like 
driving down a dead-end street. The 
House GOP knows this, and yet they 
refuse to allow a vote on a clean CR. 

We are wasting precious time. Every 
ounce of energy and urgency in Congress 
should be directed toward reopening 
the government and protecting our 
economy. Our local economies in Arizona 
are taking a direct hit. 

Yesterday, on day one of the shutdown 
in my district, busloads of tourists 
and hundreds of visitors were 
turned away from the Grand Canyon 
National Park. These folks waited a 
year or more for their turn to go on a 
river rafting trip in the canyon. There 
were even folks whose weddings, 
planned long ago, had to be scrapped 
today. 

The Grand Canyon National Park 
generates more than $1.2 million a day 
in visitor spending. That spending, like 
the government, is now shut down. 

I represent several other national 
park attractions, including the Petrified 
Forest National Park, the Grand 
Canyon Ruins National Monument, and 
the Montezuma Castle National Monument. 
These are some of Arizona’s 
most important economic drivers. We 
can’t afford to hang a ‘‘closed’’ sign out 
in front of these destinations. This 
shutdown will devastate the small 
communities in my district. 

I call on my House colleagues to stop 
the games and get to work to restart 
government. 

f 

CONTINUING RESOLUTION 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. WOODALL) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I have a 
heavy heart about this issue, as I know 
many of my colleagues do. In fact, I 
haven’t bumped into one of the 432 of 

us who is enthusiastic about the situation 
that we are in. 

I will tell you, Mr. Speaker, one of 
the things that is most troubling to me 
is the decision to define success as 
passing a CR that the Senate is dictating. 
I don’t say that because it is 
the Senate. My constituency back 
home doesn’t care about CRs. A CR is 
a continuing resolution, as you know, 
Mr. Speaker. 

The only time—the only time—a continuing 
resolution comes to the floor of 
this House is when the House has already 
failed to do the job it was supposed 
to do. That is passing appropriations 
bills, Mr. Speaker. That is appropriating 
through 12 different bills, one 
step at a time, making those decisions 
about spending priorities for the Nation. 


It is fascinating to me, Mr. Speaker, 
because it has been years—years—since 
this House has gone through that process 
not through any fault of this House, 
but because we have absolutely no activity 
on the Senate side. Again, it 
somehow is getting defined today as if 
you do things ‘‘piecemeal’’ that you 
are somehow doing something wrong. 
Again, that is regular order. Doing 
things one bill at a time is normal. 
That is what is supposed to happen. 
You are supposed to make individual 
decisions on individual bills. 

Last year, the House passed seven 
different appropriations bills, Mr. 
Speaker, one step at a time the way 
the government is supposed to be funded. 
The Senate passed one and, thus, 
the process broke down. No appropriations 
bills were passed. We have been 
funding the government through these 
continuing resolutions. Well, here we 
are again: this year, Mr. Speaker, the 
House has worked on five appropriations 
bills; the Senate has passed 
zero—zero. 

So we are here where we are today 
because the Senate hasn’t been able to 
move anything at all. It is with a 
heavy heart that I hear my colleagues 
say we could reopen services for veterans, 
but we are not going to do it because 
we have a better plan that we 
ought to do everything at once. If we 
can’t help everybody, we don’t want to 
help anybody. 

I don’t believe that is actually the 
sentiment of my friends on the other 
side of the aisle. In fact, Mr. Speaker, 
in June of this year, we came together—
we came together—in this 
House, only four votes against a Veterans 
Affairs appropriations bill. Four 
votes in this entire House of Representatives 
voted ‘‘no.’’ Everyone else voted 
‘‘yes.’’ That bill, which fully funds all 
of our veterans services, in fact, pluses 
up the funding for our veterans services 
not for 3 months, not for 3 weeks, 
but for the entire fiscal year. We 
passed that in June, Mr. Speaker, and 
it sits in the Senate dusty today having 
received no attention since June. 

I don’t know about your constituents, 
Mr. Speaker, but my constituents 
want us to get something done. They 

understand there are things that we 
disagree about, but isn’t there more 
that unites us than divides us? I tell 
you that there is. I am absolutely certain 
that there is. If the only way we 
can find it is to move one small piece 
of legislation at a time, that may not 
be the most efficient way to do it, but 
if that gets the job done, let’s get the 
job done. 

Mr. Speaker, I am tired of excuses 
and I am tired of the blame. The Rules 
Committee is going to report out a rule 
today that is going to bring these provisions 
back to the House for an opportunity 
to open up those parks that my 
colleague was talking about just a few 
minutes ago, an opportunity to serve 
our veterans, an opportunity to deal 
with the important research at NIH, 
and on and on. 

Let’s find those things we agree on. 
Let’s get something done. We can do it, 
Mr. Speaker. 

f 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. MORAN) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, this Republican 
shutdown is an outrageous abdication 
of Congress’ responsibility. It 
didn’t need to be this way. 
In fact, if the House leadership were 
to call up a clean continuing resolution 
appropriations bill today it would pass. 
There are a sufficient number of votes 
from both sides of the political aisle to 
pass the measure. So far, however, the 
House Republican leadership has refused 
to do so, afraid of extremists 
within its own caucus—the so-called 
TED CRUZ Tea Party faction—whose demand 
is to shut down the government 
until the Affordable Care Act is either 
repealed or delayed. 
So the American people’s government 
has shut down. Ninety percent of 
the employees of the Environmental 
Protection Agency have been furloughed. 
Eighty-four percent of the employees 
of the Department of Interior 
all over the country, but mostly in the 
Western States, have all been furloughed. 
Seventy percent of the employees 
of our essential intelligence 
agencies have now been furloughed. Recipients 
of the Women, Infants, and 
Children program, the most vulnerable 
mothers and children, have had their 
livelihoods jeopardized. The National 
Institutes of Health have had to turn 
away 30 children with cancer from clinical 
trials. 
We in this House must end this shutdown. 
This debate isn’t even about the 
budget. The President and the Senate 
have already agreed to trillions of dollars 
of cuts set by the so-called Ryan 
Republican budget even though this 
draconian budget will endanger basic 
government operations, it will 
disinvest in our children’s future, and 
it will trigger even more Federal employee 
furloughs and possible RIFs. 
Rather, this shutdown is about a 
measure that strengthens insurance 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6113 

coverage for the roughly 260 million 
Americans who have insurance. It will 
also eliminate preexisting conditions 
and lifetime limits and makes health 
insurance available and affordable to 
roughly 40 million uninsured Americans 
through State exchanges where 
insurance companies compete to provide 
coverage, and through expansion 
of the Medicaid program. 

The Affordable Care Act is the law of 
the land. It has been affirmed as constitutional 
by the Republican-dominated 
Supreme Court and by a 5 million 
vote majority of the American 
people with the defeat of the Presidential 
candidate who promised to repeal 
it less than a year ago. 

Regardless of where one may stand 
on the issue of the Affordable Care 
Act—aka ObamaCare—our Democratic 
process for enacting laws and setting 
policy should not be held hostage to 
the threat of a government shutdown. 
It sets a terrible precedent for the future. 


My Republican colleagues continue 
to demand concessions with serious 
long-term consequences in exchange 
for funding a spending bill for just a 
relatively few more days, another 45 
days or so. They want long-term concessions 
at their preferred inadequate 
spending levels. 

What unreasonable demands will be 
made when this latest CR expires in 2 
months or 1 month? These attempts to 
overturn the democratic results of the 
last election by threat-making and 
hostage-taking must end now. We 
should do our job, fund the government, 
and we should remove the looming 
threat to the global economy in the 
form of the expiration of the debt ceiling, 
which will occur in just a couple of 
weeks. 

Not content with the economic destruction 
and hardship brought by 
their government shutdown and their 
refusal to let the Federal Government 
play its historic role to stimulate a 
strong economic recovery, House Republicans 
continue to threaten the full 
faith and credit of the United States. 

As President Obama noted, if the tables 
were turned and you had a Republican 
President and a Democratic 
Speaker, as you did during the Reagan 
administration, neither Speaker 
O’Neill nor the American people would 
tolerate what is going on today. 

In fact, that is the situation that we 
have today—a broken Congress, a situation 
where the American people’s 
voices aren’t heard or represented. It is 
time for us to heed the American people, 
to let the majority of this Congress 
determine public policy. 

Let’s stop the extremism. Let’s be responsible. 
Let’s pass this continuing 
resolution clean and go on with the 
business of the government. 

f 

10TH AMENDMENT OF THE 
CONSTITUTION 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 

North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) for 5 minutes. 


Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, I know that 
the American people are watching 
what is happening in Washington these 
days with a little more than a passing 
interest. I am sure they wonder sometimes 
about where is the truth because 
they hear folks on one side of the aisle 
saying one thing and folks on the other 
side of the aisle saying another thing. 

When I talk to people at home, I do 
my best to explain the situation in 
Washington right now. I try to point 
out the fact that we have deep philosophical 
differences in this body and in 
the Senate. We do have two parts of 
our legislative branch of government— 
the House and the Senate. The philosophical 
differences are pretty strong 
in both bodies. 

They really stem from the beginning 
of the country. Our Founders felt very 
strongly—the majority of them, 
though—that the Federal Government 
should be weak. We, obviously, had just 
come off of getting our independence 
from Britain and we wanted to not 
have a king and we wanted not to have 
a strong central Government. 

I think the Founders were right. The 
Founders in the Constitution outlined 
the duties of our respective branches of 
government. They enumerated them. 
People will talk about enumerated 
powers. They made those powers very 
few for the Federal Government. They 
emphasized that with the 10th Amendment. 
It said: If we didn’t tell the Federal 
Government to do this in the Constitution, 
then we don’t want the Federal 
Government to do it. We leave 
those responsibilities to the States and 
to the individuals. We have gotten 
along very well, we did get along very 
well, following the Constitution for a 
long time in this country. 

Then we came about in the 1930s with 
an era of great involvement by the 
Federal Government—in my opinion 
and in the opinion of many of my colleagues—
overstepping its bounds by 
getting involved in things that are not 
mentioned in the Constitution. 

Bring us forward to the 1960s, a period 
of great activism in this country 
when many more programs were begun, 
but in the opinion of many of us, again, 
had absolutely no place in the Federal 
Government. We should not be doing 
things like running the education of 
this country out of the Federal Government 
or running health care out of the 
Federal Government. 

b 1115 
So what we have here is the result of 
these deep philosophical differences, 
and I want to say that that’s what is 
playing out here. Those of us who are 
opposed to the Federal Government’s 
running health care in this country do 
so not out of pettiness, not out of 
meanness, not out of a lack of concern 
for our fellow citizens, but because we 
want to diminish the role of the Federal 
Government in our lives. We believe 
that, once you turn health care 

over to the Federal Government, 
you’ve basically turned the lives of 
citizens over to the Federal Government, 
and that is not a good place to 
be. 

Our colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle also act as though no act of 
Congress has ever been repealed. My 
goodness, we spend a good part of our 
days here repealing bad legislation 
that somehow or another got passed 
before. So what we are doing and what 
we have been doing for the last few 
days is making every effort we can to 
repeal or to delay what is called the Affordable 
Health Care Act, which we are 
finding out is absolutely not affordable. 
That’s what we have been doing, 
but we have been unsuccessful. So we 
are trying to keep the government 
open. We have passed bill after bill 
after bill out of the House to keep the 
Federal Government open. We have 
failed in doing that in a large way, so 
we are working at doing it in minor 
ways, by passing individual bills. 
That’s what we are here to do today. 

I just came out of the Rules Committee. 
We had these bills on the floor 
yesterday—three of the five that we 
are going to vote on today. Our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle 
voted against paying our National 
Guard even though the President sort 
of quietly, Saturday night, signed a bill 
to continue to pay our troops. That 
was a bill the President said he’d never 
sign and that he wouldn’t compromise, 
that he wouldn’t negotiate. Yet, he did 
that. Now we want to keep our national 
parks open; we want to pay our 
National Guard and Reserve people; we 
want to provide local funding for the 
District of Columbia; and we want to 
keep our promises to America’s veterans. 


f 

ENOUGH IS ENOUGH 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. JEFFRIES) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
this institution after spending 6 years 
in the New York State Legislature. It 
was a very meaningful experience for 
me, notwithstanding the fact that the 
legislature in New York is sometimes 
derided as one of the more dysfunctional 
bodies in the country; but after 
witnessing the last few days here in the 
House of Representatives, it is clear to 
me that there is no more dysfunctional 
place in this country than the House of 
Representatives under the current majority 
control. 
This is a manufactured crisis that 
has unnecessarily plunged us into a 
painful government shutdown, a shutdown 
that will harm the American people. 
The House majority has placed 
children in jeopardy—tens of thousands 
shut out of the Head Start program. 
The House majority has placed seniors 
in jeopardy—unable to benefit from the 
Meals on Wheels program, partially 
funded by the Federal Government. 
The House majority with this government 
shutdown has placed expectant 


H6114 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

mothers in jeopardy and individuals 
who are now unable to get the nutritional 
assistance that might otherwise 
be available. You have placed veterans 
in jeopardy, Mr. Speaker. The House 
majority has placed families in jeopardy—
more than 800,000 hardworking 
civil servants cast out onto the streets, 
with the uncertainty to determine 
when they may be able to pay their 
bills. The House majority with this 
government shutdown has placed the 
economy of the American people in 
jeopardy. 

Enough is enough. 

I am trying to figure out who actually 
is in charge, Mr. Speaker. Are you 
in control of your conference on the 
other side of the aisle? Is it the Tea 
Party that is in control of the House of 
Representatives agenda? Is it outside 
agitators or the junior Senator from 
Texas who barks out orders on the 
other side of the aisle, and then they’re 
executed in lockstep by the extremists 
here in the House of Representatives? 
Mr. Speaker, who is in charge? Who is 
responsible on your side of the aisle for 
marching us down this dangerous path? 

I have also been struggling in trying 
to figure out why are you so angry 
about the Affordable Care Act. What is 
it that you are so upset about? Are you 
angry about the fact that tens of millions 
of previously uninsured Americans 
will have access to health care? 
Are you upset about the fact that the 
law will prevent discrimination against 
individuals, including children with 
preexisting conditions? Are you angry 
about the fact that the Medicare part 
D doughnut hole will be closed and 
that seniors all across America will 
have access to more robust prescription 
drug coverage? Are you angry 
about the fact that young people in a 
difficult economy can stay on their 
parents’ health insurance plans until 
they are the age of 26? What exactly 
are you upset about? Are you angry 
about the fact that small businesses 
will have access to tax credits—as 
much as 35 percent—in order to insure 
their employees in a manner that will 
help these small businesses grow and 
prosper? 

Enough already. 

The Affordable Care Act is the law of 
the land. It was passed by a duly elected 
Congress in 2010 with the great leadership 
of NANCY PELOSI and HARRY 
REID. You have lost legislatively, Mr. 
Speaker. The Affordable Care Act was 
determined to be constitutional by the 
Supreme Court of the United States of 
America in an opinion written by Chief 
Justice John Roberts, an individual 
nominated by George W. Bush. You’ve 
lost legally. Then the President of the 
United States of America was reelected 
last November in an electoral college 
landslide. You have lost politically, 
Mr. Speaker. 

Enough already. 

Why are we in this situation? I would 
simply ask that we pass a clean CR and 
get back to doing the business of the 
American people. 

A REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. PITTENGER) for 5 
minutes. 
Mr. PITTENGER. We were elected to 
be Representatives—to represent our 
districts, to represent our constituents, 
to listen, and to respond. 
Mr. Speaker, I have been listening. I 
have been listening to phone calls. I 
have been reading emails. I have been 
hearing what my constituents have to 
say, and I can tell you that they are 
deeply concerned. They are concerned 
with the direction of our country. Yes, 
they are concerned with a body that 
can’t seem to come together, that can’t 
seem to listen to each other. One of 
them wrote me just today. 
He said: 
I have watched with great interest the ongoing 
debate between the House and the Senate 
regarding the new Federal health care 
law. Quite frankly, I was of the opinion that 
an absolute stand by House Republicans to 
defund ObamaCare was an inappropriate step 
as compared to less drastic measures . . . 
However, in the mail today, we received a 92 
percent proposed increase from Blue Cross-
Blue Shield for our current plan in 2014. The 
explanation of the increase all boiled down 
to the changes in the insurance market required 
as a result of the full implementation 
of ObamaCare. You can easily understand 
why we are astounded that this is the best 
health care direction that our country can 
embark upon. 
I encourage you to take whatever opportunities 
come your way to stop this disaster 
that is looming. The financial impact on 
people who are not a drain on the government 
will be immense. 
Here is another one, Mr. Speaker: 
I just received a letter from Blue Cross informing 
me that my current coverage has 
been outlawed by ObamaCare and that the 
premium for my family will increase by 400 
percent if I switch to a legal coverage option. 
This increase is over $9,000 a year . . . I don’t 
care if you have to risk shutting down the 
government or defaulting on the debt. It is 
just postponing the inevitable default if 
ObamaCare is allowed to exist. 
Mr. Speaker, we are not here because 
we want to shut down the government. 
We have made every effort possible. We 
have gone to great lengths—the extra 
mile—to the other side to present to 
them alternatives, to present to them 
ways that we could come together and 
agree. We had three proposals there on 
the table. Now we have offered to go 
and sit down and talk. That’s what our 
body does. When we have disagreements 
between the House and the Senate, 
our formal agreement is to meet 
and we confer. We bring in negotiators. 
We talk, and we try to reason this out. 
We do this in our families, don’t we? 
That’s what is done in this body in the 
normal course of business. 
However, in our efforts of trying to 
bring resolution and sound reasoning 
to this process, we can’t get a response. 
They say, No, we don’t want to talk to 
you. We don’t want to reason with you. 
We don’t want to hear what your constituents 
are saying. We don’t want to 
hear the problems. We just want to 
ram this through. 

Where is that in a representative 
government? Where is that in being responsive 
to the American people? 

Mr. Speaker, if we really want good 
policy—and I have to believe that my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
truly want good policy—then we need 
to take politics out of this. We need to 
take self-service out of this. We need to 
come together like adults and sit down 
and talk this through and come up 
with a reasonable solution that would 
bring the best outcome for the American 
people. That’s what our hope is. 

We invite, still today, the leadership 
of the Senate to come and sit down and 
to conference with us—to negotiate 
with us, to lay out their concerns and 
their thoughts. Let’s be adults. Let’s 
do the right thing for the American 
people. 

f 

POLITICAL BRINKMANSHIP OVER 
RESPONSIBLE COMPROMISE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) for 5 minutes. 

Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, 
I take to the floor with a heavy 
heart, a heavy heart that is disappointed, 
frustrated and, frankly, outraged 
by our government shutdown. 

Once again, we have put partisan politics 
ahead of the needs of the American 
people; and as I stand before you 
this morning, millions of Americans 
are already suffering the consequences 
at the hands of a dysfunctional Congress. 
The legislative process that has 
resulted in this shutdown reflects a neglect 
of the responsibilities that we 
were sent here to meet. 

The House majority had a chance to 
avert the government shutdown, but 
chose political brinkmanship over responsible 
compromise. In order to 
avoid the shutdown earlier this week, 
the Senate sent the House a bill, a 
compromise spending bill, which accepted 
the Republicans’ lower funding 
levels. Instead of allowing a clean funding 
bill to come to this floor, the House 
majority, once again, attached unreasonable 
amendments which had no 
hope of gaining bipartisan support. 

Now House Republicans want to partially 
open the Federal Government, 
cherry-picking winners and losers. This 
is no way to run a government. Think 
about it: if we and all of the small businesses 
and big businesses out there 
would run their institutions the way 
we run this Congress, our economy 
would be in shambles. 

b 1130 

I hate to play the blame game, Mr. 
Speaker, but this government shutdown 
is solely the responsibility and 
the creation of House Republicans. We 
have tried to compromise, but Republicans 
time and time again have been 
using America’s tax-paying money to 
redebate again and again the Affordable 
Care Act. 

People say that House Democrats, 
the Senate, and the President should 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6115 

compromise on this. How do you extend 
a hand to a clenched fist? You 
cannot compromise when the other 
side is not willing to accept the fact 
that the Affordable Care Act is the law 
of the land. It has been debated. It has 
been voted on. It has been found to be 
constitutional. Let’s just get on with 
the American people’s business. 

I think that if we all ran our households 
and our businesses the way this 
Congress is now functioning, simply 
put, it would be unacceptable. We know 
better. We know that it’s irresponsible 
and reckless to make the American 
people pay when we don’t get our way. 
We were sent to Congress to represent 
something bigger than ourselves. We 
were sent to represent the American 
people, all of the people, all Americans, 
not just the privileged few. 

We represent every military family 
and every veteran, from the homeless 
veteran in Birmingham, Alabama, to 
those serving overseas right now. We 
represent every child in this great 
country of ours, from the child who 
will eat free lunch today because of the 
SNAP program, to the child here in 

D.C. who is enrolled in the Head Start 
program. All Americans. We were 
elected to be representatives. We need 
to start earning the title of being a 
representative by representing all of 
the people. It’s unacceptable that we 
are in this Chamber while the rest of 
government is shut down. It is unacceptable. 
Mr. Speaker, I urge that you bring to 
this House floor a clean funding bill 
unencumbered by unreasonable amendments. 
Bring a clean funding bill to 
this floor, and I guarantee you that 
both Republicans and Democrats would 
pass that bill and we would open back 
up the Federal Government. 

It’s important that we put our partisan 
politics aside and truly start representing 
the American people that 
sent us here. Let’s be representative of 
all the people. 

f 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) for 5 minutes. 
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, I 
appreciate the opportunity to address 
my colleagues today. Indeed, being in 
the middle of a government shutdown 
is something we did not want, and my 
colleagues and I on our side of the aisle 
continue to invite the Senate colleagues 
and their conferees to sit at 
the table with us and negotiate. We 
want to make certain that we work out 
the issues of our Nation’s fiscal health. 
We have to remember currently we’re 
borrowing $2 billion, $3 billion a day to 
keep the doors open. This is something 
we cannot do. It is not fair. It is not 
fair to future generations. It is not fair 
to our children and grandchildren. It is 
not fair to the small business people 
who have dreams of building a business, 
watching that business grow, 

watching those dreams come true. It is 
not fair to the future of their families. 
To our Senate colleagues, we do continue 
to ask them to join us and to negotiate 
these issues. 

There’s a lot that’s been said about 
ObamaCare, and some say, Well, it 
doesn’t have anything to do with the 
budget. You know what, Mr. Speaker? 
It has everything to do with the budget 
because of the amount of growth that 
is taking place in this program. I think 
we all remember that originally 
ObamaCare was to be a health insurance 
access program. Let’s give a pathway 
for uninsured Americans to have 
access to health insurance, a laudable 
goal, something that there was agreement 
on. Where it ran off the rails, if 
you will, was in the projections of the 
cost—far exceeding what anybody 
thought it would be—when it began to 
make $600 billion worth of cuts in 
Medicare, taking money out of Medicare, 
money that the Federal Government 
is taking out of wage earners’ 
paychecks and putting it into the pot 
that says ‘‘ObamaCare’’ and using that 
money to redirect, to stand up the 
ObamaCare program. 

There’s a problem with that. There’s 
a problem when there are mandates 
that are made on our hospitals, on our 
physicians that are paying them less. 
There’s a problem when there is $819.3 
billion of new taxes specifically embedded 
in the ObamaCare legislation, the 
law, $819.3 billion worth of new taxes 
that are going to come out of the paychecks 
of workers and be put into the 
ObamaCare pot to implement that law. 

The impact is dramatic. Even though 
the President has given 1,200 waivers 
and special favors, even though he’s 
chosen to make 19 delays of the program 
for people and entities that have 
gone to him and said, Hey, we would 
like a delay or we would like a waiver—
the list goes on and on—it is individuals, 
like my constituents, who are 
dealing with the full impact of this. 

Here are a couple of the emails that 
I have received: 

Marsha, please stop ObamaCare from happening. 


This is a small businessowner in one 
of my cities: 

It was great for me to have insurance 
through the CoverTN program for small 
business. It works great for me and others. 
It’s affordable. There’s no way I can afford 
ObamaCare. My insurance cost is going up 
five times more than what I pay now. We 
cannot afford this program. 

A small business owner who went to 
a check-cashing facility, got $400, 
started a business, and now has five locations, 
45 employees, wants to grow 
this business, and cannot because with 
a 40-hour workweek, 50 employees, it 
would cause him to have to shutter the 
doors of his five locations and do something 
different for his 45 employees. 
That is the impact that this law is having 
on a regular daily basis. 

Another constituent with a child 
with type 1 diabetes, they have utilized 
their employer’s reimbursement ac


count, $5,000 that was there. Now that’s 
going to be limited to $2,500. They are 
looking at how unaffordable the Affordable 
Care Act is going to be for 
them. 

The list goes on and on. 

f 

GARRETT LEE SMITH MEMORIAL 
ACT REAUTHORIZATION 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. 
Speaker, my colleague, Dr. BILL CASSIDY, 
a Republican from Louisiana, and 
I, introduced a bipartisan bill, H.R. 
2734, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial 
Reauthorization Act, on July 19 of this 
year. This legislation would reauthorize 
the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial 
Act to help State and local governments 
and universities to continue to 
provide and develop suicide prevention 
programs. This current bill is budget 
neutral and would revise and extend 
provisions of the original act signed 
into law by President George W. Bush 
in 2004. It is named for former-Senator 
Gordon Smith, Republican of Oregon’s 
22-year-old son Garrett whose life was 
ended in September of 2003. 

Every year, over 38,000 Americans die 
by suicide, and many more are treated 
for self-inflicted injuries that result 
from suicide attempts. As you may 
know, suicide still remains the second 
leading cause of death for our adolescents 
and young adults between the 
ages of 10 and 24, and results in 4,800 
lives lost each year according to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 


Also, the same agency reported that 
youths in grades 9 through 12, in public 
and private schools in the United 
States, found that 15 percent of students 
reported seriously considering 
suicide, 11 percent reported creating a 
plan, and 7 percent reported trying to 
take their own life. The 2010 American 
College Health Association’s National 
College Health Assessment II noted 
that 45.6 percent of the students surveyed 
reported feeling that things were 
hopeless and 30 percent reported feeling 
depressed. 

The Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act 
Reauthorization grant program has assisted 
35 tribes, 45 States, and 85 institutions 
of higher education to develop 
suicide prevention and intervention 
programs, which are often the first line 
of defense for those with this troubling 
disease of mental illness concerns, who 
are distraught and aren’t certain about 
what to do. 

Again, H.R. 2734 is budget neutral, 
and I come to the floor to ask all of my 
colleagues to cosponsor the Garrett 
Lee Smith Memorial Act. We can disagree 
on some things, but I don’t think 
we need to disagree on this. 

Please, sign up as a cosponsor. 


H6116 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. STUTZMAN) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. STUTZMAN. Mr. Speaker, I 
come to the floor today to share what 
I believe is a lack of cooperation in 
Washington, D.C. 

I come from Indiana as a farmer who 
served in the Indiana Legislature at 
times where we had divided government. 
My belief is that the only way 
you’re going to solve a problem when 
you have issues is to talk. When you 
have one party who’s at the table and 
is willing to discuss the problems that 
we face and you have another party 
who refuses to come to the table, we’re 
not going to get anything done. 

The gentleman from New York asked 
a little bit ago: Who is in charge in the 
Republican conference, is the Speaker 
of the House or the Tea Party faction? 
I’ll tell you who I believe is in charge, 
and that is our Speaker with the authority 
from the American people who 
elected each of us to come to Washington 
to represent them and to fight 
for them and to fight against an overaggressive 
Federal Government, $17 
trillion of debt, and to fight a health 
care law that only intrudes more and 
more on American lives. 

As I think about history, we have 
been in a government shutdown before. 
Under those circumstances, we had 
President Ronald Reagan, who was a 
Republican, and we had Speaker of the 
House Tip O’Neill. Speaker of the 
House Tip O’Neill shut down government 
seven different times during 
President Reagan’s time in office, but 
President Reagan didn’t just sit at the 
White House and refuse to talk. He 
didn’t go out traveling around the 
country pointing the finger back at 
Congress. He invited Tip O’Neill down 
to the White House and sat down over 
a cup of coffee and talked the problems 
out. That’s what leadership does. Leadership 
brings people to the table and 
finds a way to get the problems resolved. 


b 1145 
Here in the Western Hemisphere, we 
work—whether it’s in business, whether 
it’s in our family budgets, whether 
it’s in our family problems, we try to 
find a way for both sides to win because 
that’s how we’re going to walk 
away from the table feeling like we 
were successful and that we didn’t 
break the principles that we believe in, 
that we’re going to find a way to work 
together and it’s going to be a win-win 
for both parties. 
But right now, we’re seeing that it’s 
going to be a win-lose situation, where 
President Obama and Senator HARRY 
REID are going to say: We’re going to 
win and Republicans are going to lose. 
Because we have sent over four different 
compromises, four different proposals 
to the Senate, and what does the 
Senate do with them? They table them. 
They put them on the table and say: 
We’re not going to even negotiate. 
We’re not even going to talk. 

Now, is that what Tip O’Neill did? Is 
that what President Ronald Reagan 
did? Even after seven times, the government 
was shut down because what 
were they fighting over? Speaker Tip 
O’Neill was actually fighting for the 
Fairness Doctrine. It wasn’t over bigger 
government spending or more government 
spending or $17 trillion of debt 
or a massive, much larger health care 
program. It was over an ideology. So if 
we can’t even come to the table to talk 
about the problems that we face today, 
Washington is going to continue to be 
broken for a long time. 

I hear the frustration from my colleagues 
about the furloughs, and I sympathize 
with that because I have constituents 
in the Third District of Indiana 
who are furloughed. But at the 
same time, there have been many 
Americans who have been furloughed 
without pay, who don’t have work because 
of the uncertainty that 
ObamaCare has placed on this economy. 
And I believe that it’s time that 
we stand up for the American people 
rather than for the American Federal 
Government and start looking out for 
the people in this country and say: 
We’re with you. 

f 

CIVILITY 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. MARINO) for 31/2 minutes. 
Mr. MARINO. Mr. Speaker, I am certainly 
not going to be 31/2 minutes at 
this point. I had some notes. But that’s 
what I usually do when I get up with 
notes, go away and I try to speak from 
the heart. 
I have been watching this, and it’s 
very frustrating. And first let me say, 
there’s no one who should go without 
health insurance. I have a daughter 
who has a disease for which there’s no 
cure, none whatsoever. She will be 
lucky to live to her late twenties. So 
it’s critically important that there be a 
method by which we can get some help 
to pay for treatment, not only for her, 
but for every child out there and every 
human being. 
But aside from that, I go to the gym 
every morning at about 6:00, and I work 
out with my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle and on my side of the 
aisle. The camaraderie is extraordinary. 
We joke with each other. We 
help each other in the weight room. We 
spot each other. We talk about our 
families. We even talk about politics. 
But it’s civil. And I would really like 
to have the whole floor, as well as the 
American people, see how we communicate 
with one another in that gym in 
the morning. 
But I am asking that every person be 

civil. The Republicans have been called 
Nazis, terrorists, people that don’t 
want to take care of children and seniors—
and that’s wrong. We can have 
ideals, we can have a belief, but we 
need to be civil about it. And we need 
to give an example and show an example 
to the American people that we’re 
adults and that we can have different 
views. And that’s what a democracy is 
about. We don’t have to make it personal. 
We don’t have to aggrandize it 
to get attention, to call names. 

So I’m saying to my colleagues, I’m 
reaching across. I have not been un


civil. I will not do it. I will criticize my 
colleagues if they do it. But let’s use 
this moment to show the American 
people that we can have a dialogue, we 
can have arguments, but to keep it 
civil; because when the dust is settled, 
America is going to be better for it, 
and the Congress is going to be much 
better for it. 
f 

RECESS 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess for a period 
less than 15 minutes. 
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 49 
minutes a.m.), the House stood in recess. 


f 

b 1200 

AFTER RECESS 
The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker at 
noon. 

f 

PRAYER 
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick 

J. Conroy, offered the following prayer: 
Almighty God, we give You thanks 
for giving us another day. 
You have promised, O God, that You 
are with us wherever we are and whatever 
we are doing, to heal and to help, 
to give strength and make us whole. 

We pray that we all, and the Members 
of this assembly especially, will be 
receptive to Your promises and receive 
them with confidence and conviction 
that, armed by Your Spirit, they will 
be able to forge good solutions to the 
current impasse which promote justice, 
equity and truth. 

Pardon us as we have missed the 
mark to this point, and yet, we pray 
that we will be faithful messengers of 
Your word and steadfast stewards of all 
Your gifts. 

May all that is done today be for 
Your greater honor and glory. 
Amen. 

f 

THE JOURNAL 
The SPEAKER. The Chair has examined 
the Journal of the last day’s proceedings 
and announces to the House 
his approval thereof. 
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote 
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval 
of the Journal. 
The SPEAKER. The question is on 
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal. 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker announced that the ayes appeared 
to have it. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6117 

Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, on that 
I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8, 
rule XX, further proceedings on this 
question will be postponed. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman 
from Arkansas (Mr. WOMACK) come forward 
and lead the House in the Pledge 
of Allegiance. 
Mr. WOMACK led the Pledge of Allegiance 
as follows: 
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
The SPEAKER. The Chair will entertain 
up to 15 requests for 1-minute 
speeches on each side of the aisle. 

f 

WASHINGTON DEMOCRATS SHOULD 
NEGOTIATE 

(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, President John F. Kennedy 
once said, ‘‘Let us never negotiate out 
of fear, but let us never fear to negotiate.’’ 


House Republicans are willing to negotiate. 
House Republicans have been 
proactive in preventing a shutdown by 
passing four different pieces of legislation 
that keep the government functioning. 


Unfortunately, the President and 
Senate Democrats have slammed the 
door and have refused to come to the 
table and negotiate until—just an-
nounced—tonight. 

This sentiment is shared outside of 
Washington. Yesterday, I received a 
letter from a constituent saying: 

Refusing to come to the table, Obama and 
Reid are counting on the media lapdogs to 
blame Republicans. I understand that. Washington 
is putting incredible pressure on the 
House to cave, but the American people feel 
differently. 

We are now on Day 2 of a government 
shutdown. It’s past time for Washington 
Democrats to join House Republicans 
and work together to find a solution. 


In conclusion, God bless our troops, 
and we will never forget September the 
11th in the global war on terrorism. 

f 

SCIENCE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 
(Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 minute.) 
Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas. Mr. Speaker, the Republicans 
have forced the government to shut 
down, and it’s a disservice to the hardworking 
professionals in the Federal 
Government and to the American people. 


Our Federal agencies have a long history 
of working hard on research and 
education programs that return huge 
payoffs to the American people, both in 
economic growth and societal benefits. 

Unfortunately, 97 percent of NASA 
employees are being furloughed, and 
all public NASA events and activities 
will be ended. 

The National Science Foundation 
will make no payments for the duration 
of this shutdown. 

The Department of Energy will furlough 
nearly 7 percent of their employees, 
jeopardizing research done all over 
our national laboratories. 

Most research activities at the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology 
and the National Oceanic Atmospheric 
Administration will be suspended. 
Weather research and United 
States Geological Survey studies will 
also shut down. 

As ranking member of the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology, 
I want to highlight that our 
competitors in other countries surge 
ahead in their R&D as we shut ours 
down. We are closing the door to our 
future. 

f 

KEEP OUR MEMORIALS OPEN 
(Mr. WESTMORELAND asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.) 
Mr. WESTMORELAND. Mr. Speaker, 
I think the American people have got 
to be wondering, from maybe seeing 
some of the news reports today or yesterday, 
why we are closing some of 
these open air attractions to the American 
people that are coming to Washington. 
The World War II Memorial is open 
every day, all day long, 24/7, 365. Now 
it’s got barriers up. And because some 
Members of our side of the aisle went 
down there yesterday to allow some of 
the same people that landed on the 
beach of Normandy to go in and to see 
their memorial, today they were back 
putting up wire against those barriers. 
If you go down Rock Creek Parkway, 
where many people in D.C. come to exercise, 
to ride their bikes, to walk their 
dogs, every mile or so there’s six or 
seven parking spots where people can 
park their car, get out, exercise, walk. 
They’ve got barricades in front of 
them. 
Are we nuts? 
They’ve got barricades where people 
can’t even park to go ride. 
This is amazing, and I hope that whoever 
has given these orders will come 
forward and give the American people 
reasons why they cannot enjoy things 
open. 

f 

WE NEED A CLEAN CR TO GET 
OUR GOVERNMENT BACK TO WORK 

(Mrs. CHRISTENSEN asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, 
lawmakers should be the first to up


hold and respect the laws of our land, 
and the Affordable Care Act is a very 
important law for over 30 million people 
in every one of our districts, for our 
entire country. 

There are almost 700 Federal employees 
in my small district. Traveling yesterday, 
it was hard to see the CBP and 
TSA folks working as usual, not knowing 
if and when they’ll be paid. 

My employees, like all congressional 
employees, are under the same cloud 
and the stress that comes with it. 

Complaints began early about our 
Virgin Islands park closures. This not 
only affects NPS employees, but all of 
our small businesses, from wedding 
planners to shop and concession owners 
to taxi drivers, the entire St. John 
economy. And despite our ‘‘Open 
Beach’’ laws, the beaches in the park 
are closed to Virgin Islanders. 

In my district, already reeling from 
the shutdown of our largest private 
employer, the highest energy costs in 
the country, and reduced government 
revenues, this shutdown, if it continues 
any longer, can be the final nail in our 
economic coffin. 

The negative impact of this shutdown 
will only hurt more people and 
hurt our national economy, if it continues. 


The President and Democrats are 
willing to negotiate, but we, and the 
American people, say not like this. No 
fake, piecemeal fixes. We must have a 
clean CR now and get our entire government 
back to work. 

f 

THE MISSING ELEMENT: 
COMPROMISE 

(Mr. MCCLINTOCK asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, at 
the center of our government is a bicameral 
legislative branch, two separate 
houses specifically designed to 
have a different perspective on issues. 

Those two houses are supposed to disagree, 
and yet, ultimately, they have 
to pass the same legislation to the 
President to get anything done. 

Well, how does that happen? 

It is because, once the House and the 
Senate individually exercise their best 
judgment, they are supposed to meet to 
then resolve any differences. That is 
the only possible way that our bicameral 
system can function. Without 
this mechanism, it’s doomed to gridlock. 


And yet, the current leader of the 
Senate, and those in his thrall, have refused 
to do precisely that, to sit down 
and resolve the differences between the 
two houses through negotiation and 
compromise. Their refusal to do so is 
at the heart of this impasse that’s now 
shut down the government. 

It is time for HARRY REID to meet his 
constitutional responsibility, or for the 
Senate to find somebody who will. 


H6118 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IS AN 

ABANDONMENT OF CONGRESS’ 

DUTY 

(Ms. SINEMA asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. SINEMA. Mr. Speaker, a government 
shutdown is an abandonment of 
Congress’ duty, and it’s irresponsible. 
We must focus solely on creating a 
commonsense solution that ends this 
shutdown. 

I believe Members of Congress need 
to talk to and listen to one another, 
even when we don’t agree. I listen to 
my Republican colleagues and, while I 
don’t agree with them all the time, I’m 
open to hearing their ideas because 
this country deserves a Congress that 
finds commonsense solutions. 

I voted, over the past week, to keep 
the process moving forward, but the 
process and Washington are clearly 
broken. Nine months of cynical posturing 
has led to this shutdown, which 
is hurting hardworking Arizonans in 
my district. 

Mr. Speaker, there is no more time 
for games or gimmicks. We have to 
find a reasonable, bipartisan solution. 
We cannot end this shutdown without 
House Democrats and Republicans voting 
together. 

Let’s get to work now. 

f 

HISTORY IS MUCH DIFFERENT 

(Mr. LABRADOR asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. LABRADOR. Mr. Speaker, over 
the last few days we keep hearing 
about how Republicans are terrorists, 
Republicans have guns to everybody’s 
head. And it’s been, actually, really sad 
to hear the other side talk about these 
things. 

At this point in Ronald Reagan’s second 
term, for example, the government 
had already shut down the government 
six times, according to The Washington 
Post and according to many other articles. 
And this happened under the leadership 
of Democratic leader Tip 
O’Neill, precisely the opposite of the 
political dynamic that exists today. 

Former O’Neill staffer and MSNBC 
pundit Chris Matthews has written an 
entire book extolling the era as a time 
when politics actually worked. You can 
probably guess how he feels today 
about this. 

But the problem is that, during Tip 
O’Neill’s career, there were seven different 
shutdowns with the Democrats. 
The final shutdown of O’Neill’s career, 
according to Andrew Stiles of the National 
Review, happened in October of 
1986. House Democrats had picked a 
fight with Reagan on a number of 
issues, including labor, energy, and 
welfare policy. 

Today, Democrats insist that this 
has never happened in history, and the 
reality is that the history is much different. 


SHAMEFUL IDEOLOGICAL 
TANTRUMS 

(Ms. KELLY of Illinois asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, 
it has been 2 days since an extreme few 
in Congress put politics ahead of country 
and allowed a government shutdown. 
It’s shameful that some will 
allow ideological tantrums to take the 
place of civility and a real legislative 
agenda. 

This partisan paralysis has put us on 
pace to be the least productive Congress 
in history. We voted nearly 50 
times to repeal the Affordable Care 
Act, even though it’s been upheld by 
the highest court and reaffirmed by the 
reelection of our President. 

Yes, I said the reelection of our 
President. Some of my colleagues still 
seem to be having a hard time with the 
fact that he won. It’s time to get over 
it and move on because the most important 
issue for Americans is the 
economy. And this Congress hasn’t 
even come close to passing a jobs bill. 

The individuals holding America hostage 
with their political games claim 
they’re doing so because they want 
their voices to be heard. 

Well, my constituents also want to 
be heard. Their message is loud and 
clear: End this irresponsible shutdown 
and get back to the business of rebuilding 
our economy, restoring the American 
Dream, and rehabilitating our reputation 
with the American people. 

Let’s act now and end this shutdown 
today. 

f 

WE NEED A REASONABLE 
PROPOSAL 

(Mr. LANKFORD asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. Speaker, I hear 
from folks all the time—we need to 
have a reasonable proposal to be able 
to end this. Well, how about this for a 
reasonable proposal. 

There are lot of people that are concerned 
about the penalties and the effects 
that are coming down on them in 
the next year. People have reasonable 
questions about how this is going to 
happen. 

Am I going to sign up right? 

Am I going to have a problem? 

So let’s do this. Let’s take, for the 
first year, just take the penalties away 
from individuals; that if you make a 
mistake on filing of your ObamaCare, 
or if you have real problems with it, for 
the first year you won’t have to pay 
those penalties. Just for the first year. 

And then also, here’s something else 
reasonable: How about Members of 
Congress and the White House have to 
live under the same rules that every 
American does dealing with 
ObamaCare? 

Is that a reasonable proposal? 

Well, that happens to be the proposal 
that we have on the table right now— 

that if someone makes a mistake on 
their filing of ObamaCare, or they 
don’t want to do it this first year, they 
won’t face penalties the first year. 

Every Member of Congress and all of 
the White House will have to be in the 
exchanges, just like every other American 
that’s out there that’s required to 
be in that. We think that’s a reasonable 
proposal. 

For my colleagues that support 
ObamaCare, I am amazed they’re fighting 
like crazy to not be in it. 

At this point, we should meet face-
to-face. I was pleased to see the President 
say he wants to meet, was disappointed 
to see he wants to meet to 
say he won’t negotiate. 

Let’s meet face-to-face and solve 
this. 
f 
b 1215 

NO NEW PATIENTS, NO NEW 
CLINICAL TRIALS 

(Mr. HIGGINS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. HIGGINS. Mr. Speaker, instead 
of waging a war on cancer, the Republican 
Tea Party is waging a war on 
cancer patients. 

The Tea Party shutdown will deny 
200 patients a week—30 of them kids— 
treatment at the largest research hospital 
in the world, the National Institutes 
of Health. These are often last-
chance cancer treatments that offer 
the only hope for kids who are stuck 
with cancer. 

And why did the Tea Party shut 
down the government? Because they 
oppose the Affordable Care Act. This is 
a law that says that never again can 
insurance companies deny coverage for 
a family with a kid who is stuck with 
cancer. Under the Affordable Care Act, 
no family will go bankrupt because of 
cancer. And this is the bill the Tea 
Party is so furious about. 

What’s more, the Tea Party budgets 
have decimated cancer research. NIH 
used to fund 33 percent of applications 
for promising research; today, it’s 16 
percent. The shutdown is stopping cancer 
research at Roswell Park and 
across the country. 

I hear we may take another fake vote 
tonight to restore funding to the National 
Institutes of Health. This is disgusting. 
This bill will continue the sequester 
assault on cancer research. 

I would remind my colleagues that 
for families and kids fighting cancer, 
the only failure in cancer research is 
when you are forced to quit because of 
a Tea Party Federal Government shutdown. 


f 

TIME FOR SENATE TO EMBRACE 

#FAIRNESSFORALL, TIME TO RE


OPEN GOVERNMENT 

(Mr. ROTHFUS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 



October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6119 

Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, 10 
months ago, I came to Washington, 
D.C., as the new employee of 705,000 
people in western Pennsylvania. 

Before I came to Washington, I heard 
about inside deals that happened in 
this town. I saw some of these deals 
when President Obama cut special 
breaks for Big Business and Senators 
and Representatives. What the President 
left out was a break for the American 
people. 

It’s just not fair. It’s an outrage. 

Western Pennsylvanians are right 
frustrated with Washington, D.C. It 
seems that HARRY REID and the Senate 
are intent on keeping the government 
shut down so they can protect the special 
breaks they cut for themselves and 
for their friends and allies. 

Mr. Speaker, I’m here to deliver a 
message from my constituents to the 
Senate: no special deals. If Big Business 
and President Obama’s friends get 
a break from the health care law, then 
so should individuals and families in 
western Pennsylvania and around the 
Nation. 

It’s time for the Senate to embrace 
fairness for all. It’s time to reopen the 
government. 

f 

OPENING DAY FOR THE AFFORD


ABLE CARE ACT IN CON


NECTICUT 

(Mr. COURTNEY asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, yesterday 
was opening day for the Affordable 
Care Act in the State of Connecticut. 
Despite the hysterical predictions 
on the other side, where you 
would have thought the Four Horsemen 
of the Apocalypse would be riding 
through the streets of New London, 
Norwich, and Hartford, instead, the 
headlines this morning were: 

Enrollment better than expected on exchange’s 
first day. 

Forty-five thousand people contacted 
the Connecticut exchange. Hundreds 
enrolled. They didn’t wait until January 
to begin the process of getting 
health coverage. 

One of them was a lady named Elly 
Banos, 48 years old, who said she’s been 
without coverage for a year and half 
due to a layoff. She’s been holding her 
breath and ‘‘thanking God every day 
that I don’t get sick or get into a car 
accident.’’ She was excited to learn 
that she could get good individual coverage 
for a month or qualify for the expanded 
Medicaid coverage. 

Another, Babz Ivy, said that she has 
gone to bed ‘‘with a prayer on my lips, 
asking God to keep me healthy and in 
no need of medical attention.’’ 

‘‘Today was amazing,’’ Ivy said. ‘‘I 
felt so empowered and in control of my 
health.’’ 

The fact of the matter is these are 
the targets of the shutdown effort. It’s 
not President Obama or Democrats in 
Congress. It’s people like Elly Banos 

and Babz Ivy that we need to protect 
by keeping this government open and 
allowing people to get access to health 
care for the first time in American history. 


f 

TIME TO TALK 
(Mr. MESSER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. MESSER. Mr. Speaker, President 
Obama is willing to negotiate with 
Syria’s dictator. The President made a 
phone call last week to open negotiations 
with Iran’s new leader. But yesterday, 
the President held a press conference 
in the Rose Garden to talk 
about why he’s not willing to talk to 
House Republicans about ending this 
shutdown. 
The President should follow President 
Kennedy’s example. President 
Kennedy famously said: 
We should never negotiate out of fear, but 
we should never fear to negotiate. 
If we talk, we can surely find a solution 
that reopens the Federal Government 
and protects the American people 
from ObamaCare; but we need the 
President and our Democratic colleagues 
at the negotiating table. 

f 

PASS A CLEAN FUNDING BILL 
(Ms. TSONGAS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Ms. TSONGAS. Mr. Speaker, the Federal 
Government is shut down today 
for one reason: we in the House have 
been denied any chance of voting on 
the clean funding bill passed by the 
Senate. 
Four times now, House leaders have 
demanded that we dismantle a democratically 
enacted and Supreme Court-
upheld law as their ransom, but not 
once have they allowed us to vote on 
the Senate’s bill. 
This recklessness has real consequences. 
At military installations in 
my home State of Massachusetts, thousands 
of civilian employees who support 
our Nation’s servicemembers have 
already weathered furloughs. Now they 
and their families are being punished 
yet again. 
The path forward is clear: vote on the 
Senate-passed CR and send it to the 
President today, put the government 
back to work, negotiate on a long-term 
budget, and work together to fine-tune 
the Affordable Care Act. With yesterday’s 
opening of the exchanges, we saw 
the tremendous need and response. 
I urge the Speaker to do the responsible 
thing: bring us a vote on a clean 
funding bill. 

f 

DEMAND FAIRNESS 
(Mrs. WAGNER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, moments 
ago, I joined veterans from all 

over Missouri’s Show Me State at the 
sacred grounds of our Nation’s World 
War II Memorial. This memorial is a 
monument to the spirit and sacrifice of 
our veterans, and yet HARRY REID and 
the President decided to slam the door 
on the American people and block the 
House from providing benefits to our 
Nation’s heroes and keeping our national 
treasures open. 

Time and time again, the House has 
voted to keep the government open and 
provide fairness for all Americans— 
fairness from an administration that 
believes they can pick and choose 
which laws to enforce, while subjecting 
the American people to the heavy burdens 
of ObamaCare; fairness from a 
President who thinks ObamaCare 
doesn’t apply to Members of Congress 
or the White House. 

As a result of partisan bickering and 
gridlock, I have waived my salary for 
the duration of the government shutdown 
because Congress didn’t get the 
job done. Those who make the laws 
should live by the laws, and I will continue 
to fight for the people of Missouri’s 
Second District. 

f 

FAIRNESS IS NOT SHUTTING 
DOWN THE GOVERNMENT 

(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, so often 
we hear our colleagues saying, We 
come here to Congress to protect and 
to represent the American people. 
Well, the American people have spoken. 
They have asked us to open the 
doors of government, not shut them. 

Mr. Speaker, I say to you that we 
cannot let you have a few of your Republican 
Members hold the government 
hostage because they dislike this President 
or they dislike the Affordable 
Care Act. 

We cannot piecemeal this funding 
cycle, because fairness is not letting 
children starve. Eleven States will not 
be able to have grants for Head Start. 
The NIH has announced that they are 
not going to be able to have clinical 
trials for hundreds of patients. Thirty 
of those cancer patients are children. 

Fairness is not starving small businesses. 
Fairness is not piecemealing it. 
It’s like having a large family and asking 
the parents to pick three children 
to feed and let the others starve before 
their eyes. 

We are starving America, we are 
starving government. And I say to my 
Republican colleagues, fairness is not 
shutting down the government. 

f 

ANTI-GOP VANDALISM 
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, the 
25th District of Texas is home to the 
Texas State Capitol, the University of 
Texas, the Comanche Peak nuclear 


H6120 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

plant, the Barnett shale, the dairy 
farms in great Texas, and the largest 
military installation in the country, 
Fort Hood, Texas. 

It’s a shame that the level of discourse 
in our Nation has come to this— 
that my district office in Cleburne, 
Texas, would be the victim of hateful 
anti-Republican vandalism by anonymous 
individuals. 

House Republicans have been called 
extortionists, terrorists, drunks, kidnappers, 
anarchists, and the list goes 
on. 

I understand that this government 
shutdown has caused uncertainty and 
tension for hundreds of thousands of 
Americans, but this type of behavior 
cannot and will not be tolerated. 

We are the United States of America, 
and it’s time for the Senate, the White 
House and the House to come to the negotiating 
table, unite and figure out 
this problem we have for all Americans. 
The sooner the better. 

In God we trust. 

f 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 
(Mr. CICILLINE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, we’re 
now in our 37th hour of the House Republican 
shutdown; 800,000 Federal employees 
have been furloughed from 
their jobs; 800,000 Americans don’t 
know how they’ll be able to pay their 
bills and provide for their families because 
Speaker BOEHNER refuses to 
stand up to the extremists in his own 
party. 
I keep hearing people say the Speaker 
is just doing what he has to do because 
of the Tea Party, but the fact is 
that a real leader wouldn’t jeopardize 
the jobs and livelihoods of 800,000 
Americans to save his own. 
That’s what this is all about. This is 
about one man standing in the way of 
ending the shutdown. 
It’s time for Speaker BOEHNER to find 
the courage to end the Republican crusade 
against health care reform and 
Federal workers by bringing a clean 
funding bill to the floor, which will 
pass with bipartisan support, and demonstrate 
to the American people we 
can work together to get things done. 
It’s time for the Speaker to do what’s 
right for our country: reopen the government 
and be the Speaker of the 
United States House of Representatives, 
not simply the Speaker of the 
Republican Party. 

f 

VETERANS 
(Mr. PITTS asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. PITTS. Mr. Speaker, right now 
we have wounded warriors and veterans 
needing medical care, wondering 
whether they will receive all the care 
they’re entitled to. These are men and 
women who have suffered for our Nation 
to keep us free and safe. 

It is a shame that last night we could 
not agree to fully fund operations for 
Veterans Affairs. The House passed a 
full Veterans appropriations bill in 
June, with a vote of 421–4. That bill was 
never taken up in the Senate. 

If we cannot have our conferees negotiate 
on a full bill to open back up the 
government, we will act to protect the 
must vulnerable. 

Today, we will again consider this 
bill. I hope that the dozens of my 
Democratic colleagues who supported 
this sensible measure last night will 
continue to stand with us. We have to 
make sure that we are serving those 
who served us on the field of battle. 
Wounded warriors should not be used 
as pawns in this political bickering. 

f 

BIPARTISAN APPROACH TO 
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 

(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 

Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr. 
Speaker, instead of working with 
Democrats and Republicans to find a 
bipartisan budget solution, Monday 
night the Speaker made the reckless 
and irresponsible decision to shut down 
the government. This did not have to 
happen. 

There is bipartisan support in the 
House for the Senate-passed legislation. 
Let’s come together and solve 
this crisis now. Every moment we wait, 
it hurts small businesses trying to 
apply for startup loans; it hurts our 
veterans applying for pension, disability, 
education, and job training 
benefits; and it could send our very 
fragile economy back into a recession. 

I came to Congress to create jobs, to 
grow our economy, and to move my 
county, Ventura County, and my country 
forward. 

The Speaker must allow the House to 
simply vote on the responsible Senate-
passed plan to get the government 
working again for the American people. 

f 

b 1230 

GOVERNMENT CAN OPEN TODAY 

(Mr. TIPTON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. TIPTON. Mr. Speaker, better 
than a day ago this House acted in a bipartisan 
manner to be able to fund government, 
to make sure that Members 
of Congress have to abide by the same 
laws that they pass, to make sure that 
individuals, just like big businesses, 
are going to be treated fairly under the 
Affordable Care Act, and to fully fund 
government. This passed with bipartisan 
support out of the House of Representatives. 


The offer is there. Government can 
open today. Senator REID just needs to 
pick up the phone and answer the call 
to make sure that we’re working together 
in that bipartisan fashion, as we 

demonstrated in the House of Representatives, 
to work for the American 
people. 

Government can open today. Senator 
REID just needs to pick up the phone 
and listen to the voice of the House of 
Representatives. Let’s make sure that 
the laws that we pass apply to Congress 
and that all Americans are treated 
fairly. 

f 

THE TEA PARTY IS WORRIED 
(Mr. CARTWRIGHT asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, so 
the Tea Party has successfully shut 
down the operations of the Federal 
Government. And why have they done 
it? Well, they’ve done it because 
they’re worried: 
They’re worried about the danger 
that the Affordable Care Act is going 
to work and people are going to like it; 
They’re worried about the danger 
that people with preexisting conditions 
are going to be covered; 
They’re worried about the danger 
that women are going to qualify for 
preventative health care services; 
They’re worried about the danger 
that children living at home up to age 
26 are going to be covered under their 
parents’ insurance policies; 
They’re worried about the danger 
that seniors are going to save money 
on their prescription drugs as the 
Medicare part D doughnut hole closes. 
What they’re worried about is that 
the Affordable Care Act is going to 
work and people are going to like it. 
Mr. Speaker, the Tea Party thinks 
these things are dangerous, so they 
shut down the government. But with 
all respect, I say to you, it is the Tea 
Party—it is the Tea Party, itself. They 
are the danger. 

f 

THE HOUSE WILL CONTINUE TO 
LEAD TO FIX PROBLEMS 

(Ms. FOXX asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, last night I 
voted to stop shutdown policies that 
are delaying veteran benefit applications 
and shuttering national parks 
and memorials. But those measures 
failed to pass because the President 
threatened a veto and more than 160 
Democrats voted to stop them. That 
dumbfounds me. 

Days ago, the President signed similar 
legislation to protect pay for Active 
Duty military members throughout 
any shutdown, why not now? 

Surprise. Republicans and Democrats 
have policy differences, but we 
shouldn’t differ here. Correcting problems 
for veterans, military families, 
the National Institutes of Health, and 
visitors to national parks—including 
the World War II Memorial and North 
Carolina’s Blue Ridge Parkway—is 
common sense and provides common 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6121 

ground for Democrats and Republicans 
to make some progress toward solving 
this shutdown. 

The President’s and Senate’s refusal 
to work with us to reopen the government 
has consequences well beyond 
Washington. If they won’t contribute 
to a bipartisan solution to stop the 
pain, we’ll continue to take the lead to 
fix problems for the American people. 

f 

GOP SHUTDOWN 

(Ms. MCCOLLUM asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 

Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, well, 
here we are, the day my Republican 
colleagues have warned about for 
years, the day after ObamaCare. So 
what happened? Did the sky fall? Did 
insurance markets crash? No, of course 
not. Instead, health care marketplaces 
across the Nation went live. Millions of 
Americans logged on to learn about affordable 
health care plans. They gathered 
information to make decisions 
about what plan best meets their 
health care needs. 

Yes, some glitches need to be fixed, 
and we knew that would happen, but 
yesterday was not the end of the world. 
It was the beginning. It was the first 
step. 

The Tea Party, 46 times they attempted 
to shut down the Affordable 
Care Act. They stopped no one from 
being able to make good decisions on 
health care plans. 

So I urge my colleagues, commonsense 
Republicans and Democrats can 
still come together to stop this reckless 
GOP—the Grand Ole Party—from 
shutting down our government. Let’s 
pass a clean CR. 

f 

FORT BRAGG SUFFERING DUE TO 
PRESIDENT’S INACTION ON LAW 

(Mrs. ELLMERS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. ELLMERS. Mr. Speaker, I have 
the distinct honor and privilege to represent 
Fort Bragg in my district; and I 
found out yesterday evening that, despite 
passing funding to keep our military 
paid and to keep our military civilians 
paid, there have been over 7,000 
Fort Bragg civilian employees furloughed. 
Now, I find this very interesting 
there again because the President 
signed this very bill into law Monday, 
and here we have a situation 
where I have needless—needless—suffering 
happening in my district. 

I have a letter from Chairman BUCK 
MCKEON, chairman of the House Armed 
Services Committee, to the Department 
of Defense on clarification of 
this, that I would like to read: 

The text does not limit the provision of 
pay to civilians who were previously categorized 
by the administration as ‘‘excepted’’ 
or ‘‘essential’’ for the purposes of 
Department of Defense operations in the 
event of a government shutdown. 

We passed H.R. 3210, the Pay Our 
Military Act, sponsored by my colleague 
from Colorado (Mr. COFFMAN). 

f 

MAJORITY CR AND WOMEN’S 
HEALTH 

(Mrs. DAVIS of California asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.) 

Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, 
not only has the majority chosen to 
shut down vital government functions 
that all Americans depend on, but they 
have specifically and unabashedly targeted 
women. 

Some of my colleagues are willing to 
gamble with the livelihoods of millions 
of public servants simply to ensure 
that women do not have access to affordable 
contraception and preventative 
health care. They are willing to 
sabotage our government to prevent 
prenatal checkups and cancer 
screenings. They would risk our economic 
recovery to make sure that 
women will pay more for health care 
than men. 

The government shutdown has already 
taken a toll on women and children 
by slashing funding for vital nutritional 
and clinical services. We cannot 
allow this shutdown to be used to 
strip away all of the gains the ACA 
made for women’s health. Do they really 
want pregnancy to be a preexisting 
condition again? And are they willing 
to shut the place down to stop women 
from being able to pay for health care? 

Enough, Mr. Speaker. Bring on a 
clean funding bill, open the government, 
and let it pass for all of our 
sakes. 

f 

REPUBLICAN MAJORITY HAS ABDICATED 
THEIR RESPONSIBILITY 

(Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, the 
Republican majority has abdicated 
their responsibility. Make no mistake: 
a small faction of the Republican Party 
is holding our economy hostage to get 
their way. 

Just 36 hours into this shutdown and 
the American people are already feeling 
the consequences. Hundreds of 
thousands of Federal workers across 
the country are being furloughed without 
pay. Soon, women who rely on WIC 
will begin losing benefits. Our national 
parks are closed. Important biomedical 
research and environmental work is 
being delayed. 

Make no mistake: this could all end 
today. If leadership would allow a sim


ple up-or-down vote on the Senate-
passed CR, this would all be over. 

But this has never been about budgeting. 
This is about a single-minded obsession 
with repealing a law Congress 
passed, the Supreme Court upheld, and 
that was reaffirmed by the American 
people in the last Presidential election. 

That fight is over. Even with the government 
closed yesterday, health exchanges 
were open and uninsured 
Americans began purchasing coverage. 

f 

PASS SENATE CR TODAY 

(Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 

Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New 
York. Mr. Speaker, the path to ending 
this shutdown right now is clear: bring 
up the clean Senate-passed CR for a 
vote. That would end this manufactured, 
self-inflicted crisis immediately. 

These piecemeal attempts at deflection 
offered by my friends on the other 
side of the aisle are wretched governance. 


Compromise is built into our Constitution, 
and the Senate-passed CR is 
itself a compromise. It accepts the annual 
spending level of $986 billion, 
roughly $70 billion less than what the 
Senate endorsed in its budget plan earlier 
this year. 

Again, this manufactured crisis could 
end right now by voting on the clean 
Senate continuing resolution today. 

According to Moody’s, a shutdown 
that lasts even 3 or 4 days will cost the 
economy approximately 0.2 percentage 
points of the annual GDP growth in the 
fourth quarter. And the consequences 
only get worse, as the shutdown continues, 
on our economy. This completely 
avoidable contraction is the opposite 
of policies we need to create jobs 
and strengthen and grow our economy. 

We need to pass a clean CR today. 

f 

RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WOMACK). Pursuant to clause 12(a) of 
rule I, the Chair declares the House in 
recess subject to the call of the Chair. 

Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 40 
minutes p.m.), the House stood in recess. 


f 

b 1340 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. YODER) at 1 o’clock and 
40 minutes p.m. 


H6122 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

REPORT ON RESOLUTION PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF 

H.J. RES. 70, NATIONAL PARK 
SERVICE OPERATIONS, SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, NATIONAL 
GALLERY OF ART, AND UNITED 
STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL 
MUSEUM CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014; 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.J. RES. 71, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014; 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.J. RES. 72, VETERANS BENEFITS 
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014; PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF 
H.J. RES. 73, NATIONAL INSTITUTES 
OF HEALTH CONTINUING 
APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 
2014; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.R. 3230, PAY OUR 
GUARD AND RESERVE ACT; AND 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE 
RULES 
Mr. WOODALL, from the Committee 
on Rules, submitted a privileged report 
(Rept. No. 113–241) on the resolution (H. 
Res. 370) providing for consideration of 
the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 70) making 
continuing appropriations for National 
Park Service operations, the 
Smithsonian Institution, the National 
Gallery of Art, and the United States 
Holocaust Memorial Museum for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes; providing 
for consideration of the joint 
resolution (H.J. Res. 71) making continuing 
appropriations of local funds of 
the District of Columbia for fiscal year 
2014; providing for consideration of the 
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) making 
continuing appropriations for veterans 
benefits for fiscal year 2014, and for 
other purposes; providing for consideration 
of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 

73) making continuing appropriations 
for the National Institutes of Health 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes; 
providing for consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 3230) making continuing 
appropriations during a Government 
shutdown to provide pay and allowances 
to members of the reserve components 
of the Armed Forces who perform 
inactive-duty training during 
such period; and providing for consideration 
of motions to suspend the rules, 
which was referred to the House Calendar 
and ordered to be printed. 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H. RES. 370, NATIONAL PARK 
SERVICE OPERATIONS, SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTION, NATIONAL 
GALLERY OF ART, AND UNITED 
STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL 
MUSEUM CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014; 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.J. RES. 71, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014; 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.J. RES. 72, VETERANS BENEFITS 
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014; PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF 

H.J. RES. 73, NATIONAL INSTITUTES 
OF HEALTH CONTINUING 
APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 
2014; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.R. 3230, PAY OUR 
GUARD AND RESERVE ACT; AND 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE 
RULES 
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on Rules, I 
call up House Resolution 370 and ask 
for its immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
Providing for Consideration of the Joint 
Resolution (H.J. Res. 70) Making Continuing 
Appropriations for National Park Service 
Operations, the Smithsonian Institution, the 
National Gallery of Art, and the United 
States Holocaust Memorial Museum for Fiscal 
Year 2014, and for Other Purposes; Providing 
for Consideration of the Joint Resolution 
(H.J. Res. 71) Making Continuing Appropriations 
of Local Funds of the District of 
Columbia for Fiscal Year 2014; providing for 
Consideration of the Joint Resolution (H.J. 
Res. 72) Making Continuing Appropriations 
for Veterans Benefits for Fiscal Year 2014, 
and for Other Purposes; Providing for Consideration 
of the Joint Resolution (H.J. Res. 

73) Making Continuing Appropriations for 
the National Institutes of Health for Fiscal 
Year 2014, and for Other Purposes; Providing 
for Consideration of the Bill (H.R. 3230) Making 
Continuing Appropriations During a Government 
Shutdown To Provide Pay and Allowances 
to Members of the Reserve Components 
of the Armed Forces Who Perform In-
active-Duty Training During Such Period; 
and Providing for Consideration of Motions 
To Suspend the Rules 
October 2, 2013.—Referred to the House Calendar 
and ordered to be printed 
Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on 
Rules, submitted the following report 
[to accompany H. Res. 370.] 

The Committee on Rules, having had under 
consideration House Resolution 370, by a 
record vote of 9 to 3, report the same to the 
House with the recommendation that the 
resolution be adopted. 

SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS OF THE RESOLUTION 
The resolution provides closed rules for 

H.J. Res. 70, H.J. Res. 71, H.J. Res. 72, H.J. 
Res. 73, and H.R. 3230. The resolution provides 
30 minutes of debate on each measure 
equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations. The resolution 
waives all points of order against consideration 
of each measure and provides that each 
measure shall be considered as read. The resolution 
waives all points of order against 
provisions in each measure. The resolution 
provides one motion to recommit each measure. 


Section 4 of the resolution provides that it 
shall be in order at any time through the 
calendar day of October 6, 2013, for the 
Speaker to entertain motions that the House 
suspend the rules and that the Speaker or his 
designee shall consult with the Minority 
Leader or her designee on the designation of 
any matter for consideration pursuant to 
this section. 

EXPLANATION OF WAIVERS 

The waiver of all points of order against 
consideration of H.J. Res. 70, H.J. Res. 71, 

H.J. Res. 72, H.J. Res. 73, and H.R. 3230 includes 
a waiver of clause 11 of rule XXI, prohibiting 
the consideration of a bill or joint 
resolution which has not been reported by a 
committee until the third calendar day (excluding 
Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays 
except when the House is in session on 
such a day) on which such measure has been 
available to Members, Delegates, and the 
Resident Commissioner. 
The waiver of all points of order against 
consideration of H.J. Res. 73 and H.R. 3230 
also includes a waiver of Clause 9(a)(2) of 
rule XXI, which prohibits consideration of a 
bill or joint resolution not reported by a 
committee, unless the chair of each committee 
of initial referral has caused a list of 
congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, 
and limited tariff benefits in the bill or 
a statement that the proposition contains no 
congressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, 
or limited tariff benefits to be printed in 
the Congressional Record prior to its consideration. 
However, it is important to note 
that the chair of the Committee on Appropriations 
submitted an earmark statement 
to the House on October 2, 2013 for printing 
in the Congressional Record. The statement 
affirms that the measures do not contain 
any earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited 
tariff benefits under the meaning of the 
rule. 

Although the resolution waives all points 
of order against provisions in H.J. Res. 70, 

H.J. Res. 71, H.J. Res. 72, H.J. Res. 73, and 
H.R. 3230, the Committee is not aware of any 
points of order. The waiver is prophylactic in 
nature. 
COMMITTEE VOTES 

The results of each record vote on an 
amendment or motion to report, together 
with the names of those voting for and 
against, are printed below: 

Rules Committee record vote No. 78 

Motion by Ms. Slaughter to make in order 
the clean Senate Continuing Resolution so 
we can send it to the President for his signature 
today. Defeated: 3–9 

Vote 

Majority Members: 
Ms. Foxx .................................................................................... Nay 
Mr. Bishop of Utah ................................................................... Nay 
Mr. Cole ..................................................................................... Nay 
Mr. Woodall ............................................................................... Nay 
Mr. Nugent ................................................................................ Nay 
Mr. Webster ............................................................................... Nay 
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen ...................................................................... Nay 
Mr. Burgess ............................................................................... Nay 
Mr. Sessions, Chairman ............................................................ Nay 

Minority Members: 
Ms. Slaughter ............................................................................ Yea 
Mr. McGovern ............................................................................ Yea 
Mr. Hastings of Florida ............................................................. Yea 
Mr. Polis .................................................................................... — 

Rules Committee record vote No. 79 

Motion by Ms. Foxx to report the rule. 
Adopted: 9–3 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6123 

Vote 
Majority Members: 
Ms. Foxx .................................................................................... Yea 
Mr. Bishop of Utah ................................................................... Yea 
Mr. Cole ..................................................................................... Yea 
Mr. Woodall ............................................................................... Yea 
Mr. Nugent ................................................................................ Yea 
Mr. Webster ............................................................................... Yea 
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen ...................................................................... Yea 
Mr. Burgess ............................................................................... Yea 
Mr. Sessions, Chairman ............................................................ Yea 
Minority Members: 
Ms. Slaughter ............................................................................ Nay 
Mr. McGovern ............................................................................ Nay 
Mr. Hastings of Florida ............................................................. Nay 
Mr. Polis .................................................................................... — 

H. RES. 370 
Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution 
it shall be in order to consider in the 
House any joint resolution specified in section 
2 of this resolution. All points of order 
against consideration of each such joint resolution 
are waived. Each such joint resolution 
shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in each such joint 
resolution are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on each such 
joint resolution and on any amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) 30 minutes of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations; and (2) one motion 
to recommit. 
SEC. 2. The joint resolutions reffered to in 
the first section of this resolution are as follows: 


(a) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 70) making 
continuing appropriations for National 
Park Service operations, the Smithsonian 
Institution, the National Gallery of Art, and 
the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes. 
(b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 71) making 
continuing appropriations of local funds 
of the District of Columbia for fiscal year 
2014. 
(c) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) making 
continuing appropriations for veterans 
benefits for fiscal year 2014, and for other 
purposes. 
(d) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 73) making 
continuing appropriations for the National 
Institutes of Health for fiscal year 
2014, and for other purposes. 
SEC. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it 
shall be in order to consider in the House the 
bill (H.R. 3230) making continuing appropriations 
during a Government shutdown to provide 
pay and allowances to members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who 
perform inactive-duty training during such 
period. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered 
on the bill and on any amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) 30 minutes of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations; and (2) one motion 
to recommit. 

SEC. 4. It shall be in order at any time 
through the calendar day of October 6, 2013, 
for the Speaker to entertain motions that 
the House suspend the rules as though under 
clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee 
shall consult with the Minority Leader 
or her designee on the designation of any 
matter for consideration pursuant to this 
section. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Georgia is recognized for 1 
hour. 

b 1345 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, for the 
purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to my friend from 
New York (Ms. SLAUGHTER), pending 
which I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. During consideration of 
this resolution, all time yielded is for 
the purpose of debate only. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise 
and extend their remarks. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Georgia? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, we’re 
here today because we don’t have a 
‘‘my way or the highway’’ system of 
government. We have a system of government 
that requires that the people’s 
representatives come together and 
build consensus, find a common path 
forward. And that path has been illusive, 
Mr. Speaker. 

Oftentimes, as the reading clerk is 
reading a bill, you’ll see someone ask 
to waive the reading of the bill, ask 
unanimous consent that the bill not be 
read. I’m so pleased that today we had 
every single word of this resolution 
read, Mr. Speaker, because the words 
matter. 

I open up a newspaper, it talks about 
all the division in Washington, D.C. It 
talks about all the things on which we 
cannot agree. And what we have before 
us today, Mr. Speaker, is a bill about 
things on which we agree. 

I hear it from my constituents all the 
time. They say, Rob, why in the world 
can’t you all get something done? I understand 
there are things that you legitimately 
disagree about, ideas about 
which different parts of the country 
have different paths forward. But what 
about those things on which you agree? 

That’s what we have here today, Mr. 
Speaker. There’s not a Member in this 
body that is celebrating a government 
shutdown. What we can celebrate, 
though, is a path out of the government 
shutdown. This rule allows for 
that today. 

I want to read those titles again, Mr. 
Speaker. H.J. Res. 70, to reopen our national 
parks and museums, common 
ground on which this body agrees. 

H.J. Res. 71, to provide local funding 
for the District of Columbia. A lot of 
folks don’t realize, but because the District 
of Columbia is a Federal district, 
the Federal Government provides a little 
money, but most of the money 
comes from the District of Columbia 
itself. But the District of Columbia is 
not allowed to spend its local funds 
without a Federal authorization. This 
does that. 
And then, so important, Mr. Speaker, 
honoring our promise to America’s veterans. 
I don’t believe there’s a man or 
woman in this Chamber that doesn’t 
believe our veterans deserve the very 
best service that we can provide. I 

don’t think there’s a man or a woman 
in this Chamber who wants to see our 
VA services halted or curtailed. We 
solve that today, Mr. Speaker. 

Research for Lifesaving Cures Act, 
Mr. Speaker, H.J. Res. 73, to continue 
funding at the NIH. NIH makes us all 
so proud. We do so many first-in-
human trials at the Winship Cancer Institute 
down just outside of my district 
in Georgia. 

Mr. Speaker, lifesaving research, lifesaving 
opportunities caught up in this 
government shutdown, not one of those 
things on which we disagree; one of 
those things on which we agree. We 
have an opportunity to get that done 
today. 

And, Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3230, Pay Our 
Guard and Reserve Act. 

Again, there’s a lot to be frustrated 
about here today. And I know folks 
back home, Mr. Speaker, in your district 
and in mine, they have a lot to be 
frustrated about too. But one bright 
moment in this debate came late on 
Saturday night when we came together 
unanimously and said, whatever our 
disagreements here, our men and 
women in uniform should not get 
caught up in it. Pay our troops first. It 
brought us together. 

Not just in this House, Mr. Speaker, 
we have the ability to come together, 
but also in the Senate, where, by unanimous 
consent, they passed that bill. It 
went to the President’s desk. 

But what that bill did not include, 
and what I believe we all believe it 
should have included, was funding for 
our National Guard and our Reserve. 
This bill gives us the opportunity to 
solve that today. 

Mr. Speaker, we tried to bring up 
three of these five bills yesterday 
under a process they call suspension of 
the rules. It requires two-thirds of the 
House to support it. But because we 
unanimously supported our troops last 
week, we assumed that we would be 
able to unanimously support our veterans, 
unanimously support our folks 
here in the District of Columbia, using 
their local forums, unanimously support 
our parks and our monuments, 
and we were wrong. 

I’ll say to my friends, I don’t know if 
they looked at the numbers—80 percent 
of my friends on the other side of the 
aisle said no. They said yes, this is 
something on which we agree, but no, 
we are not going to participate in solving 
that problem. We want that problem 
to persist until you solve all the 
problems. 

Mr. Speaker, I’ll close with this. One 
of our great patriots during the American 
Revolution, Edmund Burke, said, 
No man does worse than he who does 
nothing because he can only do a little. 

Mr. Speaker, I concede that some of 
the things we’re working on today 
might seem like a little. But we have 
the opportunity to help people. We 
have an opportunity to make a difference, 
and shame on us if we do nothing 
because we can only do a little. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 


H6124 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, good 
day to you. I yield myself such time as 
I may consume. 

I think if Edmund Burke were alive 
today he would say that what we’re 
really doing is so very little it’s shameful, 
when we could do so much. 

I want to say this, and I want to say 
it about every chance I get. We could 
stop this today. 

We have just come from a 3-hour 
Rules meeting and hearing people on 
the floor and a lot of my colleagues, I 
have the sense that they don’t have 
any idea what a government shutdown 
was. All of a sudden it’s starting to 
hurt. Let’s pick this piece over here, 
that one over there, and we can fix 
that. 

800,000 people who work for the 
United States Government are being 
used as pawns. We are hurting all of 
the citizens of the United States who 
need the services that those 800,000 people 
provide. 

We have one thing to do, Mr. Speaker, 
one thing: we can take from this 
desk and concur with the Senate CR. 
That’s it. It doesn’t have to go back to 
the Senate. It can go directly to the 
President of the United States, maybe 
even before the big meeting today. 
Sign it and it’s over with. But no, we’re 
not going to do that. 

Now, don’t believe that this bill was 
written today because there is a particularly 
sympathy for patients at NIH 
or the visitors to the national parks or 
the citizens of the District of Columbia. 
These proposals are cynical attempts 
to make these things pinch just 
a little bit less. 

Yesterday, The Wall Street Journal 
reported that 30 sick children, most 
with cancer, were turned away from 
NIH clinical trials because of the government 
shutdown. Should they be 
pawns in this political, cynical game to 
hurt the health care bill? 

This morning, the majority proposes 
to reopen NIH, or part of it. Yesterday, 
the TV cameras were dispatched 
around the country to capture the footage 
of museums and monuments 
closed. This morning the majority proposes 
they’re going to open those sites. 

The majority’s making itself clear: 
anytime they see a bad headline, 
they’re going to bring a bill to the 
floor to make it go away. At this rate, 
it could be a year from now before we 
ever finally come to some conclusion 
thereon, because nobody has said anything 
about what the end game is here. 

How long are you going to hold the 
government, the country hostage? 

Surely it doesn’t have anything to do 
with health care anymore, after yesterday. 


Now, if the majority really cared, 
we’d reopen the entire government, all 
of NIH, national parks right here, right 
now on this floor in this action we’re 
taking today. 

If the majority held a simple vote on 
a clean version of the Senate CR, the 
government shutdown would be closed 
upon the President’s signature. 

This afternoon I will give every Member 
of this Chamber a chance to do just 
that, as I did just in the Rules Committee. 
I want you to know that the 
opportunity to vote for the CR, end the 
government shutdown, failed 9–4 on a 
party-line vote. That tells us something 
about why we’re here today and 
what the purpose is for all of this. 

Let me be clear. This amendment is 
the only chance that this Chamber 
may ever have to end the government 
shutdown. If this Chamber supports my 
amendment, we will pass a clean CR 
this afternoon. 

Now, if the majority really cared 
about helping those cancer patients’ 
access to health care or letting the 
World War II veterans visit the monuments 
and reopening the doors of the 
Nation’s parks and museums, they will 
vote for my amendment. 

The VA, by the way, has announced 
today that they are running out of 
money. Furthermore, passing a clean 
CR would actually do more to help the 
Nation’s veterans than the majority’s 
proposal to fund the Department of 
Veterans Affairs. 

Under the majority’s proposal, the 
VA would receive $6 billion less than if 
we simply passed the CR which, in 
other words, has $6 billion more for the 
veterans than what you’re proposing 
today. 

So for all the cries of concern, the 
majority’s desire to shortchange the 
veterans by $6 billion tells you all that 
you need to know. And the veterans 
understand that. They know that 
they’re being used as a pawn in this 
cynical, political game, and they resent 
it. 

Far from honest policy, today’s proposals 
are more cynical politics. For 
almost a week, the majority has found 
itself in a legislative box, or at least I 
thought so until a little while ago, and 
the Rules Committee vote, and when 
they voted 9–4 not to open up the government, 
I realized that that was the 
aim all along. 

Now, because the Senate voted for 
cloture on a clean funding bill, a simple 
majority of Senators have been 
able to put an end to the repeated attempts 
to dismantle the Affordable 
Health Care Bill. 

Now, under these circumstances, the 
majority knows they can’t keep proposing 
ransom demands, so they’ve 
broken cloture and returned to a 60-
vote threshold in the Senate. The need 
to break cloture is why they tried to go 
to conference 15 minutes before the 
government shutdown, and that’s why 
they are continuing to avoid a clean 
vote on the Senate CR today. 

Mr. Speaker, two paragraphs in The 
Washington Post this morning sum up 
what this fight always has been and 
continues to be about: defunding the 
Affordable Care Act and taking health 
care away from 300 million Americans 
who have no insurance. 

Referring to yesterday’s events, Ezra 
Klein of The Washington Post wrote: 

The top story all day was that Republicans 
had shut down the Federal Government be


cause President Obama would not defund or 
delay the Affordable Care Act. The other 
major story was that the government servers 
were crashing because so many people were 
trying to see if they could get the insurance 
through ObamaCare. On the one hand, Washington 
was shut down because Republicans 
don’t want citizens to have ObamaCare. On 
the other hand, ObamaCare was shut down 
because so many Americans did want that 
insurance. 

Yesterday was, indeed, a historic day 
for our Nation and for every American 
who’s ever been denied access to health 
care. In my home State of New York, 
there were more than 2 million visits 
to our online exchange in less than 90 
minutes. 

And by later in the day, the last 
number that I have, just for yesterday, 
10 million people had visited the Web 
site at the end of the day. That is 
about 12 percent of the entire population 
of the State of New York, yesterday. 


Meanwhile, 4.7 million people visited 
healthcare.gov yesterday—that’s the 
national database—while almost 100,000 
more visited online exchanges in Illinois, 
in Colorado. Most importantly, in 
States from Kentucky to California, in 
red States and blue States, thousands 
of Americans went to sleep last night 
having purchased health insurance 
through the newly launched exchanges. 

Now, while these Americans went to 
bed realizing their long-awaited dream, 
the majority woke up this morning realizing 
that their worst nightmare had 
come true. Despite their best efforts, 
the American people were finally given 
access to safe and affordable health 
care. 

Now, the only question that remains 
is if the majority will finally acknowledge 
reality, or if they will keep the 
government closed while they continue 
their quest to take American’s health 
care away. 

I’m extremely grateful to the chairman 
of my committee this morning, 
when he said, when we called for a vote 
on funding the government today, he 
said, and I quote, ‘‘I would say on behalf 
of the majority, what we think we 
are doing here today is probably some 
straight-line Republican viewpoints.’’ 

I strongly urge my colleagues to reject 
the majority’s latest gimmicks by 
voting ‘‘no’’ on the rule and the underlying 
legislation, and vote ‘‘no’’ on the 
PQ so that we can put our amendment 
on the floor. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 30 seconds just to say to my 
friend that we have an opportunity to 
do something today. There’s been a lot 
of talk on this floor. We have an opportunity 
to actually do something, and I 
don’t think there’s going to be a single 
Member on the other side of the aisle 
that challenges the notion that, if we 
pass these bills, we will make a difference 
for American veterans, we will 
make a difference for American families, 
and we will make a difference for 
American Guardsmen and Reservists. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6125 

And I do not believe that the heart of 
my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle is that, because we can only do a 
little, we should do nothing. 

At this time, Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Tennessee 
(Mr. ROE), a good friend and 
great leader in this institution, 

b 1400 
Mr. ROE of Tennessee. I thank my 
friend. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support 
of the rule and the underlying resolutions. 
The situation in which we find ourselves 
is as unfortunate as it is unnecessary. 
The House has voted three 
times to fund the government. It’s been 
rejected three times by the Senate 
Democrats. With each successive vote, 
the House compromised on its position 
that ObamaCare should be defunded. 
Our most recent offer would have delayed 
the individual mandate for 1 year 
and ended the congressional exemption 
from ObamaCare. Nine House Democrats 
supported this proposal, which 
would give American families the same 
relief from ObamaCare that President 
Obama unilaterally gave Big Businesses. 
But, again, HARRY REID said 
‘‘no.’’ 
As we wait for Senate Democrats to 
come to the table, the House will continue 
its efforts to restart government 
operations. 
Two areas we seek to fund today—national 
parks and veterans benefits—hit 
incredibly close to home. The district I 
represent in east Tennessee includes 
parts of the Great Smoky Mountains 
National Park. The Smokies are more 
than a natural wonder. They are an important 
part of the economy in Sevier 
County, Tennessee. 
Dale Ditmanson, the park’s superintendent, 
told me that 1.1 million people 
typically visit the park in October; 
but as long as the gates to the park remain 
closed, hotels, restaurants, and 
other parts of the service industry in 
that county will suffer. 
Even more important than reopening 
our national parks is meeting our commitment 
to America’s veterans. I’m 
privileged to serve on the nonpartisan 
Veterans’ Affairs Committee; and as a 
veteran myself, I hope we can come together 
on a bipartisan basis to provide 
funding for processing disability claims 
and for benefits like the GI Bill and VA 
home loans. How could anyone stand in 
opposition to those who have stood in 
the line of fire to keep this country 
free? The answer is President Obama, 
who has promised to veto such a bill. 
This is unconscionable. 
These funding bills represent a series 
of commonsense steps to get more of 
the government back online and to 
meet our commitments to the American 
people. After all, I wasn’t elected 
and sent here by my constituents to 
shut down the government. I was sent 
here to reform it, to make it smaller, 
and to make it more accountable. 
I urge my colleagues to support the 
underlying rule and the underlying 
bills. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 30 seconds to say that it 
would be the best of common sense for 
us to end this charade today. But I understand 
now, because I’ve heard it 
twice, that the intent really is to wait 
and whittle down the government. As 
Grover Norquist, I believe, famously 
said, he would like to shrink it down to 
drown it in the bathtub. 

I think we’re in the process of doing 
that today by funding it a little piece 
here, a little piece there, and the devil 
take the hindmost. 

I am happy to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. 
BUTTERFIELD). 

Mr. BUTTERFIELD. I thank the gentlelady 
for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, let’s be clear. We are 
now in day two of a Republican-created 
shutdown. 

While my Republican colleagues drag 
their feet on allowing an up-or-down 
vote on the Senate’s clean continuing 
resolution, vital research at the NIH 
has been halted, student loan processing 
has been delayed, and veterans 
can’t apply for a VA home loan. 

The same bills that this rule will 
bring to the floor have already been debated 
and voted on. My colleagues are 
not being reasonable, to say the least. 
Because Republicans didn’t get their 
way yesterday, they now bring the 
same bills up again, only this time 
under regular order. They will get their 
216 votes, but they know and I know 
that this action does nothing to advance 
the ball. It does nothing to get 
us closer to a solution. 

I remind my colleagues that House 
Democrats are willing to accept a 
clean CR at the levels that House Republicans 
have demanded. It’s not what 
we want, but we compromised in an effort 
to do the business of the people. 

The votes are here, Mr. Speaker, for 
a clean CR. Every Democrat, I believe, 
will vote for a clean CR. And many Republicans 
will do the same. 

We’re asking you to compromise. 
Your refusal to compromise has shut 
down this government. And for what? 
Political theater. 

I repeat, the votes are here. Prove me 
wrong. 

In closing, Mr. Speaker, in my prior 
life, as many of you know, I was a trial 
judge. I presided over thousands of very 
difficult cases. So often, jurors could 
not agree, but they worked hard without 
a political agenda. They reasoned 
together and administered justice. 

Let us reason together. Let’s get the 
CR passed today. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 60 seconds to say to my friend 
that there’s a little revisionist history 
in that recitation. 

You will remember, Mr. Speaker, 
that the House passed its package, and 
the Senate said, No, it’s our way or the 
highway. So the House said, Well, let 
me give you a different package—one 
that is a little closer to that position. 
The Senate said, No, it’s my way or the 
highway. 

Then the House said, Let me give you 
a third position that’s a little closer to 
you. And the Senate said a third time, 
No, it’s my way or the highway. And 
then the House said, Well, come and sit 
down with me at the table so that we 
can find a way through our differences. 
And the Senate said, No, it’s my way or 
the highway. 

The American people know who’s 
looking for common ground and consensus 
in this body. 

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Michigan (Mrs. MILLER), a real supporter 
of finding that pathway forward, 
the chairwoman of the House Administration 
Committee. 

Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. I certainly 
thank my colleague for yielding 
the time. 

Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, just 3 days 
ago, this House unanimously passed 
the Pay Our Military Act. The Senate 
unanimously passed the same bill, and 
the President signed it into law. 

That was 3 days ago. That legislation 
guaranteed that all members of our 
Armed Forces would receive their pay 
for their service during any government 
shutdown. And that law also applies 
to full-time Guard and Reserve 
members. Yet Secretary of Defense 
Chuck Hagel has improperly furloughed 
countless Guardsmen and 
-women across the country, in violation 
of the intent of that law. 

Mr. Speaker, today, a bipartisan 
group of myself and my colleagues will 
be sending a letter to Secretary Hagel 
demanding that he enforce this law 
properly and to send our Guardsmen 
and -women back to work. 

Today, we will also consider legislation 
that will provide for funding to 
make certain that the Guardsmen on 
inactive status are paid as well and allowed 
to continue to train during a 
government shutdown. This readiness 
is absolutely essential to the protection 
of our great Nation. Secretary of 
Defense Chuck Hagel is needlessly furloughing 
Guardsmen who are essential 
to defending our great Nation. 

Mr. Speaker, yesterday, President 
Obama sent a letter to Federal workers 
telling them they should not be used as 
punching bags, but that is exactly what 
his administration is doing to members 
of our National Guard. 

In fact, this is the same thing this 
administration did when the sequester 
was enforced. 

They immediately shut down the 
White House to tours. 

They scared the public into believing 
that their travel plans would be interrupted 
at our airports. 

They tried in every possible way to 
hurt and to scare the public as much as 
possible. 

And they are once again playing true 
to form, this time harming our National 
Guard to make a political point. 

Now, I know that our friends on the 
other side of the aisle say that they’re 
going to oppose this legislation because 
they say that they need an entire government 
funding bill or nothing at all. 


H6126 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

And yet they are calling Republicans 
the absolutists. That’s what they’re 
calling us? Seriously. 

I would just say to my Democratic 
friends that we aren’t asking you to repeal 
ObamaCare in order to make certain 
that our National Guard gets paid. 
We are just asking our Democratic 
friends to pay the National Guard, for 
goodness sake. 

Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, I heard some 
Members on the other side, our Democratic 
friends, say that what we are 
talking about here is just a fig leaf or 
a distraction. Mr. Speaker, I do not 
consider paying our National Guard a 
fig leaf or a distraction. I consider our 
National Guard to be warriors essential 
to the defense of this Nation. 

I would urge this House to pass this 
legislation that will allow our men and 
women who serve so bravely in our National 
Guard to do their job and to protect 
our freedoms. 

I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the rule and 
also the underlying bills. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 30 seconds to say that the 
three bills that everybody is so proud 
of that they’ve put out to try to re-
fund the Government have a dagger at 
the heart of the health care bill and 
would have destroyed it. 

I am pleased to yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. 
MCGOVERN), a member of the Committee 
on Rules. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Well, Mr. Speaker, 
here we are, on Day 2 of the Republican 
shutdown of the Nation’s government, 
and the Republican majority has come 
up with yet another bit of meaningless 
political theater. 

Yesterday’s strategy from the gang 
that couldn’t shoot straight was to 
bring up a small handful of bills to 
fund popular government programs and 
to try to pass them on suspension. 
That failed. Today’s nonsense is to 
bring up those same bills under this 
rule and try to pass them with a majority 
vote. 

Now, just for a moment, let’s leave 
aside the fact that none of these bills 
are going anywhere. The Senate isn’t 
going to go along with this, and neither 
is the President. So all of this is 
just a gigantic waste of time, which is 
one of the few things the majority is 
good at. 

We say it all the time around here: 
budgets are about priorities. Budgets 
reflect things that you believe are 
most important to support. 

And yesterday we learned all about 
the priorities of the Republican leadership. 
The first bill they brought up for 
debate—the one that they wanted to 
get over to the Senate most quickly— 
was a bill to fund the national parks 
and monuments. Now, I like the national 
parks. In fact, I love them. I support 
their full funding. I even believe 
they should get more funding than 
they would receive under the lousy Republican 
sequester numbers. But that’s 
their number one priority? 

What about the researchers at the 
Centers for Disease Control who pro


tect us from epidemics? More than 8,700 
people have already been furloughed 
from the CDC. I hope my Republican 
colleagues have gotten their flu shots, 
Mr. Speaker. 

What about the low-income mother 
who has been cut off from WIC? What 
about the children who have been 
turned away from the Head Start programs? 


No, they want to fund parks. And 
why? Let’s be honest about this. Because 
right now every television network 
in America has a camera crew 
down at the National Mall interviewing 
disappointed tourists and taking pictures 
of the ‘‘Closed’’ signs on the 
Smithsonian museums. Because today, 
camera crews in California and Wyoming 
and Montana will be taking pictures 
of visitors turned away from Yosemite 
and Yellowstone and Glacier 
National Park. 

Mr. Speaker, when my kids were little, 
we used to give them trail mix as 
a snack. There was granola and raisins 
and nuts and all kinds of healthy 
things. But my kids always wanted to 
pick out the M&Ms. That’s what this 
Republican majority has been reduced 
to—trying to pick out the M&Ms from 
the trail mix. Eventually, my kids 
grew up. I hope the Republican majority 
will do the same. 

We can do this right away. We can do 
this today. We can do this right now. 
We can pass the clean continuing resolution 
that has already passed the Senate. 
That’s the way you keep the government 
functioning while the two 
Chambers work out their differences. 

The notion that you’re shutting the 
government down on a 5-week continuing 
resolution when we still have 
to negotiate a long-term spending bill 
is unconscionable. People all across 
this country, Democrats and Republicans, 
are outraged by the behavior of 
this Republican leadership. It is time 
to grow up. It is time to pass a clean 
continuing resolution. 

Let’s open up this government. Let’s 
open it up today. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, it’s 
clear we’re going to hear more ‘‘it’s my 
way or the highway’’ from the other 
side throughout today. 

I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Indiana (Mrs. WALORSKI), a freshman 
Member of this body who believes 
that there is a pathway forward and 
that we can make a difference. 

Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to urge my colleagues to support 
this rule, which would allow the House 
to vote on the Pay Our Guard and Reserve 
Act and the Honoring Our Promise 
to America’s Veterans Act. 

The Pay Our Guard and Reserve Act 
provides funding for the pay and allowances 
of military personnel in the Reserve 
component who are in inactive 
status. 

Like most of us, my office has been 
flooded with phone calls and emails 
sharing real-life stories about how this 
government shutdown is negatively impacting 
the folks that we represent. 

This government shutdown is such a 
disappointment. In the meantime, 
there’s no logical reason for members 
of the military, Reserves, veterans, and 
their families to go one more day without 
the support they deserve. 

According to an article in the Indy 
Star, about 600 full-time civilian employees 
and Air Force Reservists have 
been furloughed at Grissom Air Reserve 
Base located in Miami County. 
This could affect the ability for 
Grissom Air Reserve Base to maintain 
their operational readiness. 

The Peru Tribune, Miami County’s 
hometown paper, stated: 

Reservists were told to go home. 

One thousand Indiana National 
Guard employees were furloughed on 
Tuesday. Indiana has the fourth largest 
National Guard in the country. 

b 1415 
We’re proud that our brave men and 
women so strongly represent the Guard 
and a steadfast commitment to our 
country. 
This is so unfair to our Hoosier heroes 
who fight every day. Indiana’s 
Second District is home to more than 
53,000 veterans. One of them called my 
office yesterday expressing concern 
about losing access to VA health services. 
The Honoring Our Promise to America’s 
Veterans Act provides immediate 
funding to ensure the continuation of 
veterans’ disability payments, the GI 
Bill, education training, and VA home 
loans. Passing these bills is the least 
we can do. 
I urge my colleagues to put politics 
aside. Be fair to the individuals and the 
families who have sacrificed everything 
for the continued defense of this 
Nation. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, just 
10 seconds to say let’s not do the least 
we can do. This is the day we can open 
up the government and serve our people. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY). 
Mr. CONNOLLY. I thank my dear 
friend, the ranking member of the 
Rules Committee. 
I had a prepared talk, Mr. Speaker. 
I’m not going to give it. I’m going to 
respond to the distinguished manager 
who has used phrases like ‘‘revisionist 
history’’ and ‘‘my way or the highway.’’ 
You know, those are words that 
are worthy of what surrounds this 
issue, but they are, of course, exactly 
the opposite of what the distinguished 
manager suggests. 
It wasn’t this side of the aisle that 
said: We’ll fund the government on a 
condition, and that condition is you 
have to agree to what we could not 
achieve legislatively, what we could 
not achieve in the courts, what we 
could not achieve at the ballot box; 
we’re going to hold you hostage. You’re 
going to do it, or else. 
You’re right, it’s my way or the highway, 
but it’s you who are saying ‘‘my 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6127 

way or the highway’’—one might say 
you. 

In terms of revisionist history, this 
idea that we’re just trying to help veterans 
and the National Guard and 
that’s the least we can do, well, what 
about all the other agencies of the Federal 
Government? What about the rest 
of the people that need to be served? 

I say to my friends on the other side 
of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, my family 
has participated in the National Guard. 
My nephew has been in the National 
Guard—still is. He has served two tours 
of duty in Iraq and one tour of duty in 
Afghanistan. He is now a Blackhawk 
helicopter pilot for the National Guard 
and ready to go again. 

I and my family and my colleagues 
need no lecture about patriotism and 
about service to country. What we do 
want—and what my nephew wants and 
all like him—is that we stand up in 
this Congress and fund the government. 
That’s the least we can do for 
National Guardsmen and for the clerk 
who processes applications for people 
to qualify for Social Security. We owe 
that to our constituents. We owe that 
to our country. 

Can we put aside the issues of revision 
and ‘‘my way or the highway’’ and 
come together and have a clean continuing 
resolution—buy ourselves some 
time to continue the debate on ancillary 
issues, but stop the hostage-taking 
for the sake of my nephew, and perhaps 
yours? 

It is time to put an end to this reckless Republican 
shutdown. We are now in day 2 of 
this manufactured crisis, in which House Republicans 
are holding hostage the American 
people and the essential government services 
on which they rely. 

The cavalier nature in which Republicans 
have allowed this shutdown to occur—if not 
outright advocated for it—is shameful. Some 
have even suggested that the shutdown has 
gone largely unnoticed. That is outrageous! 
Do they not see the very real pain they are 
causing in their own communities? I suggest 
they visit with some of the 10,000 seniors a 
day who now have to wait for their Medicare 
enrollment to be processed . . . or the small 
businesses that cannot open their doors and 
hire new workers because SBA loans have 
been put on hold . . . or the dedicated men 
and women of our federal workforce—the majority 
of whom live outside the DC region in 
their communities—who protect our borders, 
safeguard our food supply, and respond to 
natural disasters and now have to worry about 
how to pay their mortgages. 

Mr. Speaker, the majority of Americans say 
it is unacceptable for Republicans to shut 
down the government to meet their narrow, 
partisan demands. The U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce—along with the Prince William and 
Fairfax Chambers in my district—has urged 
Congress to fund the government and raise 
the debt ceiling without any extraneous provisions 
for fear of disrupting the economy. 

That is what Democrats have offered to do, 
but House Republicans refuse to compromise 
on their demand to defund or delay the Affordable 
Care Act. Mr. Speaker, it’s like our Republican 
colleagues have been overcome by a 
mass psychosis to satiate the rabid demands 
of the Tea Party crowd. 

We know there are some sensible members 
on the other side of the aisle who want to do 
the right thing. I implore them to prevail upon 
their leadership to work with us in bipartisan 
fashion to end this shutdown. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HULTGREN). Members are reminded to 
address their remarks to the Chair. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I would say to my friend from Virginia, 
before he leaves the floor, that 
I’m grateful to his nephew for his service. 
I, too, represent a part of the world 
where service is not an opportunity but 
an obligation. 

I would say, as my friend knows very 
well, this body, this United States 
House, in June, passed our Veterans 
and Military Construction appropriations 
bill. This whole idea that you’re 
supposed to fund the government in 
one giant bill is more of that revisionist 
history. That’s exactly the 
wrong way to fund the government. 

The way the government is supposed 
to be funded, as you know, Mr. Speaker, 
is that we’re supposed to fund it one 
piece at a time—that’s the way it always 
has been, the way it always 
should be—because you end up looking 
to see where those funding priorities 
are. 

So this House, Mr. Speaker, in June, 
with only four dissenting votes, passed 
a bill affirming the financial commitment 
that this Nation should have to 
our veterans, and it has been sitting, 
gathering dust, in the United States 
Senate since June. 

Funding for all veterans ran out on 
September 30. We all knew that. We 
knew it last September 30 that funding 
was going to run out this September 30, 
which is why this House has moved forward 
on appropriations bills. The Senate 
has moved forward on zero, Mr. 
Speaker. That’s why it’s my way or the 
highway. 

There’s a right way to get this done, 
and we’ve been trying to do it here. 
The Senate won’t do it the right way. 
They want to do it their way—and a 
way that doesn’t serve folks back home 
the way you and I, Mr. Speaker, know 
that they are entitled to be served. 

You have not heard one voice on this 
floor today dispute that the bills we 
have before us would make a difference 
in the lives of American families. 
You’ve had folks say it doesn’t do 
enough, but you haven’t had folks say 
it doesn’t do what it’s intended to do. 
We have an opportunity to do some 
good. Let’s do it. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to yield 11/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. MCNERNEY). 


Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, what 
I’d like to know is why the Republicans 
are so afraid of the Affordable Care 
Act. Is it because it makes health care 
affordable to millions? 

The Republicans have spread fear 
about the ACA for so long, it’s no wonder 
people are afraid. Well, maybe 

they’re afraid because the ACA is going 
to work. In fact, the ACA is already 
working—making health care accessible 
and lowering health care costs. 
It’s increasing competition amongst insurance 
providers. 

But here’s what’s happening: Republicans 
don’t like the ACA, so they 
crash the government to get their way. 
That’s no way to govern. You don’t 
like the law, so you crash the government? 


Republicans don’t like environmental 
regulations and the EPA. Are 
they going to crash the government to 
eliminate them? 

Are they going to crash the government 
to roll back the Dodd-Frank law? 

This sets a horrible and reckless 
precedent, threatening 200 years of governance. 
There’s a better way: Work 
together with people you disagree with 
to make this a better country. 

Now the Republicans are using a cynical 
effort to peel Democrats to their 
side. The real way to honor veterans is 
to uphold the rule of law that they 
fought so hard and sacrificed for. 

The ACA is the law. Let’s fight to uphold 
the law. There will be glitches in 
the ACA, and some things should be 
improved. Let’s work together to make 
it work for all Americans. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

My colleague in the Rules Committee 
earlier said if we could just get a few of 
us together around the table we could 
sort this out. I believe that. I absolutely 
believe that. If we could just sit 
down around the table and talk to each 
other, get together on the facts, we 
could sort this out. But we’re not even 
together on the facts, Mr. Speaker. 

My colleague just talked about how 
we’re taking away 250 years of American 
governance with this government 
shutdown. I don’t celebrate this shutdown. 
I wish the Senate would have 
come to the table so we wouldn’t have 
had a shutdown. But the truth is, Mr. 
Speaker, in the 16 years that Republicans 
have controlled this body, this is 
the third shutdown that has the great 
misfortune of occurring. 

I came along in the Carter administration. 
I’m from the State of Georgia; 
President Carter is from the State of 
Georgia. You go back to the Carter administration, 
come 16 years forward, 
Democrats controlled this institution, 
shut the government down 15 times. In 
the Carter administration, Mr. Speaker, 
it was all Democrats—Democrats in 
the White House, Democrats running 
the U.S. House, Democrats running the 

U.S. Senate, shut down the government 
five times for more than 50 days. I 
don’t celebrate that, but I do recognize 
that when people refuse to sit down 
and talk to each other that is sometimes 
the outcome. It didn’t have to be 
the outcome this time, but here we are. 
So we can either throw up our hands 
in disgust or we can start pointing the 
fingers of blame or we can do something 
about it. Again, Mr. Speaker, not 
one Member of this body has come to 


H6128 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

the floor to attest that the passage of 
this rule and the passage of these underlying 
bills wouldn’t make a difference 
for American families—and the 
reason they haven’t is because they 
would. 

I understand we’re going to continue 
to disagree, but let’s do those things on 
which we agree. These five bills contain 
the first of those ideas. And I commit 
to my colleagues, if we can begin 
this process today, we can be right 
back here tomorrow doing more of it. 

Wonder of wonders, Mr. Speaker, if 
we start working together and doing 
those things that we know our constituents 
want us to do, we might just 
find a way out. We might just make 
constituents back home proud. We can 
and we should. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE). 

(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let 
me thank the gentlelady from New 
York, and certainly my good friend on 
the Rules Committee. We see each 
other often in his work, and I know his 
passion and commitment. And as I 
walked on the floor today, I was listening 
to him recount history. But the 
history of shutdowns of years past will 
not help us be guided by our hearts and 
our minds today. 

The American people are asking not 
for a recounting of historical perspective—
years past that have been solved, 
Congresses who came together, patriots 
who stood in the line of fire and 
have lost their lives long since those 
particular shutdowns have occurred— 
we owe the American people today an 
answer. 

I just came from the east steps of the 
United States Capitol. It’s a very somber 
place. It’s a place of joy, but it’s a 
place of remembrance. If my good 
friend wants to remember anything, he 
needs to remember 9/11, when Members 
of Congress poured out of this place to 
show America that we were not going 
to be undermined by terrorists, that we 
were going to stand united together. 
That was a moment that America 
looked to with pride as we sang ‘‘God 
Bless America.’’ 

Today we stood on the steps, standing 
with Members of Congress who actually 
were wounded in Iraq and veterans 
who are now Members of Congress, 
and we asked for another moment 
of unity—unity to be able to address 
real issues in this House, to put 
800,000 workers back to work who are 
not working for themselves in the Federal 
Government but are processing 
veterans’ benefits and Social Security 
and Medicare. We asked for this Speaker 
and this Republican Conference and 
Tea Party-driven Members to put all of 
that aside. 

Let us recount the history of the 
unity that was shown on those steps, so 
symbolic when we come together—at 

that time on 9/11, we came together as 
Republicans and Democrats—and vote 
for a clean CR. 

The idea that national parks are important, 
they’re right, they are important. 
The idea that the National Guard 
is important, they’re right, it is important. 
Right now, Ellington Field is 
shut down that the National Guard in 
Texas used, and they are there as front 
liners for our borders and needs in that 
area. It is shut down. 

The National Institutes of Health is 
one of these bills, D.C. and the veterans. 
All of those are important. But 
I will tell you, just as important are 
the men and women in the FBI and the 
DEA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
or the Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Firearms that are on the front lines of 
ensuring the safety and security of 
America. More funding for those in 
Homeland Security that are not presently 
being funded by fees are very, 
very important, and that is not on this 
list. So recounting the history doesn’t 
do us any good. 

The National Institutes of Health, all 
of us who have had conditions such as 
what I’ve had and surviving breast cancer 
realize the importance of it. But we 
will not, Mr. Speaker, piecemeal. What 
we want is what we want for America— 
unity. 

Mr. Speaker, we want a clean CR. 
Put it on the floor now. We will vote 
now. We will vote now. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. GENE GREEN). 

Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, my concern with this rule is 
it allows us to debate and vote on four 
bills. Each of these bills picks and 
chooses what government program 
should be open, what is most important. 


I guess of all these four bills, the one 
I find the most cynical is the one that 
didn’t pass last night under suspension, 

H.J. Res. 72, the partisan resolution 
that will cut $6 billion from our Nation’s 
veterans from what passed the 
House this last June. 
b 1430 
There are many issues that divide 
our parties. One of the issues that has 
always received bipartisan support is 
supporting our Nation’s heroes and 
their families. 
Unfortunately, due to the extreme 
views of some in the majority, this 
Chamber is now considering a resolution 
that will cut $6.2 billion from the 
VA and excludes funding for several VA 
programs which are vital to the thousands 
of veterans in my district, including 
national veterans cemeteries, 
VA construction, and grants for State 
veterans homes and State cemeteries. 
Mr. Speaker, our Nation’s veterans 
deserve better. I call on this Chamber 
to demand a vote on the full VA for the 
entire year. Every day that goes by 
without full appropriations for the VA 

is another day that our veterans are 
being harmed and denied the support 
and services they paid for with blood, 
sweat, and sacrifice. 

Let me explain it again. This House 
on a very bipartisan vote in June voted 
for a VA appropriations bill that was 
$6.6 billion more than what we are considering 
today. So this would be a cut 
in what we need. In fact, even the one 
in June is not enough. But this makes 
it even worse. That is why this is the 
most cynical of all these bills. 

What we need to do is come here on 
the floor and pass a clean CR and get 
the government back to work. Don’t 
pick and choose here, don’t waste the 
time of the American people. Let’s 
have a clean CR today and vote and get 
the government back to work today. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 60 seconds to ask my friend 
from Texas whose words had an impact 
on me. 

My friend from Texas who was talking 
about the bill we passed in June, I 
happen to share his commitment to 
that legislation. It is my understanding 
that that legislation is sitting 
today, as it has been since June, in the 
Senate, and they could take it up and 
pass it and not fund veterans just for a 
week or 10 days, but fund those programs 
at those levels for the entire 
year. 

I would ask my friend if he would 
join with me in calling on the Senate 
to do exactly that. 

Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. WOODALL. I would be happy to 
yield to my friend from Texas. 

Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. I support 
our veterans. I voted for the one in 
June, like a majority of both our conferences 
and caucuses. You and I can’t 
control the Senate, but we can control 
what is on the floor today. This bill 
cuts $6 billion, which you and I supported 
in June. That is the issue we 
have on the floor today. 

I want a clean CR and I would like to 
have regular order for our appropriations. 
We will deal with the Senate, but 
we need to get our act together here in 
the House. 

Mr. WOODALL. Reclaiming my time, 
I say to my friend that the clean CR 
that he is advocating so passionately 
for cuts the exact same $6 billion that 
he said is a problem. I agree with him 
that that’s a problem. I hope we won’t 
do that. I hope the Senate will take up 
that bill. 

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Florida 
(Mr. RADEL), a new Member of this 
body, but one who brings commonsense 
idea after commonsense idea, bipartisan 
idea after bipartisan idea to the 
Rules Committee. 

Mr. RADEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from Georgia for this 
time. 

We are here today trying to do some 
pretty simple things—trying to support 
our veterans, keep open Veterans Affairs, 
open up our parks around this 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6129 

great Nation, and even keep open 
schools right here in D.C. Heck, I take 
the Metro every single day. I am here 
supporting this. Do you know what? 
Even last night we saw House Democrats 
that are supporting the same 
causes. 

The problem today really lies with 
Senate Democrats. They simply are refusing 
to come to the negotiating table 
just to even talk with us. 

I have been in Washington working 
through the weekend—many of us have 
been here until 3 in the morning every 
night working—to simply keep the government 
open. But no offer has been 
good enough for the Senate, not one. 
They have rejected every single compromise 
that we have sent them. 

Compromise is essential, especially 
when we have a time of divided government, 
because we are here to pass 
laws—sometimes repeal them—but 
most of all to govern, to give certainty 
and stability to this great Nation. 

We have sent four different bills to 
the Senate to keep government open. 
All of them have been rejected. We 
even sent legislation to simply offer a 
small group of Members to come to the 
negotiating table to compromise, 
again, with the Senate to keep government 
open. The Senate rejected us 
time and time again. 

It is a sad day when we can’t even get 
Democrat Senators to come to just 
have a conversation with us to keep 
government open. In fact, this is ridiculous. 
It is a disservice to the American 
people. I knew Washington was 
broken before coming here, but the 
Senate’s pure refusal to even work 
with the House is an all-time low. 

As a result of the Senate’s actions, 
we now have a government officially 
shut down. Parents all across the country 
are now worrying where their next 
paycheck is going to come from, how 
they are going to pay their mortgage, 
how they are going to pay their rent, 
how they are going to put food on their 
kid’s table all because Democrats 
won’t have a conversation. 

I don’t think it is unreasonable for us 
in all of these compromises that House 
Republicans—and some House Democrats—
I don’t think it is unreasonable 
to ask for a simple 1-year delay of the 
individual mandate. After all, the 
President himself has already delayed 
ObamaCare for big business. Think 
about that. Big business, big corporations, 
are exempt from this law, but 
you are not. 

He has delayed this, he has delayed 
the launch of online enrollment for 
small business, even delayed the Spanish 
language version of the Web site: If 
you all speak Spanish, good luck—si 
ustedes hablan espanol, buena suerte. 

The President has been willing to exempt 
everyone from this signature 
piece of legislation, except for you. 
Yesterday, when you went to 
healthcare.gov to sign up, most people 
saw glitches and errors. The administration 
has had 3 years—3 years—to 
build a Web site which a 14 year old can 
do in his parents’ basement today. 

Again, ObamaCare is just not ready 
for prime time. All we are asking is 
just for this small piece to be delayed. 
It is a compromise that I think all of 
us can live with. 

I stand here ready to work with the 
Senate to get the government open and 
do the right thing for you and this 
great Nation. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. FARR), 
ranking member on the Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural 
Development, and Food and Drug Administration. 


Mr. FARR. Mr. Speaker, give us back 
our government. 

I am on the Appropriations Committee. 
We shouldn’t be talking about 
CRs; we should be talking about passing 
appropriations bills. But those were 
stopped, and we are now down to the 
emergency tool that we have had to 
use over and over again to continue 
government operations. 

I have been here 20 years. We have 
done CRs many times. We have never, 
ever had a pre-condition to a CR. 

People are not entitled to make up 
facts here. The facts are that the Senate 
is negotiating and the House Democrats 
are negotiating. We came up with 
your numbers. We hate those numbers, 
but we swallowed them. 

There is only one thing to do—reject 
this proposition. Vote ‘‘no’’ on the rule 
and vote ‘‘no’’ on the ability to bring 
the rule up. We have a bill here. It is in 
the House right now. It is the Senate 
version. It is clean. Send it to the 
President and before tonight it is all 
over and people can come back to work 
tomorrow—tomorrow. 

So stop this game playing, this selfishness, 
this poor loser and this whining 
and just get on with doing the business 
you were elected to do. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 60 seconds to agree with my 
friend that folks are not entitled to 
their own facts. The fact is that the 
law of the land is the budget number 
that the Senate is proposing. There is 
no set of circumstances you can spend 
a penny more than that. In fact, as all 
of my colleagues know, beginning on 
January 1 that number is going to drop 
another $19 billion. 

To suggest that the Senate is compromising 
by agreeing to follow the 
law of the land says a lot about where 
we are in this town, but it says absolutely 
nothing about genuine compromise. 


I reserve the balance of my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. ANDREWS). 


(Mr. ANDREWS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Speaker, if the 
bills that are on the floor today pass 
unanimously—which they won’t—here 
is what happens next. They go to the 
Senate, the Senate maybe takes them 

up, maybe doesn’t take them up, passes 
them, maybe doesn’t pass them, and 
this whole charade continues. 

If you want to get the veterans programs 
funded today, if you want to get 
the programs for the parks funded 
today, if you want to get the NIH funded 
today, there is a way to do it. It is 
to take up the bill that the Senate has 
passed, that the President says he will 
sign, that at least 14 Members of the 
majority have said publicly they will 
vote for—I think it is many, many 
more than that—put it on the floor and 
take a vote. That is the way to do this. 
That bill would go directly to the desk 
of the President of the United States. 
Before the day is over the government 
would be funded. 

If that is what you really want to do, 
you would put that bill on the floor, 
and we would take a vote on it. I would 
just ask any Member of the majority to 
tell us why we can’t do that. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, at this 
time, it gives me great pleasure to 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. HOLDING), a new 
Member of this body, but a growing 
leader in this body. 

Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, just 
hours after the President and Senate 
Democrats refused to compromise, 
causing our government to shut down, 
ObamaCare exchanges opened for business. 
Folks across the aisle said yesterday 
was a day to celebrate, but it is 
clear that is simply not the case. 

The President likened the 
ObamaCare rollout to a new Apple 
product. But the difference is that the 
American people are not forced to buy 
iPods, and this is not just about buying 
a new technological gadget, but something 
extremely important and personal—
your health care. 

As soon as the ObamaCare exchanges 
became available online, there were 
immediate problems and glitches. The 
administration had to know millions of 
Americans would be trying to get on 
the site yesterday, and yet they still 
didn’t account for the traffic. 

Mr. Speaker, not only has the administration 
forced an individual mandate 
on the American people—they haven’t 
even adequately prepared for it. The 
arrogance of this law is becoming more 
and more apparent. The administration 
is more concerned about getting 
ObamaCare off the ground than whether 
or not it actually works. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. SCHIFF), a 
member of the Committee on Appropriations. 


Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, last night, 
the GOP followed through with their 
threat to shut down the government if 
they didn’t get what they lacked the 
votes to obtain—the destruction of 
health care reform. It was staggeringly 
irresponsible, but the leadership was 
not willing to buck their Tea Party 
membership and meet even the most 
basic obligation of governance—to 
keep the lights on. 


H6130 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

I can only hope that this shutdown is 
short-lived and we pass a basic funding 
bill soon. A small group of Members 
cannot be allowed to burn the House 
down when they don’t get their way. 
We simply cannot continue to engage 
in these ‘‘my way or the highway’’ exercises 
every couple of months. 

The Affordable Care Act was passed 
by Congress, signed by the President, 
and upheld by the Supreme Court. 
Democrats are willing to entertain improvements 
to this landmark law, but 
we are not seeking to undermine or destroy 
it. 

The worst thing about this latest 
manmade crisis: our economy might 
have fully recovered long before now if 
Congress would just get out of the way. 
Let us take up the Senate bill—a clean 
bill—to keep the government running 
and end this latest manmade disaster. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. MORAN), the 
ranking member of the Appropriations 
Subcommittee on the Interior. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, this is unbelievable. 
All we need is less than 20 
Republicans and we can open up the 
government today. You will have the 
Democrats voting to open up the government. 
Just give us 20 Republican 
votes and we can open it today. 

Instead, because of the Ted Cruz Tea 
Party faction within your caucus that 
somehow has managed to intimidate 
the Republican leadership, you are 
willing to bring this country to its 
knees—to furlough 800,000 Federal employees, 
to cause suffering around the 
country, and to cause billions of dollars 
in economic damage to our economy. 


How can you do this? This is so 
wrong. 

Today, open it, give us 20 Republican 
votes. Get our country functioning 
again. Let us do our job. This is an outrageous 
abdication of responsibility. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 60 seconds to say to my friend I 
know he has a lot of Federal employees 
in his district, as do I—certainly not as 
many as he does. I know he speaks 
from the heart in terms of the struggles 
that those families are going 
through. 

But I would say to my friend that 
while that might be his goal, we could 
have taken a step towards it yesterday 
and all of your VA employees would 
have been back and all of your park 
service employees would have been 
back and all of your folks who are in 
the D.C. Government would have been 
protected. 

b 1445 
We could have done it yesterday, and 
the Democrats defeated it. Now we are 
bringing it back today, but we could 
have made a difference yesterday, and 
we didn’t. 
I would just say to the gentleman 
that I know his concern for everyone is 

heartfelt, but I wish that he would join 
me in helping at least someone today. 
We might get all the way there. I believe 
that we can, but we have got to 
get started. These bills today get us 
started in that direction. Again, I appreciate 
the gentleman’s commitment. 

Mr. MORAN. Will the gentleman 
yield? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman from Georgia 
has expired. 

Mr. WOODALL. I yield myself an additional 
30 seconds, and I yield to the 
gentleman from Virginia. 

Mr. MORAN. I thank my friend from 
Georgia. 

The problem is that we are creating, 
really, a politics of divisiveness here 
because we are exempting some agencies 
at the expense of others. Even in 
the Department of the Interior, we still 
have 84 percent of Interior Department 
employees who will be furloughed even 
when we open up the national parks. 
The vast majority of Federal employees 
are without jobs. They may not be 
as visible to the public, but it doesn’t 
mean they aren’t performing essential 
services. That’s the problem—picking 
and choosing. Tomorrow, we will be 
back with another agency. That’s what 
we are trying to avoid. We are trying 
to do it appropriately. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman from Georgia 
has again expired. 

Mr. WOODALL. I yield myself an additional 
30 seconds to say that it encourages 
me that what I hear from my 
friend is that he doesn’t like our proposal 
because he thinks it’s a policy of 
divisiveness, and he would like to move 
toward those things that unite us. I 
happen to feel the same way about 
these proposals before us. 

I think where the Senate is pushing 
us is a place that divides us, but that 
these ideas are common-ground ideas 
that unite us. While we may disagree 
on that, it does give me great encouragement, 
as I know it does my constituents 
back home, that the goal is 
to find those things that unite us, to 
focus on those and to move America 
forward. 

With that, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, at this 
time, it gives me great pleasure to 
yield 1 minute to a leader from the 
great State of South Carolina (Mr. 
RICE), a good friend of mine and a new 
Member of this body. 

Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, the last speaker for the minority 
was complaining of these small 
continuing resolutions because they 
pick and choose which groups will get 
funded. That is our exact problem with 
putting this Affordable Care Act into 
place—the President’s picking and 
choosing. We hear it’s the law of the 
land; but, actually, the President is deciding 
what parts of the law of the land 
he wants to put in place. He says he is 

for the working man, and he says he is 
for the middle class; but, in fact, he has 
exempted Big Business, and he has exempted 
many of his friends in the 
unions and so forth. 

So if this law is so wonderful and if 
we are going to put it in place and if, 
as you’re saying, we want a whole CR 
that funds the whole government, let’s 
put the whole thing in place that funds 
every aspect the law was designed to 
apply to. Let’s put the whole law in effect. 
If it’s the law of the land, let’s 
treat it like the law of the land with no 
exemptions and no waivers. Let’s put it 
into effect exactly like it’s written. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, may 
I inquire if the gentleman from Georgia 
has any more speakers. If not, I am 
prepared to close. 

Mr. WOODALL. I very much thank 
my friend. I do not have any speakers 
remaining. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. I yield myself the 
balance of my time. 

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous 
question, I am going to offer an 
amendment to the rule that would 
allow the House to vote on the clean 
Senate continuing resolution so that 
we can send it to the President for his 
signature today. I don’t want that to 
be lost on anybody. This will probably 
be the only chance in this House that 
you will get to vote on what everyone 
has been asking for. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
to insert the text of the amendment 
into the RECORD, along with extraneous 
material, immediately prior 
to the vote on the previous question. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentlewoman 
from New York? 

There was no objection. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, we 
found out already this morning in the 
Rules Committee, admittedly by the 
chair, that they don’t intend to open 
the government back up. I brought this 
very same motion today to the Rules 
Committee. It was defeated 9–4 on a 
party-line vote. 

My hope today lies in all of the people 
from the other side, my good 
friends, who have said that, if they had 
an opportunity, they’d open up the 
government again. They would put people 
back to work and stop the terrible 
pain that we are simply laying on our 
Federal workers. What we have done is 
simply punish them. What we have 
done to medical science cannot be 
turned off and on like a faucet, as well 
as what we have done to our security 
and what we are doing to our intelligence—
all of it, Mr. Speaker. We cannot 
do this multiple choice of what we 
will save today, and maybe we will do 
something else next week if we get a 
bad headline. 

This is terribly important, this opportunity. 
I want to give notice to all 
of my friends on the other side to stand 
up for what you said. Today, please put 
your voting cards where your mouths 
have been. Vote because you know it is 
the right thing to do—to get this government 
back to work. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6131 

I will remind everybody that the Senate 
has not been holding us up here. 
The Senate sent a clean CR over early. 
We have simply ignored it, and everything 
that we have sent back to them 
has had nothing to do with the running 
of the government, but has had everything 
to do with trying to kill health 
care. 

Today, let’s get ourselves back on 
track and get this magnificent government 
working again. This country of 
which we are so proud is looking pretty 
bedraggled right now because we don’t 
know, with this lurch from crisis to 
crisis, what is going to happen from 
one day to the next. This is the day, 
Mr. Speaker. This is the time. This is 
the opportunity. I urge my colleagues 
to vote ‘‘no’’ and defeat the previous 
question. At that point, we will have 
our opportunity to vote on the clean 
CR that does nothing but continues the 
spending and allows the government to 
reopen. 

I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on the rule, and I 
yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. WOODALL. I thank my friend 
from New York for joining me on the 
floor today. 

Mr. Speaker, in closing, it is sad for 
the House that we have come to define 
a CR as any sort of success whatsoever. 
Every Member of this body knows that, 
when we talk about CRs, we are just 
talking about varying degrees of failure, 
because there was a better way 
that the House was obligated to do that 
we didn’t do. 

I want to say to my friends again 
that no one has said this bill won’t 
help. Absolutely, everyone knows this 
bill will help, but I want to reach out 
my hand once again, Mr. Speaker, and 
say what my friend from South Carolina 
said moments ago: take your pick. 
I will meet you on your terms. Either 
let’s take these things that we agree on 
in government, and let’s fund them— 
let’s pick and choose those things we 
agree on, and let’s fund them—or let’s 
fund it all, and let’s stop the picking 
and choosing in ObamaCare of what we 
like. If it’s all good, let’s fund all of the 
government, and let’s obey all of 
ObamaCare, giving those waivers to individuals 
that Big Business got. If it’s 
not good, then let’s focus on these 
things that we unanimously agree are 
good. 

There is a path forward, Mr. Speaker. 
We can find it together. I believe the 
rule and the bill we have before us 
today begin to take us down that path. 

The material previously referred to 
by Ms. SLAUGHTER is as follows: 

The material previously referred to 
by Ms. SLAUGHTER is as follows: 

AN AMENDMENT TO H. RES. 370 OFFERED BY 

MS. SLAUGHTER OF NEW YORK 

Strike all and insert the following: 

‘‘Resolved, that immediately upon adoption 
of this resolution the joint resolution (H.J. 
Res. 59) making continuing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, 
with the House amendment to the Senate 
amendment thereto, shall be taken from the 
Speaker’s table and the pending question 

shall be, without intervention of any point of 
order, whether the House shall recede from 
its amendment and concur in the Senate 
amendment. The Senate amendment shall be 
considered as read. The question shall be debatable 
for 60 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking member 
of the Committee on Appropriations. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered 
on the question of receding from the 
House amendment and concurring in the 
Senate amendment without intervening motion 
or demand for division of the question. 

SEC. 2. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not 
apply to the consideration of H.J. Res. 59 as 
specified in the first section this resolution.’’ 

THE VOTE ON THE PREVIOUS QUESTION: WHAT IT 
REALLY MEANS 

This vote, the vote on whether to order the 
previous question on a special rule, is not 
merely a procedural vote. A vote against ordering 
the previous question is a vote 
against the Republican majority agenda and 
a vote to allow the Democratic minority to 
offer an alternative plan. It is a vote about 
what the House should be debating. 

Mr. Clarence Cannon’s Precedents of the 
House of Representatives (VI, 308–311), describes 
the vote on the previous question on 
the rule as ‘‘a motion to direct or control the 
consideration of the subject before the House 
being made by the Member in charge.’’ To 
defeat the previous question is to give the 
opposition a chance to decide the subject before 
the House. Cannon cites the Speaker’s 
ruling of January 13, 1920, to the effect that 
‘‘the refusal of the House to sustain the demand 
for the previous question passes the 
control of the resolution to the opposition’’ 
in order to offer an amendment. On March 
15, 1909, a member of the majority party offered 
a rule resolution. The House defeated 
the previous question and a member of the 
opposition rose to a parliamentary inquiry, 
asking who was entitled to recognition. 
Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 
‘‘The previous question having been refused, 
the gentleman from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, 
who had asked the gentleman to 
yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to 
the first recognition.’’ 

The Republican majority may say ‘‘the 
vote on the previous question is simply a 
vote on whether to proceed to an immediate 
vote on adopting the resolution . . . [and] 
has no substantive legislative or policy implications 
whatsoever.’’ But that is not what 
they have always said. Listen to the Republican 
Leadership Manual on the Legislative 
Process in the United States House of Representatives, 
(6th edition, page 135). Here’s 
how the Republicans describe the previous 
question vote in their own manual: ‘‘Although 
it is generally not possible to amend 
the rule because the majority Member controlling 
the time will not yield for the purpose 
of offering an amendment, the same result 
may be achieved by voting down the previous 
question on the rule . . . When the motion 
for the previous question is defeated, 
control of the time passes to the Member 
who led the opposition to ordering the previous 
question. That Member, because he 
then controls the time, may offer an amendment 
to the rule, or yield for the purpose of 
amendment.’’ 

In Deschler’s Procedure in the U.S. House 
of Representatives, the subchapter titled 
‘‘Amending Special Rules’’ states: ‘‘a refusal 
to order the previous question on such a rule 
[a special rule reported from the Committee 
on Rules] opens the resolution to amendment 
and further debate.’’ (Chapter 21, section 
21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ‘‘Upon rejection 
of the motion for the previous question 
on a resolution reported from the Committee 
on Rules, control shifts to the Mem


ber leading the opposition to the previous 
question, who may offer a proper amendment 
or motion and who controls the time for debate 
thereon.’’ 

Clearly, the vote on the previous question 
on a rule does have substantive policy implications. 
It is one of the only available tools 
for those who oppose the Republican majority’s 
agenda and allows those with alternative 
views the opportunity to offer an alternative 
plan. 

Mr. WOODALL. With that, Mr. 
Speaker, I yield back the balance of 
my time, and I move the previous question 
on the resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on ordering the previous 
question. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, on 
that I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule XX, 
this 15-minute vote on ordering the 
previous question will be followed by 5-
minute votes on adoption of House Resolution 
370, if ordered; and approval of 
the Journal. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 227, nays 
197, not voting 7, as follows: 

[Roll No. 509] 
YEAS—227 
Aderholt Ellmers Kingston 
Amash Farenthold Kinzinger (IL) 
Amodei Fincher Kline 
Bachmann Fitzpatrick LaMalfa 
Bachus Fleischmann Lamborn 
Barletta Fleming Lance 
Barr Flores Lankford 
Barton Forbes Latham 
Benishek Fortenberry Latta 
Bentivolio Foxx LoBiondo 
Bilirakis Franks (AZ) Long 
Bishop (UT) Frelinghuysen Lucas 
Black Gardner Luetkemeyer 
Blackburn Garrett Lummis 
Boustany Gerlach Marchant 
Brady (TX) Gibbs Marino 
Bridenstine Gibson Massie 
Brooks (AL) Gingrey (GA) McCarthy (CA) 
Brooks (IN) Gohmert McCaul 
Broun (GA) Goodlatte McClintock 
Buchanan Gosar McHenry 
Bucshon Gowdy McKeon 
Burgess Granger McKinley 
Calvert Graves (GA) McMorris 
Camp Graves (MO) Rodgers 
Campbell Griffin (AR) Meadows 
Cantor Griffith (VA) Meehan 
Capito Grimm Messer 
Carter Guthrie Mica 
Cassidy Hall Miller (FL) 
Chabot Hanna Miller (MI) 
Chaffetz Harper Miller, Gary 
Coble Harris Mullin 
Coffman Hartzler Mulvaney 
Cole Hastings (WA) Murphy (PA) 
Collins (GA) Heck (NV) Neugebauer 
Collins (NY) Hensarling Noem 
Conaway Holding Nugent 
Cook Hudson Nunes 
Cotton Huelskamp Nunnelee 
Cramer Huizenga (MI) Olson 
Crawford Hultgren Palazzo 
Crenshaw Hunter Paulsen 
Culberson Hurt Pearce 
Daines Issa Perry 
Davis, Rodney Jenkins Petri 
Denham Johnson (OH) Pittenger 
Dent Johnson, Sam Pitts 
DeSantis Jones Poe (TX) 
DesJarlais Jordan Pompeo 
Diaz-Balart Joyce Posey 
Duffy Kelly (PA) Price (GA) 
Duncan (SC) King (IA) Radel 
Duncan (TN) King (NY) Reed 


H6132 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Reichert Scalise Upton b 1518 Walberg Whitfield Yoder 
Renacci Schock Valadao Walden Williams Yoho 
Ribble Schweikert Wagner Messrs. BARROW of Georgia and Walorski Wilson (SC) Young (AK) 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walorski 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
GARCIA changed their vote from 
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 
So the previous question was ordered. 
The result of the vote was announced 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westmoreland 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 
Rogers (KY) Simpson Wenstrup as above recorded. NAYS—198 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Royce 
Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Andrews 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stewart 
Stockman 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Turner 
NAYS—197 
Green, Al 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 
O’Rourke 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the resolution. 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, on 
that I demand the yeas and nays. 
The yeas and nays were ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This 
will be a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 228, nays 
198, not voting 5, as follows: 
Andrews 
Barber 
Barrow (GA) 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera (CA) 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutie´ rrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Holt 
Honda 
Horsford 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Nolan 
O’Rourke 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters (CA) 
Peters (MI) 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) 
Pocan 
Polis 
Price (NC) 
Barber Green, Gene Owens [Roll No. 510] Butterfield Israel Quigley 
Barrow (GA) 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera (CA) 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´ rdenas 
Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle 
Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Enyart 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farr 
Fattah 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Garcia 
Grayson 
Grijalva 
Gutie´ rrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Holt 
Honda 
Horsford 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kirkpatrick 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham 
(NM) 
Luja´ n, Ben Ray 
(NM) 
Lynch 
Maffei 
Maloney, 
Carolyn 
Maloney, Sean 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Meng 
Michaud 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Negrete McLeod 
Nolan 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters (CA) 
Peters (MI) 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) 
Pocan 
Polis 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Richmond 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 
T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schneider 
Schrader 
Schwartz 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Shea-Porter 
Sherman 
Sinema 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Tierney 
Titus 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Veasey 
Vela 
Vela´ zquez 
Visclosky 
Walz 
Wasserman 
Schultz 
Waters 
Watt 
Waxman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Yarmuth 
Aderholt 
Amash 
Amodei 
Bachmann 
Bachus 
Barletta 
Barr 
Barton 
Benishek 
Bentivolio 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Broun (GA) 
Buchanan 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Cantor 
Capito 
Carter 
Cassidy 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Coble 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Conaway 
Cook 
Cotton 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Culberson 
Daines 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers 
Farenthold 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Flores 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
YEAS—228 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (MO) 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guthrie 
Hall 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Hastings (WA) 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Issa 
Jenkins 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Labrador 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Lankford 
Latham 
Latta 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perry 
Petri 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Radel 
Reed 
Reichert 
Renacci 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Royce 
Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Scalise 
Schock 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stockman 
Stutzman 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Capps Jackson Lee Rahall 
Capuano Jeffries Rangel 
Ca´ rdenas Johnson (GA) Richmond 
Carney Johnson, E. B. Roybal-Allard 
Carson (IN) Kaptur Ruiz 
Cartwright Keating Ruppersberger 
Castor (FL) Kelly (IL) Ryan (OH) 
Castro (TX) Kennedy Sa´nchez, Linda 
Chu Kildee T. 
Cicilline Kilmer Sanchez, Loretta 
Clarke Kind Sarbanes 
Clay King (NY) Schakowsky 
Cleaver Kirkpatrick Schiff 
Clyburn Kuster Schneider 
Cohen Langevin Schrader 
Connolly Larsen (WA) Schwartz 
Conyers Larson (CT) Scott (VA) 
Cooper Lee (CA) Scott, David 
Costa Levin Serrano 
Courtney Lipinski Sewell (AL) 
Crowley Loebsack Shea-Porter 
Cuellar Lofgren Sherman 
Cummings Lowenthal Sinema 
Davis (CA) Lowey Sires 
Davis, Danny Lujan Grisham Slaughter 
DeFazio (NM) Smith (WA) 
DeGette Luja´ n, Ben Ray Speier 
Delaney (NM) Swalwell (CA) 
DeLauro Lynch Takano 
DelBene Maffei Thompson (CA) 
Deutch Maloney, Thompson (MS) 
Dingell Carolyn Tierney 
Doggett Maloney, Sean Titus 
Doyle Matheson Tonko 
Duckworth Matsui Tsongas 
Edwards McCollum Van Hollen 
Ellison McDermott Vargas 
Engel McGovern Veasey 
Enyart McIntyre Vela 
Eshoo McNerney Vela´ zquez 
Esty Meeks Visclosky 
Farr Meng Walz 
Fattah Michaud Wasserman 
Foster Miller, George Schultz 
Frankel (FL) Moore Waters 
Fudge Moran Watt 
Gabbard Murphy (FL) Waxman 
Gallego Nadler Welch 
Garamendi Napolitano Wilson (FL) 
Garcia Neal Yarmuth 
Grayson Negrete McLeod 
NOT VOTING—5 
Graves (GA) Lewis Rush 
Herrera Beutler McCarthy (NY) 
b 1527 
Mr. MCINTYRE changed his vote 
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 
So the resolution was agreed to. 
NOT VOTING—7 Frelinghuysen 
Gardner 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Tipton 
Turner The result of the vote was announced 
Herrera Beutler McCarthy (NY) Stutzman Garrett Miller (MI) Upton as above recorded. 
Labrador 
Lewis 
Rush 
Stivers 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Miller, Gary 
Mullin 
Valadao 
Wagner A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6133 

Wasserman Westmoreland Womack 
Schultz Whitfield Yarmuth 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-Watt Williams Yoho 
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-

THE JOURNAL 

Waxman Wilson (FL) Young (FL) 
Weber (TX) Wilson (SC) 

Young (IN)

ished business is the question on agree-

Wenstrup Wolf 
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the 

NAYS—173

Journal, on which the yeas and nays 
Amash Graves (GA) Nolan

were ordered. 

Andrews Graves (MO) Nugent

The question is on the Speaker’s ap-

Bass Green, Al Pallone 
proval of the Journal. Beatty Green, Gene Pastor (AZ) 

This will be a 5-minute vote. Paulsen

Benishek Griffin (AR) 
Bentivolio Gutie´rrez 

PayneBera (CA) Hahn

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Peterson

vice, and there were—yeas 246, nays Bishop (NY) Hanna 

Pittenger173, answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting Brady (PA) Harris Poe (TX)
Braley (IA) Hastings (FL)

10, as follows: Price (GA)

Brooks (IN) Heck (NV) 

Radel

[Roll No. 511] Broun (GA) Higgins 

Rahall

Bucshon Holding

YEAS—246 

Reed

Burgess Holt 

Aderholt Gibbs Nadler Renacci

Capuano Honda 

Amodei Gingrey (GA) Napolitano Richmond

Ca´rdenas Horsford 

Bachmann Goodlatte Neugebauer Rigell

Carson (IN) Hoyer

Bachus Gosar Noem Roe (TN)

Cartwright Hudson 

Barber Gowdy Nunes Rogers (AL)

Castor (FL) Huizenga (MI)

Barletta Granger Nunnelee Rogers (MI)

Castro (TX) Israel 

Barr Grayson 

O’Rourke Chaffetz Jackson Lee Roybal-Allard 

Barrow (GA) Griffith (VA) Olson Ruppersberger

Chu Jeffries 

Barton Grimm 

Palazzo Cicilline Jenkins Ryan (OH)

Becerra Guthrie Pascrell 

Clarke Johnson (OH) Salmon 

Bilirakis Hall Pearce 

Cohen Johnson, E. B. Sa´nchez, Linda

Bishop (GA) Hanabusa 

Pelosi Collins (GA) Joyce T. 

Bishop (UT) Harper Perlmutter 

Conaway Keating Sanchez, Loretta

Black Hartzler 

Perry Connolly Kelly (IL) Sarbanes

Blackburn Hastings (WA) 

Peters (CA) Conyers Kilmer Schakowsky

Blumenauer Heck (WA) 

Peters (MI) Costa Kind 

Schiff

Bonamici Hensarling 

Petri Cotton Kinzinger (IL) Scott (VA)

Boustany Himes 

Pingree (ME) Crawford Kirkpatrick 

Sewell (AL)

Brady (TX) Huelskamp 

Pitts Crowley Lance 

Shuster

Bridenstine Huffman 

Pocan Cummings Langevin 

Sires

Brooks (AL) Hultgren 

Polis Davis, Rodney Larson (CT) 

Slaughter

Brown (FL) Hunter 

Pompeo DeFazio Latham 

Smith (MO)

Brownley (CA) Hurt 

Posey Denham Lee (CA) 

Stivers

Buchanan Issa 

Price (NC) DeSantis Levin 

Stockman

Bustos Johnson (GA) 

Quigley Deutch Lipinski 

Swalwell (CA)

Butterfield Johnson, Sam 

Rangel Dingell LoBiondo 

Calvert Jones Terry

Reichert Duckworth Lofgren

Camp Jordan Thompson (CA)

Ribble Duffy Lowey

Campbell Kaptur Thompson (MS)

Rice (SC) Edwards Lynch

Cantor Kelly (PA) Thompson (PA)

Roby Ellison Maloney,

Capito Kennedy Tierney

Rogers (KY) Engel Carolyn

Capps Kildee Tipton

Rohrabacher Enyart Maloney, Sean

Carney King (IA) Turner

Rokita Eshoo Matheson 

Carter King (NY) Valadao

Rooney Farr Matsui 

Cassidy Kingston Vargas

Ros-Lehtinen Fincher McDermott 

Chabot Kline Veasey

Ross Fitzpatrick McGovern 

Clay Kuster Vela´zquez

Rothfus Fleming McIntyreCleaver Labrador 
Royce Flores Meehan Visclosky 
Clyburn LaMalfa Walberg

Foxx Meeks

Ruiz

Coble Lamborn 

Runyan Fudge Miller (FL) Waters 

Coffman Lankford 

Garamendi Miller, George Welch

Ryan (WI)

Cole Larsen (WA) 

Garcia Moore Wittman

Sanford

Collins (NY) Latta 

Gardner Mulvaney Woodall

Schneider

Cook Loebsack 

Gerlach Neal Yoder

Schock

Cooper Long 

Gibson Negrete McLeod Young (AK)

Schrader

Courtney Lowenthal 

Schwartz

Cramer Lucas ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2 

Schweikert

Crenshaw Luetkemeyer 

Gohmert Owens

Scott, Austin

Cuellar Lujan Grisham 

Scott, David

Culberson (NM) NOT VOTING—10 
Daines Luja´n, Ben Ray 

Sensenbrenner 
Grijalva McCarthy (NY) Vela

Serrano 
Herrera Beutler Roskam Webster (FL)

Davis (CA) (NM) 

Sessions 
Hinojosa Rush

Davis, Danny Lummis 

Shea-Porter

DeGette Maffei 

Lewis Scalise

Sherman 
DeLauro Marino 

Delaney Marchant 

Shimkus 

b 1535

Simpson 
Dent McCarthy (CA) Sinema So the Journal was approved. 
DesJarlais McCaul The result of the vote was announced 

DelBene Massie 

Smith (NE) 
Diaz-Balart McClintock Smith (NJ) 

as above recorded. 

Doggett McCollum Smith (TX) 
Doyle McHenry Smith (WA) f 

Duncan (SC) McKeon Southerland 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CON-

Duncan (TN) McKinley Speier 

Ellmers McMorris Stewart TINUING APPROPRIATIONS RESO-
Esty Rodgers Stutzman LUTION, 2014 
Farenthold McNerney Takano 
Fattah Meadows Thornberry Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, pursu-

Fleischmann Meng Tiberi ant to House Resolution 370, I call up 
Forbes Messer Titus 

the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 71) mak-

Fortenberry Mica Tonko 

ing continuing appropriations of local

Foster Michaud Tsongas 
Frankel (FL) Miller (MI) Upton funds of the District of Columbia for 

Franks (AZ) Miller, Gary Van Hollen fiscal year 2014, and ask for its imme-

Frelinghuysen Moran Wagner 

diate consideration.

Gabbard Mullin Walden 
Gallego Murphy (FL) Walorski 

The Clerk read the title of the joint 
Garrett Murphy (PA) Walz resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 370, the joint 
resolution is considered read. 

The text of the joint resolution is as 
follows: 
H.J. RES. 71 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SEC. 1. This joint resolution may be cited 
as the ‘‘District of Columbia Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2014’’. 

SEC. 2. (a) The District of Columbia may 
expend local funds under the heading ‘‘District 
of Columbia Funds’’ for such programs 
and activities under title IV of H.R. 2786 
(113th Congress), as reported by the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives, at the rate set forth under 
‘‘District of Columbia Funds—Summary of 
Expenses’’ as included in the Fiscal Year 2014 
Budget Request Act of 2013 (D.C. Act 20–127), 
as modified as of the date of the enactment 
of this joint resolution. 

(b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) 
are provided under the authority and conditions 
as provided under the Full-Year Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (division F 
of Public Law 113–6) and shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be 
provided by such Act. 
SEC. 3. Appropriations made and authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any project or activity during 
the period for which funds or authority for 
such project or activity are available under 
this joint resolution. 

SEC. 4. Unless otherwise provided for in 
this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2014, appropriations 
and funds made available and authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into 
law of an appropriation for any project or activity 
provided for in this joint resolution; 

(2) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014 without 
any provision for such project or activity; 
or (3) December 15, 2013. 
SEC. 5. Expenditures made pursuant to this 
joint resolution shall be charged to the applicable 
appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable 
appropriation, fund, or authorization is contained 
is enacted into law. 

SEC. 6. Appropriations made and funds 
made available by or authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution may be used 
without regard to the time limitations for 
submission and approval of apportionments 
set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United 
States Code, but nothing in this joint resolution 
may be construed to waive any other 
provision of law governing the apportionment 
of funds. 

SEC. 7. It is the sense of Congress that this 
joint resolution may also be referred to as 
the ‘‘Provide Local Funding for the District 
of Columbia Act’’. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
joint resolution shall be debatable for 
30 minutes, equally divided and controlled 
by the Chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on 
Appropriations. 

The gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
CRENSHAW) and the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. SERRANO) each will control 
15 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Florida. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 


H6134 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

may have 5 legislative days in which to 
revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on H.J. Res. 
71, and that I may include tabular material 
on the same. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Florida? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen of 
the House, I bring before the House 
today a continuing resolution that’s 
very limited in scope. It simply allows 
the District of Columbia to spend their 
locally raised revenues. That’s all it 
does. 

I brought this same resolution before 
the House yesterday, under the suspension 
of the rules. The vote was 265–163, 
a majority, but not the two-thirds majority 
required by the suspension of the 
rules. So the bill that is back before us 
today will require a majority for passage. 


Quite frankly, I don’t understand 
why so many of our friends on the 
other side of the aisle voted ‘‘no’’ yesterday, 
because all it does is allow the 
District of Columbia to spend their 
own money. But, be that as it may, 
that’s what happened. 

ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON, who represents 
the District of Columbia, made 
a very eloquent, very impassioned plea 
as to why we should pass this continuing 
resolution. But apparently that 
didn’t convince enough of her Democratic 
colleagues for it to reach the 
two-thirds majority. So here we are 
today. 

I think most of the Members recognize 
that the District of Columbia is 
unique. It’s a unique city among all the 
cities in our great country. It’s called a 
Federal city. And because of that 
unique relationship, Congress must appropriate 
the locally raised funds before 
they can be spent. 

We do that every year, on a routine 
basis, as part of the Financial Services 
appropriations bill. We’ve done that 
from time to time, and things always 
seem to work out. But this time, we’re 
back with the same resolution that we 
had yesterday. 

The way it works is simply this: the 
District of Columbia has passed the 
2014 budget. The mayor makes his proposal, 
the city council receives the proposal, 
it considers the budget, and this 
year it has approved the budget. 
There’s an independent chief financial 
officer that has certified the budget. 
It’s balanced. And there we are. 

So now we’re faced with a situation, 
unless Congress appropriates the 
money, they’re not able to spend the 
money. 

I don’t think that, after they passed 
their budget, that just because the 
United States Congress is arguing back 
and forth between the House and the 
Senate as to how we should fund the 
government, I don’t think that should 
stop the District of Columbia, this 
unique city, from spending the money 
that they’ve raised locally. 

For instance, you have people that 
work for the District of Columbia, like 
any other city. You have schoolteachers 
that go to work every day, 
and they teach kids. You’ve got policemen 
that get up every day, that work 
night shifts, day shifts, to make sure 
that the streets in the District of Columbia 
are safe. 

You’ve got firemen that go to work 
every day. They’re there on call in case 
there’s an emergency. Other first responders, 
they’re working every day. 

People keep the streets clean. They 
pick up the garbage. People go to work 
as librarians, and they do the work to 
make sure that people have access to 
reading material. 

Now, there’s no reason in the world 
why these people should be furloughed 
or not paid simply because Congress 
can’t get its act together as to how to 
fund the Federal Government. That 
doesn’t make any sense. 

And if you live in the District of Columbia, 
you shouldn’t have your quality 
of life degraded because of what 
goes on in Congress. You ought to have 
the police and fire protection. You 
have all the services that other cities 
have. You ought to have those. 

Despite the fact that we tried to get 
together, the House and the Senate, to 
figure out a way to keep our government 
running, to keep it open, we 
haven’t been able to do that. And so we 
shouldn’t penalize the people in the 
District of Columbia for that. 

So this simple resolution takes care 
of that. It authorizes, it appropriates 
the money, under the law, that needs 
to be spent on the local level by the locally 
raised funds. That’s what it does. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself as much time as I may consume. 


For the people watching at home, 
this debate may seem familiar, and it 
is, because we just considered this 
same bill yesterday. Unfortunately, 
nothing has changed in the past 24 
hours, so I continue to oppose this bill. 

Our Nation still finds itself in the 
midst of a completely unnecessary government 
shutdown caused by the Republican 
Party. And we all know the 
solution—passing the Senate version of 
the continuing resolution, which would 
reopen our Nation’s government totally 
for everyone. 

Doing anything less than a full CR is 
simply a political ploy. It is a false 
process designed, strangely enough, by 
a member of the other body to deflect 
attention from the harm that the shutdown 
is causing. 

Now, for 23 years that I’ve been in 
Congress, I’ve been, at times, begging 
Members of the other side of the aisle 
to help the District of Columbia. I’ve 
spent years getting rid of riders that 
they imposed on the District of Columbia. 


All the things that you just heard 
today from the chairman of the committee, 
who I have a lot of respect for— 

and I know the public listens to this 
kind of debate and then says, but they 
say they respect each other. We do. We 
care for each other. 

b 1545 
But a lot of this is just simply politics. 
All of the things that he just said 
are things that for 23 years his party 
refused to do for the District of Columbia. 
This is only to make it look good 
now so they can find yet another way 
to go after ObamaCare. 
In fact, this bill continues that meddling 
by continuing a harmful and controversial 
rider that prevents the District 
of Columbia from spending its 
own funds on abortion services. No 
other State in the Nation has such a 
restriction. 
Although I support D.C. being able to 
spend its own money, I do not understand 
why this bill is not being considered 
as part of the full Financial Services 
appropriations bill. 
Many agencies under our jurisdiction 
have suffered, or will suffer, devastating 
problems as a result of the Republican 
Federal Government shutdown. 
Let me recap briefly some of the 
problems that I mentioned yesterday. 
The Republican shutdown has required 
the Small Business Administration, 
our committee, to furlough almost 
two-thirds of its workforce. The 
agency has had to shutter almost all of 
its loan programs for our Nation’s 
small businesses, including loan programs 
for veterans, women-owned 
small businesses, and small businesses 
located in underserved areas. 
The Federal defenders currently have 
enough money to continue operations 
for just a couple of weeks. However, 
once that time is up, they will be unable 
to fulfill their constitutional duty 
to uphold the Sixth Amendment rights 
of criminal defendants. 
The Consumer Product Safety Commission 
is going down from 540 employees 
to only 22, putting all of the American 
people at risk. 
The IRS, a favorite target of the 
other side, has been forced to lay off 
most of their workforce, preventing the 
agency from providing taxpayer assistance 
to those who have questions, to 
examine questionable tax returns, or 
even to accept paper tax filings. The 
IRS brings the vast majority of our Nation’s 
revenue, and the Republican 
shutdown is harming our ability to pay 
our bills. 
All of these agencies need and deserve 
a continuing resolution so they 
can perform the many functions of government 
that remain essential to 
American consumers, investors, taxpayers, 
and small businesses. 
Let me close by saying that I have a 
lot of respect for the Members on the 
other side, but you’ve been caught up 
by a small group in your party and one 
person in the other body who is running 
this show and telling you that 
this shutdown has to go down for as 
long as it can—until the public tells 
you not to do it any longer. And they 
will do that soon. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6135 

And so rather than now open up the 
government totally by approving a 
proper resolution, you’re going to start 
nitpicking little pieces—not necessarily 
because you have now developed 
this great love for the District of 
Columbia, but because you know that 
it can divide people on this side and on 
your side. And division is what is best 
for this situation right now for a lot of 
folks on your side. 

I hope that we can see this for what 
it is—which is a sham, a trick, and 
more of the same. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I just find it ironic that the other 
side always likes to complain that Republicans 
meddle too much in the affairs 
of the District of Columbia. And 
yet yesterday, so many of them voted 
not to even let the District of Columbia 
access their own local funds. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SERRANO. Not allowing them to 
use their local funds is something that 
has been said on that side many, many, 
many times. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to yield 
3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. DINGELL), the dean of 
the House. 

(Mr. DINGELL asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
my good friend for the time. 

One of my colleagues yesterday said, 
You’ve seen it worse, haven’t you? 
Well, I’ve only been here 57 years, and 
I never have. 

I’ve never seen such small-minded, 
miserable behavior in this House of 
Representatives and such a disregard of 
our responsibilities to the people. 
We’re supposed to solve the problems of 
the people. We’re supposed to deal with 
the concerns they have. We’re supposed 
to see to it that the Nation prospers. 
None of that is being done. The American 
people could get better government 
out of the monkey island in the 
local zoo than we’re giving them today. 

I’m embarrassed and I’m humiliated. 
I certainly hope that my colleagues on 
both sides—especially on the Republican 
side—are embarrassed. 

This is going to cost us huge amounts 
of money. It’s going to waste money in 
an amount which will exceed that 
which we saw wasted during the last 
time the Republicans shut the House 
down. They shut it down in 1995 and 
1996. In today’s dollars, it cost $2 billion, 
according to the Office of Management 
and Budget. This shutdown is no 
different. It’s going to end up not only 
costing money, but hurting the economy, 
hurting jobs, and hurting the 
American recovery. 

During the last shutdown, we lost 
huge amounts of revenue through the 
IRS, EPA, and other agencies. Passport 
applications were not processed, which 
meant even more revenue was lost. National 
parks, battlefields, and monuments 
were closed. 

Now we’re going to pass a budget 
with hit-and-miss legislation and the 
subjugate people are going to think 
that in some quaint way we’re solving 
the Nation’s problems. 

We are called the Congress. That 
means coming together. I see no coming 
together here. I see a waste of time, 
a waste of money, and a behavior of a 
bunch of people who look small, petulant, 
and small-minded. 

I’m embarrassed. I hope my colleagues 
are embarrassed. And the 
American people are not only embarrassed; 
they’re being hurt by the 
shameless, miserable behavior that 
we’re demonstrating today in this 
Chamber and on the television to the 
Nation. 

Let’s get down to business. Let’s pass 
a continuing resolution. Let’s do our 
responsibilities. Let’s behave as a Congress 
of the United States, not an aggregation 
of petulant children. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I still don’t understand why it’s so 
hard for my friends on the other side to 
vote in favor of allowing the District of 
Columbia to spend their own locally 
raised funds. 

Back in 1996, as they may recall, 
there was a shutdown of the government; 
and there was a standalone provision, 
pretty much just like this, and 
it was signed into law by the President 
of the United States. It was Bill Clinton, 
a Democrat. 

I just don’t understand why it’s so 
hard for Democrats to accept that 
today. 

With that, I yield 4 minutes to the 
gentleman from California, DARRELL 
ISSA, the distinguished chairman of the 
Government Oversight and Reform 
Committee. 

Mr. ISSA. I thank the gentleman. 

Mr. Speaker, I must admit that I’m 
the gentleman, the colleague, that 
walked up to Mr. DINGELL and asked 
him if he’d ever seen it this bad before. 
And I’m sorry to hear that he did. Because 
in his 57 years, he covered 57 of 
my 59 years of life. So I hope I’m not 
the petulant child when I say that, 
quite frankly, the disregard over the 
District of Columbia is on his side of 
the aisle. 

It’s not an appropriations bill. It’s 
not really part of the CR. 

The truth is the District of Columbia 
pulls quarters out of meters every day, 
and they’re not going to be allowed to 
spend that. They receive revenues from 
building permits, but they’re not going 
to be able to use that money to keep 
the people that look at those building 
permits employed. 

They receive money from the various 
services they do, including, obviously, 
making sure that the property in the 
District of Columbia is protected. And 
that creates the property value on 
which we who own property in the District 
of Columbia—and I am among 
them—pay our taxes. 

Now, the Democrats love to talk 
about taxation without representation. 

Well, I’m here today to say, Where is 
ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON’s representation? 
Give her her due. 

They’re being taxed locally. Those 
moneys will build up locally. And 
you’re saying they can’t spend it? 

There’s no question in your mind 
that the right thing to do is to pass a 
CR on everything cleanly. That’s good. 
But until we pass a CR which would include 
some funds for the District of Columbia, 
allowing them to have what 
every single Member on both sides of 
the aisle has going on in every single 
city in their districts, it’s just fairness. 

Do not treat the District of Columbia 
greater than what it is—it is the Federal 
city—but for goodness sake, it’s a 
city. It should have the right to spend 
its own money. 

Yesterday, I was pleased to see some 
34 Democrats cross former Speaker 
PELOSI’s orders and edicts to vote ‘‘no’’ 
on everything and vote with ELEANOR 
HOLMES NORTON. I just hope today that 
people will search their souls and ask 
the question, Don’t you really want to 
vote ‘‘yes’’? 

Isn’t this a time in which you show 
your independence and do the right 
thing for the District of Columbia and 
let them spend their own money? Or 
will you go home to the city you live in 
tonight or this weekend, knowing that 
they’re spending the money that they 
collect locally and you’re denying the 
District of Columbia the ability to 
spend the money it collects locally? 

Our committee passed unanimously a 
bill to make that permanent. It wasn’t 
an appropriations bill. It was a statutory 
change to the Home Rule Act. I 
only ask that you realize that we were 
on a trajectory toward providing an enhancement 
in home rule that would 
cover this. I want that bill brought up 
as soon as possible, but this is the 
equivalent for this crisis period. 

I saw my friend ELEANOR HOLMES 
NORTON almost in tears yesterday because 
she couldn’t believe her own 
party wouldn’t support her. Don’t do 
that today. 

Support the Delegate from the District 
of Columbia and support the people 
of the District of Columbia in their 
ability to spend their own money, or 
you will be damning them to taxation 
without representation. 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will remind all persons in the 
gallery that they are here as guests of 
the House and that any manifestation 
of approval or disapproval of proceedings 
is in violation of the rules of 
the House. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Just two quick points. First of all, 
the gentleman from California (Mr. 
ISSA), the bill yesterday passed on a 
voice vote, and then he interrupted the 
Speaker and asked for a vote, which 
then led to a recorded vote. 

Secondly, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlelady from New York (Mrs. 
LOWEY), my colleague and ranking 


H6136 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

member on the Appropriations Committee. 


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
opposition to the Republican shutdown. 
We can’t cherry-pick our way 
through funding the government. Of 
course we support funding for the District 
of Columbia; but we also support 
funding for 800,000 Americans who are 
being furloughed, restoring SBA loans 
to help small businesses grow, and restarting 
Head Start centers. 

Mr. Speaker, I would say to my 
friend, Delegate ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON, 
it really pains me that Republicans 
have brought up this cynical bill 
yet again today. Funding one budget at 
a time is no way to fulfill our constitutional 
responsibilities to keep the government 
running or growing our economy. 


This bill is nothing more than a Republican 
ploy. It isn’t designed to solve 
problems. It is designed only to help 
Republicans shift blame for the most 
evident results of their shutdown. It 
would not be before us if Republicans 
had not been so irresponsible throughout 
the budgetary process, forcing us 
into a shutdown. 

This bill is wasting critical time that 
should be spent passing the Senate-
passed compromise bill that we know 
the President would sign to end the 
shutdown for all of government. This 
bill is irresponsible. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, could 
I inquire as to how much time is remaining 
on each side. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. COLLINS 
of Georgia). The gentleman from 
Florida has 6 minutes; the gentleman 
from New York has 51/4 minutes. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

b 1600 
Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. 
KAPTUR) for a unanimous consent request. 
Ms. KAPTUR. I want to thank Ranking 
SERRANO, and ask unanimous consent 
that the House bring up the Senate 
amendment to H.J. Res. 59, the 
clean continuing resolution, so we can 
go to conference on a real budget. 
Let’s end this Republican government 
shutdown that is already harming 
economic recovery and has already 
slowed growth by a third of 1 percent. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
guidelines consistently issued by successive 
speakers, as recorded in section 
956 of the House Rules and Manual, the 
Chair is constrained not to entertain 
the request unless it has been cleared 
by the bipartisan floor and committee 
leaderships. 
Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. PRICE) for a unanimous consent 
request. 
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
the House now consider the Senate-
passed clean continuing resolution so 
that the Department of Homeland Se


curity can pay the frontline personnel 
that put their lives on the line every 
day and secure our country’s critical 
infrastructure. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, the request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from California (Mr. 
FARR) for a unanimous consent request. 


Mr. FARR. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent to bring up the Senate 
amendment to H.J. Res. 59 and stop 
this silly game-playing, multiple-
choice government. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
PASTOR) for a unanimous consent request. 


Mr. PASTOR of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
House bring the Senate amendment to 

H.J. Res. 59, the clean continuing resolution 
that will end the outrageous Republican 
shutdown which threatens the 
recovery of our housing sector, furloughs 
more than 3,000 aviation safety 
inspectors, and is reckless to our economy. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from Rhode Island 
(Mr. LANGEVIN) for a unanimous consent 
request. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will recognize for proper unanimous 
consent requests, but not for debate. 


The gentleman from Rhode Island is 
recognized. 

Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the House 
bring up the Senate amendment to H.J. 
Res. 59, the clean CR, and go to conference 
on a budget so that we end this 
Republican government shutdown that 
is slowing the economic growth and 
threatening to derail our economy at a 
time when we can least afford it. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, the request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from North Carolina 
(Mr. BUTTERFIELD) for a unanimous 
consent request. 

Mr. BUTTERFIELD. I ask unanimous 
consent that the House bring up the 
Senate amendment to H.J. Res. 59, 
which is the clean CR, and go to conference 
on a budget so that we can end 
this Republican government shutdown 
that is delaying student loans. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, the request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

The gentleman from New York will 
be charged. 

Mr. SERRANO. Charged with what? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Time 
will be deleted. 

Mr. SERRANO. Oh, just checking 
what I was being charged with. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Understandable. 


Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ) for a unanimous 
consent request. 

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. 
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that 
the House bring up the Senate amendment 
to H.J. Res. 59, to end this reckless 
Republican-orchestrated shutdown. 
It is time for the House Republican 
leadership to stop with the gimmicks 
and step up with a legitimate effort 
to re-open the government. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

The gentleman from New York’s time 
will be charged. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentlewoman from New York 
(Ms. MENG) for a unanimous consent 
request. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman 
will suspend. The Chair 
would like to clarify. 

The Chair would advise Members 
that although a unanimous consent request 
to consider a measure is covered 
by the Speaker’s guidelines for recognition. 
Embellishments constitute 
debate and can become an imposition 
on the time of the Member who is 
yielded for that purpose. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, does 
that mean that the Members cannot 
state why we should end this charade? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Members can state their unanimous 
consent request but cannot engage in 
debate thereon. 

The gentlewoman can continue. 

Ms. MENG. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that the House bring up 
the Senate amendment to H.J. Res. 59, 
the clean CR, and go to conference on 
a budget so that we end this Republican 
government shutdown that is 
taking away nutritious foods from 
young children and mothers in the WIC 
program. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KENNEDY) for a unanimous consent 
request. 

Mr. KENNEDY. I thank my colleague 
from New York. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
to address the House and ask that 
the House bring up the Senate amendment 
to H.J. Res. 59, the clean CR, and 
go to conference on a budget so that we 
can end the Republican government 
shutdown that is hurting public safety. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6137 

Mr. BARTON. Mr. Speaker, how 
much time does the gentleman from 
New York control at this point in 
time? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from New York has 5 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from Florida 
has 6 minutes remaining. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from Washington 
(Mr. KILMER) for a unanimous consent 
request. 

I yield to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. VEASEY) for a unanimous consent 
statement. 

I yield to the gentleman from California 
(Mr. TAKANO) for a unanimous 
consent request. 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY 

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, before I 
state my unanimous consent request, 
may I ask a point of information? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
may state a parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. TAKANO. My inquiry is: Who is 
the Speaker of this House? Is it JOHN 
BOEHNER or is it TED CRUZ? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
has not stated a proper parliamentary 
inquiry. 

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the House 
bring up the Senate amendment to H.J. 
Res. 59, the clean CR, to go to conference 
on a budget so that we end this 
Republican government shutdown that 
is adding to the veterans’ disability 
backlog. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs. 
BEATTY) for a unanimous consent request. 


Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the House 
bring up the Senate amendment to H.J. 
Res. 59, the clean CR, and go to conference 
on a budget that will end this 
Republican government shutdown that 
is delaying home loans. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
BARBER) for a unanimous consent request. 


Mr. BARBER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the House 
bring up the Senate amendment to H.J. 
Res. 59, the clean CR, and go to conference 
on a budget so that we can end 
this irresponsible shutdown of the 
United States Government and restore 
the people’s government. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
HOLT) for a unanimous consent request. 

Mr. HOLT. I thank the gentleman. 

I ask unanimous consent that the 
House bring up the Senate amendment 
to H.J. Res. 59, the clean CR, and go to 
conference on a budget so that we can 
end this Republican government shutdown 
that is undermining public health 
by preventing the CDC from working 
on its annual flu vaccine or detecting 
disease outbreaks. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
to the gentleman from the great State 
of New York (Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY) 
for a unanimous consent request. 

Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of 
New York. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that, to help the hundreds 
of workers at West Point and the 
Stewart Air National Guard base, we 
bring up the Senate amendment to H.J. 
Res. 59, the clean CR, and stop this 
reckless Republican government shutdown. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I’d now 
like to yield 3 minutes to the gentle-
lady from the District of Columbia (Ms. 
NORTON). 

Ms. NORTON. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding and for his support during 
his service in Congress for the District 
of Columbia. 

Notwithstanding the way the D.C. 
budget is coming to the floor this year, 
I come to the floor to ask my colleagues 
for help. And I think each and 
every last one of you would be saying 
exactly what I’m saying if your own 
district was on the line. 

I’m speaking for 618,000 innocent bystanders 
to this Federal food fight. 
They have raised $8 billion—more than 
four States—but they are not able to 
spend a dime of it as I speak because 
this Congress hasn’t done its work, and 
they have no authority to spend their 
own local funds. They are living off of 
contingency funds that are fast running 
out. You are holding their local 
funds as if it were your money. It’s our 
money. 

The strategy of each side seems to 
deepen the city’s crisis. The Republicans 
cherry-pick, but the health care 
bill is still on the table. The Democrats 
see that the public is on its side, so 
they don’t have any incentive to move. 
The goals of each side are known, but 
neither has an exit strategy, and it is 
the District of Columbia that is hurting. 


If the game plan is to keep this going 
until the debt ceiling in the middle of 
the month, please don’t. Each day 
without an agreement is punishing millions 
of Americans and every single 

D.C. resident. Freeing D.C. leaves every 
bit of the strategy of each side in place 
because all the Federal funds are there. 
The sin was requiring the local budget 
to come here in the first place. Don’t 
compound that sin by simply throwing 

D.C. into the pile with Federal appropriations 
and pretending as if they 
were the same. 
You have no right to pull a defenseless 
city into this Federal boxing 
match. You have no right to use the 
good name of the people of the District 
of Columbia alongside appropriations— 
no matter how wonderful they are. 
Those appropriations depend upon your 
funding. The $8 billion is our funding. 

You have no right to leave our local 
budget sticking up like a sore thumb 
among the Federal appropriations. It’s 
our money, not yours. Do not drive the 
Nation’s Capital into crisis. Pass this 
bill. Free D.C. Please free the people of 
the District of Columbia. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, can I 
inquire of the gentleman from New 
York how many speakers he has remaining? 


Mr. SERRANO. We have two. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. We don’t have any 
additional speakers, so I reserve the 
balance of my time. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, may I 
inquire as to how much time I have remaining? 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from New York has 2 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from Florida 
has 6 minutes remaining. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. KILDEE). 

Mr. KILDEE. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

I’m new to Congress, and I knew 
when I was elected last year that I was 
coming to a place where I would be in 
the minority and where it was a highly 
partisan environment. 

I was elected to replace a gentleman—
my uncle—who served in this 
body for 36 years. He sat alongside Mr. 
DINGELL, whom we heard from earlier. 
I did not believe, though, that I was 
elected to a body where the majority 
would impose its will and use the rules 
to prevent a vote on the floor of the 
House for action that would open government—
that the President supports, 
that the Senate has already adopted, 
and that Democrats and Republicans in 
this body have both acknowledged 
would pass if it were brought to a vote 
here on the floor of the House. 

We know how we can get D.C. and the 
whole rest of the government open 
again. It’s simply to do what the will of 
this body would have us do if we were 
only allowed a vote. And that is to 
bring the Senate CR to the floor of the 
House. We will pass it; we will get government 
open again; and then we can 
go to conference on the rest of the 
budget. 

Mr. CRENSHAW. I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I now 
yield to the gentleman from Georgia 
(Mr. BISHOP) for a unanimous consent 
statement. 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. I thank the 
gentleman. 
In order to end these childish games 
and put our government back to work 


H6138 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

for the American people, I ask unanimous 
consent, Mr. Speaker, that the 
House bring up the Senate amendment 
to H.J. Res. 59. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the 
Chair has previously advised, that request 
cannot be entertained absent appropriate 
clearance. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Speaker, I just wish that in the 
23 years I’ve been fighting on behalf of 
the District of Columbia I had heard so 
much love from the other side for the 
District of Columbia. 

b 1615 
This is a game, this is a ploy. It is 
such a ploy that even when they had an 
opportunity to get by under the screen 
yesterday, they didn’t do it. 
Let me just end briefly by repeating 
this. There was a vote call on the floor. 
No one from this side called for a vote. 
The Speaker said that the bill had 
passed. Someone—they are denying 
now who it was—from that side called 
for a vote. 
We had a vote on this bill yesterday 
which resulted in what it resulted in 
because that side called for a vote. 
Why? Because they wanted to show a 
vote on the board. They wanted to 
make this a show, a trick, a ploy, and 
a sham. They didn’t want that bill to 
really pass, and I am not sure they 
want the bill to pass today. 
I yield back the balance of my time. 
Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 
There has been a lot of talk about political 
games. To watch people parade 
up and down and make speeches under 
the guise of a unanimous consent, I am 
not sure how serious that is. I am not 
sure how much that complies with the 
rules of the House. But be that as it 
may. 
You have folks on the other side that 
say they really believe the District of 
Columbia ought to be able to spend its 
own money, but yet they vote ‘‘no’’ on 
the authorization to do that. 
We are in the second day of a shutdown 
in the Federal Government. A lot 
of people are upset. I am upset, I am 
disappointed, because it doesn’t have 
to be this way. 
On three separate occasions, this 
House sent to the Senate a continuing 
resolution that would have kept the 
government open, kept the government 
running—three times. Yet three times 
the Democratic-controlled Senate said 
no—not once, not twice, but three 
times. 
Then this House sent to the Senate a 
continuing resolution that also said: 
let’s appoint a conference committee. 
That is a group of individuals from the 
House and a group of individuals from 
the Senate. They would sit down and 
they would try to resolve these differences 
to try to keep the government 
open. Because how are you going to 
solve a problem unless you sit down— 
that is what we call a conference committee—
and then you try to move for


ward? But the Senate once again said 
no. 

Now, we all know that we have conference 
committees from time to time. 
The gentleman from New York and I— 
he is the ranking member of the Financial 
Services Subcommittee of Appropriations. 
We have jurisdiction over 
lots of different agencies—the IRS, the 
Department of Treasury, the Federal 
Court system, the Supreme Court, the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
the Federal Communications Commission. 


We drafted a spending bill this year. 
I assumed the Senate was working on 
their own spending bill somewhere, 
somehow, some way. Usually, when it 
all ends up there is a conference committee 
and you try to work out your 
differences. 

For instance, we oversee the IRS. 
Members might remember the scandal 
that took place. As we were appropriating 
money to the IRS, we found 
out that they had been singling out individuals 
and groups of individuals 
based on their political philosophy and 
they had intimidated them, they 
bullied them, and it held them up. We 
thought that was wrong. So when we 
drafted our appropriations bill we 
didn’t give the IRS all the money they 
asked for. 

But the Senate might have done 
something different. If that was the 
case, then we would come together and 
have a conference committee, and we 
would talk about that. 

That is all we are saying here. Why 
don’t we sit down and have a conference 
committee about how we are 
going to fund the Federal Government? 
That is the way to get started, that is 
the way to figure out a final way, that 
is a way to stop this shutdown. 

Again, we don’t have to be here. It is 
disappointing. I wish we could move 
ahead. But at least—at least—let’s pass 
this continuing resolution. Let’s say to 
the District of Columbia we have met 
our legal responsibility and we have 
appropriated their own local funds so 
they can move on with their lives. 
Let’s don’t punish the citizens of the 
District of Columbia, let’s don’t punish 
the people that work in the District of 
Columbia to try to keep the city open, 
keep it running, keep it safe, keep it 
clean. Let’s pass this resolution and 
move ahead. 

With that, I urge the adoption of this 
joint resolution, and I yield back the 
balance of my time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate has expired. 

Pursuant to House Resolution 370, 
the previous question is ordered. 

The joint resolution was ordered to 
be engrossed and read a third time, was 
read the third time, and passed, and a 
motion to reconsider was laid on the 
table. 

MOTION TO TAKE FROM THE 
SPEAKER’S TABLE H.J. RES. 59, 
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
RESOLUTION, 2014 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
move to take from the Speaker’s table 

H.J. Res. 59 with the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment thereto, to 
recede from the House amendment and 
concur in the Senate amendment. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
section 2 of House Resolution 368, that 
motion may be offered only by the majority 
leader or his designee. 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
am looking at the standing rules of the 
House, particularly standing rule XXII, 
clause 4, which reads: 

When the stage of disagreement has 
been reached on a bill or resolution 
with House or Senate amendments, a 
motion to dispose of any amendment 
shall be privileged. 

My question, Mr. Speaker, is: 
Haven’t we now reached that state of 
disagreement as defined by rule XXII, 
clause 4? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
is correct, but under section 2 
of House Resolution 368, the motion 
may be offered only by the majority 
leader or his designee. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, you 
started by saying the gentleman is correct. 
Did you mean that I am correct in 
saying that the standing House rule 
XXII, clause 4 that says that the 
‘‘stage of disagreement has been 
reached on a bill or resolution with 
House or Senate amendments,’’ that 
that would be applicable under the 
standing rule if the standing rule was 
in order? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
is correct about the standing 
rule. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, 
what is it that changed the normal 
rules of the House with respect to the 
ability of any Member, including myself 
or any Member on the other side, 
to offer a resolution calling up the CR 
passed by the Senate and asked that it 
be sent to the White House immediately? 
Why is that standing rule of 
the House not in operation right now? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
House is operating under the terms of 
House Resolution 368, which provides 
that the motion may be offered only by 
the majority leader or his designee. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6139 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
am asking why it is that the standing 
rule of the House, the normal rules of 
the House that we have been operating 
under, rule XXII, clause 4, what is it 
that has changed that that makes it 
impossible for me now to offer a motion 
to send the clean CR to the White 
House where the President can sign it 
tonight? What is it that has changed 
the standing rule of the House? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. A special 
order of business resolution adopted 
by the House limits the motion to 
the majority leader or his designee. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, so a 
special order has changed and modified 
the standing rule of the House; am I 
right about that? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. House 
Resolution 368 has limited the availability 
of the motion. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, 
under the regular order of the House, 
would any Member of the House, including 
myself, be able to call up a motion 
to immediately send the CR to 
fund the government to the President 
of the United States, to immediately 
call up and have a vote on that? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will not respond to a hypothetical. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, just 
so I understand the response, under the 
rules of the House, you indicated that 
the standing rules of the House have 
been put aside in favor of H. Res. 368; is 
that correct? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. With regard 
to the motion in question, that is 
correct. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, am 
I correct that section 2 of that new rule 
says that any motion pursuant to the 
standing rule, clause 4 of rule XXII, 
may now only be offered by the Republican 
leader or the designee of the Republican 
leader; is that correct? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will re-state his original response. 


Under section 2 of House Resolution 
368, the motion may be offered only by 
the majority leader or his designee. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his inquiry. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, the 
rule that has now been placed over the 
House in substitute for the standing 
rules of the House gives only the majority 
leader or his designee the ability 
to move up and ask for a vote on the 
clean Senate bill that would go to the 
White House; is that correct? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will not respond to a political 
characterization and will state again: 

Under section 2 of House Resolution 
368, that motion may be offered only by 
the majority leader or his designee. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
will state his parliamentary inquiry. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, it 
seems pretty clear that we have taken 
the normal rules of the House, Mr. 
Speaker, and substitute in its place a 
provision that says, ‘‘only the Republican 
leader can make a decision—’’ 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
has not stated a proper parliamentary 
inquiry. 

f 

NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF 

HEALTH CONTINUING APPRO


PRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 2014 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 370, I call up 
the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 73) making 
continuing appropriations for the 
National Institutes of Health for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes, and 
ask for its immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the title of the joint 
resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 370, the joint 
resolution is considered read. 

The text of the joint resolution is as 
follows: 
H.J. RES. 73 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are hereby appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the National 
Institutes of Health for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes, namely: 

SEC. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, 
at a rate for operations as provided 
in the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (division F of Public Law 113–6) and 
under the authority and conditions provided 
in such Act, for continuing projects or activities 
(including the costs of direct loans 
and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise 
specifically provided for in this joint resolution, 
that were conducted in fiscal year 2013, 
and for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were made available by such Act 
under the heading ‘‘Department of Health 
and Human Services—National Institutes of 
Health’’. 

(b) The rate for operations provided by subsection 
(a) for each account shall be calculated 
to reflect the full amount of any reduction 
required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant 
to— 
(1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated 
and Further Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (Public Law 113–6), including 
section 3004; and 
(2) the Presidential sequestration order 
dated March 1, 2013, except as attributable to 
budget authority made available by the Disaster 
Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public 
Law 113–2). 
SEC. 102. Appropriations made by section 
101 shall be available to the extent and in the 
manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act. 

SEC. 103. Unless otherwise provided for in 
this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2014, appropriations 
and funds made available and authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into 
law of an appropriation for any project or activity 
provided for in this joint resolution; 

(2) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014 without 
any provision for such project or activity; 
or (3) December 15, 2013. 
SEC. 104. Expenditures made pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall be charged to the 
applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable 
appropriation, fund, or authorization is contained 
is enacted into law. 

SEC. 105. This joint resolution shall be implemented 
so that only the most limited 
funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide 
for continuation of projects and activities. 

SEC. 106. Amounts made available under 
section 101 for civilian personnel compensation 
and benefits in each department and 
agency may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to avoid furloughs 
within such department or agency, consistent 
with the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2013, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not 
be used until after the department or agency 
has taken all necessary actions to reduce or 
defer non-personnel-related administrative 
expenses. 

SEC. 107. It is the sense of Congress that 
this joint resolution may also be referred to 
as the ‘‘Research for Lifesaving Cures Act’’. 

This joint resolution may be cited as the 
‘‘National Institutes of Health Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2014’’. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
joint resolution shall be debatable for 
30 minutes, equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Appropriations. 


The gentleman from Georgia (Mr. 
KINGSTON) and the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DELAURO) each will 
control 15 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Georgia. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to 
revise and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on H.J. Res. 
73, and that I may include tabular material 
on the same. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Georgia? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. BARTON). 

(Mr. BARTON asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 



H6140 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Mr. BARTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
strong support of this resolution. I am 
the chairman emeritus of the Energy 
and Commerce Committee and back in 
2006 passed the reauthorization of the 
NIH, which authorized increased funding, 
set up some new programs, reformed 
the agency, and was viewed at 
that time as a landmark for the NIH. 

The bill before us today would fund 
the functions of the NIH for the next 
fiscal year. We all agree with the programs 
that NIH is engaged in, trying to 
find cures for cancer, Alzheimer’s, 
heart disease, lung disease, autism, you 
name it. 

Unfortunately, yesterday, apparently 
the majority leader in the Senate 
doesn’t agree with that. He was asked 
by a CNN reporter named Dana Bash 
about supporting this particular bill. 
The Senator gave a somewhat negative 
answer, so the reporter came back: 
‘‘But if you can help one child who has 
cancer, why wouldn’t you do it?’’ The 
answer from the majority leader was: 
‘‘Why would we want to do that? I have 
1,100 people at Nellis Air Force Base 
that are sitting at home. They have a 
few problems of their own. This is—to 
have someone of your intelligence to 
suggest such a thing maybe means 
you’re irresponsible and reckless.’’ The 
reporter responded: ‘‘I’m just asking a 
question.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, we should pass this resolution, 
notwithstanding what the majority 
leader in the other body says. It 
is very straightforward. I think in any 
normal situation there would be bipartisan 
support for this. Ms. DELAURO 
and Mr. KINGSTON have worked very 
hard on a bipartisan basis. I am not 
aware that there are any real concerns 
about the funding that haven’t been 
worked out in the committee. This is 
an example of bipartisanship that is 
working. There is absolutely no reason 
why we can’t put our differences aside 
and pass this resolution. I ask that we 
support it at the appropriate time. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I rise in opposition to this cynical 
and, quite frankly, offensive NIH funding 
bill. Instead of simply allowing a 
vote on the budget for the full government, 
the majority is continuing their 
hostage crisis approach to governing. 

b 1630 
Let us call this charade what it is. 
This is a desperate attempt by irresponsible 
lawmakers to play political 
games with a crisis they have created, 
a crisis that is costing the American 
economy $300 million a day. The number 
will go up as the shutdown continues. 
I am an ovarian cancer survivor. I 
stand here today because of the grace 
of God and because of the hard work 
done by the men and women at the 
NIH, so I know firsthand the value and 
the importance of medical research. 
I have been fighting for months—for 
years—to get this majority to support 
the lifesaving medical research at the 

National Institutes of Health. If you 
factor in population growth and inflation, 
NIH funding right now is over 14 
percent below what it was in 2010, 
which is when the majority took over. 
The number of research grants is lower 
than it has been since 2001. This diminishes 
the NIH’s ability to fund research, 
to conduct clinical trials, and 
to develop new lifesaving treatments. 

This majority has long refused to 
bring a labor, health and education 
funding bill up for consideration, 
though I have asked over and over and 
over again for them to bring it up. The 
budget they drafted a few months ago 
made deep and dangerous cuts to the 
NIH, and the bill before us seeks to 
make permanent the unacceptable 
funding cuts caused by sequestration— 
cuts that are stalling lifesaving biomedical 
research all across this country. 
The majority talks out of both 
sides of its mouth. I find this new attention 
to NIH funding disingenuous. 

Mr. Speaker, while medical research 
is vitally important, it is also only one 
of the many vitally important things 
our government does. We also help to 
feed women and children who are living 
on the edge, and 9 million have been 
cut off from nutritional support. We 
also keep track of the spread of infectious 
diseases, and the Centers for Disease 
Control has been forced to halt 
those activities. We help students pay 
for college. We protect the Nation’s 
food supply. We provide meals to low-
income seniors. We help support food 
banks for the hungry. We shelter the 
homeless. We further the march of 
science. We provide job training for the 
unemployed and returning veterans. 
We ensure access to mental health 
services for those who need them. We 
educate the disadvantaged and the disabled. 
We ensure the Nation has clean 
water to drink and clean air to 
breathe. We help small businesses start 
and grow. We help middle class home 
buyers secure funds. 

Where is the funding for all of these 
other important activities? 

The American people are sick of this 
reckless behavior. It is time to act like 
responsible adults. Instead of letting 
the extreme wing of the majority shut 
down the government, instead of wasting 
time trying to play politics, instead 
of cherry-picking important programs 
like the NIH to fund, we should 
be working on a budget for the entire 
government, one that does right by all 
of our fundamental priorities—creates 
jobs, supports the middle class and 
working families, and ensures long-
term growth. That is what we were 
elected to do. That is our job. Let’s 
stop playing games and get to work. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. KINGSTON. I yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. 
WOMACK). 

Mr. WOMACK. I thank the gentleman. 


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the 
resolution because it allows the NIH to 
continue to operate at the FY13 fund


ing levels until mid-December. The bill 
mirrors the clean CR that our friends 
across the aisle and Senate Democrats 
have said they will support. It should 
be supported by all Members of Congress. 


As you have heard, Mr. Speaker, the 
NIH’s mission is to invest in basic biomedical 
research to uncover new 
knowledge that can lead to lifesaving 
cures for disease, like pancreatic cancer, 
like Alzheimer’s, like diabetes. It 
supports 35,000 research grants at over 
3,000 institutes and universities across 
our country. In my home State of Arkansas, 
the University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences is one such institute; 
and just this morning, the UAMS Cancer 
Institute announced a new collaboration 
with Highlands Oncology. It will 
undoubtedly bring incredible opportunity 
to Arkansas, our research and 
our cancer patients. 

As many of my colleagues know, two-
thirds of NIH’s staff has been furloughed 
due to the lapse in appropriations. 
NIH has been forced to shut 
down the pipeline for finding future 
lifesaving cures, and it has shut off all 
systems that support grant review, 
leaving our researchers with many uncertainties. 
That’s where this resolution 
comes in. 

Federal funding is essential to sustaining 
the mission of improving 
health through scientific breakthroughs 
and maintaining international 
leadership in biomedical research, 
which is why we must allow the 
NIH to stay open while we continue to 
work toward regular order and through 
funding the rest of our Federal Government. 


I urge my colleagues to support this 
critical legislation, legislation on 
which our scientists, our doctors, our 
patients, and our futures depend. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. MILLER), my friend, the 
distinguished ranking member of the 
Education and the Workforce Committee. 


(Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California 
asked and was given permission to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
Mr. Speaker, the House floor is starting 
to feel like a new episode of ‘‘The 
Hunger Games.’’ 

Every day, the Republican leadership 
tries to find a new way to pit one desperate 
group of Americans against another. 
Today, because of the shutdown, 
Republicans are pitting kids with cancer 
against kids who are hungry. This 
bill is designed to release funds for the 
NIH today so that they can reduce 
funding for programs for kids, programs 
that keep children with the nutrition 
that they need. For a little bit 
longer, they can go hungry while we 
take care of the kids with cancer. 

I don’t buy their newfound concern 
about NIH funding, and the American 
people aren’t buying it either. What did 
they think was going to happen when 
they shut down the NIH? Did they have 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6141 

any working knowledge of what takes 
place at the NIH? 

The gentleman from Arkansas has 
just related the integral nature of the 
NIH to universities and research facilities 
all across this country, and yet 
they thought it was free to shut down 
the NIH? Now they’ve discovered that 
hundreds of children are receiving 
treatment at the NIH for cancer, and 
now they think the NIH ought to be 
open, but they’re not sure that the 
Head Start reductions ought to be 
brought back? This means kids can’t 
get their meals during the day—some 
85,000 kids in Arkansas—and they’ll go 
without nutritional assistance because 
of this shutdown. What about those? 
Are they next in the barrel here? 

Will you come and rescue them? Will 
you come and rescue the Head Start 
children who are losing the opportunities 
to go to school? 

What about the active servicemembers 
who are now facing 4-day school 
weeks in their classrooms? What about 
the elimination of important summer 
programs because of the shutdown? 
When are you going to take care of the 
military service’s children? What is 
this going on here? 

Every day, we pit one unfortunate 
victim of this shutdown against another 
helpless victim of this shutdown, 
and they think that they can cure it 
one bill at a time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Ms. DELAURO. I yield the gentleman 
an additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
There are millions of people all across 
the country and millions of businesses 
and millions of unfortunate people who 
have nowhere else to go to get help because 
of diseases, because of the 
threats to their lives. 

I thank the gentlewoman for bringing 
this opposition to the resolution to 
the floor. 

I would hope that all Members of 
Congress would just do what they can 
do, which is, in the next couple of 
hours, simply have a clean CR to open 
up the government. Let the people get 
the services that they need, and let the 
public servants who provide them those 
services go back to work in the name 
of country. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. UPTON), the distinguished 
chairman of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee. 

Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, let’s face 
it: the failure of not having a CR is 
that both sides have failed to negotiate 
an agreement to keep the government 
open. 

Let’s hope that the 5:30 meeting this 
afternoon between Speaker BOEHNER, 
Leaders PELOSI, MCCONNELL and REID, 
and the President is not a finger-pointing 
meeting and that it’s not a ‘‘my 
way or the highway’’ meeting but, in 
fact, a constructive way to get an 
agreement that most of us, Republicans 
and Democrats, can support. 

Whether that agreement comes tonight 
or tomorrow or, God help us, next week 
or the following week, at some point, 
the Sun is going to come up. It’s going 
to happen. In the meantime, we 
shouldn’t harm the folks who are in 
dire need. 

I strongly support the NIH. I look at 
Mr. WAXMAN, my colleague and ranking 
member on the Energy and Commerce 
Committee, as the two of us led 
the effort to double the money for the 
NIH a number of years ago. We have 
folks waiting in the queue to participate 
in lifesaving clinical trials. They 
have every right to be furious with this 
body, but we can fix that by passing 
this bill so that they don’t have to 
wait. 

Come on. Let’s put policy over politics 
and do this, not for us but for 
them. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. WAXMAN), the ranking 
member on the Energy and Commerce 
Committee. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, let’s put 
policy over politics by funding the government. 


What this reckless closing of the government 
has accomplished is to stall a 
lot of government agencies from doing 
their mission, and one of the most important 
agencies that has a mission 
that is irreplaceable is the NIH. Yet, if 
you look at the underlying bill—the 
Republican bill to fund the government, 
which we are willing to accept— 
it puts NIH at a really low amount for 
appropriations, so it’s hard to take this 
claim that they want to help the NIH 
seriously. 

The Republican agenda is reflected in 
its budget. Republicans proposed a 20 
percent cut to health, education and 
labor programs, and that’s a $5 billion 
loss for NIH. What does that mean? 
That means that the NIH Clinical Center 
has to turn away hundreds of patients, 
many of them children who desperately 
need care. This is singling out 
NIH. 

What about the other important 
work that is done to prevent and cure 
diseases? What about the efforts for the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention? 
They are not going to be reopened 
by this legislation, and they detect 
and respond to disease outbreaks. 
The Food and Drug Administration, 
they’re not going to get any money by 
virtue of this special singling-out bill. 
They won’t even be able to do their 
routine inspections of food and drugs 
to protect the public from abuses. 

If the Republicans were truly interested 
in the NIH, they would remove 
the sequester and restore funding for 
the NIH and other critical programs. 

Mr. KINGSTON. I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, let me say to my distinguished 
friend from California that I 
would like to move the CDC and would 
ask him to cosponsor that legislation if 
we could do similar to the CDC what 
we are doing to the NIH, because I 

agree with you in that I think it’s very 
important. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Will the gentleman 
yield? 

Mr. KINGSTON. I yield 15 seconds to 
the gentleman from California. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Let’s refund all of the 
government efforts, including the CDC 
and the NIH and the FDA, and not single 
them out and leave everybody else 
behind. 

Mr. KINGSTON. In reclaiming my 
time, I will say this to my friend: a 
long journey begins with small steps. If 
we can just take a few, small bipartisan 
steps together, I think it would 
change the entire tone of this debate, 
and I say that with sincerity. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Funding the government 
is one bipartisan step we could 
take. It is a compromise for us, and I 
would vote for it. 

Mr. KINGSTON. In reclaiming my 
time, that’s a leap. I’m talking steps. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the 
distinguished gentlelady from North 
Carolina (Mrs. ELLMERS), a former 
nurse. 

Mrs. ELLMERS. Thank you to my 
colleague from Georgia. 

Mr. Speaker, this is such an important 
issue on which to be speaking here 
at the House. I rise in support of the 
Research for Lifesaving Cures Act and 
in support of the funding of the NIH in 
order to help bring lifesaving cures to 
sick Americans. The situation in Washington 
today should not be standing in 
the way of this important lifesaving 
work. There is no defensible argument 
against this legislation. 

NIH has been in the forefront of biomedical 
discoveries that have revolutionized 
the field of medicine. These 
discoveries have laid the foundation for 
treatments and cures for many diseases, 
including cancer and including 
improving the lives of countless Americans. 
The government shutdown is preventing 
new patients from entering 
clinical trials. For those patients, it is 
a matter of life and death; it is not a 
matter of politics. About 200 people 
register at the NIH every week. About 
30 of those are children, 10 of whom 
have cancer. We must ensure that medical 
care is not suspended for these patients, 
especially for those children 
who are faced with difficulty. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, how 
much time do we have remaining? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Georgia has 73/4 minutes 
remaining, and the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut has 8 minutes remaining. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, there is 
no defense for keeping this government 
closed, and if the majority were serious 
about funding the NIH in their 2014 appropriations 
bill, they would have provided 
it with adequate funds. 

With that, I yield 11/2 minutes to the 
gentlelady from New York (Mrs. 
LOWEY), my friend and the ranking 
member of the Appropriations Committee. 



H6142 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

b 1645 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
strong opposition to the reckless Republican 
shutdown. 

There’s no stronger supporter of the 
National Institutes of Health. Members 
on both sides of the aisle have long 
supported the crown jewel of the government, 
but we didn’t have an opportunity 
to vote on the bill funding this 
year because Republicans didn’t have 
the courage of their convictions to 
stand behind the 22 percent cut. Funding 
one budget item at a time, even one 
as important as the NIH, does nothing 
to help children get immunizations, 
conduct disease surveillance, provide 
meals for seniors and poor children 
who depend on assistance for survival, 
or continue food inspections to protect 
the food supply. 

This bill is nothing more than a Republican 
ploy. It would not be necessary 
if Republicans had not been so 
irresponsible throughout the budgetary 
process, forcing us into a shutdown. We 
could end the shutdown today if the 
majority would only allow a vote on 
the Senate-passed bill, which includes 
the funding levels Republicans support 
and would be signed by the President. 

If you really care about biomedical 
research and public health, you should 
vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill and demand that 
the Republican leadership allow the 
House to vote on the Senate bill immediately 
and end the reckless Republican 
shutdown. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
1 minute to Dr. TIM MURPHY, a distinguished 
psychologist, lieutenant commander 
in the Navy, and the chairman 
of the Oversight and Investigations 
Committee of the Energy and Commerce 
Committee. 

Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I thank my friends, colleagues, 
and fellow Americans. 

Please, listen. I’m not here to defend 
this government shutdown. Long after 
we are gone, people are going to remember 
the rancor of this House, not 
the good we’ve done. I don’t defend the 
decision to shut down the National Institutes 
of Health. It’s too valuable. It 
funds lifesaving research and has a hospital 
that cares for 200 adults and children 
waiting for experimental treatments 
to save their lives. 

When asked about shutting down the 
NIH, even if it saves one child with 
cancer, Senator REID said, Why would I 
want to do that? He added that he has 
people on an Air Force base with 
‘‘problems of their own.’’ Now, I don’t 
think the Senator is heartless as some 
have alluded. Rather, I believe he’s an 
honorable man, and it pains him to 
know that the NIH is closed just because 
reasonable people cannot sit 
down and talk. 

I also believe the President is an honorable 
man who doesn’t want the NIH 
to close, even though with the stroke 
of his pen he could declare it open. But 
here he is immersed in a battle just because 
some people refuse to sit down 
and talk. 

I believe our colleagues are honorable, 
Mr. Speaker. None of us want people 
with terminal illness hurt. Let’s 
not make the NIH a political battlefield. 
While some still refuse to sit 
down and talk, at least let our hearts 
be with those who suffer. Let us do the 
honorable thing and keep alive the 
hopes of those who wait for a cure. 

Friends, colleagues, fellow Americans. I’m 
not here to defend this government shut down. 
Long after we are gone people will remember 
the rancor of this House, not the good we 
have done. 

It is not good for America when we fight 
partisan politics rather than work out our differences. 
It is not good when we confuse 
anger with action and rage with results. 

I believe members here are more honorable 
than to just play out each vote in a way that 
they can use against each other in the next 
election. 

I do not defend the decision to shut down 
the National Institute of Health. It is too valuable. 
Not just because it funds life saving research, 
and has a hospital where 200 adults 
and children lay waiting for experimental treatments 
to save their lives. 

When asked about shutting down the NIH 
even if it saves one child with Cancer, the 
leader of the Senate HARRY REID said ‘‘why 
would I want to do that?’’ and added folks at 
Nellis Air Force base have ‘‘problems of their 
own’’. Now I don’t think the senator heartless 
as some have alluded. Rather, I believe he is 
an honorable man and it pains him to know 
the NIH is closed just because reasonable 
people could not sit down and talk. 

I believe the President is an honorable man 
who does not want the NIH closed. He could 
with the stroke of a pen declare the NIH open, 
but here he is, immersed in a battle just because 
some people refuse to sit down and 
talk. 

And I believe all our colleagues are honorable. 
None of us want people with terminal illness 
hurt wondering if they will get life saving 
treatment. NIH is a hospital and an institute; 
don’t make it a political battlefield. 

At least let our hearts be with those who 
suffer. Let us do the honorable thing and keep 
alive the hope of those who wait for a cure. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, it would 
seem that no one cares much about the 
9 million women and children who are 
going to be cut off from nutrition programs 
or what happens to the spread of 
infectious diseases or people who need 
to pay for college. 

I yield 11/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the 
ranking member of the Budget Committee. 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have the great privilege of representing 
the congressional district that is home 
to the national treasure that we call 
the National Institutes of Health where 
you have scientists doing critically important 
work, looking for treatments 
and cures to diseases that plague every 

American. These are scientists. 
They’re not Republican scientists. 
They’re not Democratic scientists. 

They’re scientists. They’re very smart 
people. 

I’ve heard from some of them, and 
they say they are not fooled by the 

cynical ploy in the House today because 
they know that the fastest way 
to open up the National Institutes of 
Health would be to take up the clean 
Senate-passed bill and send it to the 
President tonight. That’s how you help 
the National Institutes of Health. 

They also have kids in schools, so 
they’d also like to keep open the Department 
of Education and help the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. They 
know that the way to do that is not to 
cherry-pick little pieces of government 
and leave the rest of it to die on the 
vine, but to pass a clean CR and keep 
NIH open, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs open, all the parks open, the 
Defense Department open, to keep the 
government open. 

Why hasn’t that happened? The 
Speaker of the House refuses to hold a 
vote in this people’s House. What’s he 
afraid of, the democracy? What’s he 
afraid of, we are going to vote to open 
the government? Because that’s exactly 
what would happen. 

If you want to help NIH, vote for the 
clean CR. Get it done tonight. Quit the 
game-playing. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Mississippi 
(Mr. HARPER). 

(Mr. HARPER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in support of the Research for 
Lifesaving Cures proposal. 

This vote is about helping some of 
our country’s most vulnerable patients: 
seniors hoping for cures to long-
time illnesses, precious children and 
their families looking for answers 
about genetic disorders; and the scientists 
who are moving ever so close to 
discovering America’s next medical 
breakthroughs find themselves asking 
if they’ll be able to continue their life’s 
work. 

The National Institutes of Health 
provide support to promising research 
leading to lifesaving treatments, innovative 
clinical trials aiming to reverse 
the core symptoms of disorders such as 
fragile X syndrome, autism, spinal 
muscular atrophy, down syndrome, 
Angelman syndrome, and cystic fibrosis 
to name a few. These give families 
hope, the research that is there. But 
this is just the beginning. These studies 
help our Nation’s most dedicated 
scientists build on promising discoveries. 


To continue these trials, Congress 
must allow the NIH to stay open while 
we work on getting the government 
back up and running. This isn’t about 
scoring political points. It’s about principles. 
As the father of a special-needs 
child, I know the challenges that these 
families face. Vote ‘‘yes.’’ Vote for fairness. 


Ms. DELAURO. Once again, if the 
majority had been interested in the 
NIH, it would have moved to introduce 
its appropriations bill with an increase 
in funding for the NIH, which it didn’t. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6143 

I yield 11/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN), the distinguished 
Ways and Means Committee 
ranking member. 

(Mr. LEVIN asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I’ve listened 
to the debate. Nobody on the Republican 
side has answered this question: 
Why not a vote on the clean CR? 

Why not? It would pass. That’s why 
you’re not bringing it up. It’s politics 
within your conference, but it’s harming 
the people of this country. Piece by 
piece it’s hiding the reality. Let me 
just point to a bit of it. 

I’m reading from an NIH document, 
2013 figures compared to the 2012 figures 
for NIH. There were approximately 
700 fewer competitive research 
project grants issued; approximately 
750 fewer new patients admitted to the 
NIH clinical center; cuts to research 
delaying progress in development of 
better cancer drugs that zero in on a 
tumor with fewer side effects; research 
on a universal flu vaccine that could 
fight every strain of influenza without 
needing a yearly shot. 

Come forth and tell us why not a vote 
on a clean CR. Don’t give us all the 
other stories. Come, someone, and say 
why not, why not a clean vote. It would 
pass. We can do it, a long journey, in 
one step, right now. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Louisiana 
(Mr. SCALISE), the chairman of 
the Republican Study Committee. 

Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from Georgia for yielding. 


I rise in strong support of this bill 
that funds the NIH and makes sure 
that cancer patients are able to get the 
treatments that they need and that 
that vital research continues to move 
forward. 

Clearly, we’ve got some disagreements 
between the House and Senate 
on other areas of government funding, 
but shouldn’t we at least be able to 
come together on this area where we 
all have agreement and make sure we 
take care of those cancer patients so 
that they’re not held hostage to these 
other negotiations? 

In fact, we should be able to get that, 
but Senator REID, the Senate Majority 
Leader, was earlier asked, ‘‘But if you 
could help one child who has cancer, 
why wouldn’t you do it?’’ 

Senate Majority Leader REID’s response 
was, ‘‘Why would we want to do 
that?’’ 

It would be disgraceful, Mr. Speaker, 
for Senator REID to deny cancer patients 
the treatment and the research 
they deserve just because he wants to 
score some kind of political point. 

Mr. Speaker, it’s not too late for Senate 
Majority Leader REID to have a 
change of heart. Stop holding people 
hostage. We can come to agreement as 
Republicans and Democrats. Let’s do 
that, and then deal with the other 
areas of disagreement. Let’s at least 
take care of our cancer patients. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded to refrain from engaging 
in personalities toward the Senate 
or individual Members of the Senate. 


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, how 
much time is remaining? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Georgia has 43/4 minutes 
remaining, and the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut has 31/2 minutes remaining. 


Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Tennessee 
(Mr. COHEN). 

Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I take umbrage 
at this whole process. 

In September of 1954, I came down 
with polio, which affects me to this 
day. The vaccine which was helped developed 
by the National Institutes of 
Health didn’t become available until 
about 6 months later. I’ve asked Mr. 
KINGston, I’ve asked people in this 
House for 6 months, I’ve spoken on this 
floor, I’ve written editorials to fund 
the National Institutes of Health to 
find cures for cancer and heart disease 
and stroke and diabetes and Parkinson’s. 
They can do it, but it’s cut by 
the sequester by $1.6 billion and not 
once have the Republicans said, We’ll 
fund it and we’ll find cures to disease. 
We’ll use this, our ‘‘Department of Defense’’ 
for human beings, and fund it at 
the level it should be so that other people 
like me won’t get a disease 6 
months earlier than the cure was available. 


They haven’t come forth once. These 
are crocodile tears. This is politics. It’s 
not trying to cure people. It’s not trying 
to stop illness and create cures. 
And I really object to this being used 
politically. 

I spoke 6 months ago to put the 
money back and find cures, and I got 
nowhere. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I say 
to my good friend from Tennessee that 
if you take out the TANF funding, 
which the Obama administration 
charges the NIH to conduct business, 
this is level funding. 

I yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania, (Mr. ROTHFUS). 

Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
strong support of the Research for Lifesaving 
Cures Act. 

To take a minute, you wonder why 
we’re here right now. It’s because the 
NIH has been closed. Why is it closed? 
We passed a bill just the other night to 
keep the NIH open and to hold government 
open, but we wanted to stop the 
special treatment that Members of 
Congress were getting. 

As a cancer survivor and someone 
who has benefited from work by doctors 
who have worked at the National 
Cancer Institute at NIH, it’s important 
that we continue to fund NIH. And I 
rise in strong support of this legislation. 


It’s time to end Senator REID’s government 
shutdown, which threatens 
not only research at the NIH, but work 
across the government. It’s very simple 

to do it. Just stop the special treatment 
for Members of Congress, and 
stop the special treatment for the 
friends of the administration. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/4 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Tennessee (Mrs. BLACK), a former 
nurse. 

Mrs. BLACK. Mr. Speaker, as a registered 
nurse for over 40 years, I am 
privileged to speak on the importance 
of funding NIH, and the research that 
is done at this institute is invaluable 
to our health care system and the future 
of our medical industry. Most importantly, 
it is important to people’s 
live. But I think it’s important to remember 
exactly how we got here 
today, to the point where we’re voting 
on this important measure on its own 
measures. 

My House Republican colleagues and 
I have said at the very beginning that 
the American people didn’t want a government 
shutdown, and they also 
didn’t want ObamaCare. So we sent 
three different measures to the Senate 
that would keep the NIH and the rest 
of the government open, but also to 
help shield the people from the harmful 
effects of ObamaCare, this disastrous 
law, and also to create fairness for everyone. 


b 1700 
But it was a block by Senator HARRY 
REID and the Senate Democrats, effectively 
shutting down the government 
to protect their own ObamaCare carve 
out. What we truly need is for the 
Democrat-led government shutdown to 
stop and for Senator HARRY REID to 
drop his tactics and to restore these 
programs. 
Ms. DELAURO. I just might quickly 
say to my colleague from Georgia—and 
I know he knows this—that Congress 
set the cap percentage and instructs 
the Secretary on how it should be used. 
And with that, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. ELLISON). 
Mr. ELLISON. You know, Mr. Speaker, 
it reminds me of the case where 
someone stole another person’s coat 
and then came back and offered very 
piously to help them find it, all the 
while knowing that it’s stashed away. 
The fact is that we are here for one 
reason and one reason only, and that is 
the Republicans object to the Affordable 
Care Act and refuse to fund the 
government unless it is defunded. How 
many times have we heard, delay, 
defund, and all that little jingle they 
do? That is why we are here. 
And now we have people coming to 
the floor, piously urging for funding for 

D.C. and young people and all this kind 
of stuff. You know, it’s as if they didn’t 
know, when they shut down the government, 
that D.C. and young people 
and the NIH were going to be cut. Obviously 
they knew it. Did they just find 
out after they read their bill? No. They 
knew it. They knew it all the time. 
They know it now. And we can solve 
everyone’s problem by putting a clean 
CR on this moment. 

H6144 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, if I 
could ask how much time we have remaining. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Georgia has 23/4 minutes 
remaining, and the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut has 11/2 minutes remaining. 


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 30 seconds. 

I just want to say this: It scares me 
to death that America is going bankrupt. 
Our national debt is 100 percent 
of the GDP. For every dollar we spend, 
42 cents is borrowed. ObamaCare adds 
to that $1.7 trillion. If we don’t get control 
of our spending, then we are not 
going to have an America as we know 
it. That’s what this fight is about. 

Now, what we’re trying to do today is 
say there are tiny steps in which there 
is an agreement, and the NIH is one of 
them. We’ve already done this for military 
pay. This bill should not be a 
stretch. It should have widespread bipartisan 
support. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

First of all, I would just say very, 
very quickly to my colleague from 
Georgia, the affordable care bill is 
launched. It is the law of the land. It’s 
going forward. I’m sorry to tell my 
friends on the other side of the aisle: 
Get over it. It is the law of the land. 

What we have here is really, quite 
frankly, reckless behavior on the part 
of the majority, and what you have 
done is shut this government down. 
And instead of wasting time trying to 
play politics, and instead of cherry-
picking important programs like the 
NIH to fund, we should be working on 
a budget for the entire government, 
open the government, and move to negotiations. 


With regard to health care issues, I 
think it’s important to note—and 
that’s why we shouldn’t be opening the 
government on a piecemeal basis—we 
need a comprehensive short-term continuing 
resolution that keeps the entire 
government open and at work. 

What other activities are engaged in 
health that you are bypassing or ignoring 
or don’t believe they have any priority? 
Centers for Disease Control, 
two-thirds of their personnel are now 
on furlough. Important programs like 
protecting public health are going by 
the wayside: monitoring for flu, other 
infectious diseases; promoting and coordinating 
immunizations; assistance 
to State and local departments in detecting 
and responding to disease outbreaks; 
programs to prevent, detect, or 
better manage chronic diseases—diabetes, 
heart disease, stroke, and, yes, 
cancer. The Food and Drug Administration, 
you’ve sent the staff home. 
Our food safety is in danger. HRSA, 
HIV/AIDS, and others, mental health 
services. 

If you care about health, open the 
government and negotiate on a long-
term CR. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I will 
repeat that if I can get a Democrat 

Party Member to cosponsor a continuation 
of the CDC, I would be glad to 
work together to move that bill. 

And with that, I yield the balance of 
my time to the gentleman from Maryland, 
Dr. ANDY HARRIS, a distinguished 
committee member. 

Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, when the 
President and Senate shut down the 
government yesterday, I don’t think 
they realized what was going to happen 
at the NIH with pediatric cancer patients. 


I want to thank the ranking member 
of the Appropriations Committee for 
bringing it to the attention of the 
House yesterday in her comments, because 
we get to solve the problem 
today. 

You see, Mr. Speaker, during a temporary 
lapse in funding, the Department 
of Justice guidance for continuing 
government operations includes 
activities that protect ‘‘the safety 
of human lives.’’ So although over 40 
percent of the Office of the Secretary 
were exempt in this furlough, strangely 
enough, some lawyer in the executive 
branch decided that pediatric cancer 
patients seeking to enroll in research 
at NIH don’t merit those services necessary 
to protect ‘‘the safety of human 
life.’’ 

Now, look, I hope everybody here disagrees 
with that interpretation. Having 
taken care of many pediatric cancer 
patients in my medical career and 
being a parent, I know that pediatric 
cancer deals with the safety of human 
life. 

Mr. Speaker, interestingly enough, to 
their credit, the Indian Health Service 
stayed opened. So if you have a common 
cold, you get treated, but if you 
have pediatric cancer, you don’t. The 
lab animals at NIH are being taken 
care of, but if you have pediatric cancer, 
you aren’t. I would hope we could 
agree that they should be. This bill 
solves the problem. This bill protects 
children seeking to enroll in cancer 
programs at the NIH. 

The President and the Senate have 
already accepted a step-by-step approach 
when they accepted legislation 
over the weekend to fund our men and 
women in uniform during this lapse in 
funding. That bill was signed into law 
with bipartisan support. And this bill 
should be signed into law with bipartisan 
support so that we can help those 
cancer patients, especially those 30 
children or so a week. 

Now, look, I admit because of what 
the Senate majority leader said today 
that we may have a tough hill to climb 
with this bill in the Senate, but the 
House has to do what is right, even if 
for only one child with cancer whose 
life rests with the NIH. 

Mr. KINGSTON. I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. SCHWARTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to express my strong support for medical research 
and my equally strong opposition to 
this legislation, which effectively extends cuts 
to funding for the National Institutes of Health 
and exacerbates uncertainty and instability in 
the federal government. 

The effects of the government shutdown are 
already rippling through every aspect of American 
society and threatening the health and 
well-being of our citizens. NIH is the nation’s 
largest single source of biomedical research. It 
funds research efforts in medical centers, cancer 
centers and universities across the country. 
Its work is unique and essential. Its value 
is personal for the many patients they care for 
and significant to our economy as the engine 
of American life-science innovation. 

Even before the government shutdown, NIH 
lost $1.55 billion in fiscal 2013 because of 
budget cuts required under sequestration. In 
my home state of Pennsylvania, these cuts to 
NIH mean the loss of 1,200 jobs and $73 million 
in grant awards. These devastating cuts 
threaten America’s capacity to cure diseases, 
treat chronic and acute conditions, and find 
new technologies that advance the health of 
people worldwide. And, as if those cuts 
weren’t devastating enough, the government 
shutdown is forcing NIH to turn away patients 
who have come to NIH as their last best hope. 

On just the first day of the shutdown, NIH 
Director Francis Collins estimated that for 
each week of the shutdown the agency would 
be forced to deny care to about 200 patients, 
30 of them children, who are seeking to enroll 
in studies of experimental treatment. Many of 
these patients turn to the NIH because they 
have no other options. This crisis is shameful, 
unnecessary and unworthy of our great nation. 
It breaks your heart. 

The bill before us today will exacerbate the 
challenges facing NIH and the people it 
serves. I urge my colleagues to vote against 
this misguided plan to cut NIH further. I call on 
my Republican colleagues to allow an up-or-
down vote today on a clean continuing resolution 
so we can reopen the government immediately 
and enable NIH to resume the critical 
services they provide to our nation. The time 
has come for Republicans to work with Democrats 
on a balanced plan that replaces the sequester, 
fully funds NIH and provides the certainty 
that our families and businesses need to 
grow our economy. 

Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 73 
which is a political gimmick designed to distract 
attention from the great harm being 
caused by the GOP government shutdown 
and Republican budget policies. 

When you consider what makes America 
‘‘great’’, you may think of the America’s public 
schools where every child, rich or poor, can 
get an education unlike other countries. You 
may think of our civil liberties. You may think 
of the architectural wonders like the Sunshine 
Skyway Bridge across Tampa Bay. 

I am inspired by the talented young researchers 
across America who are searching 
to find the cure for cancer or study treatments 
for Alzheimer’s or advance the artificial pancreas 
for people with diabetes. 

The Republican bill on the floor today relating 
to the National Institutes of Health is a 
whitewash and a sham. Despite GOP assertions 
that they support NIH and research 
across America, the record proves otherwise. 

Over the last two years Republicans in Congress 
have taken a fiscal hatchet to the positions 
of young and talented researchers in 
hospitals, universities and cancer centers 
across America. For FY13 and FY14, President 
Obama and Democrats proposed healthy 
funding for the NIH. Republicans have cut it 
back by almost two billion dollars each year. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6145 

Despite GOP assertions that they support 
research, Republicans have held firm to the 
sequester cuts for NIH which has led to the 
elimination of researchers across America. 
America’s researchers, the scientific community, 
patients, doctors and all of us are not 
fooled by the Republican hoax here. 

For example, at the Moffitt Cancer Center in 
Tampa, Florida, one of America’s leading cancer 
research centers, researchers on staff 
have been cut from 120 to 100. This is devastating 
for America’s ability to investigate and 
eliminate cancer and treat the disease. America 
has invested in our best and brightest 
young men and women in the science and 
math fields and the Republican budget policies 
are eliminating their positions, cutting back 
their work and ceding America’s top position in 
medical research to China and India. 

This is the same story at the University of 
South Florida, and the research in Alzheimer’s 
nursing, neurology, heart disease or mental 
health. The budget ax employed by Congressional 
Republicans is hurting us all. 

We have fought back. In the Budget Committee, 
I cosponsored an amendment last 
spring to restore funding to NIH and cancer 
research. It was defeated with all Republicans 
on the Committee voting no. Democrats also 
offered a balanced sequester replacement 
plan numerous times, but the GOP has shot it 
down. 

With this context, it is easy to see through 
the House GOP’s ploy to fund the NIH through 
this bill. They are not beefing up funding levels. 
They lock in the devastating sequester 
and thereby lay off more researchers and put 
diagnoses and treatments further out of reach. 
The cumulative impacts of year-after-year cuts 
in research erodes America’s status as the 
world leader in scientific research. 

The American people are not fooled by the 
political games of my Republican colleagues. 

And let’s not forget that this Republican government 
shutdown has lead to the NIH turning 
away new patients from clinical trials—in particular 
children. Grant applications will not be 
considered. And the NIH will stop answering 
hotline calls from our constituents with medical 
questions. 

The legislation we will be debating today is 
a ruse. It won’t work. 

Let’s stop playing games, and end the irresponsible 
Republican shutdown. Then, rather 
than the empty rhetoric relating to scientific research, 
commit yourself to making America 
great rather than tearing it down. 

Ms. BROWN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, today 
on the House floor, instead of putting an end 
to the damaging Republican government shutdown 
by passing a clean funding compromise 
passed by the Senate, the House Republican 
leadership has chosen to take a different path 
to vote on more political ploys. They are doing 
this by continuing to offer mini-versions of appropriations 
bills in a cynical effort to give 
themselves political cover for causing this 
shutdown in the first place. 

These bills are political gimmicks, not a responsible 
approach to governing. Republicans 
have shut down the government and are damaging 
our economy and the middle class. And 
today the House is considering the following 
five GOP piecemeal bills, which only fund selected 
pieces of the government—National Institutes 
of Health, local funds for the D.C., the 
National Parks, certain funding for Reserve/ 
Guard, and part of the VA. 

Like my colleagues in the Democratic Caucus, 
I wholeheartedly support veterans, our 
National Guard and Reserve, the District of 
Columbia, important medical research, and 
our national parks. However, these bills leave 
out many of the crucial services relied on by 
the American people such as Head Start programs, 
veterans’ cemeteries, small business 
loans, education for our children, equipping 
and training our troops, building housing for 
military families, getting decisions on veterans 
disability claims, among many others. 

Instead of opening up a few government 
functions, the House of Representatives 
should re-open the entire government. The 
harmful impacts of a shutdown extend across 
government, affecting services that are critical 
to small businesses, women, children, seniors, 
and others across the Nation. 

The American people have seen enough, 
and the time has come for Republicans to 
abandon their reckless and irresponsible 
agenda and join Democrats to honor America’s 
commitments to provide vital services our 
citizens pay for with their hard earned tax dollars. 
I urge Speaker BOEHNER, Leader CANTOR, 
and the Republican Party to end its shutdown 
by working with Democrats to pass a 
clean funding bill and end this charade immediately. 


Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, here we 
are day two of the hurtful Republican Government 
Shutdown. 

We still don’t have a viable solution to reopen 
the government. 

The Republican refusal to back off their extreme, 
ideological demands has taken our 
country down a dangerous path that will surely 
push millions more families into hunger and 
poverty. 

Mr. Speaker, while all of us believe it is important 
to keep the government functioning, 
hostage taking is no way to run federal departments 
and agencies. 

Members of Congress are elected to make 
sure our government functions. 

Yet, instead of working on a serious option 
to reopen the government, Republicans latest 
strategy is to exploit cancer patients and the 
staff who work at the National Institutes of 
Health by voting on piecemeal bills that will 
not end impacts of a shut down that extend 
across our country. 

Mr. Speaker, of course we research and 
funding for the NIH, But let’s not use them to 
score political points to advance an ideological 
agenda. 

The Senate passed continuing resolution 
would fund the government for an additional 
six weeks and all this House has to do is pass 
that bill to end this manufactured crisis. 

This hostage taking must end. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, here we 
go again—the majority instead of opening 
Federal government they are introducing another 
scheme to waste time trying to make 
what they are doing even more painful to the 
American public. 

I rise to speak on the Continuing Resolutions 
to re-open the National Institutes of 
Health (NIH), one of many very important Federal 
government agencies. 

NIH is comprised of many institutes that 
specialize in seeking cures for some of mankind’s 
most dreaded and difficult diseases and 
afflictions such as: blindness, heart disease, 
blood diseases, infection diseases, cancer, 
stroke, alcoholism; arthritis, musculoskeletal 

and skin diseases, hearing and balance disorders, 
drug abuse, and mental illness. 

NIH institutes focus solely on finding cures 
for the list of illnesses that I just mentioned. 
Researchers work often within a closed sterile 
world for decades looking for that one piece of 
information when placed within the body of 
knowledge known about a disease may save 
lives or health. 

The NIH Institutes include the following, the: 
National Cancer Institute, National Eye Institute, 
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
National Human Genome Research Institute, 
National Institute on Aging, National Institute 
on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institute 
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National 
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal 
and Skin Diseases, National Institute of Biomedical 
Imaging and Bioengineering, Eunice 
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development, National Institute 
on Deafness and Other Communication 
Disorders, National Institute of Dental and 
Craniofacial Research, National Institute on 
Drug Abuse, National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences, National Institute of 
General Medical Sciences, National Institute of 
Mental Health, National Institute on Minority 
Health and Health Disparities, National Institute 
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National 
Institute of Nursing Research, and National 
Library of Medicine. 

Because of the work of NIH to identify potential 
treatments and cures each year and a 
rare few are allowed into treatment and drug 
trials to discover if what the Institutes’ researchers 
have discovered will yield beneficial 
results for the entire population, not just in the 
United States but the entire world. 

NIH’s work is racing against the clock to find 
cures in time to save or improve the quality of 
lives. There are medical professionals who are 
serving in the Congress and you have each 
benefited from the work of NIH and so have 
your patients. 

We should listen to what researchers are 
saying about the Federal government shutdown: 


Mary Woolley, president and CEO of Research! 
America, said: ‘‘On a micro level, we 
are concerned that an incremental approach 
to the shutdown neglects disruptions to lifesaving 
funded by other federal agencies, as 
well as access to treatments in the pipeline at 
the Food and Drug Administration,’’ Woolley 
said. ‘‘And because it is unlikely that this 
measure would pass both houses, it may simply 
delay funding for NIH.’’ 

Benjamin Corb, director of public affairs for 
the American Society for Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology: ‘‘The data shows that deep 
cuts to federal investments in research are 
tearing at the fabric of the nation’s scientific 
enterprise and have a minimal impact on overcoming 
our national debt and deficit problems,’’ 
he said. ‘‘I hope leaders from both parties 
in Washington review these findings and 
join with scientists to say ‘enough is enough.’ ’’ 

Chris Hansen, president of American Cancer 
Society Cancer Action Network said 
‘‘Every week the government is shut down, the 
NIH Clinical Center will have to turn away cancer 
patients who are eligible to start potentially 
lifesaving clinical trials—a devastating impact 
that compounds the problem created by the 
sequester that resulted in 1,000 people being 
turned away from clinical trials in the past 
year.’’ 


H6146 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

This Congress has done harm to NIH research 
through Sequestration: funding cuts occurred 
indiscriminately across all areas of research. 
Cell lines were lost that had been developed 
over generations to see how they 
change to learn more about what goes wrong 
within cells and what may be done to prevent 
cancers from developing. 

Sequestration damaged NIH research that 
involved a study of rabbits that were carefully 
breed over years to learn about inherited disorders, 
but due to the Sequestration an entire 
line was destroyed because they could not be 
cared for nor were there funds to keep the copious 
and careful notes needed to document 
each generation’s development. 

It should chill us all to think about what may 
be lost in NIH research because of the last 
few days of government shutdown. Our tools 
are words, the work of NIH researchers are 
cells and specimens that cannot wait for the 
majority to figure out why the Federal government 
matters. 

Every 36 minutes a child is diagnosed with 
cancer in the U.S. That’s enough children to 
fill a classroom each day, which adds up to almost 
15,000 new cases of childhood cancer 
each year. 

Children under the age of 21 are diagnosed 
with cancer every year; approximately 1/4 of 
them will not survive the disease. 

Each year in Texas, almost 1,200 children 
and adolescents younger than 20 years of age 
are diagnosed with cancer. Approximately 200 
children and adolescents die of cancer each 
year, making cancer the most common cause 
of disease-related mortality for Texans 0–19 
years of age. 

TREATMENTS AND DEATH RATES 

Approximately 2,300 children will die this 
year from cancer. 

The five-year survival rates for childhood 
cancer have increased greatly over the past 
30 years. 

Prior to 1970, children diagnosed with cancer 
would survive less than 50 percent of the 
time. 

Today, due to modern forms of treatment, 
the five-year survival rate is almost 80 percent. 


Cure rates vary for specific cancers depending 
on the stage of diagnosis and the cancer 
type; some forms of cancer remain resistant to 
treatment. 

For example, due to better treatments and 
research, children with leukemia can be cured 
almost 80 percent of the time. Neuro-blastoma 
is among the most difficult childhood cancers 
to cure. 

More kids die from childhood cancers than 
any other disease. 

In fact, cancer kills more children than asthma, 
cystic fibrosis, diabetes, and pediatric 
AIDS combined. 

By the age of 20, one in every 330 Americans 
will develop cancer. 

Approximately 10,400 children and teens 
ages 0–14 years will be diagnosed with cancer 
this year in the United States. 

Treating childhood cancer differs greatly 
from treating adults with cancer. 

Those children who do survive may have 
serious health challenges to long term survival—
for example a treatment that saves a 
child’s life may cause a severe heart problem 
that threatens the long term health of that 
child. 

Today, more than 90% of 13,500 children 
and adolescents diagnosed with cancer each 

year in the United States are cured because 
of the work of researchers like those working 
at NIH. 

Research is needed to help these young 
cancer survivors’ live full and productive lives. 

I know that members of the majority now 
know that there is a government agency called 
the National Institutes of Health and that the 
work that this government agency does is important, 
but the work of all of our federal agencies 
are important. 

For this reasons, we cannot wait for the majority 
to discover all of the reasons why we 
have a federal government or the importance 
and purpose of each agency. 

We have to pass a clean CR now—we do 
not need to wait, just bring to the floor the bills 
sent to this body by the Senate. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate has expired. 

Pursuant to House Resolution 370, 
the previous question is ordered. 

The question is on the engrossment 
and third reading of the joint resolution. 


The joint resolution was ordered to 
be engrossed and read a third time, and 
was read the third time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the joint resolution. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, on that 
I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX, further proceedings 
on this question will be postponed. 


f 

NATIONAL PARK SERVICE OPERATIONS, 
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 
NATIONAL GALLERY OF 
ART, AND UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST 
MEMORIAL MUSEUM CONTINUING 
APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 
2014 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 370, I call up 
the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 70) making 
continuing appropriations for National 
Park Service operations, the 
Smithsonian Institution, the National 
Gallery of Art, and the United States 
Holocaust Memorial Museum for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes, and 
ask for its immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the title of the joint 
resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 370, the joint 
resolution is considered read. 

The text of the joint resolution is as 
follows: 
H.J. RES. 70 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are hereby appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for National Park 
Service operations, the Smithsonian Institution, 
the National Gallery of Art, and the 
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, 
namely: 

SEC. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, 
at a rate for operations as provided 
in the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (division F of Public Law 113–6) and 
under the authority and conditions provided 
in such Act, for continuing projects or activities 
(including the costs of direct loans 
and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise 
specifically provided for in this joint resolution, 
that were conducted in fiscal year 2013, 
and for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were made available by such Act 
under the following headings: 

(1) ‘‘Department of the Interior—National 
Park Service—Operation of the National 
Park System’’. 
(2) ‘‘United States Holocaust Memorial 
Museum—Holocaust Memorial Museum’’. 
(3) ‘‘Smithsonian Institution’’. 
(4) ‘‘National Gallery of Art’’. 
(b) The rate for operations provided by subsection 
(a) for each account shall be calculated 
to reflect the full amount of any reduction 
required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant 
to— 
(1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated 
and Further Continuing Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (Public Law 113–6), including 
section 3004; and 
(2) the Presidential sequestration order 
dated March 1, 2013, except as attributable to 
budget authority made available by the Disaster 
Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public 
Law 113–2). 
SEC. 102. Appropriations made by section 
101 shall be available to the extent and in the 
manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act. 

SEC. 103. Unless otherwise provided for in 
this joint resolution or in the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2014, appropriations 
and funds made available and authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into 
law of an appropriation for any project or activity 
provided for in this joint resolution; 

(2) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014 without 
any provision for such project or activity; 
or (3) December 15, 2013. 
SEC. 104. Expenditures made pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall be charged to the 
applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable 
appropriation, fund, or authorization is contained 
is enacted into law. 

SEC. 105. This joint resolution shall be implemented 
so that only the most limited 
funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide 
for continuation of projects and activities. 

SEC. 106. Amounts made available under 
section 101 for civilian personnel compensation 
and benefits in each department and 
agency may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to avoid furloughs 
within such department or agency, consistent 
with the applicable appropriations 
Act for fiscal year 2013, except that such authority 
provided under this section shall not 
be used until after the department or agency 
has taken all necessary actions to reduce or 
defer non-personnel-related administrative 
expenses. 

SEC. 107. It is the sense of Congress that 
this joint resolution may also be referred to 
as the ‘‘Open Our National Parks and Museums 
Act’’. 

This joint resolution may be cited as the 
‘‘National Park Service Operations, Smithsonian 
Institution, National Gallery of Art, 
and United States Holocaust Memorial Museum 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2014’’. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
joint resolution shall be debatable for 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6147 

30 minutes, equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Appropriations. 


The gentleman from Idaho (Mr. SIMPSON) 
and the gentleman from Virginia 
(Mr. MORAN) each will control 15 minutes. 


The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Idaho. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise 
and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on H.J. Res. 
70, and that I may include tabular material 
on the same. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Idaho? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Well, here we are again, Mr. Speaker. 
We were here yesterday, with the Republicans 
trying to open the government 
back up and the Democrats opposing 
opening the government back 
up. But, Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of this important legislation to 
fund the operations of the National 
Park Service, the Smithsonian Institution, 
the U.S. Holocaust Museum, and 
the National Gallery of Art. 

Mr. Speaker, I spoke yesterday about 
some of the effects of the government 
shutdown, which began a couple of 
days ago. With each passing day, we 
hear of more and more impacts resulting 
from the shutdown across the country 
and in our Nation’s Capital. 

I want to remind my friends on the 
other side of the aisle that all 401 National 
Park Service units in the United 
States, 19 Smithsonian museums and 
galleries, including the National Zoo, 
the Holocaust Museum, and the National 
Gallery of Art, remain closed to 
the public. This legislation, if adopted, 
would reopen these national treasures 
to the American public. 

Mr. Speaker, the government shutdown 
is having a real impact on real 
people and on the national economy. I 
remind my colleagues that it is estimated 
that the local economy is losing 
up to $200 million a day, with the National 
Zoo, Smithsonian museums, 
Holocaust Museum, the National Gallery 
of Art, and other popular attractions 
closed to the public. This doesn’t 
even begin to measure the national and 
international impacts of these closures. 


Think of the families, the veterans 
groups, the groups of students who all 
have saved for months and, in some 
cases, years to travel to our Nation’s 
Capital from across the country to 
visit the Air and Space Museum, the 
Lincoln Memorial, the World War II 
Memorial, the National Zoo, Ford’s 
Theater, or the National Gallery of 
Art. 

This government shutdown has a real 
impact on real people. Think of the 
families who made reservations to visit 

Yosemite or Yellowstone or the Statue 
of Liberty and now find these national 
parks shuttered today. This government 
shutdown, again, has real impacts 
on real people. 

Think of the impact the government 
shutdown is having on Ford’s Theater, 
one of the most hallowed National 
Park Service historic sites in our country. 
Not only are tourists denied entrance 
to the historic theater, but the 
shutdown has forced evening performances 
of the theater to be moved to another 
location because of the budget 
impasse. 

Think of the young people who have 
a National Park Service permit to get 
married at the Jefferson Memorial this 
Saturday. Their families are arriving 
from all over the country, over 130 people, 
for what should be the happiest 
day of this new couple’s life. But because 
of the government shutdown, 
they are not able to get married at the 
Jefferson Memorial and are now scrambling 
to find an alternative location to 
get married. 

Let’s pass this bill so this couple and 
millions of Americans across this country 
can enjoy our national parks and 
this couple can get married at the Jefferson 
Memorial. 

There’s a photo on the front page of 
today’s Washington Post showing National 
Park Service employees putting 
up barricades around the Martin Luther 
King Memorial on The National 
Mall. Remember, this is open air, accessible 
to the public 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week, 365 days a year, and we 
are putting barriers around it. 

Just down the street, barricades were 
put up around the World War II Memo-
rial—again, a memorial accessible to 
the public 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week, 365 days a year. Fortunately, 
these temporary barriers didn’t stop a 
large group of visiting World War II 
veterans, members of the Greatest 
Generation in their eighties and nineties, 
many of them in wheelchairs, 
from storming the barricades so that 
they could witness the memorial built 
in their honor of courage and sacrifice. 

b 1715 
Tourists visiting Washington, and, 
indeed, many furloughed Federal employees 
are, today, finding actual physical 
barriers to prevent them from experiencing 
our open-air national monuments 
honoring Lincoln, Jefferson, 
King, and our World War II heroes. 
At some point, Congress and the 
President will overcome their differences 
over Federal funding. But, 
isn’t it ironic and even cynical that 
when the government shuts down, the 
President’s administration actually 
builds physical barriers at sites that 
are otherwise open 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week, 365 days a year? 
How cynical is that? 
Now, some people say they put those 
barriers there to protect them from 
vandalism. So we use the Park Police 
to put up and protect the barriers, but 
not the monuments. That doesn’t make 
a lot of sense to me. 

To my friends on the Democratic side 
of the aisle and to the President, I say 
this: If you seek a solution to this government 
shutdown, if you seek a bipartisan 
solution, Mr. President, you can 
start by tearing down these barriers. 

Let’s open our national parks. Let’s 
open the Smithsonian, the National 
Zoo, the Holocaust Museum and the 
National Gallery of Art. 

Why are the House and Senate Democrats 
denying the American people the 
right to visit these treasured sites? 

To my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle, I will close with this thought. 
By opposing this legislation, you are 
voting to keep our national parks 
closed, to keep Yellowstone closed, to 
keep Yosemite closed, to keep the 
Statute of Liberty closed, to keep 
Ford’s Theater closed. 

You are voting to keep the Smithsonian 
closed. You are voting to keep the 
National Zoo closed. You are voting to 
keep the Holocaust Museum closed. 
You are voting to keep the National 
Gallery of Art closed. 

We should not be using our national 
parks, the Smithsonian, the National 
Zoo, the Holocaust Museum and the 
National Gallery of Art as hostages for 
the Democratic ‘‘my way or the highway’’ 
shutdown, and that’s exactly 
what this is. This is the Democratic 
‘‘you either agree with us, or we will 
shut the government down.’’ 

We just simply wanted to go to conference, 
but no, that’s not good enough 
either. We can’t go to conference to 
talk about these differences, so let’s 
shut it down, and that’s exactly what 
the Democratic Party has done. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a commonsense 
bill, and I encourage my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle to support it. 
Let’s reopen these national treasures. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded to direct their remarks 
to the Chair. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, as Yogi Berra would 
say, it’s deja vu all over again. 

Yesterday, the majority rushed to 
the floor this very bill to partially 
open the National Park Service, the 
Smithsonian, the Holocaust Museum, 
and the National Gallery of Art. We 
had a spirited debate, and the House 
failed to pass this bill. 

But now, here we are back again, debating 
the very same bill. It was a bad 
idea yesterday, and it certainly hasn’t 
improved over the last 24 hours. 

I’ll explain why. Because, instead of 
reopening the entire Federal Government, 
or even the entire Interior Department, 
the majority has resorted to 
singling out publicly visible programs 
for action, while leaving thousands of 
important functions of government 
shut down and hundreds of thousands 
of Federal employees furloughed. 

It’s time to stop using Federal employees 
as pawns in this cynical game. 

Mr. Speaker, this GOP act of desperation 
is evidence of how politically 


H6148 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

bankrupt this position has become. It’s 
degenerating down to picking winners 
and losers among Federal workers. The 
American public is getting burned, and 
some of the political heat is finally 
getting to the Republican majority. 

So now they would allow workers at 
the Smithsonian, the Holocaust Museum, 
and the Gallery of Art, and a few 
of the employees directly involved in 
the operation of our National Park 
System, to return to work. 

Do they really think that this is 
going to save them from the public’s 
wrath? 

Under this bill, thousands of National 
Park Service employees involved 
in historic preservation and national 
recreation programs and maintenance 
and construction still remain 
furloughed. 

And what about the 10,200 furloughed 
employees of the Bureau of Land Management, 
the 7,751 furloughed employees 
at the Fish and Wildlife Service, 
the 18,800 furloughed employees of the 
Forest Service, the 16,000 furloughed 
employees of the Social Security Administration? 


Doesn’t the majority value their 
work or support the important programs 
that they carry out? 

We should value all of our Federal 
employees. We should value the scientists 
at the U.S. Geological Survey 
and the health professionals at the Infectious 
Disease Control and Immunization 
Program at the Centers for Disease 
Control just as much as the park 
ranger and museum workers. 

How do you explain to the Library of 
Congress workers that they are less 
important than their Smithsonian 
counterparts? 

I want to see our national parks and 
museums reopened, as do all of the 
Democrats on this side of the aisle. We 
want to open the government, and we 
would vote today to do so if you’d let 
the bill come to the floor, because we 
want to see all 561 units of the National 
Wildlife Refuge System opened, 
155 national forests, the 866 areas of the 
National Landscape Conservation System 
reopened. But you’re keeping all 
those closed. 

Does the majority really believe that 
those are not important, that they 
don’t deserve to be opened, that the 
public doesn’t deserve to be able to use 
those national assets? 

This bill is a bandaid, and it won’t 
stanch the open rage that the public is 
beginning to feel. This shutdown is disrupting 
the work of all Federal workers 
and the American public that depend 
on the work that they do. It’s an 
attempt at a quick fix to deflect the 
political heat the majority is facing. 

This idea that we’ll pick and choose 
among Federal activities, which ones 
are allowed to operate and what has to 
remain shut down, is politically bankrupt, 
and it’s morally bankrupt as well, 
Mr. Speaker. 

I implore my Republican colleagues 
to abandon the junior Senator from 
Texas’ plan to play politics with the 

economy for a dead-on-arrival idea 
from an extremist ideologue. 

The President has reaffirmed that he 
would veto these cherry-picked bills. 
We know that the Senate will reject 
them. So this is a waste of time. People 
are out of work, and we’re wasting our 
time on this. 

If we could just have 20 Republicans, 
less than that, vote on a clean CR, it 
would pass. The government would 
open today. And you won’t do it because 
you’re afraid of this ideological 
extremist faction within your party. 
You don’t want to get them upset. 

It’s time to stop these games. The 
House GOP needs to let our hostages go 
and get on with the real business of 
governing. 

Let’s vote on a clean CR. Reopen the 
whole government. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, it just 
stuns me that the gentleman from Virginia 
is unwilling to put his constituents 
back to work in opening and 
working in our national parks. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Washington (Mr. HASTINGS), 
the Chairman of the Natural 
Resources Committee. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. I 
thank the gentleman for yielding, and 
I rise, again today in support of this 
resolution. 

Mr. Speaker, while it’s understandable 
that, during this shutdown, some 
services would be limited in some 
parks and visitor centers, I believe this 
administration is going out of its way 
to take unreasonable and unnecessary 
steps to block public access to parks 
and monuments. 

There is absolutely no reason why 
open-air parks and monuments here in 
Washington, D.C., should be barricaded 
off. These are places without doors, 
gates or fences where people are allowed 
24/7, 365-day access to these memorials. 
Why are they closed now? 

Furthermore, memorials that 
weren’t closed during the last government 
shutdown in 1996 have been barricaded 
today. This administration is 
choosing to do this. It wants the effect 
of this government shutdown to be as 
painful as possible. 

And the worst example of this is how 
the Obama administration erected 
steel barricades to keep our World War 
II veterans out of the memorial. These 
men are national heroes who flew here 
from across the country. The Park 
Service knew that they were coming. 
The veterans didn’t deserve to be greeted 
by armed National Park Police at 
the entrance. 

Now, Mr. Speaker, it doesn’t cost the 
Federal Government a single penny to 
let these veterans walk around this 
outdoor, open-air structure. But ironically, 
the Federal Government is 
spending money to proactively keep 
them out. It may very well be costing 
more money to keep these visitors out 
than it would to simply let them in. 

To add further insult to injury, the 
Obama administration isn’t even ap


plying this policy consistently. While 
highly visible monuments are barricaded 
off, others remain open. The 
Obama administration is selectively 
choosing which memorials to keep 
open and which to close, further proof, 
in my mind, that they’re just playing 
politics. 

So this bill today would end these 
type of political games. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. SIMPSON. I yield an additional 
15 seconds to the gentleman. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington. 
want to say that, as chairman of the 
House Natural Resources Committee 
that has jurisdiction on our national 
parks, we have started investigations 
into why this administration did these 
precise actions. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, how 
much time do we have on either side? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Florida has 10 minutes remaining. 
The gentleman from Idaho 
has 63/4 minutes remaining. 

Mr. MORAN. I yield 11/2 minutes to 
the very distinguished gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. LOWEY), the 
ranking member of the Appropriations 
Committee. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
opposition to the Republican shutdown. 
Of course we support funding for 
our national parks. But the House has 
not had that opportunity because Republicans 
couldn’t even advance their 
own Interior bill out of the committee. 

Why is opening parks now more important 
than investments in job training 
centers that are dependent on their 
expected allotment of funds, or allowing 
all of our food inspectors to continue 
to protect the American food 
supply? 

Today’s bill doesn’t even include 
funding for essential firefighting efforts 
for the Park Service. Funding one 
budget item at a time, while doing 
nothing about other critical services, is 
no way to fulfill our constitutional responsibility 
to keep the government 
running or to grow our economy. 

The bill we are considering is nothing 
more than a Republican ploy. It would 
not be necessary if Republicans had not 
been so reckless throughout the budgetary 
process, forcing us into a shutdown. 


We could end the Republican shutdown 
today if the majority will only 
allow a vote on the Senate-passed bill 
to keep the government running, which 
includes the funding levels Republicans 
support and would be signed by the 
President. 

Pass the bill today, and the couple 
can get married at the Jefferson Memorial, 
and the 200 patients who would 
have been admitted to the NIH clinical 
trials each week will not be turned 
away. 

The House majority apparently can’t 
take the heat from the fire they lit, so 
now they have put forward this reckless 
political attempt to shift blame 
for the shutdown. End the shutdown 
now. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6149 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Chairman, it is 
now my pleasure to yield 11/2 minutes 
to the gentleman from Riverside, California 
(Mr. CALVERT), a valuable member 
of the Interior Subcommittee. 

Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, today 
marks the second day of the government 
shutdown, a shutdown that I and 
my Republican colleagues absolutely 
oppose. The shutdown has been made 
necessary because our friends on the 
other side of the Capitol refused to negotiate 
or compromise. So, in an effort 
to find some common ground, House 
Republicans are introducing narrow 
funding bills for government services 
that are completely noncontroversial. 

Americans who planned their vacations 
around a national park are severely 
disappointed this week. I was 
pleased that I was able to take constituents 
from my hometown on a tour 
of the Capitol this morning because all 
the other D.C. tours had been canceled. 

Many Americans around the country 
have been simply forced to cancel their 
plans. Yesterday a group of World War 
II veterans that you heard about, 
American heroes, bypassed the barricades 
outside the World War II Memorial 
in order to see the memorial that 
was built in their honor. 

Other World War II veterans scheduled 
to visit the memorial next week 
were told by the National Park Service 
that they would be arrested if they attempted 
to view their memorial. This 
is not right. 

We have a chance to come together 
on a bipartisan basis, to alleviate some 
of the hardship of this shutdown. 

The bill before us, H.J. Res. 70, would 
fund the operation of the National 
Park Service, the Smithsonian Institution, 
the Holocaust Museum, the National 
Gallery of Art. 

I urge my colleagues to support the 
bill, reopen our parks, honor our veterans, 
show the American people we 
can work together. 

Mr. President, tear down these barricades. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded to address all remarks 
to the Chair. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I’m honored 
to yield 11/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), 
the very distinguished Democratic 
whip of the House. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding. 

My friends on this side say they want 
to keep the government open. We say 
we want to keep the government open. 

My friends on this side sent a bill 
over to the Senate that had $986 billion 
in funding. We agreed to $986 billion in 
funding. 

What’s the problem? 

We need to open all of the government, 
as the gentleman from Virginia 
said. 

b 1730 

We have a responsibility to reopen all 
of our government, not just a little 
here and a little there. House Repub


licans shut the government down, and 
now they’re worried about having to 
answer for it. 

These piecemeal bills are on this 
floor because Republicans are realizing, 
yes, there are real-world consequences 
to a shutdown. Now they’re 
engaged in a gimmick to fund only 
those pieces of government that the 
media or their constituents notice immediately. 
But by picking winners and 
losers, Republicans are ignoring critical 
agencies and functions across our 
Nation. 

We need a full reopening of government 
in order to provide Head Start for 
our children. Are Head Start children 
less important than somebody visiting 
our parks? Perhaps those are your priorities. 
Nutrition assistance to women 
and families, training for law enforcement 
agents who keep us safe. Seventy 
percent of the CIA are on furlough 
today—now—right now. 

We need to put people back to work 
to ensure that our food is safe and 
small businesses can get the loans they 
need. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. MORAN. I yield the gentleman 
an additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, put the 
Senate’s clean compromise bill that 
gets our government open—the government 
of the people of the United 
States—and then let’s go to conference 
on the budget, as Democrats have long 
called for, to resolve our differences 
and achieve a long-term solution. 

A shutdown is not a political strategy; 
it is a failure for our country. We 
need a government that is open and 
that works for all of our people. Let us 
have a vote on the Senate’s bill to reopen 
our government—at the number 
you put in your bill and that you sent 
to the Senate, on which we will now 
agree. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, it is now 
my pleasure to yield 21/2 minutes to the 
gentlelady from Michigan (Mrs. MILLER). 


Mrs. MILLER of Michigan. I thank 
the gentleman for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, it seems that every 
time there’s any sort of disagreement 
with Congress, President Obama does 
everything he can to make it hurt the 
American people as much as possible. 

Earlier this year, when the sequester 
took effect, the White House immediately 
slammed the door on the American 
people and ended public tours at 
the White House. And yesterday, the 
Obama administration even tried to 
slam the door on the World War II Memorial 
to the heroes who stormed the 
beaches of Normandy and Iwo Jima; 
but just as the Japanese and Germans 
found out, these men would not be denied, 
and they pushed past those barriers. 
What great patriots they are. 

It’s interesting to note that the 
World War II Memorial is open 24 hours 
a day, but it’s only staffed part of that 
time. So instead of actually leaving the 
memorial open, the Obama administra


tion actually spent extra money to 
build the barricades to keep our heroes 
out, and then paid the Park Police to 
enforce that. 

We are, Mr. Speaker, about to vote to 
fix that problem by passing legislation 
to open up our parks, to open up our 
memorials, and to open up the Smithsonian 
Institution. 

Now, I know our Democratic friends 
are saying that they will vote against 
this bill because they want an entire 
clean CR or nothing at all, and yet 
they are accusing us of being the absolutists. 
I would just ask this, Mr. 
Speaker: Who are the absolutists? 
Really? Is it those of us who want to 
open the Grand Canyon or Yellowstone 
Park today, or those of us who want to 
keep those closed until they get everything 
they want? 

Who are the absolutists? Is it those 
of us who want to have the Statue of 
Liberty’s light shine bright or those 
that want to keep that light snuffed 
out until they get everything that they 
want? 

I would hope that the Senate will 
join us in allowing those who drove 
through the barricades put up by the 
German Army at Normandy the opportunity 
to visit the World War II Memorial 
without having to drive through 
the barricades that have been put in 
place by the Obama administration. 

I hope my friends on the other side of 
the aisle, Mr. Speaker, put aside their 
absolutist demands and put the American 
people at the head of the line. 
Open up their parks and open up their 
memorials and let them celebrate this 
great, great Nation of ours. 

Mr. MORAN. It is my great pleasure 
to yield 11/2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentlelady from Minnesota 
(Ms. MCCOLLUM) on the Interior Appropriations 
Committee. 

Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, last 
night, this Congress rejected this Republican 
piecemeal approach. But here 
we go again. 

It’s clear that the GOP doesn’t have 
a coherent solution to the shutdown 
crisis they’ve created. With this bill, 
they are proposing funding for our national 
parks and certain museums, but 
not the Bureau of Land Management or 
the Fish and Wildlife Service. 

Invasive species efforts have been 
halted, including research to stop the 
spread of Asian carp. Families hoping 
to visit the Minnesota Valley National 
Wildlife Refuge this fall are being met 
with a ‘‘closed’’ sign. Nothing in this 
bill will change that. 

I’m confident that every Member 
here wants our national parks open, 
and I applaud the Tea Party commitment 
for funding the National Gallery 
of Art. 

But I have a better idea: the House 
should pass a clean CR to fund the entire 
Federal Government for all of 
America. We can do that today with 
the support of commonsense Republicans 
and Democrats to end this 
GOP—Grand Old Party—shutdown. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I am 
now pleased to yield 1 minute to the 


H6150 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

gentleman from California (Mr. 
MCCLINTOCK), who represents what 
may be one of the most beautiful 
places in this country, Yosemite National 
Park. 

Mr. MCCLINTOCK. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

Last night, Mr. Speaker, the House 
attempted to reopen our National 
Parks, and 22 Democrats defied their 
party leaders and joined with the majority 
to provide for this vital relief. 

The little towns around Yosemite 
National Park depend on tourism for 
their economy. They’re still reeling 
from the Yosemite Rim fire that 
brought tourism to a near standstill 
last month. 

When tourists are needlessly barred 
from our national parks, all of the vendors, 
all of the concessionaires, the 
lodgekeepers and shopkeepers in all of 
the surrounding communities are devastated. 
They have to lay off employees 
and often have to close. And unlike 
government employees, these taxpaying, 
job-generating private sector 
working people never get paid back 
when it’s all over. 

Having already agreed to spare our 
military from the effect of this impasse, 
why would anybody object to 
funding other critical functions while 
we wait for the larger issues to be resolved? 


Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, how much 
time do we have remaining on this 
side? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Virginia has 51/2 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from Idaho 
has 2 minutes remaining. 

Mr. MORAN. At this point I yield 11/2 
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon 
(Mr. DEFAZIO), the ranking member of 
the National Resources Committee. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. I thank the gentleman. 


So when the Republicans passed their 
shutdown bill, did they not know it was 
going to close down the national 
parks? No, they knew that. But in their 
little bizarre echo chamber they 
thought the American people would 
rise and applaud their move to shut 
down everything that relates to the 
government. Instead, they’ve gotten a 
big raspberry, if not an invitation to 
read between the lines. They’re a little 
bit surprised and shocked. 

Now, what did they leave out of this 
bill? Yeah, we’ll reopen some national 
parks and other iconic places. They left 
out 155 national forests, 20 national 
Grasslands, seven national monuments, 
and 28 Job Corps Civilian Conservation 
Centers shut down. That’s thousands of 
kids working hard to get an education, 
get skills, and not get thrown out in 
the street. Have you ever visited one? 
I’ve been there. I can’t believe you 
guys would shut that down. 

There’s 440 Wilderness Areas, 560 National 
Wildlife Refuge units, including 
locking out hunters and fishermen. 
Come on, guys—all BLM-managed 
campgrounds. 

There’s only one reason this bill is on 
the floor, and it’s because their con


stituents love iconic national parks 
and monuments, as the Republicans 
just learned, much to their chagrin. 

They can’t take the heat from the 
government shutdown they’re responsible 
for. What’s next? This is whack-a-
mole. What is tomorrow? CDC preparations 
for flu season. That’s kind of important. 
Still shut down. 

How about our Capitol Hill Police 
keeping us alive and guarding us every 
day, who are having their leave canceled 
and they’re not getting paid, and 
they’re still standing out there. Are 
you going to put them on the list? 
When are you going to take care of 
them? 

Put the whole government back to 
work now. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded that they are to address 
their remarks to the Chair. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I am 
now happy to yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. LAMBORN). 


Mr. LAMBORN. I thank the gentleman. 


Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in 
favor of reopening our national parks 
and museums. 

This morning, I met with some of our 
great World War II veterans down at 
the World War II Memorial on our National 
Mall. One of these veterans, 97-
year-old Eugene Morgan of West Memphis, 
Tennessee, came with his son, 
Jeff. When they arrived, they were met 
by ‘‘Obamacades’’—a series of rented 
barricades intended to keep our veterans 
from visiting the memorial— 
their own memorial. 

The closure of this memorial is hard 
to comprehend. It is an open-air memorial 
that is normally accessible to the 
public 24 hours a day, all year long, 
with little or no staff. It was built 
using private money. Veterans have 
been planning for months to visit this 
memorial. This may be the last time 
they come back east to see it. 

Other Americans are trying to visit 
national parks all around the country, 
including in my home State of Colorado, 
but it’s unacceptable that we are 
closing parks, some of which don’t even 
need staff. 

For many of our elderly veterans, 
this might be their last opportunity. 

Mr. President, these parks belong to 
us. Take down your barricades and let 
the people in. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
bill to open our national parks to the 
American people. 

Mr. MORAN. It is my great pleasure 
to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. GEORGE MILLER), 
the ranking member on the Education 
and Workforce Committee and former 
chair of the Natural Resources Committee. 


(Mr. GEORGE E. MILLER of California 
asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
Mr. Speaker, Members of the House, 
the chairman of the committee says 

that we should think of the impact before 
we act; that we should think of the 
impact on the parks before we vote 
against this bill. 

Did you think about the parks when 
you voted to shut down the government? 
Did you think about the impacts? 


The gentleman from Montana yesterday 
came to the floor and said it’s 
hurting the local economy. The gentleman 
from California came and said 
it’s hurting the towns around Yosemite. 
Was he thinking about that when 
he voted originally to shut down the 
government? He was prepared to sacrifice 
the local economy. He was prepared 
to sacrifice the towns around Yosemite 
when he was on the jihad 
against American citizens getting access 
to health care. He was fully prepared 
to sacrifice the parks and the 
economy and fire recovery. 

But you know what you found out in 
the last 24 hours? That millions of 
Americans went to find health care, to 
sign up for health care, to get access to 
health care. And millions of Americans 
decided that you’re doing the wrong 
thing in shutting down their government. 


So when you were on the jihad 
against Americans’ access to health 
care, shutting down the parks wasn’t a 
problem. Shutting down NIH wasn’t a 
problem. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
I was telling them, Mr. Speaker, that 
they thought it was okay to shut 
down—— 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman’s 
time has expired. The gentleman 
is out of order. The gentleman 
is out of order. The gentleman is not 
recognized. 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
* * * 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I am disgusted 
that the gentleman from California 
would actually use the word 
‘‘jihad’’ on the floor of the House. We 
should all reject his comments and he 
should be censured, but I won’t call for 
it. 

I’m the last speaker, and I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. MORAN. I yield 30 seconds to the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. RYAN) on 
the Appropriations Committee. 

Mr. RYAN of Ohio. I thank the gentleman. 


Mr. Speaker, we’ve heard in the last 
hour or two people worried about lab 
rats at NIH, the zoos closing down. 
They’re worried about cancer patients 
at NIH. Just a few. But if we want to 
provide health care to all children so 
that no family has to worry about it, 
we don’t hear anything but a defunding 
proposition from the other side. 

You want kids to go to the zoo, but if 
we want to provide them health care, 
you guys are MIA. 

Now you’ve been infighting. You’ve 
been called lemmings. You’ve been 
called wacko birds by your own party. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6151 

So it seems to me that there is one 
zoo open in the Nation’s Capital—and 
that’s the House Republican Conference. 


Mr. MORAN. I yield 30 seconds to the 

gentleman from New York (Mr. 
MEEKS). 
b 1745 

Mr. MEEKS. You know, many Americans 
were born at night, but they 
weren’t born last night. You can’t fool 
them. There is an old saying: You can 
run, but you can’t hide. 

We’re here for one reason. The members 
of the majority party don’t like 
the Affordable Care Act, and that’s the 
whole reason we’re here. They want to 
stop the Affordable Care Act. It has 
nothing to do with anything else. So 
all of America is held hostage because 
they do not like the Affordable Care 
Act. 

But you can run, but you can’t hide. 
You can’t hide from the fact that you 
closed down the government. You can’t 
hide from the fact that by just now 
suggesting you put a few up, that all of 
the government is not shut down. We 
need to open up the entire government. 

You can run, but you can’t hide. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I would 
now like to yield 30 seconds to the distinguished 
gentleman from New Jersey 
(Mr. HOLT). 

Mr. HOLT. Mr. Speaker, I very much 
thank the ranking member of the subcommittee. 


Now, why, the Republicans say, are 
we not eagerly endorsing their plan? 
Now suppose someone comes into your 
neighborhood, builds a barrier around 
your house, a fence, locks you and your 
family out, won’t let you in. Two days 
later, they come to you magnanimously 
and say we’ve modified your 
house; we’ll let you into one room. And 
they can’t understand why we don’t enthusiastically 
embrace that deal. 
That’s what you’re offering here. 

Of course we should be funding the 
National Park Service. Of course we 
should be funding the CDC and food inspections. 
Bring up the clean CR and 
we will do it. 

Mr. Speaker, today the Tea Party continues 
its reckless and damaging government shutdown. 
Yet in an effort to distract from their irresponsibility, 
they have offered what they 
claim is a compromise: to reopen only those 
agencies of government which they deem, for 
their own political reasons, to be necessary. 

This notion—that the Tea Party can pick 
and choose which agencies of government to 
reopen—proceeds from a false premise. It is 
based on the idea that the Tea Party, which 
represents one faction of one party in one 
house of Congress, possesses the unilateral 
authority to choose which parts of government 
are worthy and which are unworthy. 

This idea is wrong-headed, it is arrogant, 
and it is astonishingly irresponsible. 

The members of the Tea Party are not dictators, 
nor are they inventing a new government 
from scratch. They are, rather, the latest 
in a centuries-long line of democratically elected 
representatives who have, with the people’s 
mandate, established our entire government. 


Yes, that government includes the functions 
that the Tea Party today has deemed worthwhile: 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the 
National Institutes of Health, the National 
Parks Service, and so on. 

But it also includes many other functions 
that the Tea Party has no right to unilaterally 
reject. Our government includes the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention. It includes 
loans for small businesses seeking to expand 
and for students seeking to attend college. It 
includes food safety inspections and public 
health research and Head Start. It includes 
grants to help towns build roads, bridges, and 
schools. It includes public servants who process 
applications for Social Security and visas 
and passports. 

If the Tea Party truly believes that the functions 
they seek to defund today are unnecessary, 
there is a clear, democratic process by 
which they can dismantle them. They could introduce 
a bill to abolish, say, Head Start. That 
bill could be considered by this House, by the 
Senate, and by the President—and if it were 
to pass and were to be signed, it would become 
the law of the land. That outcome would 
be, to my mind, catastrophic, but it would at 
least be constitutional and democratic. 

The Tea Party is right about one thing: this 
government shutdown—which they demanded, 
incited, and celebrated—is causing great pain. 
I hope that they are, as they claim to be, dismayed 
by the suffering they have created. 
And I hope they will act upon their dismay by 
finally bringing to the floor a bill to put the entire 
government back to work, which the Senate 
already has passed and the President has 
promised to sign into law. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 30 
seconds to the distinguished gentleman 
from New Mexico (Mr. BEN RAY LUJA´ N). 

Mr. BEN RAY LUJA´ N of New Mexico. 
Mr. Speaker, the House Republicans 
are not fooling anyone. Right now is 
hunting season in New Mexico. The Republican 
bill does nothing to keep open 
access to hunting on Federal lands, on 
the BLM or Forest Service. The Republicans 
are keeping hunters stranded 
and turning a blind eye to the small 
business owners and guides that depend 
on hunting season. 

Hunters across America, call the 
House Republicans and tell them to let 
us vote on the clean Senate CR. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself the balance of my time to share 
with the House the fact that the National 
Wildlife Federation, America’s 
largest conservation organization, said 
it best. They just sent us a letter: 

House Members from both sides of the aisle 
say the votes are there to pass a clean continuing 
resolution. Speaker BOEHNER should 
do the right thing and allow an up-or-down 
vote on that bill. 

Now, the problem with these votes, 
Mr. Speaker, is that they shouldn’t be 
necessary. If in fact we were going to 
open the government and not keep it 
shut for weeks on end, you wouldn’t be 
doing this. This would all be moot. The 
reason you’re doing this is to have 
some excuse to continue the shutdown. 
That’s the problem with these votes. 

The other problem is that you voted 
to shut down the national parks. You 
did it last week. You voted to shut 

down the National Institutes of Health. 
You did it last weekend. You voted to 
shut down the Veterans Administration, 
and now you want to reopen just 
them. 

We voted against shutting down 
those agencies. We voted against shutting 
down the government. That’s what 
you should be doing. Give us a clean 
vote. Let’s get on about our business. 
Stop this nonsense. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 
HOUSE PLAN TO REOPEN ONLY NATIONAL 
PARKS FALLS SHORT 
WASHINGTON, DC.—The House of Representatives 
is considering several bills that would 
provide continuing resolution funding for select 
parts of the federal government, including 
one that would re-open National Parks. 
Larry Schweiger, president and CEO of the 
National Wildlife Federation, said today: 
‘‘This bill fails to address the concerns of 
sportsmen. While re-opening the National 
Parks is an element of our displeasure over 
the government shutdown, there are a wide 
range of public lands that this bill would 
leave shuttered, including National Forests, 
National Monuments and National Wildlife 
Refuges. 
‘‘House members from both sides of the 
aisle say the votes are there to pass a clean 
continuing resolution. Speaker Boehner 
should do the right thing and allow an up or 
down vote on that bill.’’ 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded to address all remarks 
to the Chair. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, may I 
inquire as to how much time I have remaining? 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Idaho has 1 minute remaining. 


Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, most 
people might not realize that Mr. 
MORAN from Virginia and I are pretty 
good friends and we share a lot relative 
to our Interior Subcommittee. But I 
will tell you, what it reminds me of, 
when I’m listening to my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle, is if you say 
something long enough and often 
enough, maybe you will get the American 
people to believe it. 

Nobody over here voted to shut down 
the government. In fact, every time we 
passed a bill and sent it to the Senate, 
it was to keep the government operating. 
Did it include more than that? 
Yes, it did. And it was rejected by the 
Senate. So we sent them another one 
with another offer. They rejected it. 
We keep sending them things. 

Finally, what we said to them is: 
Let’s go to conference and work out 
our differences. But no, they won’t 
even sit and talk to us. So the distinguished 
minority whip from Maryland 
says: Let’s do this; pass our idea, do it 
my way, and then we’ll negotiate. 

Well, that’s just backwards. We need 
to go to conference and settle our differences 
and get a bill out here that 
keeps the government operating. 
That’s what everyone here wants to do. 

It is not a Republican shutdown. It is 
a Democratic ‘‘my way or the highway.’’ 
You agree with us or we will 
shut the government down. That’s exactly 
what the minority party has done 
here. 


H6152 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

I would encourage my Members to 
support this bill, and I yield back the 
balance of my time. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
speak on the Continuing Resolutions to re-
open our National Parks. Today, 368 national 
park sites were closed and we now see that 
the majority has noticed. 

On August 25, 1916, President Woodrow 
Wilson signed a law that is a solemn promise 
to the public that our nation would ‘‘conserve 
the scenery and the natural and historic objects 
and wildlife,’’ for all of the people of this 
great nation for all generations to come. 

The United States unlike many other nations 
does not allow our national monuments and 
natural wonders to be privatized—they belong 
to us all and should be treated with the utmost 
care and respect. 

Over 22,000 Parks Service Personnel care 
for and manage the over 400 areas designated 
as under the management of the National 
Parks Service. 

Here in our nation’s capital we see the damage 
caused by the majority of the House with 
insisting on a Federal government shutdown 
when surviving veterans of World War II who 
came to see the memorial built in their name 
and were nearly prevented from doing so. 

Our nation’s parks range from unimaginably 
large and majestic manifestations of God’s 
beauty on Earth to very small structures, but 
each is served by dedicated federal employees. 
The nation’s laws regarding national 
parks do not treat some parks more special 
than others. 

Around the nation people are not able to 
complete vacation plans because they will not 
be able to visit some of the nation’s most 
beautiful areas, which include our nation’s first 
national park Yellowstone National Park designated 
in 1872. 

The National Parks Service’s stewardship 
includes over 84 million acres of park lands, 4 
million in land around oceans, lakes and reservoirs, 
85,049 miles of rivers and streams, 
68,561 miles of archeological sites, 43,162 
miles of shoreline, 27,000 historic structures, 
which include presidential birthplaces, the 
preservation and protection of over 121 million 
objects in museum collections, 21,000 buildings, 
12,250 miles of Trails and 8,500 miles of 
roads. 

Mr. Speaker, Texas is graced with 20 Federal 
Parks that include Big Bend National 
Park, Alibates Flint Quarries National Monument, 
Amistad National Recreation Area, Big 
Thicket National Preserve; Chamizal National 
Memorial; Fort Davis National Historic Site; 
Guadalupe Mountains National Park; Lake 
Meredith National Recreation Area; Lyndon B 
Johnson National Historical Park; Padre Island 
National Seashore; Palo Alto Battlefield National 
Historic Site; Rio Grande Wild and Scenic 
River; and San Antonio Missions National 
Historical Park are all closed during the shutdown. 


Texas also has national Forests and grasslands: 
Angelina National Forest; Davy Crockett 
National Forest; Sabine National Forest; Sam 
Houston National Forest; Caddo and Lyndon 

B. Johnson (LBJ) National Grasslands; Black 
Kettle and McClellan Creek Grasslands; Kiowa 
and Rita Blanca National Grasslands. 
All of them are closed today because of the 
reckless behavior of the majority in the House 
of Representatives. 

Perhaps over the last few days members of 
the majority of the House of Representatives 

received their first education directly from constituents 
about our nation’s national parks and 
how much our parks and park lands are loved. 

Federal parks also contribute to the local 
economies where they are found and create 
tens of thousands of tourist related jobs. Because 
they are closed today those jobs are at 
risk as well as the incomes of the Park Rangers 
who are stewards of our nation’s most precious 
treasures. 

It is not as simple as opening the gates and 
letting people enter—people while enjoying 
these treasures, can become lost, injured, or 
need assistance. The National Parks Service 
staff working at these sites are there to protect 
these them and to be a resource for visitors 
and more important to keep them safe while at 
Federal Parks. 

The House should take up the clean Senate 
Continuing Resolution to fund the entire government. 
Today, the Department of Homeland 
Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigations, 
the ATF, the Office of the Director of National 
Security, Military Reservists, Centers for Disease 
Control, Health and Human Services, 
National Oceanographic Atmospheric Administration 
and hundreds of other small and large 
agencies are being impacted. 

Mr. Speaker I have often heard members of 
the majority compare their state to the entire 
United States as if the comparison are equivalent. 
From what we have learned from the majority 
they will leave everyone else behind if 
they get their way. They do not see the nation 
as large, but as a small place with small minded 
people. 

I represent a District in the State of Texas, 
one of our nation’s largest states with diversity 
in land and people that is rivaled by only a few 
other states, but I would not say that everything 
done in Texas would be the right decision 
for the entire United States. 

The United States is a very large place with 
large minded people with big hearts, who do 
not believe in leaving others behind. 

Mr. Speaker, instead of exempting certain 
groups and persons from the harm caused by 
a government shutdown, we should instead be 
focused on reopening the government as soon 
as possible. 

Texas is experiencing the impact of cutbacks 
in the $64.7 billion in federal spending 
that it receives annually, including the threat 
that the State may lose: $518 million in federal 
highway funds, $411 million for interstate highway 
maintenance, $130 million in home energy 
assistance for the poor, $71 million in 
Homeland Security grants, $55 million in coordinated 
border infrastructure and $97 million 
in federal adoption assistance. 

For these reasons, we cannot wait for the 
majority to discover all of the reasons why we 
have a federal government or the importance 
and purpose of each agency. 

We have to pass a clean CR now—we do 
not need to wait, just bring to the floor the bills 
sent to this body by the Senate. 

Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, here we 
are day two of the hurtful Republican Government 
Shutdown. 

We still don’t have a viable solution to reopen 
the government. 

The Republican refusal to back off their extreme, 
ideological demands has taken our 
country down a dangerous path with no solution 
in sight. 

Mr. Speaker, while all of us believe it is important 
to keep the government functioning, 

hostage taking is no way to run federal departments 
and agencies. 

Members of Congress are elected to make 
sure our government functions. 

Yet, instead of working on a serious option 
to reopen the government, Republicans latest 
strategy is to exploit our National Parks and 
the staff who work to keep them open by voting 
on piecemeal bills that will not end impacts 
of a shut down that extend across our country. 

Mr. Speaker, of course we want to keep our 
National Parks open. But let’s not pretend this 
is not part of a strategy to score political 
points and advance an ideological agenda. 

The Senate passed continuing resolution 
would fund the government for an additional 
six weeks and all this House has to do is pass 
that bill to end this manufactured crisis. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate has expired. 

Pursuant to House Resolution 370, 
the previous question is ordered. 

The question is on the engrossment 
and third reading of the joint resolution. 


The joint resolution was ordered to 
be engrossed and read a third time, and 
was read the third time. 

MOTION TO RECOMMIT 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a motion to recommit at the 
desk. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the 
gentleman opposed to the joint resolution? 


Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Yes, I am in its 
current form. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the motion to recommit. 


The Clerk read as follows: 

Mr. VanHollen moves to recommit the 
joint resolution H.J. Res. 70 to the Committee 
on Appropriations with instructions 
to report the same back to the House forthwith 
with the following amendment: 

Strike all after the resolving clause and insert 
the following: 
That upon passage of this joint resolution by 
the House of Representatives, the joint resolution 
(H.J. Res. 59) making continuing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2014, and for 
other purposes, as amended by the Senate on 
September 27, 2013, shall be considered to 
have been taken from the Speaker’s table 
and the House shall be considered to have (1) 
receded from its amendment; and (2) concurred 
in the Senate amendment. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN (during the reading). 
Mr. Speaker, I ask that further 
reading of the motion be dispensed 
with. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Maryland? 

Mr. SIMPSON. I object. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Objection 
is heard. 

The Clerk will read. 

The Clerk continued to read. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
a point of order on the gentleman’s motion. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. A point 
of order is reserved. 

The gentleman from Maryland is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, if 
we really want to keep the National Institutes 
of Health open, if we really 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6153 

want to make sure we keep the national 
parks open, if we really want to 
help our veterans, there’s a very easy 
way to do it right now; and that’s for 
the Speaker of this House to allow the 
Members of this House to have a vote, 
to have a vote on the very simple proposition: 
Are we going to keep the entire 
Federal Government operating 
now? Because that would pass if in the 
people’s House we were given that opportunity. 


So we have a very simple question, 
Mr. Speaker: Why is the majority 
afraid of democracy? Why are they 
afraid of allowing this House to work 
its will? Because if we had a vote, we 
could make sure the entire government 
was kept open. 

I mentioned earlier that I have the 
privilege of representing the congressional 
district that’s home to the National 
Institutes of Health. These are 
scientists doing important work. 
They’re not Republican scientists or 
Democratic scientists, but they’re all 
smart people. I’ve heard from them and 
they’ve said: Are you kidding? We’re 
not going to be fooled by this piecemeal 
approach. 

They understand if you want to help 
NIH, you vote to send the bill to make 
sure the government stays open. And, 
by the way, they all have kids. They 
want to keep the Department of Education 
open as well. And they want to 
keep not just the National Institutes of 
Health open, but the Department of 
Health and Human Services and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. 

Why is the Speaker not allowing a 
vote in this House? I think we all know 
the answer. Here’s what The Washington 
Post said just the other day: 
‘‘House Republicans Hope to Use Cruz’s 
Plan B’’—that’s Senator CRUZ. Here’s 
what it says: 

Adopting a strategy first suggested by Senator 
Ted Cruz, House Republicans are pushing 
a new approach that would break up the 
Federal spending bills. 

Once again, Senator CRUZ is in 
charge of this House, and you have a 
reckless minority blocking a vote of 
the majority, a majority of Republicans 
and Democrats. 

Now, earlier today we learned that 
the Republicans in this House went so 
far as to change the standing rules of 
the House to force this through in an 
undemocratic way. The rules of the 
House, when you have a situation like 
this, would allow any one of our Members 
to get up and move and ask the 
House to vote on the bill that would 
keep the whole government open. 
That’s the standing rules. But our Republican 
colleagues changed the rules. 
It says only a Republican Member—in 
fact, only the majority leader can 
bring that up and allow us to vote. 
That’s not a democracy. 

This is the same approach we’re hearing 
from our colleagues when it comes 
to paying our bills on time. They want 
to fund a little piece of government at 
one time. They don’t want to pay all 
our bills. They say let’s pay China 

first. Let’s not pay Medicare doctors. 
Let’s not pay our troops in the field. 
Let’s not pay all our bills; let’s just 
pay some of our bills. Let’s pretend 
we’re going to cherry-pick different 
pieces of government to keep open so 
the rest of it can shut down and die on 
the vine. 

Well, my constituents are not fooled. 
My constituents who work at NIH are 
not fooled. They don’t want to be used 
as pawns in this game. And they understand 
full well that we could get this 
done tonight, that we could keep the 
whole government open now, and all 
that needs to happen is the Speaker to 
let us vote. 

If the Speaker and our Republican 
colleagues want to vote to keep the entire 
government shut down, go for it. 
Do it in the light of day. Let the American 
people see that that’s what you 
want to do. But for goodness sakes, explain 
to the American people why you 
won’t allow a vote to keep the government 
open right now. That’s all we’re 
asking for. That’s all we’re asking for, 
Republicans and Democrats to come 
together and have a vote. 

The gentleman mentioned that, well, 
the House had voted on this, but they 
also indicated that they had added 
these attachments, like shutting down 
affordable care for all Americans. Let’s 
have a clean, simple vote, just like we 
should also have a vote to pay our bills 
on time for goodness sakes. 

We have stood by for months trying 
to have a negotiation on the budget. At 
every turn, we’ve been blocked. The 
Speaker didn’t allow us to appoint 
budget conferees, budget negotiators. 
In the Senate, we were blocked. So 
what did we do? They ran out the 
clock, ran the country up against the 
wall and said: You know what? We 
want it our way or the highway. We 
want you to shut down the Affordable 
Care Act or we’re going to shut down 
government. We want you to pay China 
first or not pay our troops, or guess 
what? We’re going to collapse the economy. 


Mr. Speaker, I just ask that we vote 
‘‘yes’’ on this to keep the government 
funded now, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

POINT OF ORDER 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I insist 
on my point of order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Idaho may state his point 
of order. 

Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I make a 
point of order against the motion to recommit. 
This motion is not germane 
and as such is a violation of rule XVI, 
clause 7, which states: 

No motion or proposition on a subject 
different from that under consideration 
shall be admitted under color of 
amendment. 

This motion deals with a proposition 
unrelated to the matter addressed by 
the joint resolution and brings in a 
matter under the jurisdiction of the 
Committee on Rules, which fails the 
committee of jurisdiction test, and 

therefore is a violation of rule XVI, 

clause 7. 

I ask for a ruling from the Chair. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does 
any Member wish to be heard on the 
point of order? 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Yes, Mr. Speaker, 
I’d like to be heard on the point of 
order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Maryland is recognized on 
the point of order. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. I’m trying to understand 
why a motion to keep the entire 
government open is not in order on 
this measure. Why would the rules 
have been written in a way that a simple 
motion to keep the entire government 
funded now would not be in order 
in the people’s House? Why would it be 
written in a way that this House cannot 
work its will on keeping the government 
open? 

This is the people’s House. Why 
would a rule be written in a way that 
we cannot have a vote to keep the entire 
government open now, tonight? 

So we apparently have a rule in this 
House that says we’re shutting down 
democracy tonight. We can’t have the 
opportunity to have a vote to keep the 
government open. That’s what’s happening 
here. Let’s not play any games, 
my colleagues. That is what’s happening 
here. You know if we had a vote 
tonight, it would pass. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair is prepared to rule. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. I want to be 
heard, Mr. Speaker. I asked a question 
related to the point of order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair has heard argument and the 
Chair is prepared to rule. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
would like to be further heard because, 
as I understand what the ruling was, it 
was because this measure before the 
House is limited to one little tiny sliver 
of the government, that a motion to 
keep the entire government open is not 
in order. Is that correct? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair is hearing argument on the point 
of order. There has been no ruling. 
Does the gentleman have an argument 
on the point of order? 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Yes. My argument 
is that our government is a 
whole. And the question is: How can 
you say that it would be totally irrelevant 
to the purpose of funding government 
operations to offer a motion that 
would keep all the government operations 
open now? How can that be? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair is prepared to rule. 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I’m 
just trying to understand how it is that 
in this House there was a rule that was 
written that would deny the majority 
an opportunity to vote? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will not entertain questions in 
advance of ruling. 

The Chair is prepared to rule. 


H6154 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to be heard on the point of order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from New Jersey is recognized. 

b 1800 
Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Speaker, my understanding 
of the principle of germaneness 
is that the underlying subject 
matter of the bill has to be the 
subject matter of the motion to recommit. 
We have heard repeatedly from the 
offerers of this bill that they believe it 
is necessary to fund what they view as 
vitally important services for the 
United States of America. We have a 
difference of opinion. We think everything 
in the budget in the Senate CR is 
vital for the United States of America. 
We think it all should be funded. 
Now, our view, our concept of what is 
vital is different than theirs. But if the 
germane issue here is funding what is 
vital, then why isn’t the motion to recommit 
germane? 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Idaho makes a point of 
order that the instructions proposed in 
the motion to recommit offered by the 
gentleman from Maryland are not germane. 
The joint resolution extends a certain 
class of funding within a portion 
of fiscal year 2014—namely, funds for 
the operations of the National Park 
Service, the Smithsonian Institution, 
the National Gallery of Art, and the 
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. 
The instructions in the motion 
propose an order of business of the 
House relating to funding for all other 
agencies and Departments subject to 
the annual appropriations process for 
the remainder of the fiscal year. 
Among the fundamental principles of 
germaneness is that an amendment 
must confine itself to matters that fall 
within the jurisdiction of the committees 
with jurisdiction over the pending 
measure. 
The joint resolution addresses the appropriation 
of certain funds. That subject 
matter falls within the legislative 
jurisdiction of the Committee on Appropriations, 
and accordingly, House 
Joint Resolution 70 was referred to 
that committee. 
The instructions contained in the 
motion to recommit propose an order 
of business of the House. That subject 
matter falls within the legislative jurisdiction 
of the Committee on Rules. 
For example, the Chair would note the 
referral of House Resolution 424 of the 
106th Congress, a measure that contained 
a similar order of business, to 
the Committee on Rules. 
By addressing a matter within the jurisdiction 
of a committee not represented 
in the joint resolution, the instructions 
propose an amendment that 
is not germane. The point of order is 
sustained. The motion is not in order. 
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
appeal the ruling of the Chair. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is, Shall the ruling of the 

Southerland Upton Williams 
Stewart Valadao Wilson (SC) 

Chair stand as the decision of the 

House? 

Stivers Wagner Wittman 
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I move Stockman Walberg Wolf 

to lay the appeal on the table. Stutzman Walden Womack 

Terry Walorski Woodall

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 

Thompson (PA) Weber (TX) Yoder 
question is on the motion to table. Thornberry Webster (FL) Yoho 

The question was taken; and the 

Tiberi Wenstrup Young (AK) 
Tipton Westmoreland Young (FL)

Speaker pro tempore announced that 

Turner Whitfield Young (IN)
the noes appeared to have it. 

NAYS—194

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, on 

Andrews Green, Al Nolan

that I demand the yeas and nays. 

Barber Green, Gene O’Rourke 
The yeas and nays were ordered. Barrow (GA) Grijalva Owens 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-Pallone

Bass Gutie´rrez 
Beatty Hahn Pascrell

ant to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule XX, 

Becerra Hanabusa 

Pastor (AZ)

this 15-minute vote on the motion to Bera (CA) Hastings (FL) 

Paynetable will be followed by 5-minute Bishop (GA) Heck (WA) Perlmutter 
Bishop (NY) Higgins

votes on passage of the joint resolu-Peters (CA)

Blumenauer Himes 

Peters (MI)

tion, if arising without further pro-

Bonamici Holt 

Peterson

ceedings in recommittal, and passage Brady (PA) Honda 

Pingree (ME)

Braley (IA) Horsford

of House Joint Resolution 73. 

Pocan

Brown (FL) Hoyer

The vote was taken by electronic de-Polis

Brownley (CA) Huffman 

Price (NC)

vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays Bustos Israel 

Quigley

194, not voting 7, as follows: Butterfield Jackson Lee 

Rahall 
[Roll No. 512] Rangel

Capps Jeffries 

Capuano Johnson (GA) 
Richmond

Ca´rdenas Johnson, E. B. 
Carney Kaptur 

YEAS—230 

Roybal-Allard 
Aderholt Gardner McMorris Ruiz

Carson (IN) Keating

Amash Garrett Rodgers 

Cartwright Kelly (IL) Ruppersberger 

Amodei Gerlach Meadows Ryan (OH)

Castor (FL) Kennedy

Bachmann Gibbs Meehan 

Castro (TX) Kildee Sa´nchez, Linda 

Bachus Gibson Messer 

Chu Kilmer T. 

Barletta Gingrey (GA) Mica 

Cicilline Kind Sanchez, Loretta 
Barr Gohmert Miller (FL) 

Clarke Kirkpatrick Schakowsky

Barton Goodlatte Miller (MI) 

Clay Kuster Schiff 

Benishek Gosar Miller, Gary 

Cleaver Langevin Schneider 

Bentivolio Gowdy Mullin 

Clyburn Larsen (WA) Schrader 

Bilirakis Granger Mulvaney 

Cohen Larson (CT) Schwartz 

Bishop (UT) Graves (GA) Murphy (PA) 

Connolly Lee (CA) Scott (VA)

Black Graves (MO) Neugebauer 

Conyers Levin Scott, David

Blackburn Griffin (AR) Noem 

Cooper Lewis Serrano

Boustany Griffith (VA) Nugent 

Costa Lipinski Sewell (AL)

Brady (TX) Grimm Nunes 

Courtney Loebsack 

Shea-Porter

Bridenstine Guthrie Nunnelee 

Crowley Lofgren 

Sherman

Brooks (AL) Hall Olson 

Cuellar Lowenthal 

Sinema

Brooks (IN) Hanna Palazzo 

Cummings Lowey 

Sires

Broun (GA) Harper Paulsen 

Davis (CA) Lujan Grisham 

Slaughter

Buchanan Harris Pearce 

Davis, Danny (NM) 

Smith (WA)

Bucshon Hartzler Perry 

DeFazio Luja´n, Ben Ray 

Speier

Burgess Hastings (WA) Petri 

DeGette (NM) 

Swalwell (CA)

Calvert Heck (NV) Pittenger 

Delaney Lynch 

Takano

Camp Hensarling Pitts 

DeLauro Maffei 

Thompson (CA)

Campbell Holding Poe (TX) 

DelBene Maloney, 

Thompson (MS)

Cantor Hudson Pompeo 

Deutch Carolyn

Capito Huelskamp Posey Tierney

Dingell Maloney, Sean

Carter Huizenga (MI) Price (GA) Titus

Doggett Matheson 

Cassidy Hultgren Radel Tonko

Doyle Matsui 

Chabot Hunter Reed Tsongas

Duckworth McCollum 

Chaffetz Hurt Reichert Van Hollen

Edwards McDermott 

Coble Issa Renacci Vargas

Ellison McGovern 

Coffman Jenkins Ribble Veasey

Engel McIntyre

Cole Johnson (OH) Rice (SC) Vela

Enyart McNerney

Collins (GA) Johnson, Sam Rigell Vela´zquez

Eshoo Meeks 

Collins (NY) Jones Roby Visclosky

Esty Meng

Conaway Jordan Roe (TN) Walz

Farr Michaud 

Cook Joyce Rogers (AL) 

Fattah Miller, George Wasserman 

Cotton Kelly (PA) Rogers (KY) Schultz

Foster Moore 

Cramer King (IA) Rogers (MI) Moran Waters

Frankel (FL)

Crawford King (NY) Rohrabacher 

Fudge Murphy (FL) Watt 

Crenshaw Kingston Rokita 

Gabbard Nadler Waxman 

Culberson Kinzinger (IL) Rooney 

Gallego Napolitano Welch 

Daines Kline Ros-Lehtinen 

Garamendi Neal Wilson (FL)

Davis, Rodney Labrador Roskam 

Grayson Negrete McLeod Yarmuth 

Denham LaMalfa Ross 
Dent Lamborn Rothfus NOT VOTING—7 
DeSantis Lance Royce 

Garcia McCarthy (NY) Sarbanes 

DesJarlais Lankford Runyan 

Herrera Beutler Pelosi 

Diaz-Balart Latham Ryan (WI) 

Hinojosa Rush 

Duffy Latta Salmon 
Duncan (SC) LoBiondo Sanford b 1828 
Duncan (TN) Long Scalise 
Ellmers Lucas Schock 

Mr. CAPUANO, Ms. DEGETTE, 
Farenthold Luetkemeyer Schweikert Messrs. BRALEY of Iowa, COURTNEY, 
Fincher Lummis Scott, Austin 

BARBER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. 

Fitzpatrick Marchant Sensenbrenner 

LINDA T. SA´ NCHEZ of California, and

Fleischmann Marino Sessions 
Fleming Massie Shimkus Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia changed 
Flores McCarthy (CA) Shuster their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 
Forbes McCaul Simpson Messrs. CRAWFORD, LATTA, and 

Fortenberry McClintock Smith (MO) 

Ms. FOXX changed their vote from

Foxx McHenry Smith (NE) 
Franks (AZ) McKeon Smith (NJ) ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’ 

Frelinghuysen McKinley Smith (TX) So the motion to table was agreed to. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6155 

Schock Stockman Webster (FL) 
Schweikert Stutzman Wenstrup 

The result of the vote was announced the vote. I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ Had I been 

as above recorded. present, I would have voted ‘‘no.’’

Scott, Austin Terry WestmorelandStated against: Sensenbrenner Thompson (PA) Whitfield 
Mr. GARCIA. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. Sessions Thornberry Williams 
f 

Shimkus Tiberi

512, had I been present, I would have voted Wilson (SC)

Shuster Tierney NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF

Wittman

‘‘no.’’ 

Simpson Tipton HEALTH CONTINUING APPRO-
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Sinema Turner 
Wolf 

Womack PRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 2014

Smith (MO) Upton 
Smith (NE) Valadao The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un


question is on the passage of the joint Woodall 

resolution. Yoder

Smith (NJ) Wagner 

Yoho finished business is the vote on passage

The question was taken; and the Smith (TX) Walberg 

Young (FL) of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 73)

Speaker pro tempore announced that Southerland Walden 

Stewart Walorski Young (IN) making continuing appropriations for

the ayes appeared to have it. 

Stivers Weber (TX) 

the National Institutes of Health for 

RECORDED VOTE 

NOES—173 fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes,

Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Speaker, I de-

Andrews Grijalva Pallone on which the yeas and nays were or


mand a recorded vote. 

Barrow (GA) Gutie´rrez Pascrell dered. 
A recorded vote was ordered. Bass Hahn Pastor (AZ) 

The Clerk read the title of the joint

The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a Beatty Hanabusa Payne 

resolution.

Becerra Hastings (FL) Perlmutter

5-minute vote. 

Bishop (GA) Heck (WA) The SPEAKER pro tempore. The

Peters (MI)

The vote was taken by electronic de-Bishop (NY) Higgins 

Peterson question is on the joint resolution.

vice, and there were—ayes 252, noes 173, Blumenauer Himes Pingree (ME) 

This is a 5-minute vote.

Bonamici Holt

not voting 6, as follows: Pocan 

Brady (PA) Honda The vote was taken by electronic de-

Price (NC)

[Roll No. 513] Brown (FL) Horsford vice, and there were—yeas 254, nays

Quigley

Brownley (CA) Hoyer

AYES—252 Rahall 171, not voting 6, as follows:

Butterfield Huffman 

Aderholt Foster Marino Rangel [Roll No. 514]

Capps Israel 

Amash Foxx Massie Richmond

Capuano Jackson Lee 

YEAS—254

Amodei Franks (AZ) Matheson Roybal-Allard

Ca´rdenas Jeffries 

Bachmann Frelinghuysen McCarthy (CA) Ruppersberger Aderholt Flores Long

Carney Johnson (GA)

Bachus Gallego McCaul Ryan (OH) Amash Forbes Lucas

Cartwright Johnson, E. B.

Barber Garamendi McClintock Sa´nchez, Linda Amodei Fortenberry Luetkemeyer

Castor (FL) Kaptur

Barletta Garcia McHenry T. Bachmann Foster Lummis

Castro (TX) Keating

Barr Gardner McIntyre Sanchez, Loretta Bachus Foxx Lynch

Chu Kelly (IL)

Barton Garrett McKeon Kennedy Sarbanes Barber Franks (AZ) Maloney, Sean

Cicilline 

Benishek Gerlach McKinley Barletta Frelinghuysen Marchant

Clarke Kildee Schakowsky 

Bentivolio Gibbs McMorris Barr Gallego Marino

Clay Kind Schiff 

Bera (CA) Gibson Rodgers Barrow (GA) Garamendi Massie

Cleaver Kirkpatrick Schrader 

Bilirakis Gingrey (GA) Meadows Barton Garcia Matheson

Clyburn Kuster Schwartz 

Bishop (UT) Gohmert Meehan Benishek Gardner McCarthy (CA)

Cohen Langevin Scott (VA)

Black Goodlatte Messer Bentivolio Garrett McCaul

Connolly Larsen (WA) Scott, David

Blackburn Gosar Mica Bera (CA) Gerlach McClintock

Conyers Larson (CT) Serrano

Boustany Gowdy Miller (FL) Bilirakis Gibbs McHenry

Cooper Lee (CA) Sewell (AL)

Brady (TX) Granger Miller (MI) Bishop (UT) Gibson McIntyre

Costa Levin 

Shea-Porter

Braley (IA) Graves (GA) Miller, Gary Black Gingrey (GA) McKeon

Courtney Lewis 

Sherman

Bridenstine Graves (MO) Mullin Blackburn Gohmert McKinley

Crowley Lofgren 

Sires

Brooks (AL) Griffin (AR) Mulvaney Boustany Goodlatte McMorris

Cuellar Lowenthal 

Slaughter

Brooks (IN) Griffith (VA) Murphy (FL) Brady (TX) Gosar Rodgers

Cummings Lowey 

Smith (WA)

Broun (GA) Grimm Murphy (PA) Braley (IA) Gowdy Meadows

Davis (CA) Lujan Grisham 

Speier

Buchanan Guthrie Neugebauer Bridenstine Granger Meehan

Davis, Danny (NM) 

Swalwell (CA)

Bucshon Hall Noem Brooks (AL) Graves (GA) Messer

DeFazio Luja´n, Ben Ray 

Takano

Burgess Hanna Nugent Brooks (IN) Graves (MO) Mica

DeGette (NM) 

Thompson (CA)

Bustos Harper Nunes Broun (GA) Griffin (AR) Miller (FL)

Delaney Lynch

Calvert Harris Nunnelee Thompson (MS) Buchanan Griffith (VA) Miller (MI)

DeLauro Maffei 

Camp Hartzler Olson Titus Bucshon Grimm Miller, Gary

Deutch Maloney,

Campbell Hastings (WA) Palazzo Tonko Burgess Guthrie Mullin

Dingell Carolyn

Cantor Heck (NV) Paulsen Tsongas Bustos Hall Mulvaney

Doggett Matsui 

Capito Hensarling Pearce Van Hollen Calvert Hanna Murphy (FL)

Doyle McCollum 

Carson (IN) Holding Perry Vargas Camp Harper Murphy (PA)

Duckworth McGovern 

Carter Hudson Peters (CA) Veasey Campbell Harris Neugebauer

Edwards McNerney

Cassidy Huelskamp Petri Vela Cantor Hartzler Noem

Ellison Meeks 

Chabot Huizenga (MI) Pittenger Vela´zquez Capito Hastings (WA) Nugent

Engel Meng

Chaffetz Hultgren Pitts Visclosky Carson (IN) Heck (NV) Nunes

Enyart Michaud 

Coble Hunter Poe (TX) Walz Carter Hensarling Nunnelee

Eshoo Miller, George

Coffman Hurt Polis Wasserman Cassidy Holding Olson

Esty Moore 

Cole Issa Pompeo Schultz Chabot Hudson Palazzo

Farr Moran 

Collins (GA) Jenkins Posey Waters Chaffetz Huelskamp Paulsen

Fattah Nadler 

Collins (NY) Johnson (OH) Price (GA) Coble Huizenga (MI) Pearce

Frankel (FL) Napolitano Watt 

Conaway Johnson, Sam Radel Coffman Hultgren Perry

Fudge Neal Waxman 

Cook Jones Reed Cole Hunter Peters (CA)

Gabbard Negrete McLeod Welch 

Cotton Jordan Reichert Collins (GA) Hurt Petri

Grayson Nolan Wilson (FL)

Cramer Joyce Renacci Collins (NY) Issa Pittenger

Green, Al O’Rourke Yarmuth 

Crawford Kelly (PA) Ribble Conaway Jenkins Pitts

Green, Gene Owens Young (AK)

Crenshaw Kilmer Rice (SC) Cook Johnson (OH) Poe (TX) 
Culberson King (IA) Rigell NOT VOTING—6 Cotton Johnson, Sam Polis 
Daines King (NY) Roby Cramer Jones Pompeo

Herrera Beutler McCarthy (NY) Pelosi

Davis, Rodney Kingston Roe (TN) Crawford Jordan Posey

Hinojosa McDermott Rush

DelBene Kinzinger (IL) Rogers (AL) Crenshaw Joyce Price (GA) 
Denham Kline Rogers (KY) ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE Culberson Keating Radel 
Dent Labrador Rogers (MI) Daines Kelly (PA) Reed

The SPEAKER pro tempore (during

DeSantis LaMalfa Rohrabacher Davis, Rodney King (IA) Reichert

the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-

DesJarlais Lamborn Rokita DelBene King (NY) Renacci 
Diaz-Balart Lance Rooney ing. Denham Kingston Ribble 
Duffy Lankford Ros-Lehtinen Dent Kinzinger (IL) Rice (SC) 

b 1834

Duncan (SC) Latham Roskam DeSantis Kline Rigell 
Duncan (TN) Latta Ross DesJarlais Labrador Roby

So the joint resolution was passed.

Ellmers Lipinski Rothfus Diaz-Balart LaMalfa Roe (TN)

The result of the vote was announced

Farenthold LoBiondo Royce Duffy Lamborn Rogers (AL) 
Fincher Loebsack Ruiz as above recorded. Duncan (SC) Lance Rogers (KY) 
Fitzpatrick Long Runyan A motion to reconsider was laid on Ellmers Lankford Rogers (MI) 

the table.

Fleischmann Lucas Ryan (WI) Farenthold Latham Rohrabacher 
Fleming Luetkemeyer Salmon Fincher Latta Rokita

Stated against:

Flores Lummis Sanford Fitzpatrick Lipinski Rooney 
Forbes Maloney, Sean Scalise Fleischmann LoBiondo Ros-Lehtinen

Mr. MCDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall 
Fortenberry Marchant Schneider No. 513 I was delayed in traffic and missed Fleming Loebsack Roskam 


H6156 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

Ross 
Rothfus 
Royce 
Ruiz 
Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Scalise 
Schneider 
Schock 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sinema 

Andrews 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Brady (PA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´rdenas 
Carney 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle 
Duckworth 
Duncan (TN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Enyart 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farr 
Fattah 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Grayson 
Green, Al 

Herrera Beutler 
Hinojosa 

Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stockman 
Stutzman 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tierney 
Tipton 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 

NAYS—171 

Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutie´rrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Holt 
Honda 
Horsford 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kelly (IL) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kirkpatrick 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lofgren 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham 

(NM) 
Luja´n, Ben Ray 

(NM) 
Maffei 
Maloney, 

Carolyn 
Matsui 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Meng 
Michaud 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Negrete McLeod 
Nolan 
O’Rourke 

NOT VOTING—6 

Kaptur 
McCarthy (NY) 

b 1848 

Walberg 
Walden 
Walorski 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 

Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Perlmutter 
Peters (MI) 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) 
Pocan 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Richmond 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruppersberger 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 

T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schrader 
Schwartz 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Shea-Porter 
Sherman 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Titus 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Veasey 
Vela 
Vela´zquez 
Visclosky 
Walz 
Wasserman 

Schultz 
Waters 
Watt 
Waxman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Yarmuth 

Pelosi 
Rush 

So the joint resolution was passed. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

SHORT-TERM EXTENSION OF 
SPECIAL IMMIGRANT PROGRAM 
Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Commit


tees on the Judiciary and Foreign Affairs 
be discharged from further consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 3233) to extend 
the period during which Iraqis who 
were employed by the United States 
Government in Iraq may be granted 
special immigrant status and to temporarily 
increase the fee or surcharge for 
processing machine-readable non-
immigrant visas, and ask for its immediate 
consideration in the House. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Virginia? 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Reserving the 
right to object, and I am not going to 
pursue my objection. But I want to 
congratulate the chairman and our 
committee for what I think is an enormously 
important visa, helping people 
who have helped us, particularly in 
Iraq. 

And with that, I thank the Judiciary 
Committee for its work, and I withdraw 
my objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Virginia? 

There was no objection. 

The text of the bill is as follows: 

H.R. 3233 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT-TERM EXTENSION OF SPECIAL 
IMMIGRANT PROGRAM. 

Section 1244(c)(3) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (8 

U.S.C. 1157 note) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 

‘‘(C) FISCAL YEAR 2014.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clauses (ii) and (iii), the total number of 
principal aliens who may be provided special 
immigrant status under this section during 
the first 3 months of fiscal year 2014 shall be 
the sum of— 

‘‘(I) the number of aliens described in subsection 
(b) whose application for special immigrant 
status under this section is pending 
on September 30, 2013; and 

‘‘(II) 2,000. 

‘‘(ii) EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.—The 1-year period 
during which the principal alien is required 
to have been employed by or on behalf 
of the United States Government in Iraq 
under subsection (b)(1)(B) shall begin on or 
after March 20, 2003, and end on or before 
September 30, 2013. 

‘‘(iii) APPLICATION DEADLINE.—The principal 
alien seeking special immigrant status 
under this subparagraph shall apply to the 
Chief of Mission in accordance with subsection 
(b)(4) not later than December 31, 
2013.’’. 

SEC. 2. TEMPORARY FEE INCREASE FOR CERTAIN 
CONSULAR SERVICES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary of 
State, not later than January 1, 2014, shall 
increase the fee or surcharge authorized 
under section 140(a) of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 
(Public Law 103–236; 8 U.S.C. 1351 note) by $1 
for processing machine-readable non-
immigrant visas and machine-readable combined 
border crossing identification cards 
and nonimmigrant visas. 
(b) DEPOSIT OF AMOUNTS.—Notwithstanding 
section 140(a)(2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 
(Public Law 103-236; 8 U.S.C. 1351 note), the 
additional amount collected pursuant the fee 
increase authorized under subsection (a) 
shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury. 

(c) SUNSET PROVISION.—The fee increase 
authorized under subsection (a) shall terminate 
on the date that is 2 years after the 
first date on which such increased fee is collected. 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that Members may 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend 
their remarks and insert extraneous 
materials on H.R. 3233. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
DAINES). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Virginia? 

There was no objection. 

f 

MITOCHONDRIAL DISEASE CAUCUS 
(Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 
Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
first heard about mitochondrial diseases, 
which are fatal, from my chief of 
staff, Art Estopinan, who, together 
with his lovely wife Olgita, have been 
caring for their baby after he was diagnosed 
with TK2 mitochondrial DNA depletion 
syndrome, which has left 
Arturito, Jr., unable to move his fingers 
and toes, as you see in this poster, 
putting him in constant need of mechanical 
support to breathe and receive 
nutrition. 
They were informed that their baby 
son, Art, Jr., would live only a few 
months, as there were no known medications. 
But thanks to the experimental 
treatments that Arturito is receiving 
from Columbia University Medical 
Center, medical care at Johns Hopkins 
Pediatric Hospital, and at the 
Kennedy Krieger Institute, the doctors 
have established a discharge date for 
mid-October, an unimaginable expectation 
just a year ago. 
I pray for Arturito, Jr., and babies 
like him every night. I urge all Members 
to contact our office to make sure 
that they can learn more about these 
diseases by becoming a part of the Congressional 
Mitochondrial Disease Caucus. 
Let’s look at Arturito, Jr., and 
let’s save him and the countless others. 

f 

SIGNING UP FOR OBAMACARE 
(Mr. CLYBURN asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, we all 
know that for a full day now we’ve 
been hearing all kinds of anecdotes 
about what may or may not have taken 
place on yesterday as people were signing 
up for the first time for the Affordable 
Care Act. 
Now, Mr. Speaker, I want to share 
with you a little bit of information 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6157 

that comes from Los Angeles, California: 


‘‘It took 3 hours, but Andrew Stryker 
managed to be among the first people 
to purchase health insurance through 
ObamaCare’s new insurance markets. 
Stryker is 34 years old and lives in Los 
Angeles, where he now does freelance 
work.’’ He pays premiums of $600 to 
keep his COBRA plan that he had on 
his job, which he left 4 years ago. He is 
diabetic and has been denied insurance 
because of a preexisting condition. Mr. 
Stryker says, although it took him 3 
hours, this plan is now saving him over 
$6,000 a year. And in his words, ‘‘For 
that, I would have waited all day.’’ 

A lot of us would. 

f 

EXCHANGE LAUNCH 
(Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend her remarks.) 
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to remind the American 
people why we are here. We are here because 
the President and the Senate 
Democrats have refused to negotiate. 
We learned yesterday and even today 
about the challenges of signing up for 
ObamaCare. Information technology, I 
believe, will be ObamaCare’s Achilles’ 
heel. Many people went on 
healthcare.gov. They were greeted with 
messages, ‘‘Please wait here until we 
send you to the login page,’’ or, ‘‘The 
system is down at the moment.’’ 
Yes, glitches can be expected whenever 
a new system is started, but 
ObamaCare is simply not ready. Americans 
aren’t ready. They weren’t ready 
for the employer mandates. They are 
not ready for the individual mandate. 
We are not ready for IPAB. We are not 
ready for the medical device tax. We 
are not ready for the cuts to Medicare 
or to our providers. It will harm the 
economy. It already has. 
What we are ready for is for the Senate 
and the President to negotiate, and 
we are ready to reopen our government 
when they do. 

f 

OBAMACARE 
(Mr. FLEMING asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. FLEMING. Mr. Speaker, 
ObamaCare, on its first day, is emblematic 
of what we can expect from 
ObamaCare in the future, already proving 
to be a logistical as well as an economic 
disaster. 
Businesses are cutting back on full-
time employees. Some people are losing 
their jobs. Many are losing their 
hours as well. For businesses with less 
than 50 employees, ObamaCare has become 
a massive disincentive for 
growth. 
The cost of health insurance premiums 
are skyrocketing. One report 
says people in Louisiana who don’t get 
Federal subsidies will see dramatically 
higher rates for average coverage. In 

fact, they will now be paying more for 
health insurance than the cost in most 
other States. 

The implementation of ObamaCare is 
proving to be the train wreck that even 
Democrats have come to expect. And 
that is leaving our economy on edge, 
with job creators wondering how they 
will make it through more taxes, more 
mandates and regulations. 

ObamaCare is a devastating threat to 
our economy, and it needs to be 
stopped now. 

f 

b 1900 

OBAMACARE DISCRIMINATES 

(Mr. POE of Texas asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
ObamaCare discriminates. It gives special 
treatment to special friends of the 
administration—1,200 waivers of special 
folks, but not waivers for everybody. 

It also treats Big Business better 
than it does individual Americans. It 
delays ObamaCare 1 year for Big Business, 
but not individuals. That is discrimination. 


Treat everybody the same. Waivers 
for all or no waivers for anyone. You’ve 
delayed implementation for 1 year for 
Big Business; delay it for individuals as 
well. 

It’s interesting. If ObamaCare is good 
for everybody, why isn’t Obama under 
ObamaCare, and his staff, and the Cabinet? 


Put everybody in ObamaCare. That is 
why we have this fight, because 
ObamaCare discriminates, and it’s a 
fight worth having. 

Defund it until everybody is treated 
fair. No discrimination. 

And that’s just the way it is. 

f 

THIS BODY MUST DO BETTER 

(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LAMALFA Mr. Speaker, it 
shouldn’t come as a surprise that we 
have different ideas on the different 
sides of the aisle here. 

Republicans believe in a smaller government, 
a less intrusive government, 
and so it shouldn’t be a surprise when 
we step forward with ideas on budgeting, 
on spending, that we would want 
to pick and choose things that we 
think are appropriate for the government 
to do, and not fund the things 
that are inappropriate. 

That’s the situation, as we view it, 
with the Obama health care takeover. 
We see that it doesn’t work. We see it’s 
going to be horrendously more expensive. 


What really disappoints me though, 
observing the last few days, as a newer 
Member here, is the decorum on this 
House floor, the yelling, the name-calling, 
the pointing, even the way the 
desk was addressed here earlier today. 

I mean, I think the American people 
expect a discourse that is a little more 
honorable than all the yelling and the 
name-calling. 

So if we want to have a discussion, 
which Republicans do, with our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle, 
with the Senate, with the White House, 
we need to do it in a way that actually 
makes it attractive to talk to each 
other. 

I like to watch motor sports. And if 
everybody on the racetrack was bashing 
each other off the track, you 
wouldn’t have a race anymore. There’d 
be nothing to watch. You wouldn’t 
have a sport. You wouldn’t have a 
game. 

This is much bigger than those types 
of games here, yet we don’t have a discussion, 
we don’t even have a way to 
have a discourse with all the name-
calling. 

So I’d ask for this body to do better. 

f 

OBAMACARE IS A CIVIL RIGHT 
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, 
yesterday, I heard the story of a mother 
who had lost her son, who had a preexisting 
condition and was not able to 
get insurance—only when a benevolent 
hospital took him in and determined, 
at the time, that he had Stage 3 cancer, 
because he had no insurance, because 
he had needed a colonoscopy. 
If he had had ObamaCare, he would 
have had the ability, at least, to get insurance 
without worrying about the 
preexisting condition. 
Emotions are high, but for the right 
reason. There is no reason that eliminating 
ObamaCare, as is being discussed 
on this floor, should be tied to 
opening the government back up. All 
the Republicans have to do is to pass, 
with the Democrats, a clean CR so that 
people might live. 
Their story is like taking away the 
civil rights laws that President Johnson 
helped pass because they did not 
like it. They would hold up the government 
and close the government. 
For me, this is civil rights for all 
Americans—to have the right to live, 
to have the right to have health insurance. 
It is not a budget issue. It is an 
issue to be done down the road. Vote 
for a clean CR. 
Mr. Speaker, there are a lot of emotions 
because this is about life and 
death. 

f 

IMPLEMENTATION OF OBAMACARE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
3, 2013, the gentlewoman from 
Kansas (Ms. JENKINS) is recognized for 
60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader. 
Ms. JENKINS. Mr. Speaker, I am 
proud to be here this evening with my 
colleagues to host the Republican leadership 
hour. We are going to talk to 


H6158 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

the American people about the damaging 
taxes levied against them by the 
President’s health care law, the cost to 
consumers, the IRS’ role in enforcement 
of these tax provisions, and the 
rocky implementation of the law. 

The President’s health care law contained 
21 new taxes, many of which will 
impact low and middle-income earners. 
Together, these taxes represent a $1 
trillion tax hike at a time when American 
families certainly cannot afford 
it. 

And although it became law in 2010, 
the two linchpins of the law, the employer 
mandate and the individual 
mandate, were not scheduled to be implemented 
until 2014. My colleagues 
and I have consistently expressed our 
concerns to the President and our 
Democrat colleagues that these two 
taxes would present both an undue economic 
burden on our constituents, and 
a logistical nightmare for the administration 
to implement. 

On July 2, the administration announced 
in a Treasury blog post that it 
would delay enforcement of the employer 
mandate by a year, until 2015. 
One administration official said that 
the President justified this decision to 
delay this tax on business because it 
began, and I quote, ‘‘listening to businesses 
about the health care law.’’ 

I’ve been hearing from businesses 
about this tax for 3 years, and I’m sure 
the President has as well. I’m glad that 
he saw the light. I’m also pleased that 
the House came together, in a bipartisan 
manner yesterday, to pass a bill 
reaffirming the decision to delay the 
employer mandate tax for a year. 

However, a delay of the employer 
mandate will not give any relief to individuals 
who do not have employer-
sponsored health care, nor will it give 
any relief to employees who have already 
been converted to part-time status 
by their employers in anticipation 
of the employer mandate. 

These American families will still 
face this excise tax, even though the 
President is giving Big Business an escape 
hatch. We believe the administration 
has set up a double standard for 
compliance with this unpopular law, 
and that is why the House is working 
to delay the individual mandate as well 
until 2015. 

As things stand now, on Day 2 of 
open enrollment, the health care exchanges, 
in many cases, have simply 
not been ready. A report issued this 
summer by the Government Accountability 
Office found that many of the 
State health care exchanges will not be 
operational and will complicate individuals’ 
efforts to comply with the law. 

I know that many of the Members 
speaking today will share stories 
they’ve gathered so far, and my State 
of Kansas has been a good example of 
the confusion that these delays are 
causing. Officials are already counseling 
my constituents to wait to purchase 
benefits for a few weeks until the 
exchange’s kinks are worked out. I find 
this unacceptable. 

Additionally, the administration has 
announced that the subsidies available 
to individuals, when purchasing insurance, 
will not be verified by the Federal 
Government, and that individuals 
will have to self-report information regarding 
their income. This paves the 
way for fraud and abuse of taxpayer 
dollars. 

Finally, at the heart of this law is 
the IRS’ role in enforcement of the 
President’s health care law. This is an 
agency we all agree is mired in scandal, 
or maybe even worse, a culture of incompetence. 
We do not think this is 
the appropriate time to be increasing 
the IRS’ workload with enforcement of 
these new taxes, and questions abound 
about the security of taxpayers’ information 
in the Federal data hub. 

I look forward to spending time with 
my colleagues this evening discussing 
these issues. 

At this point, I yield to my friend 
and colleague from Oklahoma (Mr. 
MULLIN). 

Mr. MULLIN. Thank you for this opportunity 
to stand up and, not just represent 
our side of the aisle, but represent 
the business owners that are 
having to go through this struggle of 
the shifting sands constantly underneath 
their feet, and take time to 
maybe take a different approach that 
this House, this body, those that are 
sent up here to represent the American 
people, maybe we can look at a little 
bit different and take a business approach 
to it. 

You see, I’ve been sitting, literally, 
at negotiating tables since I was 20 
years old. Because of some family circumstances 
that came in, it forced me 
to, in a sense, grow up quick. I took 
over a very small plumbing company 
and at that time I had to immediately 
start going for work. 

And when I started going to work, I’d 
show up at a table, a bid table, and I’d 
be going across other contractors, and 
we would be negotiating. The only 
problem is, I didn’t know how to negotiate. 


See, I’d sit down with my proposal 
and I’d say, this is what I’m going to 
do. And they’d said, okay, but we’ve 
got to talk about it. I’d say no, I’m not 
going to talk about it. This is what I’m 
going to do. You can take it or you can 
leave it. 

And I started leaving. And I started 
realizing, as I was leaving, I was going 
broke. Literally, I was going broke because 
I wasn’t getting the jobs. Somebody 
else was getting the jobs. 

And then I started figuring out, you 
know, I’ve got to figure out how to negotiate. 
There’s a technique to negotiating, 
and that means you’ve got to 
know two things when you’re going to 
a table to negotiate. You’ve got to 
know, one, what is it that you want. 
That’s vitally important. But what’s 
more important is, 2, what is it you 
can accept. And that’s called negotiating. 


Of course, we always want everything. 
But we’ve also got to know what 

we can accept. And if I never figured 
out how to accept that certain amount, 
I would have went flat broke. 

And what’s going on with this country? 


Let’s think about the comparison between 
the two. This body of elected officials 
has forgotten how to negotiate. 
We are sitting there pointing fingers at 
each other while our country is literally 
going flat broke, because we all 
want something. But what is it that we 
can accept? 

We’ve been so blinded by party politics 
that we forgot how to sit at a table 
and negotiate. I’m literally sitting 
back, as a business owner, thinking, 
are you serious? 

Are we really putting our company, 
are we really putting America’s best 
interests, at mind? 

Here’s what the Republican Party 
wanted. We wanted to repeal 
ObamaCare. We came to the table and 
we said, we don’t want it. Take it back. 

Sent it over to the Senate. The Senate 
says no. They say, we want a clean 
CR or nothing. 

So we came back to the table, and we 
negotiated among ourselves and said, 
okay, let’s delay it for 1 year. We know 
it’s not ready for prime time. We know 
this thing’s going to be disastrous. 
Let’s delay this thing for 1 year. That’s 
it. 

Sent it over to the Senate and the 
Senate said no. We want a clean CR, or 
that’s it. 

Then we decided, okay, let’s at least 
delay the individual mandate, the penalty 
to the individual. That’s the heart 
of this. Let’s not penalize those individuals 
that can’t afford it. Let’s not 
penalize those individuals that this administration 
is constantly saying he’s 
trying to protect. 

Let’s not, at least let’s not penalize 
them. If they don’t want it, let’s believe 
in the American freedoms that we 
have and not force it upon them, and 
delay it and make sure we get it right. 

What did the Senate say? 

No. It’s my way or the highway. 

At the same time, our country is 
going flat broke. 

We have three legs of government. 
We have the House, we have the Senate, 
and we have the executive branch. 
But, unfortunately, the executive 
branch is leading the Senate, and 
they’re giving them their marching orders. 
And they won’t even come to the 
table with us to negotiate, even though 
they’re constitutionally bound by that. 

It says that if the House and the Senate 
can’t come together, they’re supposed 
to go to conference and talk it 
out. And the Senate says, no. 

Who’s losing here? 

Who’s losing is the American people. 
That’s who’s losing, while both sides 
are trying to figure out who’s going to 
win. 

And we’re playing with real people’s 
lives. We’re playing with individuals’ 
lives, and we think it’s just politics. 

It’s not just politics. We have to drop 
the labels, and we have got to figure 
out what is best for this country. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6159 

If I never figured that out, I wouldn’t 
be the largest plumbing service company 
in the State of Oklahoma today. 
I wouldn’t employ over 120 people with 
just that one company. I wouldn’t be 
that entrepreneur that is the backbone 
of this country. Instead, I would have 
been flat broke. 

There are lessons to be learned, and 
we’re not. We’re going backwards. It’s 
time we stand up and do what’s right 
for this country. 

It’s time for the Senate to come to 
the table. Don’t just tell us what you 
want; tell us what you will accept, and 
let’s start a conversation, and let’s negotiate. 


Thank you so much for yielding the 
time to me. It’s such an honor to represent 
the great State of Oklahoma. 

b 1915 
Ms. JENKINS. Thank you for your 
words. 
At this point I yield to Congresswoman 
RENEE ELLMERS from North 
Carolina. 
Mrs. ELLMERS. Thank you to my 
distinguished colleague from Kansas, 
vice chair of our Republican Conference. 
Thank you for yielding time to 
discuss this situation that’s at hand 
right now. 
Right now, we’re faced with this government 
shutdown. Right now, millions 
of Americans are thinking to 
themselves, What on Earth is happening 
in Washington? There’s a shutdown. 
There’s the implementation of 
ObamaCare exchanges that took place 
starting yesterday. 
The interesting thing is that 47 
States are receiving frequent error 
messages on the Web site. In my home 
State of North Carolina, the Obama 
navigators were grounded as the exchanges 
and the computer system was 
shut down. Americans across this country 
are faced with error messages on 
both exchanges run by the State and 
those run by the Federal Government. 
Day one. Day two. Failure of 
ObamaCare. 
So despite 3 years of time, countless 
dollars, countless administration officials 
testifying in hearing after hearing 
after hearing in the Energy and Commerce 
Committee and in the Ways and 
Means Committee that everything 
would be ready to go on October 1, for 
sure, right on track—those were the 
things we were told, We are moving 
right on track; consistently, we were 
told—and this is what the people of the 
country are seeing. 
This is what we’re seeing in North 
Carolina. This is day two of ObamaCare 
exchanges. They changed up a little bit 
from day one. They added some cute 
little icons here. It says: 
We have a lot of visitors on this site right 
now. Please stay on this page. 
As if you have nothing else to do. 
Just hang out. Just stay here. 
We checked this site throughout the 
day just about every hour to just check 
and see if it would be up and running. 
And it goes on. It says: 

We’re working to make the experience better. 


We don’t want you to lose your place in 
line. 

We’ll send you to the login page as soon as 
we can. 

Thank you for your patience. 

Well, yes, America is going to need a 
lot of patience with ObamaCare. Because 
if this terrible law—and, yes, it 
is law, but there are bad laws that get 
passed—if this law is fully implemented, 
health care will be changed 
forever. You will have to have a lot of 
patience because you are going to be 
waiting at the doctor—if you can even 
find a doctor to go to. You will be waiting 
at the hospital, in the emergency 
room, or wherever you seek care, because 
the care will not be available. 
And the care that you will receive will 
be diminished. 

Yes, we’re all going to have to have a 
lot of patience. 

One of the things that I’ve been doing 
in my office is trying to get firsthand 
accounts of what my constituents are 
experiencing as they’re learning about 
their health care coverage; if they have 
health care coverage right now, what’s 
happening to them. And I’d like to 
share a few of those with you. 

A nice lady by the name of Judy 
emailed me saying she received a letter 
from Blue Cross & Blue Shield stating 
that the plan she currently has would 
no longer be available. 

Now, if you can flash back a couple of 
years ago, our President—President 
Obama—said repeatedly, You will be 
able to keep the health care you have. 
You will be able to keep the doctor 
that you have. 

Well, our worst fears are once again 
realized. Judy has had a change, and 
she didn’t choose it—someone else did. 

And she goes on to say that a new 
plan was chosen for her where her premiums 
will go up from $151 a month to 
$589 a month. My question is, Chosen 
by whom? It certainly wasn’t Judy who 
chose that. It was someone else. It was 
Blue Cross & Blue Shield. Somewhere 
along the way, someone else dictated 
to Judy what she would be able to 
have. 

The reason she was given—and this 
actually was stated in the letter: 

While rates often change due to rising 
costs of health care, the new rules and regulations 
of the ACA, effective January 1, 2014, 
contributed to the majority of the increase. 

It literally stated in the letter that 
the reason her premiums were going up 
so significantly was because of the implementation 
of the Affordable Care 
Act. 

Another constituent wrote: 

Our self-employed son’s insurance went up 
from $430 a month to $900 a month. 

That’s almost double. That’s almost 
a 100 percent increase. 

We were promised lower costs and 
more competition. President Obama 
said our premiums would be decreased 
by $2,500. Yet I am hearing the opposite 
from my constituents. 

One of the other issues that’s happening 
in North Carolina right now has 

to do, again, with the exchanges. One 
of the things that we found out about a 
week ago was that the number of insurance 
companies that were going to be 
offering plans on the exchange is two— 
two insurance companies are offering 
plans. 

There are 100 counties in North Carolina. 
One insurance company has a monopoly, 
essentially. They can offer 
plans throughout North Carolina; and 
in 61 of those counties, they have a monopoly. 
They’re the only plan being offered. 
They’re the only insurance company 
being offered. 

To that, they counter by saying, 
We’re offering multiple plans. But 
that’s not competition. Competition is 
amongst the insurance companies that 
should be provided. We were promised 
lower rates. You receive lower rates 
with competition. It’s very simple. 

So only two insurance companies are 
providing health care coverage on the 
exchanges in North Carolina. One has a 
monopoly throughout. The other covers 
39 counties. So you can see 61 counties 
having a monopoly. That’s not 
fair. How is that fair? 

As my colleagues and I have been 
saying over and over again, this law is 
not ready for prime time, And it never 
will be. That’s the sad part. It is never 
going to measure up to what we were 
promised. Even as changes have been 
made to it, it still is lacking. It’s filled 
with tax increases. It’s filled with mandates. 
This isn’t the plan that we 
should be following for health care. 

I’m a nurse. I dedicated my life to 
health care. I came here to Washington 
to fight ObamaCare. I never wanted to 
run for office before; but in the summer 
of 2009, the President was on the road 
telling us all about the health care 
plan that he wanted for America. My 
husband is a general surgeon. We practice 
in our small town. We said we’ve 
got to go out, and we’ve got to speak 
on this. 

One of the things that the President 
also said was that, overwhelmingly, 
doctors and nurses were in favor of this 
plan. We said, No, Mr. President, this is 
not true. And we started speaking out 
against it. 

The same issues that I was raising 
with the people of North Carolina that 
I was speaking about back then are the 
fears and the realities that we’re faced 
with now. The cost, the overreach, the 
inefficiency, all affecting health care, 
all affecting our economy. 

The workforce alone, as we know, is 
going to be changed from a 40-hour 
work week to a 30-hour work week. 
We’re going to become a part-time 
America. That’s not what our country 
was built on. And yet that’s what we’re 
faced with with the implementation of 
ObamaCare. 

That’s why we’ve asked for a delay. 
That’s why we believe that every individual, 
every American should be receiving 
the same options that Big Business 
has gotten with the 1,500-plus 
waivers given. Every American should 
be able to say, I think it’s a good idea 


H6160 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

and I’ll take it; or, No, I don’t. Why 
should we not have that choice? Why 
should every American not have that 
choice? 

We need to delay it; but more importantly, 
we need to put a better system 
in place. And the system that I support, 
at least at this point, is the Republican 
Study Committee’s plan for 
health care reform. It’s an alternative 
plan. It’s the American Health Care 
Reform Act that we rolled out a couple 
of weeks ago. It puts in place all of the 
pieces that we know, one, that the 
American people want, that the American 
people feel they need; but at the 
same time, it puts forward flexibility, 
affordability. It’s patient-centered. It’s 
not government-run. 

They’re the reforms that have been 
necessary, complete with tort reform, 
liability reform that is such an essential 
piece, health care savings plans, 
tax credits for individuals who are buying 
health care insurance. 

It is the answer to health care reform. 
You should be able to purchase 
insurance across State lines. You 
shouldn’t have to be told that there are 
only two insurance companies that you 
can choose from. 

These are the solutions in health 
care that we really should be looking 
for—not given something, not told you 
have to have something, not told that 
you will be penalized if you do not participate. 


The whole point of an online marketplace 
was to provide options; but as we 
are seeing, this couldn’t be further 
from the truth. 

And I thank my colleague from Kansas 
for allowing me to speak my mind 
on this issue. It’s so important to 
America, so important to these times, 
with this government shutdown. 

Ms. JENKINS. Thank you, Congresswoman 
ELLMERS. 

At this point I yield to my good 
friend from the great State of Kansas, 
Representative POMPEO. 

Mr. POMPEO. Thank you for yielding. 
I appreciate the time. 

I imagine, Ms. JENKINS, you’re hearing 
some of the same things as I am as 
you return to Kansas and talk to our 
constituents. 

This is serious business. We’re standing 
here tonight with a partial government 
shutdown, and I don’t think anybody 
thinks that’s the best outcome 
for America. I think we all want America’s 
essential vital services and systems 
to be functioning and up and running, 
but what we’re dealing with in 
the Affordable Care Act is also a very 
serious matter. It’s very real. It’s not a 
game. 

I’ve heard some across the aisle suggest 
that by trying our best to fund the 
pieces of the government that matter 
and not fund the Affordable Care Act, 
we’re taking hostages. I find that language, 
in one sense, offensive. But 
most importantly, I find it inaccurate. 
It doesn’t represent what we’re trying 
to do. We’re not taking hostages. What 
we’re trying to do is take account of 

what our constituents are telling us, 
and I want to talk about that just a little 
bit. 

I tried to get online yesterday myself 
to enroll in the Affordable Care Act. I 
was met with a bit of a blank screen 
and a long pause. I did manage to get 
through to the 1–800 phone number that 
was provided on the screen. I was told 
if I stayed on the line, 20 minutes later 
I’d get a live voice. Some hour and 40 
minutes later, I did manage to get a 
live voice. There was great music in 
the interim. 

And I got a live voice. It was a young 
lady who told me she was from Louisiana. 
She said, Why did you call? I 
said, I’m calling to comply with the 
Federal law. She said, I’m not going to 
be able to help you with that today. 
My system is down, too. 

She was a government contractor 
working out of Louisiana. I asked her 
how long she’d been working on this. 
She said, Quite a while. 

In fact, yesterday wasn’t the first 
day of the Affordable Care Act. We’re 
now some 3 years into it. It’s not the 
case that the bill was passed and there 
wasn’t enough time to have this system 
ready. I imagine some of the kinks 
will get worked out. The President 
calls them hiccups. I hope the hiccups 
are the worst medical ailment that 
comes from the Affordable Care Act, 
but I fear that they won’t be the worst 
ailment. 

In fact, I’ve already heard countless 
stories. I’ll recount just three of them. 

Just today, I received an email from 
a small employer with about 60 folks 
throughout Kansas. He indicated to me 
that he just received this week a letter 
indicating that his health insurance 
premiums for his business—he’s the 
number two guy in the company—were 
going to be up somewhere between 30 
and 40 percent. He reminded that his 
health care premiums had gone up before, 
but he said he’d never seen anything 
like this. 

b 1930 
A real impact, there will be a real 
impact. He’s trying to figure out, what 
do you do? How much of that cost gets 
passed on in copays and deductibles to 
the employees? How much of that cost 
does the company eat, making them 
less competitive in the global environment 
in which they’re trying to compete. 
A real story from a real Kansas 
business impacting real lives. 
I spoke 3 weeks ago, when I was last 
back in Kansas, with a number of folks 
from some smaller hospitals in the 
rural part of south central Kansas. 
Those are called critical access care 
hospitals. They serve vital functions 
for less densely populated parts of our 
country. 
I was talking about the impact of the 
Affordable Care Act and they said, you 
know, things have been tough at some 
of these hospitals before. There are 
times when it’s difficult to make ends 
meet and to provide all the services 
that people need. Docs come in from 

Wichita and from Kansas City and from 
other places to help part-time to provide 
these services in rural parts of the 
State. They said that after the Affordable 
Care Act it would be even more 
difficult, almost impossible, to keep 
these hospitals open and functioning 
and providing these valuable services. 
Real lives, real Kansans, real people 
with a real impact from the Affordable 
Care Act. 

Finally, I met with a young couple 
during that same trip home. Both of 
them work. They work at jobs where 
they were working for 40 hours a week 
and have now been told it’s likely that 
they won’t. They were still working 40 
hours a week at the time. Their employer 
had just put them on notice and 
had suggested then that they begin to 
look for second jobs, or that maybe one 
spouse should leave that company and 
go work someplace else. Of course the 
rationale that had been provided by 
these people’s employer was that if 
they continue to have full-time employees—
what America has always had, 
full-time employees, 40-hour workweeks—
that there would be an enormous 
cost that would flow to that employer 
where they simply couldn’t keep 
the business running with a full-time 
work staff. 

So here’s two folks that had pretty 
good health benefits, great jobs, 40-
hour-a-week jobs, jobs they were very 
happy with, jobs that permitted them 
to take care of their families, and their 
life is going to be changed. Real Kansans, 
real lives affected by the Affordable 
Care Act. 

We’ve seen this kind of thing all too 
often. I suspect that some of these 
glitches at the beginning will probably 
get worked out, but you can’t fix provisions 
like that without fundamental 
changes to the Affordable Care Act. I 
think that’s pretty evident. 

The President had seen this all coming. 
The President chose to provide 
waivers for lots and lots of groups. 
Lots of folks who have come and said: 
This is harsh; this is penal; this is not 
working; and the President said: Here’s 
a waiver. Here, you can have a change. 

That’s just not the American way. 
It’s not the way that we operate here, 
where we try to provide health care 
systems that are the same and fair and 
equal for all American citizens and all 
American employers and everyone who 
is trying to make their way and take 
care of their own families. These are 
very real issues. 

I have seen this fight over these last 
few weeks. It’s no different than the 
same discussions that have been taking 
place for 3 years. I’ve been here almost 
that long in Congress where we’ve been 
talking about what we thought would 
happen when this day came, when, for 
the first time, people would have to 
begin to think about what real costs 
were, what it was really going to look 
like. 

And I wish, I truly wish that we had 
overblown the risk, we had overdramatized 
what was really going to happen, 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6161 

that we had falsely alerted the American 
people that the Affordable Care 
Act was going to be a train wreck or a 
disaster; but, sadly, I think the evidence, 
as it mounts, as it comes in, 
demonstrates that we may have underestimated 
the risk. We may have underestimated 
how badly this is going to 
impact the American economy. We 
may have underestimated how many 
primary care physicians are going to 
just say ‘‘I can’t make a go of this anymore’’ 
and leave the practice. After all, 
right, it’s not about insurance; it’s not 
about having a piece of paper or a card 
that says you’re entitled to health 
care. It’s about receiving health care. 
It’s about being fixed when you’ve got 
something broken. It’s about being 
cured when you’ve got something 
that’s made you sick. 

This isn’t about paper. This isn’t 
about politics. This is about real lives 
and kids who need treatment. It’s not 
enough to say: It’s wonderful. I have 
this thing called ObamaCare, but I 
can’t find a physician who will treat 
me. 

These are the kind of things that we 
need to work on and need to try and 
fix. 

I will say this lastly. There has been 
some suggestion that this is partisan, 
this is about Democrats versus Republicans. 
For me, this is not it at all. The 
President made a statement yesterday. 
He said this bill was popular; this is 
why the system was overcrowded and 
you couldn’t get on. It’s not popular; 
it’s a law. These people didn’t go on 
this health care system because they 
like it. They did so because they were 
required to do so on pain of penalty by 
the Federal Government. 

I saw today someone who had been 
told that if they didn’t comply, they 
might end up with a tax lien because 
they didn’t pay a penalty. This is not 
the American way. This is not a health 
care system that’s going to work. 

I hope my colleagues will help us. I 
hope they will come to see that all 
we’re asking for at this point in time is 
not what we’d really like—we’ve compromised 
already. What we would like 
to see at this point is we are happy to 
compromise and settle just for a short 
time, just for a delay, to try and make 
it better, to try and impact those real 
people, those real Kansans who are 
going to be really impacted by a law 
which won’t do what it is the President 
promised it would do. 

Ms. JENKINS, thank you for yielding 
the time. 

Ms. JENKINS. Thank you, Congressman. 


Speaking of Kansans, when President 
Obama originally touted this health 
care law, he promised that Americans 
would see their health care costs go 
down. With the rollout of the health 
care exchanges on Tuesday, Kansans in 
my congressional district have finally 
been able to see that their worst fears 
have been confirmed and this promise 
simply isn’t true. 

Healthcare.gov has a county by county 
breakdown of health insurance pre


miums offered by the two insurance 
carriers who agreed to participate in 
the federally run exchanges. For a 27-
year-old seeking the least expensive insurance 
option in Crawford County or 
Cherokee County in southeast Kansas, 
they will see over a 100 percent increase 
in their insurance premiums 
over the State average for this past 
year. 

Things don’t get much better in 
other parts of my district. The same 
person who lives in Topeka or Lawrence 
or Leavenworth will see a 62 percent 
premium increase over the State 
average for that same insurance plan 
for this past year. 

These are examples that are happening 
all over Kansas and all over the 
country, and it makes it clear that the 
President’s health care law will continue 
to fail to control out-of-control 
health care costs. 

With that, I would be happy to yield 
to my esteemed colleague from Michigan 
(Mr. WALBERG). 

Mr. WALBERG. I thank the gentle-
lady for yielding time and for leading 
this discussion of a way forward. 

I appreciate the fact that we are now 
in a shutdown of government that I 
fear has been intentionally perpetrated 
in order to force something further on 
the American people. 

I remember between my first term in 
office, after being defeated in 2008 to 
come back here and spending time for 
the next 2 years back in my district, 
and in watching my colleagues—my 
former colleagues and now my present 
colleagues—battle and debate on the 
floor of this great Chamber, in this 
great House, this great Capitol, in the 
people’s House, the issue of what then 
was called the Affordable Care Act. I 
remember reading about it and listening 
and speaking with colleagues and 
asking what their impression was, and 
then ultimately hearing the Speaker of 
the House say: Let’s pass this, let’s 
pass it and then we can find out what’s 
in it; and reading the comments of fellow 
legislators who had not even read 
this full bill and understanding that 
there was much in it, much that ultimately 
would be found out later on to 
be an extreme problem, not just to 
carry out, not just to regulate, not just 
to implement, as we’ve seen in the last 
couple of days—and we can certainly 
assume that there will be break-in 
problems to get something this massive, 
this intrusive, this complicated 
up and working—but more so the problem 
of looking at a takeover of one-
sixth of our Nation’s economy, the 
problem of challenging people with 
something so complicated that even 
experts and consultants wouldn’t be 
able to tell them for sure what this 
would mean to them, but more importantly, 
the impact upon liberty, freedom, 
the American ideal. 

In the last 2 days, as we’ve debated 
the issue of a continuing resolution, 
because of the unwillingness of the 
Congress of the United States to ultimately 
get a budget in place to move 

ourselves forward—we come to continuing 
resolutions to just move it forward 
a little bit longer. That’s not the 
way we should be doing it. That’s not 
the way this side of the aisle has requested 
and fought to make it happen. 
But when there is an unwillingness to 
come in alongside and negotiate, come 
to a table and work something forward, 
to put through appropriations bills 
that implement the programs and pay 
for them, we have a problem. 

So now here we are in a shutdown, a 
shutdown in the making of an unwillingness 
of the Senate, yes, but I think 
more so the unwillingness of leaders to 
listen to their people. 

We’ve read the reports in the polls. 
We’ve heard before we went into this 
battle the last few days that the American 
people want this government to 
fund its basic services and not to shut 
down. We’ve also read in those polls 
the same people, a majority, have said 
we want to delay or defund or repeal 
the Affordable Care Act. So we have 
that as our task and, at the very least, 
to delay to a point that we can see 
what’s in it and take action to amend, 
to repeal, or to completely go to a plan 
that will work. 

So we have veterans of the Second 
World War being locked out of going to 
their war memorial, except for the fact 
that Members of Congress have gone 
and opened up those gates. 

I just got a call from a constituent of 
mine who is here in the Capital today 
and wanted to go over and see the 9/11 
Memorial at the Pentagon. We assumed 
that that was open; it always is. 
There’s no guard. You can walk into 
that memorial. But that’s closed. Why? 
Is it because we want to make this 
problem harder for our citizens than it 
should be in order for them to get over 
the idea of reading the bill, knowing 
what’s in it, and then asking for redress 
from their Members of Congress 
who represent them? 

I went to the E-Verify site yesterday 
and I saw E-Verify, a computer program 
that’s in place. It doesn’t take a 
person to run it. It’s operating. It’s a 
system. It’s connected to all sorts of 
data systems. Yesterday and today it 
says: 

Alert. E-Verify is unavailable due to the 
Federal Government shutdown. For more information, 
please click here. 

This is what is being done to the citizens 
of the United States to produce 
the pain through the shutdown experience 
in order to ultimately say: Uncle, 
I will give in to a law. Yes, it is a law, 
but a law can always be redressed and 
changed. And they’re asking for us to 
take the time to look at the Affordable 
Care Act, now known as ObamaCare. 

A lady in Jackson, Michigan, in the 
heart of my district, called in to our office, 
our local office and, in tears, said: 
Here’s my problem. This morning, my 
employer, a local provider of home 
health care who I have worked for for 
a number of years for 35 hours, and 
then I make up the difference of my 40 
hours that I need and beyond by working 
in a restaurant on the weekends, 


H6162 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

this employer of mine told me today 
that they’re moving me now to 25 
hours instead of 35. And why? Because 
of the Affordable Care Act. She said: 
It’s not affordable to me because now I 
will have less income, less hours. How 
do I pay my mortgage, and how do I 
buy health insurance? 

Or it’s the autoworker in Monroe, 
Michigan, on Lake Erie in my district, 
a hardworking guy who said to me at a 
town hall meeting just a week and a 
half ago: Mr. Congressman, I want you 
to know that times are tough. I have 
some great concerns. My wife is sick 
and I have a $900 a month health care 
bill that I have to pay. But I want you 
to stand firm. And I said: Sir, what do 
you mean by ‘‘stand firm’’? He said: 
Shut down ObamaCare. Give us back 
our choice, our freedom. 

The 54-employee business in Adrian, 
Michigan, who told me last week 
that—and they’re beyond the level of 
being able to just simply toss off the 
insurance to the employees. They’re 
not wanting to cut from their 54 employees 
down to below 50. But they received 
a notice from their insurance 
company that they were being canceled, 
and when approached, they were 
told it was in preparation for the uncertainties 
of the Affordable Care Act. 

b 1945 
That shouldn’t be the experience in 
the State of Michigan or any other 
place in this great country. That 
shouldn’t be the experience—that employers 
are encouraged to downsize as 
opposed to continue to expand. I could 
go through testimony after testimony 
similar of the challenges that have 
come from the Affordable Care Act 
that has become unaffordable and unmanageable. 
All we are asking for is the opportunity 
to work together to negotiate 
toward a compromise on the way forward, 
Mr. Speaker. That’s possible. 
We passed a bill the other day unanimously 
to fund our military. The Senate 
passed that. That shows that if we 
want to, it can get done. 
This summer, 35 Democrats voted 
with Republicans to delay the employer 
mandate and 22 voted to delay 
the individual mandate. Seventeen 
voted to repeal the medical device tax 
last week, as recently as last week. 
We can get things to work if we are 
willing to sit down and negotiate toward 
a compromise that speaks to the 
concerns of our constituents. Seven of 
the more than 40 bills the House has 
approved to repeal all or part of the 
ObamaCare have been signed into law. 
We could go on and on, Mr. Speaker. 
But I get to a final point of concern 
for me. With the Affordable Care Act, 
otherwise known as ObamaCare, we 
also have crossed the line into the 
areas of our personal freedoms and our 
rights of conscience. Yes, I was a minister 
by training and background before 
going into politics. I understand 
there are religious beliefs, there are denominational 
beliefs, and there are a 

lot of differences. But the beauty of 
this great country, Mr. Speaker, is 
that we have always espoused the opportunity 
for freedom of religion and 
rights of conscience regardless. We 
have truly had plurality in our country. 


Yet this one act is tromping down on 
the individual rights of conscience and 
religious liberties, our First Amendment 
in the U.S. Constitution. A 
former Prime Minister of the Netherlands 
back in the 1900s by the name of 
Abraham Kuyper really made this 
point of where I am going, Mr. Speaker, 
when he said: 

When principles that run against your 
deepest convictions begin to win the day, 
then battle is your calling and peace has become 
sin. You must at the price of dearest 
peace lay your convictions bare before friend 
and enemy with all the fire of your faith. 

When we hear of the little Sisters of 
Mercy being told that they are not religious 
enough to carry on their rights of 
conscience in relationship to the Affordable 
Care Act, Mr. Speaker, we 
have a problem. When we have a devout 
Catholic business owner who employs 
several hundred employees in the west 
part of Michigan who, because of his 
rights of conscience, has chosen to say 
we will provide insurance for our employees 
under the Affordable Care Act 
or any act, but we cannot provide insurance 
that violates our long-standing, 
strong-held rights of conscience, 
and courts say, because of this act, no, 
you can’t do that. 

Mr. Speaker, it is time to identify 
the challenges here, to read what is in 
the bill, to implement the changes necessary 
or go back, I believe, to the first 
and foremost principle of this great 
country, and that is liberty and justice 
for all, and develop a program that expands 
choice, opportunity, responsibility, 
variety, competition, and ultimately 
the ability for our citizens, our 
constituents, the people we serve, to 
care for their lives, their health in the 
best way possible with their government 
standing on their side, not in 
their way. 

I appreciate the opportunity to speak 
to this issue. It needs to be spoken to 
over and over and over again until ultimately 
we win the day and give back 
that liberty and opportunity to our 
American citizens. 

Ms. JENKINS. Thank you, Congressman 
WALBERG. 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank 
you for allowing my colleagues and I to 
speak to the American people about 
the destructive provisions of the President’s 
health care law, the constant 
stream of delays that have come from 
the President’s administration, the 
costly effect it will have on folks all 
over the country, and the rocky implementation 
it has experienced so far. 

I believe we have made it clear that 
this law is simply not ready to meet 
the needs of the American people. It is 
unfair to punish regular folks while 
giving preferential treatment to big 
businesses, unions, and Members of 

Congress. We hope our Democrat colleagues 
will work with us to provide 
fairness for all and say ‘‘no’’ to special 
treatment. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRESSIVE 
CAUCUS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
3, 2013, the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. POCAN) is recognized for 60 
minutes as the designee of the minority 
leader. 

Mr. POCAN. Mr. Speaker, I am here 
on behalf of the Congressional Progressive 
Caucus in our Special Order hour 
to talk specifically about what is happening 
this week, or better yet what is 
not happening this week, in Congress. 

Mr. Speaker, it has been almost exactly 
48 hours since the GOP government 
shutdown in this country; 48 
hours since 800,000 Federal employees 
have been furloughed; 48 hours since 
our national parks have been closed; 48 
hours since the Small Business Administration 
is no longer issuing new 
loans; 48 hours since the Centers for 
Disease Control won’t be able to monitor 
the influenza season coming up; 48 
hours since the National Institutes of 
Health has essentially shut down; and 
48 hours since we are costing the U.S. 
economy $300 million a day. 

This isn’t a number that the congressional 
Democrats or the Progressive 
Caucus has come up with. This is coming 
right from an article from 
Bloomberg News. 

According to Bloomberg News: 

A partial shutdown of the Federal Government 
will cost the U.S. at least $300 million 

a day in lost economic output at the start. 

They go on further: 

Government spending touches every aspect 
of the economy and disruption of spending 
more than the direct loss of income threatens 
to damage investor and business confidence 
in ways that can seriously harm economic 
growth. 

It goes on to explain two major reasons 
why we are going to have this impact 
of $300 million a day. The first is 
the fact that we have the furloughed 
workers: 

Each day the shutdown drags on, the more 
Federal employees will discount the possibility 
that they will go back to work soon 
and they will pull back on their spending. 

Specifically, one Federal employee is 
quoted saying: 

The shutdown affects me greatly. I have a 
mortgage, and I’m the sole provider for my 
two daughters, one of whom is in college. 

That is what we are doing right now 
to the U.S. economy by strangling our 
Federal employees who serve this Nation 
so well. But also, consumer confidence 
is directly impacted by this 
GOP shutdown of the government. 

Again, from the article: 

If a shutdown drags on, it would start to 
shake consumer and business confidence 
more broadly, economists said. 

Household spending accounts for 70 percent 
of the economy. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6163 

Further it says: 

A shutdown will probably add to the budget 
deficit because it is costly to stop and 
start programs. 

Adding to our deficit, costing us $300 
million a day, shutting down essential 
services that people expect from our 
Federal Government. 

We are 48 hours since we have entered 
this manufactured crisis over the 
GOP having a tantrum over the Affordable 
Care Act and taking us all hostage. 
But right now at this very moment 
we could stop this with one single 
vote in the House of Representatives. 
One single vote can stop the damage to 
our economy and the shutdown of the 
Federal Government. 

There is a clean continuing resolution 
that has passed the Senate. Does 
it have everything that I or the Congressional 
Progressive Caucus wants? 
Absolutely not. In fact, they are still 
keeping in the number that is being 
proposed by the Senate, the indiscriminate 
sequester cuts between now and 
November 15. 

But we are willing to compromise 
and accept something that many of us 
have voted against in the past in order 
to bring our economy back in this 
country. In fact, I think one thing 
hasn’t been told very much. When you 
look at the various budgets, once 
again, this Congress has not passed a 
budget. This House has passed a budget, 
the Senate has passed a budget, the 
President has introduced a budget, but 
this House leadership has refused to appoint 
conferees for over 6 months to 
have a national budget. 

But what was the budget line that 
the House Republicans passed in this 
House last spring—$967 billion? What 
did the President have in his proposal— 
$1.2 billion? What did the Senate Democrats 
have—about $1.06 billion? 

What does this continuing resolution 
propose for a figure—$986 billion? That 
is over 90 percent of the way from the 
President’s budget to what the House 
Republicans wanted—only 2 percent 
from the number they were looking at. 
Yet the House Republicans refused to 
budge and pass a resolution that can 
end the government shutdown and fix 
this economy. 

So why do we have these reckless, irresponsible 
demands from the tantrum-
throwing, breath-holding, hostage-taking, 
Tea Partying wing of the Republican 
Party? Well, they think it is a 
bad idea that millions and millions 
more Americans should now have access 
to health care through the Affordable 
Care Act. 

We have voted not just once or twice 
to try to get rid of the Affordable Care 
Act, but we have voted 46 times in this 
body—46 times that they have held 
their breath and tried to remove the 
Affordable Care Act. But the bottom 
line is this Congress voted for the law, 
the President signed it into law, and 
the Supreme Court has upheld the law. 

It is the law of the land no matter 
how much some people may not like it, 
no matter how many times they have 

held their breath over this and brought 
this Congress to a vote. It is the law of 
the land. But because of that, they are 
willing and have shut down the U.S. 
Government—a completely unacceptable 
answer to their issue. 

There is the compromise solution I 
have talked about. A clean continuing 
resolution has already passed the Senate. 
With a simple vote of this body, 
Mr. Speaker, a simple vote of this 
body, it would go directly to the President 
and be signed into law. No other 
delays. Not the delay tactics we have 
seen for the last 2 days with a bunch of 
votes that meant nothing in this body. 
With one vote we end the government 
shutdown. 

Mr. Speaker, take ‘‘yes’’ for an answer. 
We are willing to compromise 
and do this. We demand a vote. We demand 
a vote and an opportunity in this 
House to end the government shutdown. 
But for some reason Speaker 
BOEHNER will not bring this bill to a 
vote. We tried today, and through parliamentary 
procedures they blocked us 
from having the ability to take that 
vote. 

Well, do you know why they won’t 
schedule this for a vote? Because they 
know if they brought it to the body it 
would pass, and the Tea Party wing of 
the Republican Party, as small as 
sometimes it is, would lose. 

Here is the bottom line. I know that 
people as they watch this whole debate—
and you hear from everyone—are 
confused. Who is saying what and what 
is the real truth on this? The bottom 
line is the facts don’t change. The Affordable 
Care Act is the law of the 
land. Despite 46 times to repeal it, it is 
still the law of the land. With a government 
shutdown, it is still being continued 
today as the law of the land. 

All we are doing in this hostage-taking 
is hurting our economy and hurting 
the people of this country through a 
government shutdown. 

b 2000 
So, when people are confused, I have 
to admit that I’m confused. I’m one of 
the new people around here. When I 
look at this, as I’ve told people recently, 
I feel like I serve in the Nation’s 
largest kindergarten, only this 
kindergarten has control of the checkbook 
and our nuclear arsenal. 
It’s scary to think that this body refuses 
to end the government shutdown 
through a simple vote on a clean continuing 
resolution; but what’s even 
more confusing, Mr. Speaker, is the 
fact that it’s not just the Democrats 
who are willing to compromise, but 
there are now 18 Republicans who have 
said they are willing to vote for a clean 
continuing resolution, that they are 
willing to end the government shutdown. 
There is a 17-vote margin on the 
Republican side, and more than enough 
people have said they will vote for a 
continuing resolution should they be 
able to. Let me just go through each 
and every one of these. 
Representative SCOTT RIGELL 
tweeted out from the State of Virginia 

twice on this subject. First, he tweeted 
out: 

We fought the good fight. Time for a clean 
continuing resolution. 

That was on October 1. On October 2: 

Pain to our military and economy is real. 
A shutdown doesn’t advance our goals. 

This is from a Republican Member 
who serves on the Budget Committee, 
which I serve on, who knows the real 
impact that we are having on the economy. 
So that is one Republican saying, 
Mr. Speaker, we demand a vote. 

Then there is Florida Representative 
BILL YOUNG, who serves on the Appropriations 
Committee, a very important 
committee that understands government 
funding. He told the Tampa Bay 
Times that he is ready to vote for a 
clean funding bill: 

The politics should be over. It’s time to 
legislate. 

Mr. Speaker, that’s two Republicans 
willing to pass a clean continuing resolution. 


Then there is Representative CHARLIE 
DENT from the State of Pennsylvania, 
who also serves on that all important 
Appropriations Committee. 
Back on September 29, in the Huffington 
Post, he said: 

I am prepared to vote for a clean continuing 
resolution. The hourglass is nearly 
empty, and it’s time to get on with the business 
of funding the government and come 
back to fight another day. 

Mr. Speaker, that is three Republicans 
who disagree with being held 
hostage by the Tea Party wing of your 
party. 

Then, from California, there is Representative 
NUNES, who serves on the 
Ways and Means Committee, another 
committee that deals directly with our 
country’s finances. This is coming from 
a Twitter from a reporter from the 
Huffington Post: 

Representative Devin Nunes says he’ll vote 
for the latest GOP plan, but will support a 
clean continuing resolution if it comes down 
to it. 

This is four Republican Members, Mr. 
Speaker, who disagree with the GOP’s 
hostage-taking by the Tea Party wing 
of your party. 

Then, from the State of Minnesota, 
there is Representative ERIK PAULSEN, 
who also serves on the Ways and Means 
Committee, who had told a local TV reporter 
in Minnesota, FROM KARE-TV, 
channel 11, and they tweeted out, saying: 


Representative Erik Paulsen tells me he’s 
willing to break with GOP leadership and 
vote for a clean resolution if given the 
chance. 

That’s five Republicans, Mr. Speaker, 
who are going back home and telling 
people that they would vote for a clean 
resolution if you would give them a 
chance. 

Then, from the State of Virginia, 
there is Representative FRANK WOLF, 
who serves on the Appropriations Committee. 
His aide told the Hill newspaper 
that he would support a clean 
continuing resolution. In a statement 


H6164 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

on the House floor on Tuesday, WOLF 
said: 

This is bad for America. It is bad for America. 
Enough is enough. It’s time to be leaders. 
It’s time to govern. Open up the government. 


Six people. Those aren’t the words of 
the members of the Congressional Progressive 
Caucus. These are Members of 
the Republican Party. If you give them 
a chance and demand a vote, we will be 
able to pass that. That’s six Members. 

What about Representative JIM GERLACH 
from Pennsylvania? Again, he 
serves on the Ways and Means Committee. 
He put out a press release, and 
this is directly from the press release: 

Jim Gerlach said Wednesday that he would 
vote in favor of a so-called ‘‘clean budget 
bill’’ that funds the Federal Government at 
current spending levels. 

That’s seven, Mr. Speaker. 

Then Representative LOU BARLETTA, 
from the State of Pennsylvania, according 
to the Bethlehem Morning 
Call, said he would: 

. . . absolutely vote for a clean bill to 
avert a government shutdown. 

I think that’s eight Members, Mr. 
Speaker, on your side who are willing 
to join the Democrats and be adults 
and get our job done. 

The ninth adult is Representative 
LEONARD LANCE from New Jersey. His 
chief of staff told the Huffington Post: 

. . . that he had told a constituent on 
Wednesday that Lance has voted for clean 
government funding bills in the past ‘‘and 
would not oppose doing so again should one 
be brought to the floor.’’ 

Eight. Let me make sure I’m right. 
Let me count through these, Mr. 
Speaker. That’s one, two, three, four, 
five, six, seven, eight. I’m sorry. That’s 
nine Members. 

Here is No. 10. He is Representative 
JOHN RUNYAN from New Jersey. He 
joined with other moderate Republicans 
in calling for the House to vote 
on a clean, short-term funding bill that 
would reopen the government, which is 
according to the Burlington County 
Times. 

Ten of your Members are telling reporters 
in their districts that they 
want the opportunity. Don’t make 
them not be able to tell the truth in 
their districts if they want to vote for 
a clean resolution. We can end this 
government shutdown. That’s 10. 

Here is No. 11, Representative FRANK 
LOBIONDO from New Jersey. He called 
the situation ‘‘unacceptable’’—his 
word. He told The Press of Atlantic 
City: 

. . . that he was in favor of ‘‘whatever gets 
a successful conclusion to this’’ and a 
‘‘clean’’ continuing resolution, which does 
not include the postponement of the Affordable 
Care Act ‘‘as one of those options.’’ 

That was No. 11. Let’s get you a 12th 
vote, Mr. Speaker. It’s a 12th vote from 
Representative MIKE FITZPATRICK from 
Bucks County in the State of Pennsylvania. 
He issued a statement to the 
Philadelphia Inquirer, saying: 

He supports a spending bill at current 
funding levels, and aides said that he would 

back that approach if it were presented for a 
vote. 

No. 12, Mr. Speaker. I believe that’s 
No. 12. 

No. 13. We’ll call it ‘‘lucky 13’’ in this 
case. Representative MIKE SIMPSON 
from Idaho—again, serving on the Appropriations 
Committee—told a Roll 
Call reporter Tuesday night: 

I’d vote for a clean continuing resolution 
because I don’t think this is a strategy that 
works. 

Mr. Speaker, 13 Members of the Republican 
Party disagree with the Republican 
Party on the strategy to hold 
our country hostage and ruin our economy. 


No. 14, Representative PAT MEEHAN 
from Pennsylvania, according to a 
press release he put out, said: 

At this point, I believe it’s time for the 
House to vote for a clean, short-term funding 
bill to bring the Senate to the table and negotiate 
a responsible compromise. 

No. 14, Mr. Speaker. This is No. 14, 
who wants to cooperate and give us 6 
weeks to work out a compromise between 
the two Houses so that we can 
have what should be a budget in this 
country. 

No. 15 is Representative MICHAEL 
GRIMM of New York. In a statement released 
by his office on Monday, the 
New York Republican argued that demanding 
ideological purity is ‘‘not 
looking at the big picture.’’ An aide of 
his told the Huffington Post that he 
supports a clean continuing resolution. 

I am sorry to do this again, but I’m 
going to have to make sure I’ve got the 
count right, Mr. Speaker. One, two, 
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 Members of your 
party. 

No. 16 is Representative PETER KING. 
I think he was one of the first Members 
to do this. He said he thinks that 
House Republicans would prefer to 
avoid a shutdown, and he said he will 
only vote for a clean continuing resolution 
to fund the government, according 
to the National Review Online. He is 
No. 16. 

No. 17 is Representative RANDY 
FORBES out of the State of Virginia, 
who told the Virginian-Pilot that he 
supports the 6-week clean funding bill 
that passed in the Senate: 

Unfortunately, for us, this is not a game. 

This is real lives of people. 

That’s No. 17. 

Finally, No. 18 that is officially out 
there, Mr. Speaker, is Representative 
ROB WITTMAN of Virginia: 

I voted to avoid a government shutdown at 
every opportunity, to continue government 
funding, and although I have not had an opportunity 
to do so to this point, I would support 
a clean continuing resolution to get our 
government back up and running. 

He put that in an email that he 
shared with Post Politics. 

That’s 18. You have a 17-seat margin 
on the Republican side, Mr. Speaker, 
and 18 people on your side of the aisle 
will join the responsible adults on this 
side of the aisle. Call us back tonight, 
and tomorrow we will end this crisis 
and not cost our economy $300 million. 

Mr. Speaker, I have a bonus for you. 
I think there is a 19th person who is on 
the cusp of saying the same thing— 
from my own State, Representative 
REID RIBBLE. He is someone I am working 
with. He and I have a bill together 
right now to try to get a budget process 
every 2 years because we think it 
might be a better way to actually get 
this country back on track. 

According to the Pierce Herald County 
paper in Wisconsin, here is what he 
said: 

Two wrongs don’t make a right. 

Then this is a quote from WHBY 
radio 1150 AM in Wisconsin: 

A Republican from northeast Wisconsin 
says it’s harmful and embarrassing that lawmakers 
couldn’t reach a deal to avoid a government 
shutdown. Congressman Reid Ribble 
of Sherwood says he is encouraging his colleagues 
to send short-term spending proposals 
to a conference committee so Members 
of the House and Senate can work out a 
compromise. Ribble says he is meeting with 
the House Speaker today to discuss their 
strategy and what they’re going to offer. He 
says he is optimistic that the shutdown 
won’t last long and that they can at least 
agree to a short-term solution. 

Mr. Speaker, in the coming hours, 
more of your Members are going to 
stand up and get the keys back from 
the Tea Party wing of your party. Before 
you have to call a tow truck to 
pull this country out of a ditch, get the 
keys back. Demand a vote. Give us a 
vote on a clean continuing resolution, 
and we can end this right now. 

I am joined by another member of 
our Progressive Caucus, another freshman 
member who brings good common 
sense and a good educational sense as a 
former teacher to this body. It is my 
opportunity to yield some time to my 
colleague, Representative MARK 
TAKANO from the great State of California. 


Mr. TAKANO. I thank the gentleman 
from Wisconsin. 

I rise today to object to this government 
shutdown that has been orchestrated 
and carried out by the House 
Republicans and the Tea Party. 

Before I came to Congress, yes, as the 
gentleman has said, I worked for over 
20 years as a high school teacher; and I 
have to say, during these last few days, 
I’ve begun to wonder if my students in 
Riverside County had a better understanding 
of how our government works 
and how it should function than the 
House Republicans. 

It is 46 times that the House Republicans 
have voted to repeal or to defund 
the Affordable Care Act. They are 
doing this as if they believe the majority 
in the Senate, which fought to create 
the Affordable Care Act, would vote 
for its repeal. They are doing this as if 
they believe the President would actually 
sign legislation reversing his 
crowning achievement. That’s not how 
our government works. There are three 
branches of government in this country, 
and any high school senior can tell 
you that the only way a bill can become 
a law is if it is passed by the 
House, passed by the Senate, and 
signed into law by the President. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6165 

So now the Republican Party has resorted 
to hurting everyday Americans 
by forcing the government to shut 
down and furloughing hundreds of 
thousands of workers so they can get 
what they want. It is 18 times the Senate 
attempted to send negotiators to 
the House to get an agreement on a 
budget; and now, because of the House 
Republican delay tactics, we have run 
out of time and have passed the date to 
keep the government open. They have 
taken this moment of crisis to exercise 
political leverage in the most irresponsible 
manner. 

I can appreciate my Republican colleagues’ 
passions and their world views 
on government, but their passions are 
misplaced, ill-timed, and inappropriate. 
They want to display those passions 
and undo a law at a time when 
Americans will be harmed by their tactics. 
What makes Americans so angry 
is when they see Members of Congress 
so eager to hurt our country to achieve 
their political ends. 

Let’s say that our positions were 
flipped, that the Republicans had the 
Senate and the Presidency and the 
Democrats had the House. What if the 
Democrats said, Well, we don’t want a 
government shutdown, but unless the 
Senate passes and the President signs 
immigration reform into law, that’s 
what we will do? Or how about if we 
were to say, We are against furloughing 
hundreds of thousands of 
workers, but unless the Senate passes 
and the President signs an assault 
weapons ban, we will do just that? 

b 2015 
You know, we could say unless the 
Senate passes and the President signs 
into law, the option will be to shut 
down the government. 
I know our friends on the other side 
of the aisle would never allow such tactics 
to stand. Now the House Republicans 
are trying a piecemeal approach, 
attempting to fund the government one 
agency at a time. This is no way to run 
a government either. This is just legislative 
public relations. This is Speaker 
BOEHNER and the House Republicans reacting 
to the bad headlines they’ve received 
in the last few days. The press 
has been criticizing this shutdown for 
how it’s harmed our veterans. 
What’s the answer for the Republicans? 
Introduce a bill that funds only 
veterans programs. The press has exposed 
the tragedy of this shutdown, 
ending clinical trials for kids with cancer. 
What’s their solution? Introduce a 
bill that funds only clinical trials. 
The press has shown how insulting it 
is to our Greatest Generation when 
they have been locked out of the Washington, 
D.C., World War II Memorial. 
What do Republicans do? Introduce a 
bill that funds only parks and monuments. 
This is not governing. This is 
damage control. 
The actions by the House Republicans 
are absurd and reprehensible. 
The House Republicans are pitting 
American against American for polit


ical gain. Do they think that a veteran 
would want his benefits at the expense 
of his grandchild’s education? Do they 
think that poor children should go to 
sleep hungry so the national park in 
their district can open? 

One-half of one House of Congress of 
one branch of government should not 
get to make such outrageous demands. 
To make things worse, there are reasonable 
Republicans, as the gentleman 
from Wisconsin has just demonstrated, 
Republicans who know this is wrong, 
Republicans that have stopped me in 
the hall and told me how TED CRUZ has 
put them into a political conundrum. 
Even Grover Norquist has said TED 
CRUZ has ‘‘pushed House Republicans 
into traffic and wandered away.’’ 

Eighteen House Republicans have 
publicly stated they would support a 
clean CR. Let’s end the GOP shutdown. 
Let’s bring sanity back to Congress 
and pass a clean CR that will put 
Americans back to work and restore 
funding to the countless programs that 
they rely on. 

Mr. POCAN. If I could ask a question 
of the gentleman. You mentioned that 
the Senate 18 times has tried to find a 
resolution to having a budget in this 
country. There are a number of us who 
serve on the Budget Committee, including 
Representative JEFFRIES from 
New York State, who is going to speak 
in a little bit, who for 6 months have 
been asking for the Republican leadership 
to appoint conferees so that we 
could actually do exactly that. Do you 
remember when the Republicans finally 
proposed a conference committee? 


Mr. TAKANO. The gentleman is 
going to have to help me. I’m not 
aware of when this happened. 

Mr. POCAN. I believe it was between 

11:40 and 15 minutes to midnight on the 
deadline before we had to shut down 
government. 
Mr. TAKANO. Was that literally the 
11th hour, 59th minute before they— 
that’s right. I do remember this now 
because I was here that time of night. 
I do remember that because we were 
wondering what the Republican Caucus 
was going to do next, and the last thing 
of the evening on Saturday was to propose 
a conference. 

Look, the Senate Democrats passed a 
budget after much complaining by the 
House Republicans that the Senate had 
not passed a budget, and I believe this 
was way back in the spring. 

Mr. POCAN. March 23. 

Mr. TAKANO. We had plenty of time 
to try and hash all of this out, but let’s 
remember the original pretext for this 
shutdown. What I kept hearing from 
our Republican colleagues was they 
wanted to delay the implementation of 
the Affordable Care Act. That seemed 
to be the crux of their objectives. 

Mr. POCAN. In the last 48 hours, how 
many votes have we had on the Affordable 
Care Act? 

Mr. TAKANO. The last 48 hours, 
we’ve voted on a lot of things since 
then. As I pointed out in my remarks, 

every headline that looks bad for them, 
they come up with a bill, and they try 
to fund that headline away. 

Again, they’re embarrassing votes for 
many people on our side, having to answer, 
Why are you voting against the 
National Institutes of Health? Why are 
you voting against veterans? Of course 
we’re not voting against them. We’re 
saying that you can’t pit one group of 
Americans against another group of 
Americans, and that there are literally 
many Americans who depend on many 
of the programs. When people really 
understand what our government does 
for them and when it’s taken away, 
then it comes home. 

Mr. POCAN. Thank you so much, 
Representative TAKANO. You did a 
great job pointing out every time a 
press release came out and they realized 
one of the impacts of shutting 
down the government, they tried to put 
a little chewing gum in the crack in 
the dam rather than actually addressing 
the problem. They’ve done that 
multiple times. They have done it 
through what we call around here 
‘‘gotcha votes’’ to try to make a point, 
but they have not provide the solution 
we need, which is what we’re demanding 
and 18 Members on the other side 
are demanding, which is a vote on a 
clean continuing resolution so that 
government can continue. 

Mr. TAKANO. I don’t know if you 
spoke about this earlier, but in just 
this past series of votes, there was 
what is called in technical language 
here in the House, a motion to recommit, 
otherwise known as an MTR. The 
Democrats used that opportunity to 
propose a motion to recommit, which 
was essentially that motion. We were 
trying to bring to the floor a clean CR, 
the exact Senate language for the continuing 
resolution. 

The number that we would have 
funded the government at would have 
been at the Republican’s own number. 
It’s a number that many of us feel is 
too low. I bet you most of our caucuses 
would’ve supported it. But what happened? 
There was a motion on the Republican 
side to table our motion. Why 
table it? Why were they scared? They 
were scared to bring it to the floor. Instead 
of a procedural motion that the 
Republicans could have voted ‘‘no’’ on, 
they would have been faced with voting 
up or down and those 18 Members 
would have had to make a decision to 
go against what they publicly stated. 
They could have done that today. They 
had an opportunity today, and let it be 
said right now that we missed an opportunity 
to fund this government and 
to move on. It passed away today. All 
I can say is this motion to table was 
nothing less than, I think, a motion 
out of fear. Fear of what? That there 
would be a reasonable majority that 
would come together. 

I asked earlier today a question that 
was rhetorical. I asked as a point of information, 
Who is the Speaker of this 
House? Is it JOHN BOEHNER or is it TED 
CRUZ? In order to get to this vote, we 


H6166 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

have to take this Congress back from a 
phantom Speaker because I can’t believe 
that—you read out the names of 
18 people who are willing to go on 
record publicly. How many do you and 
I suspect of Republicans that privately 
feel these things, but are too afraid to 
move forward because of this phantom 
Speaker? 

Mr. POCAN. Absolutely. Thank you 
again for your leadership, Representative 
TAKANO. I appreciate it. 

Completely from the other coast, we 
have another freshman Member who is 
a strong member of our Progressive 
Caucus and a former legislator from 
the State of New York and now a Representative 
in Congress in the State of 
New York. It’s my pleasure to yield 
some time to Representative HAKEEM 
JEFFRIES. 

Mr. JEFFRIES. I thank the distinguished 
gentleman from Wisconsin, the 
badger State, for yielding me some 
time, for your tremendous leadership 
in anchoring this Progressive Caucus 
Special Order week after week after 
week, carrying forward in such a powerful 
and compelling way the Progressive 
message to the Americans out 
there who we represent. It’s such a 
powerful vehicle to use the House floor, 
to speak in such eloquent, genuine 
ways about the challenges that we confront 
here in the United States Congress. 


Over the last few weeks, what we’ve 
witnessed, I think, can be characterized 
as both the theater of the absurd 
and a Shakespearean tragedy. Let me 
deal with the Shakespearean tragedy 
aspect of this. 

We are in the midst of a government 
shutdown right now that is unnecessarily 
forcing pain on the American 
people. It’s a shutdown that was manufactured 
by the House GOP that has resulted 
in a situation where Americans 
all across this country have now been 
put in jeopardy. That’s a tragedy of 
epic proportions. Children have been 
put in jeopardy. Tens of thousands of 
them have been shut out from the Head 
Start program. Families have been put 
in jeopardy. More than 800,000 individuals 
were kicked out of work unnecessarily. 
As time marches on, faced with 
the uncertainty as it relates to how 
they pay their bills, put food on their 
table, clothing on their backs, pay off 
the mortgage, more than 800,000 hardworking 
Americans are collateral damage 
as a result of a reckless, irresponsible, 
mean-spirited behavior. 

Veterans have been unnecessarily put 
into harm’s way. Children looking for 
hope and dealing with the cancer that 
has afflicted them are unable to participate 
in clinical trials at the National 
Institutes of Health. Seniors, 
who otherwise would benefit from the 
Meals on Wheels program—it’s insult 
to injury. It’s bad enough you’re trying 
to cut $39 billion from the SNAP program, 
but then you’ve got to inflict additional 
pain, as a result of the government 
shutdown, on seniors who rely on 
the Meals on Wheels program to eat 
and deal with their nutritional needs. 

The other problem that’s amazing to 
me is that you’ve put in jeopardy expectant 
mothers who are now unable to 
receive the nutritional assistance that 
would be available to them in the absence 
of a government shutdown. This 
is a Shakespearean tragedy inflicted 
upon us by an out-of-control House majority. 


Let me deal for a moment or so with 
the theater-of-the-absurd aspect of 
this. I asked on the floor of the House 
of Representatives today, Who’s in 
charge? My distinguished freshman colleague 
from California just referenced 
this point. Who is in charge of the 
House of Representatives? Is it the 
Speaker who’s in charge at this moment? 
Is it the Heritage Foundation? Is 
it Tea Party extremists? Is it the junior 
Senator from Texas, who for the 
last week, before he disappeared, was 
barking out orders over on the other 
side of the Capitol and then Members 
in the House of Representatives were 
following those orders in lockstep, executing 
this extreme agenda that has 
led us to a shutdown of the United 
States Government? 

The other side of the aisle, my good 
friends, they’re going to say, Well, 
what are you talking about an extreme 
agenda? We just have a disagreement 
as it relates to the Affordable Care Act, 
and you guys on the other side of the 
aisle, the President at 1600 Pennsylvania 
Avenue, he doesn’t want to compromise. 
Compromise on what? The Affordable 
Care Act is the law of the 
land. It was passed by a duly elected 
Congress in 2010. The Supreme Court of 
the United States of America declared 
it constitutional in 2012 in an opinion 
written by Chief Justice John Roberts, 
someone who was nominated to the 
bench by George W. Bush. 

b 2030 
And then a few months later, in November, 
the President of the United 
States was reelected in an electoral 
college landslide with a difference of 
more than 5 million votes, reaffirming 
the Affordable Care Act, which was his 
signature legislative achievement. 
What exactly do you want us to compromise 
on when October 1 was the day 
that enrollment first began? You claim 
it to be a train wreck. The train hasn’t 
even left the station yet. But in advance 
of this government shutdown, 
you sent a series of ransom notes over 
to this side of the aisle. I mean, this 
really is shocking behavior. It was a series 
of ransom notes. If you don’t do 
what we want to you do, we’re going to 
shut down the government. 
Let’s go through the ransom notes 
that were sent over. First you said, 
Defund the Affordable Care Act; and 
then that didn’t work. And then you 
said, We want to delay the Affordable 
Care Act for a year; and that didn’t 
work. And then you said, We are going 
to deny the ability for contraception 
coverage; and that didn’t work. And 
then you said, We’re going to repeal 
the medical device tax; and that didn’t 

work. And then you said, Well, let’s 
delay the individual mandate for a 
year; and that didn’t work. And then finally, 
out of desperation, you said, 
Well, we’re going to jam up our own 
congressional employees in what effectively 
amounts to a misrepresentation, 
because you weren’t trying to take 
away a subsidy. You were trying to 
take away an employer contribution 
that is available to the overwhelming 
majority of Americans whose employers 
provide health care. A series of ransom 
notes that were summarily rejected 
by a courageous Senate majority. 


And when you finally realized the futility 
of those demands included in 
each of those legislative ransom notes 
that you sent over to the other side, at 
the 11th hour, in the height of hypocrisy, 
you said, Let’s go to conference. 

Go to conference? As my good friend, 
the distinguished Congressman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. POCAN) pointed out, 
we’ve been asking for regular order 
since the spring of this year. 

Now, regular order involves the following 
process: 

The House passes a budget, the Senate 
passes a budget, both of which occurred 
earlier this year. And then at 
that point, the two sides appoint conferees 
to sit down at the negotiating 
table and try to work out the differences. 
That’s the regular order that 
you’ve been screaming about for the 
last 4 years. And earlier this spring, 
you finally had an opportunity to bring 
it about. Senator HARRY REID was prepared 
to move forward. Even MITCH 
MCCONNELL seemed like he was ready 
to move forward. And individual Republican 
Senators said that it was absurdity 
for the House Republicans to 
have been demanding conference committees 
over the last several years, and 
finally they get an opportunity to do 
it, and nothing’s forthcoming from the 
other side of the aisle here in the 
United States House. 

Why is that the case? Well, I think 
we’ve now figured it out. Because you 
knew that the demands that you would 
make—because you are following the 
script from the junior Senator from 
Texas and others—would have been so 
extreme at a conference committee 
that it would have just been a futile 
legislative exercise, and you did not 
want that to be exposed to the American 
people. I think that’s one of the 
only conclusions that we can draw at 
this moment, with the benefit of hindsight, 
as to why in the world a conference 
committee was never appointed, 
even though that’s something 
that you had been demanding, my good 
friends on the other side of the aisle, 
for the previous few years. So the 
American people aren’t going to be 
fooled by these 11th-hour gimmicks— 
conference committee. 

What we need to do at this point is 
just pass a clean continuing resolution 
that, if it were to come to the floor of 
the United States House of Representatives, 
would have bipartisan support 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6167 

from Democrats and from Republicans, 
many of whom were mentioned earlier 
today by the distinguished Congressman 
from the Badger State (Mr. 
POCAN), and we could get beyond this 
shutdown, this Shakespearean tragedy, 
which is very painful for hardworking 
Americans, and go off and do the business 
of the American people. That’s 
what needs to happen. 

I hope reasonable minds can come together. 
You can stop following the 
marching orders of outside agitators— 
who’ve got no interest in governing 
and are only concerned about 2016 and 
other ambitions that these individuals 
may harbor—and do the responsible 
thing so we can move this country forward. 


Mr. POCAN. Thank you so much, 
Representative JEFFRIES, for very 
clearly explaining to the country the 
situation and what’s unfolded in these 
final days and final hours before the 
government shut down. 

You know, there is no question that 
people on this side of the aisle are willing 
to compromise. We’re compromising 
to a number that is nearly identical 
to what the Republicans have proposed 
so that we can, for the next 6 
weeks, figure out our finances. 

You and I both serve on the Budget 
Committee. You know we’ve been trying 
for—how long was it, Representative, 
again? How long were we fighting 
for this? 

Mr. JEFFRIES. Since March or April 
of this year. 

And, Congressman, you raise an interesting 
point. I think this is important 
to clarify for the American people. 
Our friends on the other side of the 
aisle have said, Well, we want a 
changed set of law. We want to defund, 
destroy, or delay the Affordable Care 
Act. Inherently outrageous. Well, let’s 
just put that aside for the moment. 

The Senate majority and those on 
our side of the aisle in the House of 
Representatives as well as the President, 
have already compromised, as 
you pointed out. The number that we 
feel is appropriate to fund the government 
and do what’s right for the American 
people is $1.058 trillion. That’s the 
number that we feel is appropriate. The 
number that our friends on the other 
side of the aisle would like to see the 
government funded at is $986 billion. 
That’s a significant difference. 

However, in order to move the country 
forward, the Senate majority, the 
Democrats in the House of Representatives, 
and the President of the United 
States have all agreed to move forward 
with a continuing resolution, not at 
our number, $1.058 trillion, but at the 
House majority number, which is substantially 
less, $986 billion. Our good 
friends on the other side of the aisle 
don’t know when to take ‘‘yes’’ for an 
answer. 

As the Democratic whip pointed out 
earlier this week, we’ve already compromised 
and accepted the sequestration 
cuts for the purpose of keeping the 
government open and negotiating over 

the next 6 weeks as to what the appropriate 
number is. So that is political 
spin that you hear, those who sent over 
the ransom notes, accusing others of 
an unwillingness to compromise when 
we’ve already compromised on the 
number in the continuing resolution. 

Mr. POCAN. Well, again, thank you, 
Representative JEFFRIES, so much for 
explaining to the American people exactly 
what has happened and transpired 
in the last few days and why it’s 
so important that we demand a vote 
and get a vote on a clean continuing 
resolution. 

I would like to close with a letter 
that I received from a constituent in 
my district, and I just want to read the 
parts of the letter I think that are especially 
relevant. This is from a 
woman who has a business in the 
Baraboo, Wisconsin, area. This is a 
quote from what she wrote: 

I’m the owner of a small business environmental 
laboratory which provides jobs to 29 
people in the Baraboo area. Approximately 
60 percent of our work is under direct contract 
or is a subcontract on EPA—Environmental 
Protection Agency—Department of 
Defense, and USGS, Forest Service, and 
NOAA projects. 

This shutdown means that, one, many of 
our upcoming projects may be canceled or 
delayed in a month that was going to finally 
make a financial success of my business, and 
two, we don’t know when we will receive 
payment on approximately $300,000 of outstanding 
invoices, meaning, I don’t know 
how we’ll make our payroll or pay our vendors. 


We may be small, but my company brings 
in close to $2 million a year into Wisconsin 
from across the country and have just added 
three new employees. If an agreement on the 
budget isn’t reached right away, my little 
contribution to the economic recovery will 
be reversed, or even worse. Please help find a 
way out of this mess. 

Mr. Speaker, please, for the sake of 
this small business owner in Baraboo, 
Wisconsin, for the sake of the pregnant 
low-income woman in Madison, Wisconsin, 
for the sake of the Federal employees 
and the civilian employees on 
our military bases, for the sake of all 
the people who are affected by this government 
shutdown that the Republicans 
have forced upon this country, 
listen to your own Members. You don’t 
have to listen to the Democrats. Listen 
to the 18 Members and growing on your 
side who have said this strategy is a 
failure. It’s time to pass a clean continuing 
resolution. 

If you listen to your Members, a majority 
of this House—you are not the 
speaker of the Tea Party. You are not 
the speaker from the Office of Senator 
TED CRUZ. You are the Speaker of the 
entire House of Representatives. And 
now a majority of this House is demanding 
a vote, that we pass a clean 
continuing resolution at your numbers. 
You won. Let’s get this country 
opened, and let’s help the economy 
bounce back to where it needs to be. 

Mr. Speaker, with that, from the 
Progressive Caucus of Congress, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

REGULAR ORDER 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois). Under the 
Speaker’s announced policy of January 
3, 2013, the Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. KING) for 30 
minutes. 

Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it’s a 
privilege and honor to be recognized to 
address you here on the floor of the 
United States House of Representatives. 


I have been listening to the debate 
first on television in my office and 
then here from the floor. I would like 
to first, Mr. Speaker, address this idea 
of ‘‘regular order.’’ I heard a description 
of regular order that doesn’t fit 
the regular order that I understand 
from my time here in this Congress. 
Parts of it, yes, I agree with, but it’s 
not an objective description of what 
regular order is. 

The argument we heard from the gentleman 
continually was: Go to conference 
on the budget. Go to conference 
on the budget. Does the gentleman forget 
that his party in the other Chamber 
had refused to even pass a budget 
for over 1,000 days and that, finally, we 
had to pass legislation here in the 
House of Representatives to force it on 
the Senate to require them to pass a 
budget in order for them to get their 
pay, and the political pressure got high 
enough that they went ahead and 
passed that? Then in order to comply, 
so the Senators could get paid, they 
passed a sham budget, and now we’ve 
got a sham argument that says: Go to 
conference on the budget. 

This isn’t about the budget, Mr. 
Speaker. This debate is not about the 
budget. This is about appropriations. 
Regular order first for a budget, if you 
have one. And this is a new experience 
for the Members that are here on the 
floor. They have never served in this 
Congress actually when there was a 
budget in the Senate before. 

But if you have a budget, you do concur 
with the House and the Senate, and 
you live by that as a guideline for the 
authorizations and the appropriations 
so that we all come together and we 
live within the means that we’ve 
agreed to here. 

b 2045 
But that doesn’t happen very often in 
history. It generally happens when Republicans 
are in control of the House, 
the Senate and the White House. I can 
think of no other time that’s happened. 
But take this budget discussion off 
the table, Mr. Speaker, because it’s not 
relevant to what’s going on here. We’re 
in a government slowdown, and we’re 
in a partial shutdown. And resolving 
and conferencing a budget isn’t going 
to do a thing to solve this situation 
that we’re in now. 
It’s irrelevant to any functionality of 
this Congress that can address this 
government partial shutdown. It’s only 
a straw man, a red herring to drag out 
here to divert the attention that needs 
to be focused on this situation we have 


H6168 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

that has to do with, not the budget, but 
the appropriations process. 

The appropriations process, the regular 
order that I thought I was going to 
hear the gentleman describe for the 
benefit of you, Mr. Speaker, and anybody 
that might be listening in, is 
what really happens when a Congress 
functions right, and that is, our 12 appropriations 
subcommittees each pass 
their appropriation bill under the 
guidelines of the authorization that 
comes from the authorizing committees. 


Those appropriation bills come to the 
floor, one at a time, 12 of them, and 
then perhaps a supplemental that add 
up to 13. We bring them to the floor 
under regular order. We allow the gentleman 
that was describing this doo-
dah description of regular order to us 
an opportunity to bring as many 
amendments as he would like. Any 
Member can do so. 

Fatigue sets in. Sometimes a unanimous 
consent agreement comes along. 
But every Member has an opportunity 
to weigh in on each of the components 
of the 12 different appropriations subcommittees, 
and then perhaps, as I 
said, a supplemental. 

The wisdom of the American people 
has, through this republican form of 
government which, by the way, is guaranteed 
to us in the United States Constitution, 
a republican form of government, 
which means a representative 
form of government. 

And our obligation, Mr. Speaker, to 
the constituents within our district, is 
our best effort and our best judgment. 
And part of that is to turn our ear and 
listen to our constituents and the people 
across this country, because, 
among the 316 million Americans, we 
have the best answers to everything. 

Sometimes we get some not-so-good 
answers to some things, but it’s our job 
to sort those things out, generate some 
ideas of our own that are stimulated by 
those of our constituents and others, 
and each other, and produce the best 
product possible to direct the destiny 
of the United States of America in a 
trajectory that would make our Founding 
Fathers proud. That’s the legitimate 
process. 

But the gentleman has forgotten, or 
maybe hasn’t been confronted with or 
experienced a real regular order appropriations 
process, even though we’ve 
done five or six appropriations bills 
here on the floor of this House in this 
Congress. 

So when we talk about regular order, 
the regular order would already be, if 
the appropriations bills were received 
on the Senate side and acted upon, 
they would all be done in this House 
side by now. We’ve done them multiple 
times in the past. 

And here’s what happens, Mr. Speaker. 
The appropriations bills, the 12, 
maybe the 13, pass the floor of this 
House. They get sent over to the Senate, 
messaged according, as envisioned 
by the Constitution. They arrive on the 
majority leader’s desk in the United 
States Senate, HARRY REID. 

This is just figuratively speaking, 
Mr. Speaker. Then they get put in his 
bottom desk drawer and they stack up 
in his bottom desk drawer. And this 
goes on from June, July, even part of 
August, September. 

We get down into September, they’re 
usually all over there, and then HARRY 
REID will have them stacked up in his 
desk. And when you get to the end of 
the fiscal year—they don’t move a 
thing. No appropriation bill comes 
back here. There’s no opportunity for 
conference on a single one. 

They just simply go, they stack up in 
HARRY REID’s desk drawer, Mr. Speaker. 
And a week or two, or less, between 
the time that the government would 
automatically shut down, because on 
September 30, at midnight, we know, 
most everybody in America by now, 
that our fiscal year runs out, and the 
spending authority expires on the discretionary 
spending. 

HARRY REID pulls those bills out of 
his desk drawer, a stack like that, sets 
them up, figuratively speaking again, 
Mr. Speaker, gets out his black marker 
and draws a line through any spending 
he doesn’t like, which isn’t much, and 
then he adds on all the spending he 
does like, which is plenty, and they 
pass it in the Senate in a stack of—as 
called now, this little word, Mr. Speaker—
a continuing resolution, a continuing 
resolution, which is the stack 
of all the appropriation bills the Senate 
refused to do all year. 

They send it back over here to the 
House of Representatives, and they 
say, take it or leave it. Take it or leave 
it. We’re not going to talk. We’re not 
going to debate. We’re not going to go 
into conference with you. We are not 
going to negotiate on the future and 
the destiny of America. It’s take it or 
leave it, my way or the highway. 
That’s what’s been happening. 

But in a real process, each appropriations 
bill would either come back to us 
with the Senate’s objections and 
amendments, we would have an opportunity 
to accept it as it is or reject it, 
and go to conference. We’ve found ways 
to solve that in a legitimate way many 
times in the past. 

But under this configuration where 
we have no—what built the leverage 
that got us to this point with this continuing 
resolution that we passed out 
of this House multiple times, by the 
way. Republicans in the majority in 
the House of Representatives have, 
multiple times, passed all of the appropriations 
in the form even of a continuing 
resolution that’s necessary to 
fund the legitimate functions of government, 
at sequestration levels, 
minus the money to implement or enforce 
ObamaCare, which reflects the 
will of the people of the United States 
of America. 

That is our constitutional responsibility 
to do that, Mr. Speaker. 

I carry this Constitution around in 
my pocket, and I pull it out and I read 
it, sometimes several times a day. But 
this document is, when you read it 

carefully and you understand and put 
your mind in the thought process of 
our Founding Fathers and the folks 
that put this constitution together and 
ratified it, you’ll understand that these 
negotiations between the two branches 
of government, article I, the legislative, 
and article II, the executive 
branch of government, these negotiations 
are expected to take place. 

There is an expectation that—first of 
all, it says here in article I that we 
shall, that Congress, and the House of 
Representatives, shall move legislation 
through the House, through the Senate, 
concur on that legislation, message 
it to the President. 

If he should disagree, he has an obligation 
then to veto that legislation 
and return it to the Congress—this is 
important, Mr. Speaker—with his objections. 


The President is constitutionally obligated 
to return any legislation that 
he vetoes to the Congress with his objections. 
Our Founding Fathers decided 
you can’t have a President making you 
play pin the tail on the donkey. He’s 
going to have to write down the reasons 
he objects to legislation, so if the 
Congress is considering concurring 
with the President, we can accept his 
recommendations. And if we disagree, 
we’ll be able to identify our disagreements. 
That is the very constitutional 
definition of negotiations themselves, 
Mr. Speaker. 

When there is an offer made, and 
then the other side of the equation produces 
a counteroffer, those who made 
the first offer can either accept the 
counteroffer, or they can produce another 
offer and move a little closer to 
the middle. This can happen one time, 
two, three, four, an infinite number of 
times if you had the time. That’s between 
the House and the Senate, but 
also the Congress and the President of 
the United States. 

And what do we have with the President 
of the United States, Mr. Speaker? 


A President who, as far as I know, 
the first time in history, a President 
who’s refused to negotiate with the 
United States Congress. This Constitution 
directs him to do so, at least when 
confronted with legislation that he has 
to choose whether he’s going to veto it 
or whether he’s going to sign it or he’s 
going to allow it to be pocket-vetoed 
after 10 legislative days. 

The Constitution directs the President 
to do so. And the President has 
said, I’m not negotiating with Congress. 
Unbelievable to me, Mr. Speaker, 
that he could take such a position 
that he’d refuse to negotiate with Congress. 


He’s negotiating with the Syrians 
through the Russians. The President 
has opened up negotiations with the 
Iranians, whom we’ve not had dealings 
with since 1979. I don’t know who on 
the planet the President will not negotiate 
with except the American people 
serving here in the United States Congress. 



October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6169 

Now, think how difficult it is to do 
business with somebody that won’t 
talk to you. And I know they had a 
meeting today, Mr. Speaker. And the 
report that came out of that was they 
sat down, they talked, but they didn’t 
negotiate. That’s kind of what I expected, 
to tell you the truth, Mr. 
Speaker. 

So we have a dysfunction. We have a 
lot of demagoguery. We have a lot of 
hypocrisy. And I’m hearing it on the 
other side, and I heard a lot of it here 
tonight as they rolled out some of their 
practice buzz phrases. 

They said a series of ransom notes, 
Mr. Speaker. Ransom notes? 

Pull your Constitutions out and read 
it, guys. Excuse me, Mr. Speaker. 
That’s my advice to them, should they 
be listening, that they should pull 
their Constitution out and read it. And 
they should understand that it’s not a 
ransom note when you’re working 
within your constitutional authority, 
in fact, constitutional directive. 

When you stepped down on the floor 
of this Congress at the beginning of the 
113th Congress and you took an oath to 
uphold this Constitution, it wasn’t to 
vacate your constitutional responsibilities 
or hand over your vote card to 
somebody else, or accept some kind of 
an idea that, because you disagree with 
the President, you should capitulate to 
his demands. 

How do you capitulate to a man’s demands 
who won’t talk to you? 

He talks to you through the press 
and sends out a message that says I’m 
not going to negotiate with Republicans. 
I’m not going to negotiate with 
people in Congress. I refuse to negotiate, 
and I’m not going to negotiate 
on the debt ceiling either. 

Well, we have this bill called 
ObamaCare, and ObamaCare is a piece 
of legislation that was pushed through 
here by hook, crook and legislative 
shenanigan. And there are those who 
say it’s the law of the land; you must 
accept it, and you’re obligated to fund 
it. 

Show me where in this Constitution 
you’re obligated to fund something because 
a previous Congress, on a very 
partisan, narrow margin, passed the 
largest piece of socialized legislation in 
the history of the United States, a Federal 
takeover of our skin and everything 
inside it, the government and 
Federal takeover of our ability to 
make our decisions, as American people, 
on our future, on our health decisions, 
to dictate insurance policies, to 
dictate that people shall buy a product 
that the Federal Government either 
approves or produces. Never before in 
history has that happened. 

It was a manufacture of new taxes 
that President Obama said were not 
taxes. And John Roberts and the Supreme 
Court said, well, you know, they 
weren’t taxes for the purposes of hearing 
this case, but they are taxes for the 
purposes of deciding the case. 

Then people will say, it’s been found 
constitutional by the Supreme Court. 
Now you’re obligated to fund it. 

And I say, no previous Congress can 
obligate a subsequent Congress. And 
this Congress cannot obligate the 114th 
Congress. We’re in the 113th, Mr. 
Speaker. This Congress cannot obligate 
the 114th Congress or any subsequent 
Congress. 

All we can do is put statutory language 
in place that is our best judgment 
at the time, that likely will influence 
the people that come behind us 
and cause them to stop and think it 
over. But it doesn’t mean they can’t 
come in and repeal anything that’s 
been passed in the past. And it certainly 
doesn’t mean we’re obligated to 
fund it. 

And the House is here with a majority 
that was elected to repeal 
ObamaCare and a majority that was 
elected, I believe, to defund 
ObamaCare. 

I brought the amendment to defund 
ObamaCare for the first time on February 
15 of 2011. My amendment passed. 
It was detached in the Senate. I’d like 
to have had it be part of the bill as it 
came through. I didn’t get that done in 
the Rules Committee this time. 

But it happened here over the last 
week or two, the same thing I asked for 
then was approved by Rules this time 
and stuck with the bill when it went 
over to the Senate. 

And so now where we sit is this: the 
House has said we don’t want a government 
shutdown. We don’t want a government 
slowdown. What we want is a 
government that’s funded in every aspect 
legitimately, with the exception 
of the funding to implement or enforce 
ObamaCare. 

That’s our stand. If the American 
people reject that position, let them 
come to the polls and say so. 

So where we sit today, Mr. Speaker, 
is we have Members of Congress and 
their staff that are receiving phone 
calls that are ginned up by the other 
side, by the stacked language that 
we’re seeing come here. And people are 
calling in and they’re saying, you can’t 
shut something down as big as the government. 
It would be a disaster. 

Well, it’s HARRY REID and the President 
that have brought about this partial 
shutdown, a certain slowdown. It’s 
HARRY REID and the President. 

But it doesn’t look to me like it’s a 
disaster. If it was a disaster, they 
wouldn’t have to manufacture a crisis 
and borrow money from the Chinese to 
rent barricades to haul them down 
with a forklift and bring people back 
who have been furloughed already because 
of this government partial shutdown 
and ask them to take the barricades 
and build barricades around our 
memorials to our veterans, in particular, 
the World War II Memorial. 

They are borrowing money from 
China to rent barricades and bringing 
people off of furlough to put barricades 
up. And now, today, they’re reinforcing 
barricades around the World War II Memorial 
and others, not just with yellow 
tape, caution tape and rented barricades, 
but now wiring them together, 

and they’re bringing sandbags in and 
stacking sandbags up around the bases 
to better stabilize this, and bringing in 
welded wire mesh, wire that is another 
barrier for people. 

Why? 

These memorials have never been 
blockaded before. They’re open 24/7, 
year-round. They’re designed for people 
to come in, and they’re designed for 
people to be able to go to the memorial 
at any time. They don’t require guards. 
They don’t require staffing. There’s no 
money required to keep the memorials 
open. 

Most of them were built with private 
money from donations from the American 
people who want to honor our veterans, 
especially the World War II Memorial. 


To see those buses from Mississippi 
roll up, see those red-shirted veterans, 
between the age of 84 and 99, arrive and 
be able to look at that memorial from 
a distance but not be able to go into 
their memorial— 

A manufactured crisis. It would save 
money if the President does nothing 
but, instead, what we have is a President 
who has decided to commit, I believe, 
the most spiteful act in the history 
of the Commander in Chief in the 
United States of America. 

b 2100 

To manufacture something in order 
to try to extract the maximum amount 
of pain by borrowing money to rent 
barricades to put up barriers, to put 
more people on to guard—especially 
our World War II Memorial—and to 
deny access to the memorial that’s 
built to honor the World War II veterans, 
many of whom who have never 
been to Washington, D.C., before and 
have not seen their memorial before, 
and to say to them this one chance in 
your lifetime, your 90-plus years into 
this lifetime and your chance to come 
back again is pretty slim, to say you’re 
never going to get to go in and experience 
this memorial because I want to 
send a message that I disagree with the 
decisions of the United States Congress, 
that is a huge political tantrum 
and a spiteful act, Mr. Speaker. 

I think the right thing is this: honor 
our veterans—those who fought in all 
wars, those who put uniforms on at all 
times. We must be there to open the 
gates for them every time that a bus 
pulls up. 

I thank and congratulate my colleagues 
who have stepped up to do so, 
Mr. Speaker, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

f 

TIMES THAT TRY MEN’S SOULS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
3, 2013, the Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT) 
for 30 minutes. 

Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, these 
can be the times that try men’s souls. 

I heard my colleagues across the 
aisle talking earlier this hour about a 


H6170 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

GOP tantrum over the Affordable Care 
Act. I’m not aware of the GOP throwing 
a tantrum over the so-called Affordable 
Care Act. 

We’ve had word from many, many of 
our constituents that it is anything 
but affordable, that it is a disaster. We 
heard our colleagues across the aisle 
talk about ObamaCare being the law of 
the land. Yet these same people can’t 
wait to come running in here and say, 
You’ve got to raise the debt ceiling. If 
you ask them why we have to raise the 
debt ceiling, they say, Because we’ve 
got to. We’re spending too much 
money, and we’ve got to raise the debt 
ceiling. 

I guess now we know the proper answer 
to our friends and to the President 
when they come running in, desperate 
to have the credit card limit 
continuously raised and raised and 
raised yet again, and that is that actually 
it’s the law of the land. The debt 
ceiling is the law of the land. You just 
need to get over it because it’s the law 
of the land. 

And I recall hearing our President 
say in the past few days, talking about 
the law, saying that both Houses of 
Congress passed it, I signed it, it bears 
my name. It’s the law. It’s been upheld. 
Therefore, they just need to live by it. 
It can’t be changed. It’s got to stay the 
way it is. 

So that sounds to me like if the 
President feels that strongly about it 
once a law is passed, then we need to 
force him to live within the debt ceiling 
without moving it one penny. 

The Constitution, I think, is a great 
document to live under, but some find 
it much too taxing—those who do not 
want oversight and just want an unlimited 
budget and want to spend whatever 
they care to spend and on cronies 
and tax those they don’t care for, 
refuse to allow those they don’t care 
for to not have the same tax advantages 
or tax status so that they can engage 
in nonprofit activities like the 
Democratic groups. They find that 
rather enjoyable. But if we’re going to 
live within the Constitution, it’s important 
that people understand laws 
can be changed. The Affordable Care 
Act is the law right now. But it was 
passed against the will of the majority 
of the American people. 

We’ve heard from Democrats at both 
the other end of the Hall, this end of 
the Hall, and down Pennsylvania Avenue, 
that there was an election in 2012 
and everybody needs to understand 
that and that the elections have consequences. 


And so I’m hoping that as the President, 
as the leader in the Senate, 
HARRY REID, continue to say those 
things, that hopefully they will hear 
themselves say those things, and they 
will realize that there was an election 
in 2012 that resulted in the most important 
part of Congress, the House of 
Representatives, when it comes to 
issues of raising revenue and setting 
budgets and appropriating money, and 
people need to understand setting 

budgets and appropriating money are 
two separate things. You can create a 
budget, pass it in the House and Senate; 
but it doesn’t appropriate a single 
dime. 

The Senate had gone years without 
ever passing a budget. And now, all of 
a sudden, the Senate finds its voice 
about budgets, saying, Hey, the House 
didn’t send conferees to work out a 
budget. And actually we find that 
those who have glassy-eyed looks and 
don’t really understand the Constitution 
or how things work here with the 
law, they accept what is said. Gee, 
there’s the problem. 

Well, that’s not the problem. We’re 
way past the issue of budget. That 
should have been done many months 
ago. We’re grateful that the President 
now, in the fall, recognizes the importance 
of doing a budget on time. But 
the President actually waited so long 
beyond his deadline, not caring about 
the deadline, just completely being oblivious 
to it, that it was beyond the 
time when the House was doing its own 
budget. So the President did his in 
such a way that it was so incredibly 
late, it was of no consequence, no help. 

So it’s kind of tough to hear lectures 
about the budget from anyone who 
completely failed and refused to participate 
properly in the lawful activity 
of preparing a budget. Then, to come 
forward this fall, months later, after 
the massive abuses with regard to the 
budget, and start lecturing about the 
budget, again, hoping that the American 
people would not understand that 
the budget does not appropriate a 
dime. 

When you come to September 30 at 
midnight, when you come to October 1, 
it doesn’t matter whether you had a 
budget at that point or not because the 
budget was going to lead to appropriations. 
The House did appropriations. 
The Senate did none. We had four important 
appropriations bills that are 
still sitting down at the Senate without 
any activity whatsoever. 

So once we got to August, it was too 
late. Even July is too late for a budget. 
It’s now time we’ve got to appropriate 
money. We’re coming up against the 
hard end of the fiscal year, September 
30, and we’ve got to get appropriations 
done. 

They can talk about budget conferees, 
but what the House here did, for 
those who are confused and don’t understand 
the process we use here, we 
passed a resolution appointing conferees. 
That’s appointing negotiators. 
The House passed a resolution appointing 
negotiators. I felt like we should 
have had a counterproposal of some 
kind that showed some adult was acting 
at the other end of the Hall by producing 
something that indicated that 
people in the Senate majority understood 
that there were massive amounts 
of waste, fraud, and abuse in our Federal 
money appropriations; that we’ve 
seen the abuses—the Solyndras, the 
massive amounts of money just thrown 
here, there, and yon. 

And so I would have hoped that 
someone in the majority in the Senate 
would have noted, you know what, 
there’s no such thing as a clean CR—a 
clean continuing resolution—because 
there are projects that have ended and 
finished being paid in the last fiscal 
year. Those certainly don’t need the 
same funding anymore. So why should 
we continue with the same amount 
that we spent last year when we don’t 
know what other projects there may 
be? 

Well, the answer is they don’t want a 
magnifying glass looking at the waste, 
fraud, and abuse. Down on Pennsylvania 
Avenue, they just want these 
massive sacks, metaphorically speaking. 
For those in the liberal media who 
do not understand metaphors, then go 
back to English school. But they just 
want the sacks of cash. 

Just give us the money. Forget the 
Constitution. Forget the requirement 
that you actually appropriate the 
money and tell us what it shall be 
spent on. Just send us the cash. We’ve 
got a lot more Solyndras to waste it 
on. 

That’s not how it’s supposed to work. 
We’re supposed to actually go through 
and deal with the problems, cut out as 
much as we can in the way of waste, 
fraud, and abuse so that we don’t have 
to keep borrowing over forty cents of 
every dollar. We can live within our 
means. 

So I hope people in the future will 
understand a clean CR should provoke 
in your mind the most filthy, nasty, 
larded-up appropriations that someone 
can create. Because we are not going to 
look at the waste, fraud, and abuse 
that’s contained therein. 

There are a lot of looks that should 
be taken at where all our money goes, 
how it’s being spent. Because if we 
really bear down and look at that, you 
would begin to wonder about a department 
that is shut down, we’re told, yet 
finds money to go rent barricades to 
take out to a farm, though it is called 
a Federal property. It’s the Claude 
Moore Colonial Farm. The story was 
reported by PJ Media. 

This story says today: 

It’s a perfect fall day, and yet we can’t do 
anything, Managing Director Anna Eberly 
told me in a phone interview. Eberly has 
managed the Claude Moore Colonial Farm 
for 32 years. Before managing the farm, she 
worked for the National Park Service. Visitors 
unaware of how the farm is run are apt 
to conclude that the government shutdown, 
now 2 days old, is directly responsible for the 
farm’s closing. But Eberly sent a note 
Wednesday morning to the park’s email list. 
In the email, Eberly says, For the first time 
in 40 years, the National Park Service has finally 
succeeded in closing the farm down to 
the public. In previous budget dramas, the 
farm has always been exempted, since the 
NPS—the National Park Service—provides 
no staff or resources to operate the farm. 

b 2115 

Eberly says: 

The Claude Moore Colonial Farm has 
thrived even as the Federal Government has 
treated it with ‘‘benign neglect’’ for decades. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6171 

That ‘‘benign neglect’’ would serve it better 
than the barricades now surrounding it. 

Eberly writes that the National Park 
Service has already gone out of its way 
to disrupt an event at the farm. 

The first casualty of this arbitrary action 
was the McLean Chamber of Commerce, who 
were having a large annual event at the Pavilion 
on Tuesday evening. The National 
Park Service sent the Park Police— 

Why couldn’t they have been furloughed? 
Oh, here came the Park Police. 
over to remove the Pavilion staff and chamber 
volunteers from the property while they 
were trying to set up for the event. 

Fortunately, the chamber has 
friends, and they were able to move to 
another location and salvage what was 
left of their party. You do have to wonder 
about the wisdom of an organization 
that would use staff they don’t 
have the money to pay to evict visitors 
from a park site that operates without 
costing them any money. 

It should be noted that the farm has 
not used Federal funds since 1980, yet 
they found money to print a sign that 
said: ‘‘Because of the Federal Government 
shutdown, this National Park 
Service facility is closed.’’ It’s as if 
somebody is sitting around saying, regardless 
of whether it cost any Federal 
money or not, let’s find things that 
will hurt people and upset people, stick 
a sign on it, and blame the shutdown so 
that we can get all of the money with 
the waste, fraud, and abuse we want to 
keep spending. 

One other note: our former Speaker, 
Newt Gingrich, sent out a photograph 
of barricades that have been put out by 
Mount Vernon. Now, most people hopefully 
know Mount Vernon is not run by 
Federal money, so what difference does 
it make if the Federal Government 
would put barricades up somewhere 
around Mount Vernon? Well, there is a 
little part of the road where buses can 
turn around to make it convenient as 
they drop people off out at Mount 
Vernon. By closing that, even though 
it doesn’t need to be patrolled—it’s just 
a turnaround area for big vehicles and 
buses—they can make as much chaos 
as possible for those coming out to 
Mount Vernon, to this historical site of 
our Founding Father, George Washington, 
and create some chaos. So they 
spent money, took time to go create as 
much trouble for American tourists as 
they possibly could. 

You want to talk about fairness? 
There isn’t any in what this administration 
and the Democrats at the other 
end of the hall are doing to the American 
people and blaming the so-called 
shutdown. 

I see my friend Mr. LAMALFA here, 
and I would yield to him. 

Mr. LAMALFA I appreciate my colleague 
from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT) and 
your heartfelt opinions and ideas 
you’re holding up here tonight. And 
hearing you speak of what’s going on, 
just this microcosm of the Park Service 
here and what’s happened the last 
couple of days, it seems that as the ne


gotiations—if there is any that have 
actually broken down—the Federal 
Government, this administration has 
been poised to exact the kind of pain 
that we’re seeing just in this area of 
our national parks. 

You mentioned Mount Vernon, arbitrarily 
closed down. Mount Vernon is a 
private enterprise, done with their own 
funds, done with support of private 
people, the public. So they find a toehold 
to use the parking lot as a way to 
exact a little meanness on the tourists 
there at a time where this place can’t 
come to an agreement on some basic 
issues with a continuing resolution, as 
well as the very outrageous act with 
our open air monuments we have right 
here in town. 

The Lincoln Memorial, of course 
what we’re seeing with the Honor 
Flights that have been coming in the 
last couple of days and will continue to 
come in for a while, World War II vets, 
Korean vets, Mr. GOHMERT and I both 
had the opportunity and the pleasure 
and the honor of being able to join with 
some of those vets today as Members of 
Congress and others pulled back the 
gate and allowed them to enjoy their 
memorial, the country’s memorial. 
These are areas that are not normally 
even staffed, at least to this extent. 
They had to bring in more staff than 
what is normally on hand. 

These are 24-hour memorials and exhibits, 
open-air, you can see any time 
of the day or night, sometimes without 
staff at all. Yet they did have to go to 
the trouble, as was mentioned, to rent 
barriers, bring them in, put them up, 
and, boom, they were up there first 
thing in the morning on Monday morning. 
They were poised and ready to go, 
taking political advantage of the difficulties 
we’re having here. 

It reminds me a lot of the grievances 
that were brought originally with the 
Declaration of Independence. The people 
and Colonies, having had enough of 
the King’s edicts and unfairness, listed 
a whole bunch of grievances that they 
thought were outrageous and caused 
them to actually break away from that 
long-held bond they had with England. 
Let me just recount a little bit of that 
from the Declaration: 

We hold these truths to be self-evident, 
that all Men are created equal, that they are 
endowed by their Creator with certain 
unalienable rights, that among these are 
Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness— 
That to secure these Rights, Governments 
are instituted among Men, deriving their 
just Powers from the Consent of the Governed. 


Do you think what we see going on 
here is the consent of the governed? 
Leading into what a lot of this battle is 
about here, the implementation of the 
Affordable Care Act, as it’s called, 
that’s been a line in the sand for Republicans 
I think for good reason. If 
you recount the history of how it was 
passed, it was done during a window of 
time when the majority party was the 
Democrats in the House and the Senate, 
as well as holding the White 
House, during the period of late 2009 

and early 2010. A little window of time 
when, after all these years when they 
were looking for socialized health care, 
they had that window. They also had, I 
guess, the daring to do so. 

You might recall HillaryCare back in 
the early nineties, when it was called 
that. There wasn’t the political will— 
certainly ever by the Republicans, but 
the Democrats at the time. We saw 
then that elections have consequences. 
The consequence of HillaryCare back 
then was a big portion of what scared, 
I think, the country into putting a revolutionary 
Republican majority into 
the House in that ’94 election. 

We keep hearing from the other side 
of the aisle, 2012 had consequences in 
the Presidential. Well, let’s just go 
back one election, 2010, following on 
the heels of what is called ObamaCare, 
the Affordable Care Act. That sent a 
giant red flag amongst a lot of freedom-
loving Americans to look at how 
this takeover of their health care system 
by a government that can’t even 
run the Veterans Administration and 
getting the claims processed for veterans 
who languish for years just trying 
to get simple claims done, we want 
to take that blueprint of the government 
running things and expand that 
to everyone? It shouldn’t be that way 
for the people that are subject to the 
VA, and we want to make this an example 
for the entire country. I shutter 
to think what that would be like. So 
many people feel like they’re being 
herded into this program without any 
choice. That’s really the case. 

So let’s talk about liberties for a 
minute here. Let’s talk about those 
founding principles outlined in the 
Declaration and then later carried out 
in our Constitution that we all come 
here and are sworn to uphold. Let me 
list just one of the grievances you find 
in the Declaration talking about the 
King of England: 

He has erected a multitude of new Offices, 
and sent hither Swarms of Officers to harass 
our people, and eat out their Substance. 

This doesn’t just apply to the Affordable 
Care Act. You can name this with 
a lot of government agencies that are 
coming out there—swarms—to harass 
people and eat out their substance. 
Whether they are a small business or 
farming or timber or any one of many 
different endeavors in this country, the 
harassment people are feeling by a runaway 
government is huge and it’s not 
right. 

So why do Republicans dig in? Because 
we feel like this is a critical moment 
in time for our liberties, but for 
a program that is doomed to fail and 
become so entrenched that we never 
have the opportunity to come back 
from it because it becomes an entitlement 
or, as a lot of people are saying 
around here now, a right. 

To me, the rights as laid down by the 
Founders are life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness, just as outlined in 
the Declaration. Anything beyond that 
probably came from the force of legislation—
which is enforced by a badge, a 


H6172 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

court, or a gun; not one of the basic inalienable 
rights sent down by God, natural 
law. 

So we have a lot to do around here. 
Republicans dig in for a reason because 
this is a solid belief system. It’s not 
even politics. Yeah, not politics. This 
is an important cornerstone principle 
we’re fighting for here—the basic liberties, 
the freedom of choice. And these 
are not being laid down 230-something 
years ago either by the King or by this 
mandate now. 

My friend, I appreciate the time that 
you are giving me here tonight. We 
have a lot more to do on this effort, 
and we are going to continue to fight 
the battle because it’s for the right 
thing on the founding principles of this 
Nation. 

Thank you, Mr. GOHMERT. 

Mr. GOHMERT. Reclaiming my time, 
one of the things that I greatly appreciate 
is the in-depth analysis, the careful 
cogitation and contemplation about 
the role we are supposed to play. I have 
greatly appreciated that. 

Another new Member of Congress is 
here with us. We have about 4 minutes, 
and I would yield to my friend from 
Oklahoma (Mr. BRIDENSTINE). 

Mr. BRIDENSTINE. I thank the gentleman 
from Texas. Thank you for 
your leadership here in the House of 
Representatives, and also thank you to 
my friend from California. 

I would just like to maybe have a 
brief dialogue with the gentleman from 
Texas if that’s okay. 

It wasn’t too long ago we passed a 
bill to fund the entire government. 
That was something that was hard for 
a lot of us to swallow because there’s a 
whole lot of things in a continuing resolution 
that we’re not, frankly, interested 
in funding, but we swallowed that 
pill because it defunded ObamaCare. 
We sent it to the Senate. HARRY REID 
stripped out the defunding, and he sent 
it right back to the House of Representatives. 


So we said, Okay, let’s just take 1 
year. The President has already delayed 
major provisions of ObamaCare. 
He saw the jobs report. People were 
shifting from full-time work to part-
time work. Some people were losing 
their jobs. People were losing their 
health insurance. Health insurance premiums 
were spiking. Companies were 
trying to get down below 49 employees. 
So we said, Okay, the President wants 
to delay major provisions of 
ObamaCare, let’s give him a year. We’ll 
delay it for a year and fund the entire 
government. Again, I voted for that. 

I would just like to ask the gentleman 
from Texas, I’m new here. I’ve 
been here for 9 months now. We passed 
that at about 1 o’clock in the morning 
on a Saturday night—I guess it was a 
Sunday morning—and the next day the 
Democrats didn’t show up. The next 
day after that, they didn’t even come 
in until 2 in the afternoon. 

I would just, with your vast wisdom 
and experience, sir, maybe you could 
clarify for the American people what 

was going on. I mean, we’re on the 
brink of a government shutdown and 
they just didn’t show up. Was it maybe 
that they were looking for a shutdown? 

Mr. GOHMERT. There doesn’t seem 
to be much question at all. Having 
tried many cases as a lawyer, judge, 
and chief justice, the evidence is clear. 
We sent four things, the last of which 
was saying, Okay, we’re appointing negotiators. 
You don’t agree with any of 
the compromises we’ve sent, all you 
have to do now is appoint negotiators, 
conferees, and we’ll work it out this 
evening and it will all be done. They 
refused to even appoint people to negotiate 
and get it worked out during the 
night. That tells you pretty clearly 
they wanted a shutdown for 3 years 
now, since the Republicans won the 
House back in November of 2010. 

b 2130 
We have heard them talking about, 
gee, if there is a shutdown they always 
blame the Republicans and we can get 
the majority back. 
But I would ask the gentleman the 
question that was asked to the Senate 
Democratic leader today, when a CNN 
reporter, Dana Bash, said: ‘‘But if you 
can help one child who has cancer, why 
wouldn’t you do it?’’ And Mr. REID 
said: ‘‘Why would we want to do that? 
I have 1,100 people at Nellis Air Force 
Base that are sitting home. They have 
a few problems of their own. This is— 
to have someone of your intelligence to 
suggest such a thing maybe means 
you’re irresponsible and reckless.’’ She 
said: ‘‘I’m just asking a question.’’ 
Just asking the original question: 
‘‘You all talked about children with 
cancer unable to go to clinical trials. 
The House is presumably going to pass 
a bill that funds at least the NIH. 
Given what you’ve said, will you at 
least pass that? And if not, aren’t you 
playing the same political games that 
Republicans are?’’ 
He talked around it and wouldn’t answer 
it. But the ultimate answer is: 
Why would we want to do that if we 
could save even one child? 
Mr. BRIDENSTINE. When you think 
about what we did last night, we talk 
about common ground a lot in the 
House of Representatives. It is a couple 
of words I hear all the time: common 
ground, common ground, common 
ground. 
Here we had an opportunity last 
night in the midst of a government 
shutdown knowing that we have warriors 
coming back from the battlefield—
I am one of them myself; I flew 
combat in Iraq and Afghanistan—and 
we wanted to pass a bill where there is 
strong common ground, we want to 
fund the Veterans Administration, we 
want to make sure that our veterans 
get the care they need. 
Yesterday, on the floor of the House, 
the Democrats in this body killed that. 
Maybe you could shed some light on 
why they would want to do that? 
Mr. GOHMERT. It sounds like the 
gentleman is basically asking a ques


tion like Dana Bash. Well, that would 
have helped veterans who are sick and 
need help and are seeking medical care 
and need their checks to finish getting 
the medication and things that they 
need. 

The question that Senator REID 
asked keeps resonating back as the 
Democratic answer: Why would we 
want to do that? 

Mr. BRIDENSTINE. The only thing— 
and I have thought about this a lot— 
the only thing I can possibly think of 
why they would not want to fund the 
veterans is that they want to hold the 
veterans hostage for something else, 
namely ObamaCare. That is the only 
thing I can think of. 

Mr. GOHMERT. I thank my friend, 
Dr. LAMALFA, and my friend the combat 
veteran, Mr. BRIDENSTINE. 

Mr. Speaker, we are still wondering 
why they would not want to help these 
people? 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. BRIDENSTINE. Mr. Speaker, I 
move that the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 9 o’clock and 33 minutes 
p.m.), under its previous order, the 
House adjourned until tomorrow, 
Thursday, October 3, 2013, at 10 a.m. for 
morning-hour debate. 

f 

EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive 
communications were taken from the 
Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 

3184. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-125, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3185. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-121, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3186. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-122, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3187. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-089, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3188. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-079, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3189. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6173 

DDTC 13-098, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3190. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-130, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3191. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-111, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3192. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-112, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3193. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-113, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3194. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-142, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 40(g)(2) of the Arms 
Export Control Act; to the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs. 

3195. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-092, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3196. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-096, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3197. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-147, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 40(g)(2) of the Arms 
Export Control Act; to the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs. 

3198. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-107, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3199. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-115, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) and 36(d) of the 
Arms Export Control Act; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 

3200. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-101, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(d) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3201. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-117, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3202. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-118, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(d) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3203. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-120, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) and 36(d) of the 
Arms Export Control Act; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 

3204. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-100, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) and 36(d) of the 
Arms Export Control Act; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 

3205. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-123, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3206. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting a determination pursuant 
to Section 451 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 


3207. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting a determination pursuant 
to Section 451 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 


3208. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting Transmittal No. 
DDTC 13-078, pursuant to the reporting requirements 
of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export 
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3209. A letter from the Attorney Advisor, 
Department of Homeland Security, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Nontank 
Vessel Response Plans and Other Response 
Plan Requirements [Docket No.: USCG-2008-
1070] (RIN: 1625-AB27) received September 19, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


3210. A letter from the Paralegal Specialist, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Airworthiness 
Directives; the Boeing Company 
Airplanes [Docket No.: FAA-2013-0628; Directorate 
Identifier 2013-NM-132-AD; Amendment 
39-17523; AD 2013-15-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) 
received September 9, 2013, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
3211. A letter from the Paralegal Specialist, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — 
Amendment of Class E Airspace; Tri-Cities, 
TN [Docket No.: FAA-2013-0609; Airspace 
Docket No.: 13-ASO-15] received September 9, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


3212. A letter from the Paralegal Specialist, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — 
Amendment of Class E Airspace; Gustavus, 
AK [Docket No.: FAA-2013-0282; Airspace 
Docket No.: 13-AAL-3] received September 9, 
2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


3213. A letter from the Paralegal Specialist, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — 
Amendment of Class E Airspace; Salt Lake 

City, UT [Docket No.: FAA-2012-1303; Airspace 
Docket No.: 12-ANM-29] received September 
9, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

3214. A letter from the Paralegal Specialist, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — IFR 
Altitudes; Miscellaneous Amendments 
[Docket No.: 30913; Amdt. No. 508] received 
September 9, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

3215. A letter from the Paralegal Specialist, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Modification 
of Class B Airspace; Las Vegas, NV 
[Docket No.: FAA-2012-0966; Airspace Docket 
No.: 12-AWA-5] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received 
September 9, 2013, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

Mr. WOODALL: House Committee on 
Rules. House Resolution 370. Resolution providing 
for consideration of the joint resolution 
(H.J. Res. 70) making continuing appropriations 
for National Park Service operations, 
the Smithsonian Institution, the National 
Gallery of Art, and the United States 
Holocaust Memorial Museum for fiscal year 
2014, and for other purposes; providing for 
consideration of the joint resolution (H.J. 
Res. 71) making continuing appropriations of 
local funds of the District of Columbia for 
fiscal year 2014; providing for consideration 
of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) making 
continuing appropriations for veterans benefits 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes; 
providing for consideration of the 
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 73) making continuing 
appropriations for the National Institutes 
of Health for fiscal year 2014, and for 
other purposes; providing for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 3230) making continuing appropriations 
during a Government shutdown 
to provide pay and allowances to members of 
the reserve components of the Armed Forced 
who perform inactive-duty training during 
such period; and providing for consideration 
of motions to suspend the rules (Rept. 113– 
241). Referred to the House Calendar. 

f 

PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XII, public 
bills and resolutions of the following 
titles were introduced and severally referred, 
as follows: 

By Mr. GARCIA (for himself, Ms. CHU, 
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. POLIS, Ms. 
DELBENE, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. HOYER, Mr. 
CLYBURN, Mr. BECERRA, Mr. CROWLEY, 
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. ISRAEL, Ms. 
DUCKWORTH, Mr. GENE GREEN of 
Texas, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. TITUS, Ms. 
LINDA T. SA´ NCHEZ of California, Mr. 
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. 
DELANEY, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, 
Mr. O’ROURKE, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. 
PETERS of California, Mr. GALLEGO, 
Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New 
Mexico, Mr. HINOJOSA, Mr. CONNOLLY, 
Mr. HIMES, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, 
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. PERLMUTTER, 
Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. WASSERMAN 
SCHULTZ, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. CA´ RDENAS, 
Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. 


H6174 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 2, 2013 

SWALWELL of California, Mr. RUIZ, 
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. 
DOGGETT, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. BARBER, 
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. BEN RAY 
LUJA´ N of New Mexico, Mr. FOSTER, 
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. KUSTER, 
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. SABLAN, 
Mr. SIRES, Mrs. MCCARTHY of New 
York, Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California, 
Ms. SCHWARTZ, Mr. DEUTCH, 
Mr. MAFFEI, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. 
SCHRADER, Mr. MORAN, Mr. SCHIFF, 
Mr. MURPHY of Florida, Mrs. 
NEGRETE MCLEOD, Mr. HECK of Washington, 
Mr. POCAN, Mr. SMITH of 
Washington, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, 
Ms. HANABUSA, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. 
OWENS, Ms. ESTY, Ms. FRANKEL of 
Florida, Mr. KIND, Mr. SEAN PATRICK 
MALONEY of New York, Mr. PIERLUISI, 
Mr. KILMER, Mr. HONDA, Mr. THOMPSON 
of California, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. 
SCHNEIDER, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. 
MENG, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. MATSUI, Mrs. 
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, 
Ms. HAHN, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. 
NADLER, Mr. VEASEY, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, 
Ms. MOORE, Mr. CICILLINE, 
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. 
DEGETTE, Mr. HASTINGS of Florida, 
Mr. COHEN, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CONYERS, 
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MCDERMOTT, 
Mr. ANDREWS, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. 
DINGELL, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. LANGEVIN, 
Mr. TONKO, Mr. PASTOR of Arizona, 
Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ, Mr. FARR, Mr. 
COSTA, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, 
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, 
Ms. SINEMA, Mr. COURTNEY, 
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. LEWIS, and Mr. 
GRAYSON): 

H.R. 15. A bill to provide for comprehensive 
immigration reform and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in 
addition to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, 
Homeland Security, Ways and Means, 
Armed Services, Natural Resources, Agriculture, 
Education and the Workforce, Energy 
and Commerce, Oversight and Government 
Reform, the Budget, Science, Space, 
and Technology, Financial Services, and 
Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky (for himself, 
Mr. LATHAM, and Mrs. 
WALORSKI): 

H.R. 3230. A bill making continuing appropriations 
during a Government shutdown to 
provide pay and allowances to members of 
the reserve components of the Armed Forces 
who perform inactive-duty training during 
such period; to the Committee on Appropriations. 
By Mr. POE of Texas: 

H.R. 3231. A bill making automatic continuing 
appropriations for law enforcement, 
crime prevention, and victim services programs 
of the Department of Justice in the 
event of a Government shutdown; to the 
Committee on Appropriations. 
By Mr. COOK (for himself, Mr. 
MCKEON, Mr. MILLER of Florida, Mr. 
TURNER, Mr. RUNYAN, Mr. GARY G. 
MILLER of California, Mr. CALVERT, 
Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
NUNES, Mr. COLE, Mr. NUGENT, Mr. 
JONES, Mr. MCCARTHY of California, 
Mr. MULLIN, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. ROE 
of Tennessee, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. 
YOUNG of Alaska, Mr. VALADAO, Mr. 
DENHAM, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. JOYCE, 
and Mr. STEWART): 

H.R. 3232. A bill to amend the Pay Our 
Military Act to ensure that all civilian and 
contractor employees of the Department of 
Defense and the Coast Guard and all members 
of the reserve components of the Armed 
Forces are paid in the event of a Government 
shutdown; to the Committee on Appropriations. 


By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and 

Mr. KINZINGER of Illinois): 

H.R. 3233. A bill to extend the period during 
which Iraqis who were employed by the 
United States Government in Iraq may be 
granted special immigrant status and to 
temporarily increase the fee or surcharge for 
processing machine-readable nonimmigrant 
visas; to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
and in addition to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
considered and passed. 
By Mr. HALL: 

H.R. 3234. A bill to withhold the pay of 
Members of Congress, the President, and the 
Vice President if a Government shutdown is 
in effect or the Government is unable to 
make payments or meet obligations because 
the public debt limit has been reached, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform, and in 
addition to the Committee on House Administration, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas: 

H.R. 3235. A bill to provide for the compensation 
of any Federal, State, or local employee 
furloughed due to a lapse in appropriations 
which began on or about October 1, 
2013; to the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform. 
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself and 
Ms. GABBARD): 

H.R. 3236. A bill to reduce the annual rate 
of pay of Members of Congress if a Government 
shutdown occurs during a year, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on House 
Administration, and in addition to the Committee 
on Oversight and Government Reform, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. STUTZMAN: 

H.R. 3237. A bill to amend the Pay Our 
Military Act to provide funds for the operations 
of the National Guard; to the Committee 
on Appropriations. 
By Mr. KINGSTON: 

H.J. Res. 73. A joint resolution making 
continuing appropriations for the National 
Institutes of Health for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on Appropriations; 
considered and passed. 
By Mr. COTTON: 

H.J. Res. 74. A joint resolution making 
continuing appropriations for the Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for 
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Appropriations. 
f 

PRIVATE BILLS AND 
RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 3 of rule XII, 

Mr. GUTIE´ RREZ introduced a bill (H.R. 
3238) for the relief of Simeon Simeonov, 
Stela Simeonova, Stoyan Simeonov, and 
Vania Simeonova; which was referred to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 

CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY 
STATEMENT 

Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, 
the following statements are submitted 
regarding the specific powers 
granted to Congress in the Constitution 
to enact the accompanying bill or 
joint resolution. 

By Mr. GARCIA: 

H.R. 15. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 8. The Congress shall 
have Power to establish an uniform Rule of 
Naturalization. 

By Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky: 

H.R. 3230. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

The principal constitutional authority for 
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of article 
I of the Constitution of the United 
States (the appropriation power), which 
states: ‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the 
Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations 
made by Law. . . .’’ In addition, clause 
1 of section 8 of article I of the Constitution 
(the spending power) provides: ‘‘The Congress 
shall have the Power . . . to pay the 
Debts and provide for the common Defence 
and general Welfare of the United States. 
. . .’’ Together, these specific constitutional 
provisions establish the congressional power 
of the purse, granting Congress the authority 
to appropriate funds, to determine their 
purpose, amount, and period of availability, 
and to set forth terms and conditions governing 
their use. 

By Mr. POE of Texas: 

H.R. 3231. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1 Section 8 Clause 1 

By Mr. COOK: 

H.R. 3232. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 

By Mr. BLUMENAUER: 

H.R. 3233. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I of the U.S. Constitution. 

By Mr. HALL: 

H.R. 3234. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 6, of the United States 
Constitution. 

By Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas: 

H.R. 3235. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

The principal constitutional authority for 
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of article 
I of the Constitution of the United 
States (the appropriation power), which 
states: 

‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, 
but in Consequence of Appropriations 
made by Law . . .’’ In addition, clause 1 of 
section 8 of article I of the Constitution (the 
spending power) provides: ‘‘The Congress 
shall have the Power . . . to pay the Debts 
and provide for the common Defence and 
general Welfare of the United States. . . .’’ 
Together, these specific constitutional provisions 
establish the congressional power of 
the purse, granting Congress the authority 
to appropriate funds, to determine their purpose, 
amount, and period of availability, and 
to set forth terms and conditions governing 
their use. 

By Mr. SCHRADER: 

H.R. 3236. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6175 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

U.S. Const. art. 1, §1; and 
U.S. Const. art. 1, §6 
By Mr. STUTZMAN: 
H.R. 3237. 
Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 
The principal constitutional authority for 
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of article 
I of the Constitution of the United 
States (the appropriation power), which 
states: 

‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, 
but in Consequence of Appropriations 
made by Law . . .’’ In addition, clause 1 of 
section 8 of article I of the Constitution (the 
spending power) provides: ‘‘The Congress 
shall have the Power . . . to pay the Debts 
and provide for the common Defence and 
general Welfare of the United States. . . .’’ 
Together, these specific constitutional provisions 
establish the congressional power of 
the purse, granting Congress the authority 
to appropriate funds, to determine their purpose, 
amount, and period of availability, and 
to set forth terms and conditions governing 
their use. 

Mr. GUTIE´ RREZ: 

H.R. 3238. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 and Amendment 
I, Clause 3 of the Constitution. 

By Mr. KINGSTON: 

H.J. Res. 73. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

The principal constitutional authority for 
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of article 
I of the Constitution of the United 
States (the appropriation power), which 
states: ‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the 
Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations 
made by Law. . . .’’ In addition, clause 
1 of section 8 of article I of the Constitution 
(the spending power) provides: ‘‘The Congress 
shall have the Power . . . to pay the 
Debts and provide for the common Defence 
and general Welfare of the United States. 
. . .’’ Together, these specific constitutional 
provisions establish the congressional power 
of the purse, granting Congress the authority 
to appropriate funds, to determine their 
purpose, amount, and period of availability, 
and to set forth terms and conditions governing 
their use. 

By Mr. COTTON: 
H.J. Res. 74. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis


lation pursuant to the following: 
Clause 1 of Section 8 of article I of the Constitution. 


ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 

Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 7: Mr. ROSKAM. 
H.R. 127: Mr. BRIDENSTINE. 
H.R. 366: Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. MOORE, Mr. 
FOSTER, and Mr. CLEAVER. 
H.R. 460: Mr. POE of Texas. 
H.R. 494: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. 
ROGERS of Michigan, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, 
and Ms. BONAMICI. 
H.R. 541: Mr. CICILLINE. 
H.R. 609: Mr. COURTNEY. 
H.R. 685: Mrs. ROBY, Mr. FRANKS of Arizona, 
Mr. MURPHY of Florida, and Ms. CHU. 
H.R. 713: Mr. MCNERNEY. 
H.R. 719: Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. 
H.R. 721: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mr. 
BISHOP of Georgia. 
H.R. 724: Ms. JENKINS. 
H.R. 831: Mr. SESSIONS. 
H.R. 1015: Mr. CASSIDY. 
H.R. 1094: Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. FOSTER, 
and Ms. MOORE. 
H.R. 1125: Ms. DUCKWORTH. 
H.R. 1209: Mr. NEAL and Mr. POSEY. 
H.R. 1263: Mr. LOWENTHAL. 
H.R. 1318: Mr. RYAN of Ohio. 
H.R. 1697: Ms. WILSON of Florida. 
H.R. 1726: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Ms. LINDA T. 
SA´ NCHEZ of California, Mr. O’ROURKE, and 
Mrs. ROBY. 
H.R. 1731: Mr. FATTAH, Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ, Mr. 
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. DOYLE, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. 
POCAN, and Mr. YARMUTH. 
H.R. 1750: Mr. BOUSTANY, Mr. VEASEY, and 
Ms. KUSTER. 
H.R. 1767: Ms. DUCKWORTH. 
H.R. 1779: Mrs. ROBY. 
H.R. 1891: Mr. MCGOVERN. 
H.R. 1914: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. 
LOWENTHAL, Ms. SPEIER, and Mr. POCAN. 
H.R. 1982: Mr. MURPHY of Florida. 
H.R. 2037: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mr. GRIJALVA. 
H.R. 2066: Mr. VALADAO. 
H.R. 2087: Mrs. ROBY. 
H.R. 2134: Mr. PALLONE. 
H.R. 2315: Mr. GUTHRIE. 
H.R. 2430: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. THOMPSON 
of Mississippi, and Mr. COHEN. 
H.R. 2523: Ms. JACKSON LEE. 
H.R. 2654: Mr. ISRAEL. 
H.R. 2697: Mr. FARR. 
H.R. 2734: Ms. JENKINS and Ms. SPEIER. 
H.R. 2744: Mr. MCCAUL. 
H.R. 2795: Mr. COTTON. 
H.R. 2807: Mr. BUCHANAN. 
H.R. 2839: Ms. CHU and Ms. MENG. 
H.R. 2863: Mr. HASTINGS of Florida and Ms. 
WILSON of Florida. 
H.R. 2874: Mr. VAN HOLLEN. 
H.R. 2939: Mr. MICHAUD, Mr. CONYERS, Ms. 
HAHN, and Ms. WILSON of Florida. 
H.R. 2962: Ms. TITUS and Mr. KENNEDY. 
H.R. 2998: Ms. SHEA-PORTER. 
H.R. 3024: Mr. RIBBLE. 
H.R. 3043: Mr. MICHAUD. 
H.R. 3077: Mr. OLSON. 
H.R. 3091: Mr. BUCHANAN. 
H.R. 3099: Mr. THOMPSON of California. 
H.R. 3106: Mr. VISCLOSKY. 
H.R. 3121: Mr. MULLIN, Mr. DUNCAN of 
South Carolina, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. MILLER 
of Florida, Mr. FINCHER, AND Mr. 
BRIDENSTINE. 
H.R. 3160: Mr. SMITH of Texas, Mr. PERRY, 
Mr. COOK, and Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 3199: Mr. MILLER of Florida. 
H.R. 3223: Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. 
WELCH, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New 
York, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. RYAN of Ohio, Mr. 
LEVIN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. POCAN, Mr. 
VARGAS, Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California, 
Mr. CROWLEY, Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. 
TITUS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, 
Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas, and 
Mr. HECK of Washington. 
H.R. 3224: Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. MURPHY of 
Florida, Mr. MICHAUD, Mr. TONKO, and Ms. 
PINGREE of Maine. 
H. Res. 97: Mr. CARTWRIGHT. 
H. Res. 153: Mr. NEUGEBAUER, Mr. 
STUTZMAN, Mr. BRIDENSTINE, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. 
KING of Iowa, Mr CONAWAY, Mr. BENTIVOLIO, 
Mr. ROKITA, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. HUELSKAMP, 
Mr. ROE of Tennessee, Mr WENSTRUP, and Mr. 
MEADOWS. 
H. Res. 365: Mr. MURPHY of Florida, Mr. 
YARMUTH, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. HOLT, Mr. 
SWALWELL of California, Mr. GEORGE MILLER 
of California, Ms. SPEIER, and Mr. DINGELL. 
f 

CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIMITED 
TAX BENEFITS, OR LIMITED 
TARIFF BENEFITS 

Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or 
statements on congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff 
benefits were submitted as follows: 

OFFERED BY MR. ROGERS OF KENTUCKY 

H.R. 3230, the Pat Our Guard and Reserve 
Act, does not contain any congressional earmarks, 
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff 
benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI. 
OFFERED BY MR. ROGERS OF KENTUCKY 

H.J. Res. 73, the National Institutes of 
Health Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 
2014, does not contain any congressional 
earmarks, limited tax benefits, or limited 
tariff benefits as defined in clause 9 of 
rule XXI. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 113th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 159 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2013 No. 134 

The Senate met at 10:30 a.m., and was 
called to order by the Honorable HEIDI 
HEITKAMP, a Senator from the State of 
North Dakota. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, offered 
the following prayer: 

Let us pray. 

O God, who remains our shelter in 
the time of storms, we are helpless 
without Your power. Unless You empower 
our lawmakers, they can see the 
ideal but not reach it. They can know 
the right but not do it. They can comprehend 
their duty but not perform it. 
They can seek the truth but not fully 
find it. 

Dear God, help our lawmakers. Enlighten 
their minds, purify their 
hearts, and strengthen their wills, enabling 
them to pass beyond guessing to 
knowing, beyond doubting to certainty, 
beyond resolving to doing, and 
beyond intention to action. 

We pray in Your sacred Name. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The Presiding Officer led the Pledge 
of Allegiance, as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 

PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will please read a communication 
to the Senate from the President pro 
tempore (Mr. LEAHY). 

The legislative clerk read the following 
letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, October 2, 2013. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3, 
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 
appoint the Honorable HEIDI HEITKAMP, a 

Senate 

Senator from the State of North Dakota, to 
perform the duties of the Chair. 

PATRICK J. LEAHY, 

President pro tempore. 

Ms. HEITKAMP thereupon assumed 
the chair as Acting President pro tempore. 


f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The majority leader is recognized. 


f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. REID. Madam President, following 
my remarks and those of Senator 
MCCONNELL, the Senate will be in 
a period of morning business for debate 
until noon, with the time equally divided 
and controlled, with Senators 
permitted to speak for up to 10 minutes 
each. 

f 

CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 

Mr. REID. Madam President, it is obvious 
when you check the press that 
the Republicans have had a very, very 
bad week. On the same day that Democrats 
in Congress delivered quality affordable 
health insurance to tens of 
millions more Americans, the Republican 
Congress delivered this Nation a 
government shutdown. 

Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, 
yesterday millions of Americans went 
on line to shop for affordable insurance 
policies in the new marketplace exchanges. 
Some compare that to when 
Google went on line and the many 
problems that Google had because they 
had no idea people were so interested 
in Google. There were some problems 
they had. Of course, now we know how 
people feel about Google. 

The same is going to happen with 
this Affordable Care Act. People have 
until December to sign up. They are on 
again today as they were yesterday 

signing up. But thanks to the Republican 
government shutdown, hundreds 
of thousands of public servants were 
sent home without pay. Thanks to the 
Republican shutdown, tourists lined up 
outside Red Rock Canyon outside Las 
Vegas where more than 1 million people 
a year go. But they did not go there 
yesterday. There were gates. They 
could not get in. 

Thanks to the Republican government 
shutdown, a group of World War 
II veterans who traveled from Iowa and 
Mississippi had to break down barricades 
to visit the Washington, DC, memorial 
in their honor, some of them in 
wheelchairs. 

Thanks to the Republican government 
shutdown, 200 very sick patients, 
including 30 children, were turned 
away from the National Institutes of 
Health clinic that offers lifesaving— 
that is an understatement—lifesaving 
treatment. Most of the children turned 
away are suffering from some type of 
cancer. 

I read that modern-day anarchists in 
the House have been celebrating the 
shutdown—celebrating the shutdown. 
They can barely contain their glee at 
having realized a 2010 campaign promise 
to halt the basic functions of government. 
Here is what the tea party 
spokesperson said. She is their spokesperson, 
MICHELE BACHMANN. Remember, 
she is the woman that ran for 
President and was the leading contender 
for about 4 hours or whatever it 
was. But anyway, she loves to talk. 
Here is what she said yesterday, ‘‘It’s 
exactly what we wanted, and we got 
it.’’ You cannot make up stuff like 
that. Can you imagine anyone saying 
that when we have babies turned away 
who are coming for lifesaving treatment? 
‘‘It’s exactly what we wanted, 
and we got it.’’ 

It is time for my Republican colleagues 
to do a gut check. Republicans 
in the House have proposed one 
cockamamie, can’t-pass idea after another 
the last few days: defund 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S7105 


S7106 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

ObamaCare, delay ObamaCare, deny 
preventive health. They tried that before. 
They tried it again. They were 
not satisfied until they said: Now, let’s 
also go after women—things as basic as 
contraceptives—or else we will shut 
the government down. That is what 
they said. 

They are obsessed with ObamaCare. 
Now they have gotten their way. They 
have shut down the government. As 
BACHMANN said, ‘‘It’s exactly what we 
wanted, and we got it.’’ But none of 
their wacky ideas are any closer to becoming 
law. Instead of reading the 
writing on the wall, House Republicans 
have turned to a new bad idea, to cherry-
pick a few parts of government that 
they like and reopen only those parts. 

Credit for this idea goes, I am told, to 
the junior Senator from Texas. He goes 
over to the House and tells them what 
they should do. He, along with people 
like BACHMANN, are tea party, they are 
anarchists. They are happy. Listen, I 
have come here, and I have talked 
about how happy they are in hurting 
government. We now have them speaking 
out openly. ‘‘It’s exactly what we 
wanted, and we got it.’’ 

But I do have a little bit of advice for 
my Republican colleagues in the 
House. When your latest brilliant idea 
came from the same person who proposed 
the ‘‘dumbest idea ever’’ according 
to one of his own Senate Republicans 
here, I would think it is a sign 
you are on the wrong track. It is time 
for Republicans to stop throwing one 
crazy idea after another at the wall in 
hopes that something sticks. Nothing 
has stuck. 

There has been a sensible plan to reopen 
the government right in front of 
House Republicans all along: A clean 6-
week resolution that opens government 
today. We passed it in the Senate last 
week. I believe reasonable Republicans—
I hope—are desperately looking 
for a way out. That is what all of the 
newspapers said today, all of the news 
reports. Each day a couple more come 
forward. I do not blame them for looking 
for a way out. 

These piecemeal bills are not a way 
out. The Obama administration already 
promised to veto them. So they 
obviously are not the answer. Reopening 
only parts of government that they 
like is not a responsible solution. The 
Senate already has a plan to reopen the 
government while we work out our 
budget differences—open the government 
based on the resolution we passed 
last week. 

If Republicans really want to reopen 
the government, they should just go 
ahead and reopen the government. 
They have had that power all along. 
Once they do that, we will be happy to 
appoint conferees, work out long-term 
budget priorities with the House. Let’s 
go to conference. We talked about it. 
PATTY MURRAY has been here 18 times 
to talk about it. 

We should not be fighting over a 6-
week stopgap budget bill. We should be 
working out our long-term fiscal 

issues. Americans are tired of this type 
of knockdown, drag-out debt fight, 
which costs our economy billions of 
dollars. The way to put our Nation on 
sound fiscal footing is to set sensible 
policies through regular order in the 
legislative process, not to extort concessions 
through dangerous hostage 
taking. 

First, Republicans must reopen the 
government. The next move is to go to 
conference and set our minds on reaching 
a reasonable compromise. Right 
now, Republicans led by JOHN BOEHNER 
are the only thing standing between 
Congress and compromise. I would suggest 
he stop taking advice from BACHMANN 
and CRUZ. 

Unfortunately, it seems that some in 
the Republican conference are simply 
too mad at me personally, too obsessed 
with getting me personally to back 
down from doing what most of America 
believes is right. The National Review 
said yesterday that I was ‘‘the villain 
of villains.’’ JOHN BOEHNER could reopen 
the government if he wanted to, 
but he is too obsessed with beating the 
villain of villains, and obviously too 
afraid of the tea party to do the right 
thing for the country. 

When I read this yesterday, I said: 
Villain. Huh. Be careful of the words 
you choose. Gee, no one likes to be 
called a villain. So I looked it up in the 
dictionary. Uncouth person. Well, I acknowledge, 
I probably was not born in 
a place that most people would like to 
be born in. I was not raised the way 
most people like to be raised. But I 
would hope over the years that I am 
not uncouth. I have tried my best to 
become part of mainstream society. 

The other definition is I am a scoundrel 
or a criminal. Well, I am not a 
criminal. I am not a scoundrel. So they 
better get a different definition for me. 
In spite of being the villain of villains, 
I have some advice and a suggestion. I 
really do believe there are reasonable 
Republicans in Congress. They have to, 
as I said, do a gut check and understand 
who they represent—understand 
that America is waiting for them to do 
the right thing. I know they believe in 
public service. But they have to understand 
why public service is important. 
I urge them to think about 30 babies— 
babies, little kids, who yesterday were 
brought by their parents to Washington, 
DC, for hope—hope that their 
little babies and children are not going 
to die, that they can get lifesaving 
treatment. They were turned away. So 
I urge them to do the right thing. I 
urge them to join us to reopen the Federal 
Government. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY 
LEADER. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Republican leader is recognized. 


f 

CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
if it was not clear earlier this week 

why Republicans were asking to delay 
ObamaCare, it should be pretty clear to 
everybody this morning. The rollout of 
this thing made a trip to the DMV look 
like a good time. The word of the day 
was ‘‘glitch.’’ You could probably explain 
one or two of these glitches away, 
maybe three, but not glitches in Nebraska, 
Maryland, Florida, Wisconsin, 
Illinois, and in Kentucky—not glitches 
all across the country. 

Kentuckians who tried to log in yesterday 
got a message that read ‘‘server 
error.’’ Let me translate that. It did 
not work. I mean, if the plural of anecdote 
is data, it seems to me the plural 
of glitch has to be systemic failure. 
This is the law that Washington Democrats 
were so adamant about unveiling 
yesterday, they were willing to shut 
down the government over it. 

Instead of agreeing to a couple of 
commonsense proposals related to this 
law, they stuck to their absolutist position: 
100 percent of ObamaCare when 
and how they want it, no matter what. 
This, of course, unless the President 
thinks you are one of the chosen few 
who deserve a special break. 

So basically Washington Democrats 
shut down the government because 
they did not think middle-class Americans 
deserve the same kind of treatment 
as their employers, and because 
they did not think Congress should 
have to follow the same rules on 
ObamaCare exchanges as everybody 
else. 

These were fair things to ask for. 
They were reasonable. If the Democrats 
who run Washington could have 
brought themselves to that sensible position, 
they would have voted to keep 
the government open. But in the end, 
they got their shutdown, which they 
apparently think will help them politically. 
They held on to their absolutist 
position on ObamaCare regardless of 
the consequences for American families. 


Two days into this thing they still 
refuse to budge. The President reiterated 
again yesterday he is not interested 
in talking. The majority leader 
made it clear he is not interested in 
talking either. He shot down just about 
every attempt to engage in serious discussions 
with the House or with any 
one else for that matter. 

Look, this week Washington Democrats 
had a choice: Defend basic principles 
of fairness when it comes to 
ObamaCare or shut down the government. 
They chose the latter. It was the 
wrong decision, in my view. It is time 
for them to start finding solutions, to 
start talking, and put the interests of 
their constituents ahead of the interests 
of their party. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
leadership time is reserved. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7107 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
Senate will be in a period of morning 
business for debate until 12 noon, with 
the time equally divided and controlled 
between the two leaders or their designees, 
with Senators permitted to 
speak therein for up to 10 minutes 
each. 

f 

CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, 
there were two headlines in most of the 
major newspapers across the United 
States this morning. I saw it in Financial 
Times as well as the Wall Street 
Journal. The headlines noted: ‘‘Americans 
flock to insurance exchanges.’’ 

It was the first day when we had the 
rollout of the Web site where uninsured 
Americans had an opportunity to 
shop—real competition, a variety of 
plans. Illinois has 54 choices for uninsured 
people. This is a dream come 
true. Most of these people have lived 
their entire lives either without health 
insurance or with no choice, a take-it-
or-leave-it policy that may be worthless 
when they need it. These are situations 
where many of them never once 
in their lives were able to be insured 
when it came to health insurance. 
There were a lot of reasons for it. Some 
of them had jobs that paid so little, offered 
no benefits, and they couldn’t afford 
to buy health insurance. Some of 
them had preexisting conditions or perhaps 
a history of asthma in their family, 
diabetes, cancer survivors. They 
couldn’t buy health insurance if they 
wanted to. It wasn’t even offered. 

Yesterday was different. October 1 
was different as 2.8 million Americans 
came on the first day to this Web site 
to go shopping for health insurance. 
What a relief it must have been. 

The Chicago papers told the story of 
a man who had just about given up 
hope because he had a child with a 
mental illness and because of that he 
could never buy health insurance. He 
was shopping yesterday. He was disappointed. 
He wanted to sign up yesterday, 
but so many people came to this 
Web site the first day that it wasn’t 
able to meet all of the needs of the people 
who were shopping, or wanted to. 

It will. There will be an opportunity. 
I am sure it will be soon. 

I can’t get over when I hear the Republican 
leader come to the floor and, 
with barely disguised glee, talk about 
the first day’s problems with the Affordable 
Care Act. There is no question 
that many Republicans are not only 
praying for the Affordable Care Act to 
fail, they are betting on it. 

None of them voted for it, not one. 
Not a single Republican voted for it. 
They are frightened—frightened at 
what is to come when the verdict of 
history comes down on this program. I 
think I know what the verdict will be. 
There will be some bumps in the road, 
glitches, maybe, some problems with 

the Web site. But in the end the American 
people understand the fundamental 
fairness of the Affordable Care 
Act; the fundamental fairness that 
said, yes, we have a right as Americans 
to health care protection. I believe we 
do and we should. 

I have lived the life, a good one, but 
I had a moment in that life when I had 
no health insurance. I was a brandnew 
father with a brandnew baby with medical 
challenges and no health insurance. 
I have never felt more helpless in 
my life, praying that my little girl 
would get the best when I didn’t have 
health insurance. 

Multiply that times 40 million uninsured 
Americans and understand what 
is at stake. Those on the other side 
who are opposed to affordable care 
don’t want to extend the helping hand 
of health insurance to those who have 
been denied for years. They don’t have 
anything to replace it with. Stick with 
the current free market system. 

Forty million Americans have been 
left behind with this current system. 
That is why I supported the Affordable 
Care Act. This is why the President is 
fighting for the Affordable Care Act. 
This is why we have to continue to 
fight every single day to make sure it 
is not defunded, as the Republicans 
tried to do only a few days ago, to 
make sure the coverage for individuals 
is not delayed as the Republicans tried 
to do only a few days ago. 

No, we have to fight to make sure 
Americans have this chance. There is 
no turning back when it comes to offering 
health insurance to families who 
desperately need it. 

What are the Republicans prepared to 
bet on this wager to end the Affordable 
Care Act and health care reform? They 
are willing to bet the Federal Government. 
They are willing to shut it down 
over the Affordable Care Act. 

HARRY REID, our Democratic leader, 
told the story that was reported in the 
Wall Street Journal that the National 
Institutes of Health—not far from here, 
in the near suburbs of Maryland and 
which is a beacon of hope—this is 
where some of the most important 
medical research in the world is taking 
place. The head of NIH, Dr. Francis 
Collins, may be one of the most extraordinary 
people who has ever been 
involved in public service. He was head 
of the National Genome Project. They 
said it would probably take him 5, 6, or 
8 years. He was so good and had so 
much talent that he did it in a very 
brief period of time—mapping the 
human genome. In doing so, he started 
opening doors to understanding, knowledge, 
and finding cures. He took that 
back to the NIH and they apply it 
every single day to save lives and find 
cures. 

For the second day in a row, three-
quarters of the scientists, doctors, and 
researchers at NIH sit at home, unable 
to engage in this critically important 
research, unable to find the new drugs, 
new surgeries, new medical devices, 
and the new procedures to save lives. 

That is part of the Republican government 
shutdown. Oh, they may congratulate 
themselves on finally bringing 
this government to its knees, but 
they have to take responsibility for 
what they have done as well. They 
have shut down the National Institutes 
of Health. They have shut down medical 
research. It is worse because the 
toughest medical cases in America end 
up at the doorsteps of NIH. These are 
the most challenging medical conditions, 
families and people who have 
just about given up hope and think 
there is one last place to go, NIH, the 
very best. 

Yesterday Dr. Francis Collins announced 
that 200 people who would 
have started clinical trials this week at 
the NIH were turned away because of 
the government shutdown. Within that 
population of 200, 30 were children, 
most of them cancer victims. Imagine 
for a moment that you are the mother 
or father of a child diagnosed with cancer 
and have one last hope, the National 
Institutes of Health. It may be a 
great personal sacrifice for you and 
your family to pick up and come out 
here, but you are going to do it. It is 
your baby. Then when you arrive at the 
door of the NIH there is a sign that 
says: This agency is closed. 

Why is it closed? Some national 
emergency, some disaster, some crisis? 
No. It was a manufactured political 
temper tantrum coming from the tea 
party, Speaker BOEHNER, and those 
who believe this is the right way to go. 

Excuse me if this example is so stark, 
but I haven’t even begun to go into the 
details. I would invite any family who 
has been a victim of this government 
shutdown at NIH or any other medical 
facility, come to my Facebook page, 
my Twitter account. Send me a message 
and tell me your story. I wish to 
come to the floor and tell that story 
too. 

People shouldn’t disappear into the 
shadows as we make all this noise over 
this political debate. They ought to be 
front and center. Please share your 
story if you wish. I know it is a matter 
of privacy and confidentiality. If you 
don’t want to, I certainly understand. 

This is what it has come down to. 
Yesterday, for example, in the House 
they said: Oh, we are going to open the 
Veterans’ Administration. Senator 
CRUZ has made a decision he is going to 
pick and choose the agencies to reopen. 
We will start with the Veterans’ Administration. 
In other words, as former 
Speaker PELOSI said, they are going to 
release one hostage at a time when it 
comes to our Federal Government. 

But what Senator CRUZ and the tea 
party Republicans failed to acknowledge 
is of the 800,000 Federal employees 
who have been furloughed, over 500,000 
are veterans. They are out of work. If 
they care about the veterans, put this 
government back to work, put 500,000 
of our veterans back to work. Incidentally, 
one out of four of them is disabled, 
disabled veterans put off the 
payroll and furloughed. There is no 


S7108 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

promise they will ever be paid because 
of this tea party government shutdown. 


We have serious challenges facing 
America, but we need to reopen this 
government now. Now. There are no excuses. 
Speaker BOEHNER sits there with 
a bill that he could bring before the 
House by 11 o’clock this morning. They 
could vote on it and the word would go 
out before noon that the government is 
reopened. That is how quickly he can 
act. It is there, but he won’t call it for 
a vote. 

What is he afraid of? Why won’t he 
call this measure for a vote before the 
House? He knows it will pass because 
every Democrat will vote for it and 
moderate Republicans will step up and 
vote for it. 

The only hope we have to end this 
tea party Republican crisis is if moderate 
Republicans will step forward 
now and say we are not part of this 
strategy. We want this government 
open. We are prepared to face all the 
challenges that follow, but we are not 
going to move forward at the expense 
of patients coming to the National Institutes 
of Health. 

This is only one example. There are 
many more just like it. 

I would say this in closing. Once 
again the Republican leaders come to 
the floor and mention the fact that 
Members of Congress will be in the insurance 
exchanges, the same insurance 
changes that were advertised yesterday 
for the first time. To give a moment of 
reflection in history, we are in the insurance 
exchanges because of an 
amendment offered by a Republican 
Senator, Senator GRASSLEY. This is an 
amendment which was part of the Affordable 
Care Act, which passed. We 
will be buying insurance, the same 
kinds of policies, exactly the same 
kinds of policies offered to all Americans 
on the exchanges. There are no 
special favors for Members of Congress. 

Now we hear an objection from Senator 
MCCONNELL to the employer’s contribution 
for our staff and for Members 
of Congress. Over half of the American 
people get their health insurance 
through their place of employment. 
Virtually all of them have employer 
contributions that help them pay their 
monthly premiums. The same thing is 
true for Federal employees. The same 
thing is true for Members of Congress. 
The same thing will be true when it 
comes to the insurance exchanges. 
There is no special treatment of Members 
of Congress. The notion that we 
can’t have an employer’s contribution 
when it comes to the insurance exchanges 
is flatout wrong. A business 
with fewer than 50 employees, for example, 
can send their employees to the 
exchanges and continue to contribute 
to their premiums. It is already accepted 
under law so there is no special 
treatment in this. It is only another diversion. 


Trying to find ways to create chaos 
and uncertainty when it comes to the 
Affordable Care Act is the message of 

the Republican Party. Unfortunately, 
it is being delivered at the expense of 
800,000 furloughed Federal employees, 
the services this government offers, 
and 200 people turned away this week 
for clinical trials at the National Institutes 
of Health. 

I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Republican whip. 

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I 
listened with great interest to the comments 
of the distinguished deputy 
Democratic majority leader. 

I was reminded of a radio commentator, 
who perhaps is not remembered 
as frequently now, but when I grew up, 
he had radio show where when he started 
out he would say: And now for the 
rest of the story. 

I wish to offer the rest of the story. 
I listened as Senator DURBIN spoke 
about the fact that the National Institutes 
of Health is not open for business. 
The good news is that Republicans 
and Democrats both agree that 
we should reopen the National Institutes 
of Health. In fact, it is my understanding 
that the House of Representatives 
will pass a bill perhaps as early as 
today and send it over to the Senate. 

I hope Senator REID, unlike over the 
last few days where he has killed every 
reasonable offer by the House of Representatives, 
will reconsider and he 
will not kill that funding for the National 
Institutes of Health during this 
partial government shutdown. 

There are some other areas where I 
think we could work together. Senator 
REID knew that Republicans were going 
to come to the floor and try to make 
sure that our uniformed military continued 
to get their full pay on time 
during this impasse of Congress. Like 
the good politician he is, he actually 
beat us to the punch. He came down 
here first and made the same offer. The 
good news is there was bipartisan support 
for funding our troops in full, our 
uniformed military, on a timely basis 
during this impasse. 

This has been sort of a surreal experience 
in so many ways because my 
friends on the other side of the aisle 
have been making what I consider to be 
some very strange arguments. The argument 
they have been making is that 
President Obama’s health care law, the 
Affordable Care Act, otherwise known 
as ObamaCare, is untouchable, and 
that our efforts to modify it in any 
way are illegitimate. Their favorite 
word is ‘‘extreme’’ or the product of 
some effort by the tea party Republicans 
or some other disparaging connotation. 


I am not sure exactly how to respond 
except to say this: If ObamaCare is untouchable, 
if the Obama administration 
is perfect, if we can’t change one word 
and one sentence about ObamaCare, 
then you need to tell the Obama administration. 
Since 2010, the administration 
has granted more than 1,000 different 
waivers to its friends and political 
allies. It suspended all work on a 
large portion of ObamaCare known as 

the CLASS Act. It has delayed 
ObamaCare’s basic health program and 
delayed the employer mandate. When 
we tried to delay the individual mandate 
so average Americans get the 
same sort of consideration from this 
administration that employers get, 
that businesses get, we were told this 
is an unreasonable request. Senator 
REID tabled that, in essence killing 
that provision rather than taking it up 
and embracing it and saying: You know 
what. If employers get a break for 1 
year, then let’s give average Americans 
a break. 

The Obama administration has likewise 
delayed the eligibility verification 
for the exchanges. It started yesterday. 
In other words, you can apply for one 
of these insurance exchanges, but you 
don’t have to prove what your income 
is. If there is a bigger open invitation 
for fraud, I am not aware of what it 
might be. But that is what the Obama 
administration has done, delayed the 
eligibility verification for the Obama 
exchanges, and they have delayed the 
cap on out-of-pocket expenses. 

In short, the Obama administration 
has, by its very actions, demonstrated 
that ObamaCare is not perfect. The administration 
itself, by its own actions, 
has acknowledged ObamaCare is not 
ready for prime time. 

This became painfully obvious to 
millions of Americans yesterday when 
the ObamaCare exchanges encountered 
widespread problems on its first day of 
operation. The President calls these 
glitches—glitches, a nice poll-tested, 
fairly benign-sounding word. But these 
were systemic failures of the 
ObamaCare exchanges yesterday when 
they came online—obviously, not ready 
for prime time. 

Meanwhile, there have been other 
changes in this perfect, inviolable, 
can’t-change-a-word ObamaCare. While 
the Supreme Court, we certainly acknowledge, 
has upheld major portions 
of ObamaCare, it is important to remember 
it declared a major piece of 
the law—the compulsory expansion of 
Medicaid—as unconstitutional. Unconstitutional: 
incompatible with our fundamental 
law of the land. Does that 
sound like a law that is perfect, can’t 
be changed? 

Let me give another example. During 
the ObamaCare debate, Democrats 
voted on a party-line vote to impose a 
medical device tax on medical device 
manufacturers. It is not based on their 
income, it is based on their gross receipts 
or how much money comes in 
the door, before they even deduct their 
cost of doing business and their overhead. 
So they would actually have to 
pay taxes without it generating any 
net income because of the nature of 
this tax. This is a job-killing tax. 

I have had constituents come into 
my office and say: We have operations 
in Costa Rica, so we are going to have 
to move jobs we would create in Dallas 
to Costa Rica because of this job-killing 
medical device tax. You know 
what. Medical devices are some of the 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7109 

most innovative parts of our health 
care system. How better to discourage 
medical innovation and lifesaving discoveries 
and manufacturing than to 
impose this gross receipts tax on medical 
devices. 

That is not just my opinion. The last 
time we had a debate on the budget 
resolution, 79 Senators voted against 
the medical device tax because they realized 
it was a terrible mistake in this 
law we are told today, yesterday, and 
the day before is perfect in every way, 
wouldn’t change a thing. But Senate 
Democrats are now lining up to repeal 
the medical device tax. Somehow, in a 
schizophrenia I don’t quite understand, 
other Democrats are saying an attempt 
to do that would represent partisan extremism. 
Which is it? I think the 
American people know. 

I am not sure exactly how our friends 
on the other side of the aisle define extremism, 
but I would submit that very 
few extreme ideas gain the support of 
79 Senators in the Senate on a bipartisan 
basis. How is it extreme to delay 
ObamaCare’s individual mandate when 
the administration has unilaterally 
done the same thing for businesses? 
How is it extreme to ask Members of 
Congress to live by the same laws that 
apply to everyone else? 

The majority leader, Senator REID, 
tabled two amendments to the continuing 
resolution that would change 
this special carve-out for Congress that 
would provide a delay of the individual 
mandate for average Americans, such 
as the administration has already done 
for businesses, and we are told that is 
extreme; that somehow we are the ones 
who caused the government shutdown. 

I am absolutely convinced President 
Obama and HARRY REID think this 
shutdown is the best thing that ever 
happened to them politically in recent 
memory. So rather than come out and 
tell sympathetic stories about what is 
happening at NIH, let’s work together 
to mitigate some of the hardship and 
inconvenience. Let’s talk about working 
through this impasse. Why can’t we 
get the President to do what he reportedly 
intended to do in the first place, 
which is to convene a meeting at the 
White House with Republicans and 
Democrats to work through this? They 
are not just refusing to negotiate big 
compromises, they are refusing any 
compromise. It is my way or the highway. 


They will not even agree to keep the 
war memorials open for our Honor 
Flights coming to Washington, DC. I 
would urge the majority leader and 
President Obama to join with us in 
passing a bill today that would keep 
our war memorials open. 

My father was a World War II veteran. 
He is dead now, but he was a B– 
17 pilot in World War II. On his 26th 
bombing mission, he was shot down 
and captured as a prisoner of war. My 
father-in-law landed on Utah Beach the 
second day of the Normandy invasion. 
He is 95 years old now. His mind is still 
sharp, his body not quite what it used 

to be. He would love nothing better 
than to come to Washington, DC, on 
one of these Honor Flights. Unfortunately, 
his health will not allow him to 
do it. 

The chairman of the Honor Flight 
Network, James McLaughlin, has said: 

It is beyond belief that those deserving 
men and women who have waited decades to 
see their memorial and were selected for this 
trip of a lifetime, to discover they may not 
be able to see their memorial. 

For many of them, this may be the 
last time they get during their lifetime. 
I would ask that the President 
cancel his trip to Asia—he is leaving on 
Saturday—to overrule Senator REID 
and convene that meeting at the White 
House and come together to try and 
work through some of these differences. 


We can fund NIH. We could do it 
today if Senator REID and President 
Obama would allow it. But, no, instead, 
we are told it is my way or the highway. 
We actually like this shutdown, 
they are saying to themselves, because 
they think they are winning politically. 
But they are not winning politically 
when the American people are the 
net losers. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from New York. 

Mr. SCHUMER. My good friend, 
whom I saw in the gym this morning, 
sometimes stretches credulity. Who 
shut down the government? Was it 
HARRY REID? No. He kept passing messages 
to keep the government going. 
Was it Barack Obama? No. We all know 
who it was. It was the small band of tea 
party people in the House. It was his 
junior colleague in the Senate, TED 
CRUZ, who had the idea of shutting 
down the government. 

As Leader REID said yesterday, we 
are not in 1984. Truth has some degree 
of credulity. For my colleague from 
Texas to get up and say: HARRY REID 
and Barack Obama open the government, 
when his junior colleague led the 
charge to shut it down, when the cries 
of the tea party are ‘‘shut it down,’’ 
and we are desperately trying to keep 
it open makes no sense and it is not 
going to wash. 

One of the amazing things about our 
politics is how rhetoric has become so 
detached from reality, and then we 
have talk radio and some of the networks, 
FOX News, that repeat it. I saw 
a cartoon in the New York Post yesterday 
saying that Senators and Congressmen 
are exempt from ObamaCare. That 
is just not true. We are part of 
ObamaCare, and we will join the exchange—
I will and so will my col-
leagues—because that is what they 
have to do. 

But that doesn’t even matter. The 
hard right is so angry at ObamaCare 
and, frankly, at President Obama and 
the fact he just trounced them in 2012 
in an election that was run on their 
issues. They are so angry and white hot 
that their rhetoric just becomes totally 
detached from reality and totally 
detached from the truth. 

I feel badly for the veterans who 
couldn’t get to the memorial. But why 
was the government shut down? Because 
Speaker BOEHNER and the House 
wouldn’t keep it open. Senator CORNYN 
and many other Republicans paved the 
way for us to open the government 
with a vote to allow us to go forward. 
That got 25 Republicans, even though 
TED CRUZ, his junior colleague, was 
urging him not to vote that way. That 
was the right vote. We know that. He 
knew, Senator CORNYN did, to his credit, 
that shutting down the government 
was bad. So on the one procedural vote 
that mattered, where he could have 
had the Senate say shut down the government, 
he voted the other way. 

The real onus here is on Speaker 
BOEHNER. The entire focus of this debate 
should be on Speaker BOEHNER. 
Some might say it should be on Mr. 
CRUZ, the Senator from Texas. Some 
might say it should be on the 30 or 40 
hard-line tea party people in the 
House. But in my view it is the Speaker 
of the House who has the responsibility 
not to listen to a small faction of 
his party when so much is at stake. Instead, 
Speaker BOEHNER seems to be 
listening to the junior Senator from 
Texas. The junior Senator from Texas 
has become the de facto Speaker of the 
House. If he says jump, the House 
jumps. 

The junior Senator wanted the House 
to embark on a crusade to defund 
ObamaCare, so the Speaker, Speaker 
BOEHNER, did it. The junior Senator 
from Texas told the House to delay 
ObamaCare for 1 year, so the Speaker, 
Speaker BOEHNER, did it. Now this junior 
Senator from Texas is telling the 
House to pass piecemeal bills in a cynical 
attempt to pit important programs 
against each other, and now the Speaker 
is trying to do just that. 

Senator CRUZ has driven Speaker 
BOEHNER to pit kids who should be enrolled 
in Head Start against kids who 
should be enrolled in cancer trials. He 
has driven the Speaker to pick families 
who want to visit the Statue of Liberty 
against families who own a small business 
and need help from the SBA. He 
has pitted research and cancer against 
health care for our veterans. 

It is a cynical strategy. Similar to all 
the others they have sent us and that 
have failed, as these will fail today, it 
has one purpose: not to get anything 
done but to try and wiggle out of this 
view that they have shut down the government. 
Senator CORNYN’s rhetoric 
will not work. It is too far detached 
from reality. 

So Speaker BOEHNER tries to come up 
with these gizmos, these gimmicks, 
these legislative ploys to say: Hey, I 
am trying to do something. At the 
same time he is in the vice grip of the 
tea party members of the House who 
are taking their orders from the junior 
Senator from Texas. 

There is a simple way to open the 
government, I would say to my friend— 
and he is my friend, Senator CORNYN of 
Texas—and my other colleagues on the 
Republican side in the House. 


S7110 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

There is a bill sitting there waiting 
for a vote. It will open NIH, it will open 
the Veterans’ Administration, it will 
open the World War II memorial, it 
will open the Statue of Liberty so the 
guy with the little sandwich shop right 
by the Statue of Liberty can get some 
business back. Make no mistake about 
it: This crisis doesn’t just hurt the 
Federal Government. It doesn’t even 
just hurt 800,000 families who aren’t 
getting the paychecks on which they 
depend. This is not abstract. It hurts 
lots of private sector people as well, 
whether they be construction workers 
building a road using Federal dollars or 
the veteran waiting for that disability 
claim to come through or the guy with 
the sandwich shop next to the closed 
Statue of Liberty who is making those 
sandwiches. It is not abstract. I get a 
little resentful when I hear my colleagues 
talk about the Federal Government 
as if it is some big ogre; shut it 
down. 

If you watched Rachel Maddow the 
other night, she had a variety of tea 
party congressmen who were running 
for the Congress in 2010 who said they 
were going to shut the government 
down. I think it was Congressman 
MULVANEY of South Carolina who said: 
When I get to Congress, I am going to 
shut the government down. And the tea 
party audience cheered and said ‘‘shut 
it down’’ before they even had a plan 
because they hate the Federal Government 
so much. That is the goal, to shut 
it down. ObamaCare is an excuse. 

Mainstream Republicans know that 
shutting the government down is a bad 
thing and know that they are indeed 
paying a political price. So Speaker 
BOEHNER should follow the majority 
and stop being scared of the tea party. 
He will face them down easily in a 
challenge for Speaker. Speaker BOEHNER 
knows, as the ‘‘National Review’’ 
said this morning, that more than 100 
House Republicans would vote for our 
bill to reopen the government if he put 
it on the floor. Instead, Republicans 
are wasting time on political stunts in 
asking to go to conference on a short-
term CR. 

The Republicans have this exactly 
backward. They say: Let’s talk, and 
then maybe we will open the government. 
They ought to say: We will open 
the government, and then we can talk. 
If Republicans would simply switch all 
the lights back on, allow hundreds of 
thousands of furloughed Federal employees 
to go back to work, allow cancer 
research to continue, veterans to 
get their disability claims, kids to go 
back into Head Start, we could have a 
discussion about the budget, which 
they rejected 18 times. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Washington. 

Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I 
woke up this morning feeling like I 
think most Americans feel today— 
pretty disappointed in the antics of 
Washington, DC. 

As my colleague from New York just 
pointed out, we all know why we are 

here: Speaker BOEHNER and the Republicans 
in the House demanded a ransom 
in order to keep our government open, 
and their ransom was to repeal a law 
they do not support—ObamaCare. They 
made it very clear that the government 
was going to shut down. My constituents 
in Washington State who were 
supposed to go to work today—thousands 
of them—aren’t going to get 
their paychecks because of that ransom. 
They made it very clear that they 
were not going to open the government 
over a policy about which they care 
passionately. 

I have to say that I started my morning 
this morning talking to a number 
of businesspeople involved in the construction 
industry in the State of 
Washington. They told me that this 
uncertainty, this crisis, this shutdown 
of government is impacting their small 
businesses at home in the State of 
Washington because who is going to 
sign a contract to build something new 
when it is so unclear where our economy 
is going to be as a result of this 
shutdown and the looming debt ceiling 
crisis. So they are seeing a real retraction 
of their own businesses right 
now—not because of the government 
funding of a program or anything else 
that is ongoing or in dispute but because 
of this shutdown today. 

Just a few minutes ago, on the other 
end of a spectrum, I talked to some 
moms and dads in Head Start from my 
home State of Washington. A young 
mom from Bremerton, WA, who has a 
2-year-old daughter, told us that a few 
years ago she was on the streets, homeless, 
a victim of an abusive partner, 
and because of Head Start and the 
wraparound services they provide, they 
found her a place to stay and got her 
and her child involved in early childhood 
education. Because of that support 
and an early Head Start program, 
now 2 years later she is back at school 
working on her degree, her daughter is 
doing well, and she is back on track. 

Thousands of moms and dads such as 
her exist across the country today, 
with a helping hand at the right moment 
from the right program. But because 
of sequestration and now because 
of the government shutdown, we are 
telling moms and dads such as her: 
Sorry, we are not going to be there for 
you. 

I happen to be a very passionate advocate 
for early childhood education. I 
was a former preschool teacher. I am 
using my skills as a preschool teacher 
right now. I think all of our colleagues 
could learn a lot from those kinds of 
skills. No bullying; it is my turn to 
talk; be reasonable; teach our children 
to play well in the sandbox. Those are 
lessons we teach in preschool. I think 
we could all learn from that. 

I think about that, and I think about 
those Head Start kids and the children 
whom I taught before and who are not 
being taught now because of the sequestration. 
What lesson are we giving 
them—that if I don’t get my way right 
now about a bill I fought against and 

voted against and an election was run 
and won on, but I lost, and I am so mad 
that I am not going to let you have 
anything else because I am just so entrenched 
in that. That is not a lesson 
we should teach our kids. 

Let’s look at the other side of that 
argument. What if I came out here and 
said: I am so passionate about funding 
early childhood education because I 
know the research and what a difference 
it makes and I know what that 
investment will do for our country not 
just for today but for 10 or 20 years, 
and if I don’t get my way to make sure 
every child in this country has that 
start, this government is going to shut 
down. That is not the way we run a 
country. I adamantly and passionately 
fight for any cause I believe in. Any 
legislator here can. But the way you 
get your way isn’t to hold the country 
hostage. 

We have a country that is counting 
on us to be responsible adults and to 
come to the table and work out our disagreements 
between each other. And 
they are large, there is no doubt about 
that, but you don’t do it by hurting 
every family, every neighborhood, 
every community, every part of this 
country by holding this country hostage. 


We have a responsibility. It is to pass 
a clean continuing resolution. It is to 
get our government working again. It 
is to tell people they are going to get 
their paychecks. We are going to responsibly 
do that, and then we, as 
Members of Congress, are going to take 
our differences to a negotiating table 
and hammer them out. I may want $1 
million for something. My House counterparts 
may say no. We may meet in 
the middle. I may say: I didn’t get my 
way; OK, you got yours. That is what 
you do in a conference committee. You 
don’t do it by holding your country 
hostage. 

So we say to Speaker BOEHNER today: 
Open the government. Let everybody 
go back to work. Don’t hold our economy 
hostage. And we will then sit 
down with you and work out our disagreements, 
as the Presiding Officer 
knows we have asked 18 times now to 
do and have been told, no, we are not 
going to let you go to that negotiating 
table, we are not going to let you 
talk—by the same people who want 
this government shutdown. 

I find myself in a very odd place 
where we have a country that is closed 
for business. We are sending a very bad 
message and lesson to the children of 
this country that we can’t work and 
play well together, that we can’t even 
disagree together in an admirable way. 
And we are doing it while people are 
getting hurt. 

Speaker BOEHNER, open the country 
again, open our economy again and 
agree to work out our differences the 
way responsible adults should do. 

My understanding is, after trying all 
kinds of different ways to appease some 
of his Members with all kinds of different 
proposals, the latest proposal is 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7111 

to send us over piecemeal pieces of legislation. 
Well, OK. We feel bad about 
the veterans—and we all do. I am the 
biggest veterans advocate in here. We 
will take care of them now. And, oh 
gosh, some of our constituents are mad 
because they have flown out here and 
the national museums aren’t open, so 
we will open those, and on and on, 
whatever the cause of the day is. I 
guarantee that if we began to pass 
those piecemeal pieces of legislation, 
my moms and dads in Head Start 
would be at the end of the line and 
would never get funded. I am standing 
up for them today and saying: You are 
first in line too. 

We are all in this together. We need 
the government open—all of our agencies. 
Everybody gets a chance and an 
opportunity in this country. And we 
are going to stick together and say to 
Speaker BOEHNER: Pass a clean CR, and 
then allow this country and this government 
and the American way of life 
to function as our forefathers said—by 
sitting down at a negotiating table and 
working out our differences. That is 
what I have asked for as chair of the 
Budget Committee 18 times now. It is 
what we need to say we are going to do 
again but not while our country is shut 
down, not while my families in Head 
Start are held hostage, not while our 
small businesses are held hostage, not 
while everybody in this country is 
looking at us, wondering how we ever 
got to this. 

Open the government, and let’s be responsible 
legislators. That is what I 
came here to do. I certainly know it is 
what the Presiding Officer came to do. 
And let’s tell the kids in this country 
who are watching us today that this 
country can function, we can work as 
adults, and we have a responsibility to 
do that—here and abroad. 

Madam President, I yield the floor, 
and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

EXTENSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent there be a period of 
morning business for debate only until 
2 p.m., with the time equally divided 
and controlled between the two leaders 
or their designees, with Senators permitted 
to speak therein for up to 10 
minutes each, and the majority leader 
will be recognized at 2 p.m. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. DURBIN. I ask the time used in 
quorum calls during this period of 
morning business be equally divided 
between Democrats and Republicans. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. CORKER. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
Mr. CORKER. Madam President, we 
find ourselves in a very predictable situation, 
and what is unpredictable is 
what our response to this situation is 
going to be. For some time I have 
talked about the box canyon that we 
were taking ourselves into, and I think 
it has now become very apparent to 
folks on both sides of the aisle that to 
overturn a central piece of legislation, 
it takes more than one-third of government 
to do so. When we have the presiding 
President over that piece of legislation, 
it actually takes two-thirds of 
each of the bodies to make that happen. 
I think people have realized that. 
It gives me no joy, but this is something 
I have obviously talked about for 
some time. Now we find ourselves in 
this box canyon. 
What was also very predictable was 
that my friend TOM COBURN, the great 
Senator from Oklahoma, laid out very 
clearly on the Senate floor that even if 
there was a government shutdown, the 
health care bill would continue. I think 
what Americans are waking up to and 
seeing—even though Republicans have 
strongly opposed the health care bill at 
every turn—that even with government 
being shut down, the health care bill is 
continuing on and people around the 
country are signing up for what people 
call ObamaCare. So both of these were 
very predictable outcomes. 
What is now unpredictable is what 
our response to that is going to be. I 
am speaking mostly to my friends on 
this side of the aisle. There has also 
been a number of people on the other 
side of the aisle who have spent a great 
deal of time over the last 2 or 3 years 
trying to focus on ways to reduce 
spending in the government and making 
our country stronger in the process. 
I think to a person over here—as well 
as many on the other side of the aisle— 
we understand that our inability to 

deal with the fiscal situation in which 
we find ourselves in this country has 
hurt us economically. People have not 
been willing to invest in capital investments 
within their companies and 
around the world in many cases because 
they don’t know what is going to 
happen in our country. 

I know first hand as the ranking 
member on Foreign Relations—and as I 
have traveled the world—there is no 
doubt it has affected us around the 
world. People really do not understand 
whether we are going to be able to 
meet the obligations we have made 
from a security standpoint. 

Again, where we are today is very 
predictable, and I don’t want to be 
crass. Obviously, I know this is creating 
a hardship for some people who 
have been furloughed, and it is certainly 
affecting people around our 
country, and that is obviously not 
good. On the other hand, if there is 
some way for some good policy outcome 
that strengthens our country 
over the longer haul, which is why we 
are all here, then that is a good trade-
off. We will see what happens. 

Here is my concern: While the situation 
we are in is very predictable—and 
many people in this body predicted we 
would end up exactly where we are 
today in this box canyon—we knew 
people would still sign up for the new 
health care law, which some have tried 
to defund, in spite of the fact that government 
has shut down. 

What I am concerned about is this: 
We have made great strides as a nation, 
and in this body, to reduce government 
outlays we have control over. 
This has not happened in this Nation 
since 1955 and 1956. Two years ago we 
were at $1.43 trillion in annual outlays 
from a discretionary standpoint, and 
that is what we deal with in a CR. Last 
year we were at $988 billion, and this 
year—if we continue to uphold the law 
we put in place—we will be at $967 billion. 


That is a phenomenal result for us to 
have achieved in this body and for our 
country—to have achieved to strengthen 
our Nation. While there may be 
ways of changing the way those outlays 
are done—and maybe there is 
mandatory spending that is substituted 
for discretionary spending. Maybe 
there are ways of doing it to make it 
more sensible to people in this body. It 
is truly remarkable that Washington 
figured out a way to reduce the amount 
of spending that was taking place. I 
know we can figure out a way to do 
that even smarter. 

Let me get to the unpredictable 
point. Sometimes when people find 
themselves in a box canyon or in a 
place that is difficult, they begin doing 
things that are not in the interest of 
themselves, and certainly not in the interest 
of the body that they represent. 
What I am worried about is that while 
so many people have been focused on 
this shiny thing over here and so much 
of the Nation’s focus has been on this 
shiny thing over here, what people 


S7112 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

have not been focused on, in the way I 
would hope, is the gains we have made 
in controlling spending as a nation. 
What I worry about—as it looks like 
we are now beginning to combine the 
continuing resolution process with the 
debt ceiling—is that people forget 
about the tremendous gains we have 
made in strengthening this Nation. 
While I am saying this to an empty 
Chamber, like most of us do when we 
speak on the Senate floor—and I know 
people are busy and have other things 
to do—my talk today is really focused 
on people in the other Chamber. 

I know there is a lot that is happening 
over there. What I am worried 
about is that as the leadership over 
there tries to cobble together 218 votes 
to maybe do something relevant to the 
continuing resolution, and at the same 
time do something to the debt ceiling, 
that somehow or other—because we are 
in this boxed canyon that was very predictable—
they deal away what we have 
gained. 

What I hope we will do on this side— 
and to all of those—and there are 
many—on the other side who have 
fought so hard to try to get the momentum 
going so we will save our 
country from huge deficits down the 
road and do what we can to make sure 
we leave this country a better place for 
young people like these interns and 
pages here on the floor—of the aisle is 
keep our focus on the fact that whenever 
negotiations take place around a 
debt ceiling, they traditionally and always 
have been about making sure we 
are trying to do those things to keep us 
from having more debt down the road. 
We need to keep our eyes focused on 
the reforms that are necessary to keep 
that process going. 

To be candid—and this is the first 
time I have said this publicly—to look 
at a continuing resolution at $988 billion—
I’m sorry. As it now is, the law 
says we would be spending—beginning 
a couple of days ago in this new year— 
at $967 billion. I know the discussions 
here on the floor have been: Well, in 6 
weeks the sequester—by the way, the 
sequester is that mechanism that was 
put in place during the Budget Control 
Act to continue to put downward pressure 
on spending—will kick in according 
to all of the discussions that have 
taken place. 

I think most of us who have fought 
hard to try to save our Nation from 
these mounting deficits down the road 
were a little disappointed that we 
would be looking at extending last 
year’s spending for 6 weeks, and really 
not taking ourselves down to $967 billion. 
I realize what has happened. But 
here is my point to the other side of 
the building, the House: Whatever you 
have to do to cobble together 218 votes 
to pass a bill over there relative to 
maybe the CR and the debt ceiling, 
please do not negotiate away the hard-
won gains we were able to put in place 
to reduce spending and help make our 
country stronger for the young people 
like those sitting in front of me. That 
is my message. 

We are in a place that is very predictable. 
The outcome is unpredictable, but 
what I hope the outcome will be is an 
outcome that causes us not only not to 
deal away the gains that have been put 
in place, but to maybe put in place 
mandatory reforms that we all know 
need to occur to make this country 
stronger. There is tremendous bipartisan 
support. 

In April the President laid out a 
budget that had a number of mandatory 
reforms that he was in agreement 
with. So what I hope will happen is we 
will keep the discretionary levels at 
levels we have already agreed to and 
we will take up some of those mandatory 
reforms that the President has already 
said he thinks are in the interest 
of our Nation and use those to help us 
raise the debt ceiling. As a result, we 
will have an outcome that causes this 
country to be stronger, causes this 
economy to grow, and over time causes 
us to continue to be able to honor the 
commitments we have made around 
the world. 

With that I note absence of a 
quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. 
BALDWIN). The Senator from Kansas. 

Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I had 
a great honor this morning, and it will 
change the nature of the remarks I intended 
to make on the Senate floor. 

I just returned from the World War II 
Memorial. We had a group of 90 World 
War II veterans who flew here on an 
Honor Air flight. Honor Air is a national 
program. The funds for it are 
raised by friends, neighbors, and community 
individuals to help bring their 
World War II veterans to the Nation’s 
Capital. 

I have probably visited the World 
War II Memorial dozens of times— 
maybe 40 or 50. I visit it every time 
there is an Honor Air flight from my 
home State and I am in Washington, 
DC, I like to be there to say: Welcome 
and thank you. It is an honor to have 
you at the memorial that was built for 
you. 

I visited the World War II Memorial. 
It is especially meaningful to me personally. 
My dad is a World War II veteran. 
My dad has been on the Honor Air 
flight. My dad will be 98 in November. 

A few days before the World War II 
Memorial opened, I walked down 
there—I was a House Member then, not 
a Senator—and got a glimpse of what it 
was going to be like. It is a wonderful 
place and it reminds us of many things. 
That day, I stepped away from the memorial 
and used my cell phone to call 
my dad at home in Plainville, KS. I 
was fortunate I got the answering machine, 
because these are difficult 

things to tell your parents. So I said: 
Dad, I am at the World War II Memorial. 
Thank you for your service to our 
country. I respect you and I love you. 
It was great to be able to say that to 
an answering machine instead of to 
your own parent. 

My dad actually one-upped me. A few 
moments later my cell phone rang and 
he said: Gerald, I couldn’t understand 
what you said. 

So I repeated it in person. 

The great thing about the memorial 
is it causes us to reflect and say things 
and express ourselves in ways that we 
otherwise would never do. So that memorial, 
as do others that honor our 
service men and women, is one that 
calls us to say we thank you for your 
service, we respect you, we love you. 
That was my experience again this 
morning. 

Again, I try to be there every time a 
group of veterans comes from Kansas, 
and I was hoping today wouldn’t be any 
different. With the shutdown of our 
government, with the funding on hold 
for the National Parks, there was some 
concern about whether these veterans 
would be able to actually get to the 
memorial. It all worked fine. I appreciate 
the way the morning’s events 
transpired and there was no confrontation 
and no one wanted to deny those 
veterans their chance to visit their memorial 
for the first time. 

In addition to those sentiments 
about these individual veterans, I 
think what may be of value as we approach 
today and tomorrow and try to 
find the solutions that are necessary to 
solve the circumstance we find ourselves 
in is a recognition that our veterans—
I have had this thought every 
time I have walked to the Vietnam 
Wall or to the Korean War Memorial 
and now to this newer memorial, the 
World War II Memorial—not a single 
person represented on that wall or memorialized 
in the World War II Memorial 
or the Korean War Memorial, not 
one of them—I cannot imagine that a 
single one of them—volunteered or was 
drafted for purposes of a fight between 
Republicans and Democrats. No one 
went to serve our country, no one volunteered 
to serve our country because 
they believed in Republicans or they 
believed in Democrats. Knowing veterans 
as I do, my view is they answered 
the call to duty. They were willing to 
serve because they believed in America. 
They believed in the United States 
and our principles and the freedoms 
and liberties it provides, and they 
knew their service would make a difference 
in the lives of their kids and 
grandkids. They knew their service 
would help make America a better 
place for everyone, but certainly for 
people they knew—their family members. 


I hope I can portray to my colleagues 
here in the Senate and here in this 
Capitol building and down Pennsylvania 
Avenue that the battles we engage 
in need to be a lot less about Republicans 
and Democrats and much 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7113 

more about what is good for the country. 
We ought to use the veterans we 
met with this morning and those who 
are memorialized on the National Mall 
in every circumstance to remind ourselves 
that there is a higher calling to 
what we do in our Nation’s Capital. 
There is something more important 
than political skirmishes. 

I don’t say this in any Pollyanna 
way. I don’t say it in a way that 
doesn’t acknowledge partisan differences. 
I always assumed and believed 
that America sent a variety of 
people to Washington, DC, to represent 
their interests and my State of Kansas 
will probably send somebody different 
than some other State. We all come 
here with a philosophy, a background 
of the way we grew up, the way we 
think about things, the instructions 
our constituents have given us, and all 
of that is reflected in the way we vote, 
the issues we pursue, the priorities we 
have. So it is not that we are all supposed 
to agree, but surely there ought 
to be a recognition that when there is 
disagreement, as there often is, there is 
a desire, just as our service men and 
women had to serve the country, much 
more important than the desire to 
serve our political party. 

Today’s trip to the World War II Memorial, 
while it is a common experience 
for me, was especially useful and 
meaningful because it happened at a 
time when these veterans came not 
knowing whether they would be able to 
gain entry to the memorial. Being 
there to encourage them and seeing 
them welcomed and greeted was important 
but, perhaps equally as important, 
it served as a reminder to me that 
what we do in the Senate is motivated 
by the best of intentions and the greatest 
of goals; the idea that America is a 
special place and we who serve here 
have a special responsibility. We have 
a chance to try to do something good 
for the country. 

One of the things that has always inspired 
and pleased me about Kansans— 
and I assume it is true elsewhere—most 
of the conversations I have with folks 
back home are a lot less about what 
they want me to do for them but more 
about what decisions they want me to 
make, to make certain their kids and 
grandkids have a better life. There is 
something very great about how we 
have an interest—as human beings, as 
parents—in the well-being of the next 
generation and not just the well-being 
of ourselves. So my efforts in trying to 
find resolution to the circumstance we 
find ourselves in is strengthened, the 
resolve I have to try to work with others 
here in the Senate is one that is 
highlighted by my experience this 
morning at the National Mall. 

I think about where we are and where 
we need to go. Again, having decried 
the high partisanship nature of this 
place, I don’t want to detract from 
that, but we need to be able to have 
leaders who are willing to have discussions, 
conversations, and a coming together. 
It is true of Republicans and it 

is true of Democrats and it is certainly 
true of whoever is the President of the 
United States. We need to make certain 
we have the ability to recognize 
that not all of us agree on everything, 
but with the efforts we make to find a 
solution to a problem, there is a coming 
together. It seems to me we have 
now gotten ourselves in this entrenched 
position. And while I was 
pleased moments ago to learn that our 
President has called congressional 
leaders to the White House, it is disturbing 
to me that the message is: But 
we are not negotiating. I am not certain 
what the purpose of the White 
House visit will be. I hope it results in 
movement, in success. 

It is my understanding my colleagues 
on the Democratic side of the aisle 
have agreed this morning to ‘‘not negotiate.’’ 
All I know about that is what I 
have read in the press. I don’t—again, 
in an attempt to make certain this 
doesn’t sound partisan and detract 
from what I was attempting to convey 
moments ago, we need to make certain 
Republicans understand we can make 
progress in the positions we hold even 
without getting everything we want. 

So this experience I described of 
being a Senator—a Member of this 
great deliberative body—hasn’t been 
my experience in the short time I have 
been a Member of the Senate. The idea 
that we can’t negotiate seems to me to 
be contrary to the purpose of this historic 
body. 

I hope the attitude and approach 
changes and every Senator recognizes 
it is not an all-or-nothing proposition. 
It is an opportunity for us to resolve 
differences and each find some satisfaction 
in moving in a direction or preserving 
the status quo, if that is one’s 
position; that because America is a diverse 
place and that people care differently 
about different issues and have 
different opinions, we certainly have a 
responsibility to represent those views 
of the folks back home, but recognizing 
that the country doesn’t always agree 
with us. Surely, there is that common 
ground, that opportunity to find solutions. 


My call is for leadership—and by 
leadership I mean broadly all 100 of us; 
not leadership in the sense of someone 
who occupies a position of leadership 
beyond being a Member of the Senate 
but all of us—to find the leadership to 
find the necessary resolve to solve our 
country’s problems. 

The Affordable Care Act is a very 
controversial piece of legislation. It 
has been said here on the Senate floor: 
It is the law, it is not negotiable. That 
position doesn’t make sense to me. In 
fact, the President has delayed, excluded, 
found exemptions for what is 
the law. So, surely, if the President 
can, for example, delay the implementation 
of the employer mandate, it is 
not outside of the realm—in fact, I 
would say it is the constitutional responsibility 
of Congress—to have the 
debate, discussion, and consideration of 
whether to delay the individual man


date. It is the law of the land, but if 
the President can make changes to the 
law of the land, surely the body created 
by article I, the legislative branch, has 
that opportunity to do so as well. So it 
ought not be nonnegotiable. 

It is time for the Senate to function. 
It is time for us as individual Senators 
to provide the leadership to resolve our 
problems. 

In my view, we desperately need leadership 
from the President. While I have 
serious policy and philosophical disagreements 
with President Obama, my 
greatest complaint about his Presidency 
is his lack of leadership. We need 
somebody to rally us, to come together 
and find solutions to those problems, 
to better resolve our differences. 
Again, I don’t want to detract from the 
observations about how partisan this 
place has become by talking about 
President Obama. In this case, he is a 
Democrat and I am a Republican, but 
regardless of who is the occupant of the 
White House, in order for the Congress 
to resolve difficult issues, it takes the 
leadership of a President. 

My call is, as it was earlier to my 
colleagues in the Senate to provide 
leadership—I hope the President, in his 
meeting with the leadership of the Senate 
and House today, will provide the 
leadership necessary to help us move in 
the right direction and step back from 
the statement that while we are meeting, 
nothing is negotiable. 

I appreciate the opportunity to address 
the Senate and I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from West Virginia. 

Mr. MANCHIN. First, I wish to apologize 
to the people of West Virginia. I 
am embarrassed and ashamed as a Senator 
and Member of Congress by how 
we are acting. I have been answering 
phones in my office. They are upset. I 
said: Well, you are not as upset as I 
am. I have a front-row seat, and it is 
not pretty. 

This is not what we were sent here to 
do. It is not what I signed up for. It is 
not why I asked the people in West Virginia 
to allow me to represent what I 
consider to be the greatest State in the 
Nation, and I am sure each Senator 
feels the same way about their State 
and its wonderful people. I have always 
looked at public service as an opportunity 
to fix problems, to make life 
better, to be able to use the wisdom 
and skills we have obtained through 
our experiences in life and watching 
people and the compassion we have for 
people to try to make it better. 

Shutting down government is simply 
unacceptable. I don’t care what way a 
person looks at this, it is unacceptable. 

This is the first time in 17 years that 
our government is not open for business—
the first time in 17 years we are 
not open. This is self-inflicted. This did 
not happen by any outside forces. This 
has all been self-inflicted. It not only 
hurts the people of West Virginia deeply, 
it hurts people all over this country, 
and they are feeling the effects. 
This is only the second day, but it is 2 
days too long. 


S7114 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

Most of you know I am pretty moderate. 
I am very conservative on fiscal 
issues. This is how we were raised. We 
were expected to pay our bills, to take 
care of our debts, and take care of ourselves 
and our families. So I have 
watched that very carefully. 

When I became Governor, the first 
thing I did was I tried to put our financial 
house in order in West Virginia so 
that basically we could take care of 
our values. That was our priority, 
based on what we wanted—our children 
to have opportunities. We never cut 
any services during the recession. We 
took care of our seniors with the dignity 
and respect and pride they should 
have. We took care of our veterans. We 
could not be everything to everybody, 
but we really watched our dollars and 
got our financial house in order. So I 
look at it from that standpoint, where 
I come from, as a proud West Virginia 
Democrat, but I am also very compassionate 
on social issues. Watching my 
grandparents and watching my family 
in the little town of Farmington, WV, 
where I grew up, people expected you 
to do things. They expected you to 
really chip in and help people, but they 
expected you to help yourself also, and 
they expected you to take care of those 
who could not, the less fortunate. I 
have always taken that with me in 
every aspect of public service. 

I think I am reasonable and willing 
to compromise and work with anybody 
on any issue. I have always put my 
State’s interests ahead of my party 
politics. I do not make any excuses. I 
really believe I am an absolutely privileged 
person to be living in the greatest 
country on Earth and to be a member 
of a great family in the great State 
of West Virginia. But I am an American, 
I am a West Virginian, and then 
I am a Democrat in West Virginia, and 
I have dear friends who are Republicans 
from West Virginia and from all 
over the country. 

So when I looked at the cause of this 
problem we have right now, it is about 
finances, strictly about finances. Can 
we continue to pay? I also looked at 
the way I felt Democrats truly looked 
at this. They said: Fine, we will agree 
to the $986 billion number—$986 billion. 
That was the Republicans’ request, to 
keep that spending level. The Democrats 
would have loved to have $1.058 
trillion. They reduced it $90 billion. To 
me, that was a good compromise. We 
can live with that $986 billion number. 
We have to tighten our belts a little 
bit, but we are good at that in West 
Virginia. And we did it. 

Then, all of a sudden, the Affordable 
Care Act—or ObamaCare, as people 
have referred to it—becomes the issue. 
There are a lot of things in that piece 
of legislation that I do not agree with. 
I do not know how I would have voted 
if I had been here. I would have tried to 
make what I would have thought were 
constructive changes. But do you know 
what. It is the law. And I said: I am in 
a mode that I would call for a reform, 
repair, and then repeal parts of it we 

cannot fix. I do not know that yet. We 
have to get in there and do it. 

I am probably part of the problem 
and caused some of this because I made 
a statement. We were talking to some 
people, and they asked me: What do 
you think is going to happen? 

I said: Well, for my colleagues and 
friends on the other side of the aisle— 
my Republican friends—I would think 
they would look, and if they really 
want to talk about health care, can it 
be extended for 1 year before it takes 
effect as the law. 

I did not mean to postpone it. I did 
not mean to stop and don’t start it 
until next year. I meant the fines and 
the penalties. 

Think about this. I am very much opposed 
to the individual mandate, but I 
understand it is part of the process. 
But I would have thought, why 
wouldn’t we have a transition year? 

So the law took effect as of yesterday. 
It has. We have people trying to 
find the best opportunity they have. In 
my little State, we do not have a lot of 
options, so I want to make sure the 
people who have good insurance are 
somehow able to keep that. There has 
to be a way we can work through that. 
I want to make sure the people who 
have no insurance and have never been 
able to buy insurance can now be able 
to afford it. I want to make sure of 
that. I want to make sure people who 
had a preexisting condition or had a 
child who was born with a condition 
are able to keep the insurance they 
now have that they could not have before. 
I want to make sure that basically 
the senior citizens in West Virginia, 
who basically are filling the 
doughnut hole out of their pockets, 
which they cannot afford, are taken 
care of. They can go get an exam on an 
annual basis and not have to pay a co-
payment from their Medicare. Those 
are all good things, and I know my 
good friends on the Republican side 
feel the same way about some of this. 
Why would you want to throw the baby 
out with the bathwater when all you 
have to do is maybe change the water 
every now and then and we have a little 
clean water we can bathe the baby 
in again? These are sensible solutions, 
like how I was raised, looking at how 
do you fix it? 

I can assure you this: I have never 
fixed a problem by calling somebody 
else a name. I have never chastised 
somebody for their beliefs. I really 
have not. I have tried to think, OK, if 
I were in their shoes, how could we fix 
this? 

When I was Governor, I used to sit 
down with people on the opposite side 
and think, OK, in the profession we are 
in—public service—how do I allow 
them to go home to save face? How do 
I allow them to have some comfort 
that they are going to be able to bring 
constructive ideas to the table that basically 
make it better? I have always 
thought of that. 

So you are not going to hear me saying 
that we are right and they are 

wrong. In this case here, I will say: 
Please, don’t have this self-inflicted 
pain on the people of my State of West 
Virginia or your State or this country. 
There could be a time when we might 
not be able to stop what might be happening. 
The market forces might push 
us in a direction that we cannot control. 
This is something we can control, 
and all we are asking for—please, let 
government continue. If you want to 
talk about a big, grand plan, which I 
hope we do, which is fixing the financial 
condition, getting our financial 
house in order, I have been a big supporter 
of Bowles-Simpson. It is the 
only bipartisan package that has been 
on the table since I have been here. 
There are an awful lot of things of 
which people say: Well, I don’t like 
this, I don’t like that. None of them 
have said it is not what needs to be 
done. It is a three-pronged approach. 
That is the big fix we have talked 
about. But we are not talking about 
any of that. We are talking about 
things we do not like. We are talking 
about people we do not like. We are 
calling people names. And it just does 
not fix things. It does not make it 
right. So you will hear me continue to 
talk about the grand bargain. This is 
the time, between now and the debt 
ceiling. 

I will say this about the debt ceiling: 
Raising the debt does not fix the debt. 
We need to have a path to fix it. We 
should not be going through this political 
fight every 3, 6 months. This is the 
fifth time I have been in a debt ceiling 
debate. How many times have we voted 
on the so-called ObamaCare? It is ridiculous 
to continue to fight the same 
fight over and over. 

I hope we are in a reform or repair, 
and then repeal when you cannot fix it. 
When you have given it your all for the 
betterment of your country and it is 
just not fixable or doable, then you 
change. We have not gotten there yet. 
We have all naysayers and people basically 
who just do not want change. I 
have too many people who need the 
services of government. I have too 
many people who depend on it—not 
that I believe people should be dependent. 
I hope people would be independent. 
But government is so intertwined 
in all of our lives, and to just 
say you want to stop it all is wrong. 

So I would ask my dear friends and 
my colleagues on the Republican side 
to please think about a continuing resolution. 
Please. We have come to the 
agreement on the number that you 
wanted of $986 billion. Health care—if 
you wanted to bring up the Keystone 
Pipeline, I am a total supporter of the 
Keystone Pipeline for energy independence. 
I am an ‘‘all energy’’ person—use 
whatever we have. It is not the place 
for it. As much as I would like to see 
it, it is not the place for me to draw 
the line to inflict so much pain on so 
many Americans, so many West Virginians, 
just because of one issue I like 
or do not like. There is a time for that. 
There will be a time for this health 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7115 

care bill, ObamaCare. It will either 
succeed or fail on its own. But we 
ought to try to make it better if we 
can. If we cannot, then come to the 
conclusion we cannot, but do not shut 
down government because you do not 
think it will work—or maybe you are 
afraid it will work. That could be it 
too. 

With all that being said, I say to my 
friends, you will never hear me say 
anything derogatory about you. You 
can always reach across the aisle to 
me. I am always going to sit down and 
talk to you. I am willing to compromise 
and work on any issue that 
betters the position we have, that 
betters the quality of life, that creates 
opportunities, that makes us the 
strongest and most powerful Nation on 
Earth. I will continue to fight for that. 
But I am asking you for this time, do 
not allow this self-inflicted pain to 
continue. This is not fair to my State, 
it is not fair to the people of West Virginia, 
it is not fair to the Presiding Officer’s 
State of Wisconsin or to anybody 
in this great country of ours. 

With that, Madam President, I say 
thank you for allowing me to say what 
has been on my mind. I am a proud 
American, and it is about this country 
first, and it is always going to be about 
this country first. If the United States 
of America does well, I will guarantee 
you the great State of West Virginia is 
going to be just great, we are going to 
do fine. But we have to work together 
and put our priorities in place. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. CASEY. Madam President, first 
of all, I want to commend the words of 
my colleague from West Virginia 
about, first of all, the frustration that 
so many Americans feel that we share 
and also his words about trying to 
come to a resolution. I think it bears 
repeating. 

The main purpose of my remarks 
today will be focused, really, on one 
central theme; that is, in the House 
right now Speaker BOEHNER could put a 
bill on the floor that would open the 
government after a House vote. I am 
holding in my hand the bill that would 
do that. This is the bill that passed on 
Friday. It is amendment No. 1974 to 

H.J. Res. 59. This is the bill that, if the 
Speaker were to put it on the floor, 
would pass overwhelmingly. But you 
would get not just one side of the aisle, 
it would be a bipartisan vote to pass 
that bill, and upon passage, then, of 
course, getting the bill to the President 
for signature. So within however 
long it takes for the House to complete 
a vote—a rule and maybe two votes— 
and then getting it to the President, 
this could be over. And it should be 
over. 
We should open the government. This 
is the way to do it—a bill that does not 
have anything attached to it. It just 
funds the government. I would hope the 
Speaker at long last would put that 
bill on the floor. We are hearing voices 

that are bipartisan today asking for 
the Speaker to do just that. We have 
also heard a lot of talk about negotiation 
and compromise, and it is good 
that people are talking about that. But 
I hope some of our Republican friends 
talk about it with a degree of faithfulness 
to the facts or add adherence to 
the facts about what has happened over 
the last couple of months. 

In an effort to reach an agreement 
that would avoid the shutdown—going 
back now a number of weeks and even 
months—Democrats here in the Senate 
and in the House as well accepted some 
of the very difficult so-called sequestration 
cuts. What do I mean by that? 
I mean the across-the-board indiscriminate 
cuts that went into effect in 2013 
and were, unfortunately, a carryover 
from a battle and a fight in the summer 
of 2011. So we have accepted those 
difficult cuts in this budget negotiation 
in the so-called continuing resolution—
meaning the bill that would keep 
the government operating, the one I 
just held up—as a compromise. This 
happened a while back. 

I mentioned that last Friday, September 
27, the Senate passed the so-
called clean continuing resolution, 
which is just a fancy way of saying a 
budget bill without add-ons—nothing 
about any other issue, just a bill to 
fund the government. That bill—the 
one I referred to earlier that passed the 
Senate on the 27th and is sitting over 
in the House—would open the government 
and continue funding for the government 
until the middle of November 
so we get past this crisis, we do not 
have this as a problem in the next debate 
about paying our bills, and we can 
have a big debate in November about 
making sure we can pay for government 
operations. 

What we should do as well, as we are 
debating in November—I hope we can 
get there, but as we are debating that, 
we should figure out a way—this is a 
bipartisan concern—to shut off, to turn 
off at least for 2 years the across-the-
board cuts with which I think both parties 
have real disagreement. But the 
key is passing this in the House, this 
measure that will end the crisis, open 
the government. 

When we passed it here in the Senate, 
we accepted those levels of spending, 
which are significantly less than 
Democrats would have hoped for, would 
have wanted. We accepted those despite 
the fact that we reversed the sequester 
in the budget we passed this spring. So 
we had a long budget debate here and, 
some might remember, last spring 
voted well into the early morning 
hours. I think our last vote was at 4 or 
5 in the morning. 

That was a higher number than we 
have agreed to already. So Democrats 
have compromised substantially already 
on the spending level. That does 
not seem to get reported very often. 
The bill that passed the Senate last 
Friday is a $70 billion cut from the last 
fiscal year, 2013, the levels that were 
enacted spending levels—enacted fiscal 

year 2013 before the across-the-board 
cuts went into effect. 

To restate, this legislation which is 
in the House right now and they could 
pass with overwhelming bipartisan support, 
and it would open the government 
and end this crisis—they could do it 
this afternoon. They could do it this 
evening. They could do it without a lot 
of trouble if they put this bill on the 
floor. It does not mean all Republicans 
have to vote for it. The Speaker himself 
could vote against it. But putting 
it on the floor and having an up-or-
down vote I think would be good for everyone. 


It would end this crisis, open the government, 
and then we could begin to 
work on what I think the American 
people want us working on. They expect 
us to keep the government open. 
That is fundamental. But I think they 
expect us as well to work on strategies 
to create jobs or at least put into effect 
strategies that will lead to job creation. 


I will say it again: This bill that is 
sitting in the House is not just a bill 
that will open the government, it will 
have overwhelming bipartisan support 
there. The bill is $70 billion less than 
what we wanted. To say that is a compromise 
is an understatement. On the 
main issue before us, how do you fund 
the government, how much in terms of 
dollars do you direct toward the operations 
of the government, we have already 
compromised a long time ago to 
reduce that number by $70 billion. 

So when our friends are saying 
Democrats are not negotiating or compromising, 
my goodness, we compromised 
on day 1. They prevailed in 
that debate. We decided it is better to 
compromise in that number and keep 
the government operating and move 
the process along in terms of the budget, 
rather than shutting the government 
down to get our way. 

Some Democrats may have said to 
us: You know what. You should have 
taken this part and not accepted those 
cuts, and maybe even take it as far as 
some Republicans want to take the debate 
on health care and shut the government 
down. We said: That does not 
make any sense. It is bad for the economy. 
It is bad for vulnerable people. It 
is bad for national security and a whole 
host of other reasons which I will mention 
in a minute, to shut down the government. 


So from the beginning, we were not 
only willing to compromise and negotiate, 
we have already done it in a very 
substantial way on the core issue, 
which is the budget and the number. 
For them to say: Well, we are not going 
to insist that the government stay 
open, and then they want to have some 
negotiation about that does not make 
a lot of sense, does it, when you consider 
the compromises we have already 
made? 

I think the fundamental thing the 
American people want us to do is open 
the government. The key to opening 
the government is not only sitting in 


S7116 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

the House, the key is already in the 
lock. All the Speaker has to do is turn 
it ever so slightly—turn that key. The 
turning of the key is this bill. If this 
bill goes on the floor of the House of 
Representatives today, tomorrow 
morning, tomorrow afternoon, tonight, 
whenever, it will pass with overwhelming 
bipartisan support. 

I will come back to that in a moment. 
But I think the question of compromise 
is, frankly, weighted to our 
side. I think we have already made a 
substantial and significant compromise 
in the negotiation, and that was done a 
long time ago. I think at this point, 
when it comes to the question, some 
Members of the House have tried to do, 
to bring us to this point where there is 
a shutdown, I think their actions are, 
in a word, irresponsible. I think a lot of 
Americans expect they would act in a 
more responsible manner. By pushing 
an agenda that has now led to a government 
shutdown, in addition to being 
irresponsible or a dereliction of their 
duty, is also reckless. 

This is a reckless step to take just to 
make a point about health care, about 
anything else. There are a lot of us who 
would like to have our arguments litigated 
or debated in a way that gets a 
lot of attention paid to it. But to take 
it this far, where you are literally willing 
to take an action which leads, as 
this has done, to a government shutdown, 
is both irresponsible and reckless. 


I think we are just beginning now, in 
these hours—and now unfortunately we 
are into the second day—we are now 
just beginning to understand the impact 
this is having on Americans. But 
in the case of Pennsylvania, we are just 
beginning to hear the impact on individual 
Pennsylvanians. 

This morning I learned that Bushkill 
Outreach, a food pantry located in the 
Delaware Water Gap Recreational 
Area, is closed because it is on Federal 
land operated by the National Park 
Service. 

When you close a national park area 
or a national park itself, you are not 
just impacting what happens there and 
the opportunity for people to tour a national 
park or to recreate, you are actually 
having an adverse impact, in 
this case on a food pantry. This particular 
food pantry, Bushkill Outreach, 
feeds 30 families per day, amounting to 
120 people per day and 1,200 people per 
month. Imagine that. You have a group 
of Members of Congress in Washington 
who believe their ideological point of 
view on one issue is so compelling and 
so important to the country that they 
are willing to shut the government 
down and deny those 30 families the opportunity 
to have the benefit of a food 
pantry in a still tough economy. 

We have had, fortunately, a lot of job 
growth over the last several years. We 
are happy about that. We are happy 
that the economy is moving in the 
right direction on job growth. But it is 
not moving fast enough for Pennsylvania. 
In this sense, we have hovered 

around half a million people for too 
long. It was well above 500,000 people. 
Fortunately, it came down below half a 
million. But it has begun to creep up 
again. Once again, Pennsylvania has an 
unemployment number which is just at 
about 501,000 people. 

In my home area, northeastern Pennsylvania, 
we saw data today—unfortunately 
in my home county, Lackawanna 
County, and the county next 
door, Luzerne County, at least one, 
maybe two more, in that region of the 
State, including the region where 
Bushkill Outreach is—the unemployment 
rate in several of those counties 
is more than 9 percent. 

So there a food pantry is not just a 
place for people who are particularly 
vulnerable; those are people who have 
been vulnerable, because of job loss, because 
of the economy. The shutdown 
has two adverse impacts on those families. 
It has a direct impact on their 
ability to access food every day. That 
is horrific enough. Talk about direct 
and substantial pain, physical pain on 
an individual or family. But it also has 
another impact when they shut the 
government down, certainly over a 
long period of time for sure—and this is 
irrefutable—you injure the national 
economy. When you injure the national 
economy, you make it less likely that 
those people who have to access food 
banks can actually get a job in northeastern 
Pennsylvania or anywhere else 
in the country. 

This is about real life. This is not 
some Washington theoretical debate. 
There are thousands of reasons to open 
up the government. I say to the Speaker 
of the House: Get this bill on the 
floor, and the food pantry will no 
longer be adversely impacted. Our national 
security will no longer be adversely 
impacted if we can open the 
government up again. A lot of the folks 
who access this food bank are on fixed 
incomes, so it has a detrimental effect 
on them. 

How about national security? The 
shutdown is having a direct and substantial 
impact on national security. 
Our colleague Senator FEINSTEIN was 
on the floor yesterday and spoke of the 
critical impact the shutdown is having 
on the intelligence community. As 
many Americans know, intelligence 
gathering is not just the CIA, it is a 
whole range of agencies that gather intelligence 
which arms us with information 
to protect ourselves and to be able 
to protect ourselves from terrorist 
threats. 

In the intelligence community, 
meaning all of the Federal agencies 
that gather intelligence to protect us, 
72 percent of the civilian work force is 
furloughed. It is hard to comprehend 
the adverse impact of that. This means 
the bulk of Federal employees who 
gather critical intelligence and work 
with law enforcement agencies are not 
working during the shutdown. 

You have to ask yourself at this 
point—if you are a Member of the 
House or the Senate who believes that 

the point you want to make on health 
care or anything else that has led to 
this shutdown—do you really want to 
maintain that position, that your point 
is so important and so compelling that 
you are willing to allow a shutdown to 
take place and to continue and allow 
the number I read, 72 percent of the civilian 
workforce in the intelligence 
community, to be furloughed? It puts 
at risk our soldiers, the fighting men 
and women on battlefields around the 
world or in danger zones, it puts at risk 
our diplomatic personnel, and at some 
level at some point in time puts Americans 
at risk because you cannot stop 
terrorism. You cannot arm yourself 
against terrorist attacks unless you 
have information. You do not get the 
information unless you have the full 
means of intelligence gathering. So I 
hope folks would ask themselves: Is my 
ideological point of view on this or 
that issue important enough that we 
should have a government shutdown in 
place which injures our ability in gathering 
intelligence for national security? 
I hope people would ask themselves 
that question and see what the 
answer would be. 

I have also heard, when you tell people 
about the furloughs, I have heard 
some Republicans—not all, a few— 
make the argument that somehow the 
President is making the decision about 
furloughs that adversely impact national 
security and he is making a mistake 
when he does that, he or his administration, 
or that maybe Members 
of Congress are somehow part of the 
decision on furloughs that would adversely 
impact national security. 

Look, every Member of Congress is 
exposed to intelligence. Every Member 
of Congress has an opportunity to take 
action on national security and intelligence. 
Every Member of Congress has 
an opportunity to say things about decisions 
that impact national security. 
But I would say this to my Republican 
friends: If the charge is the President 
and his administration are making decisions 
about furloughs that somehow 
compromise our national security, if 
you are going to assert that—you are 
free to do it; it is a free country—but if 
you are going to assert that, you 
should have proof. If you are going to 
make a charge like that against any 
President, or, frankly, any Member of 
Congress, Democrat or Republican, you 
have got to have proof there. So I 
would hope the media—when someone 
makes that charge against the Commander 
in Chief, I would hope that 
Member of Congress would have in 
their hand the proof, a document, a 
statement, something they can put on 
the table and say that is the proof. Because 
if you are going make a charge 
which is that serious, in such a grave 
matter of national security, you have 
got to prove it. If you cannot prove it, 
you should keep your mouth shut and 
not make that charge. So I hope when 
people say somehow this furlough number—
I have heard people say: That is 
support personnel in the intel community; 
you really do not need those 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7117 

folks. If you are going to contest the 
number and say our national security 
is okay during the furlough, during a 
shutdown, you have got to prove it. 

A lot of things people say in Washington 
are part of the political debate, 
but if one is going to accuse someone of 
taking an action that would undermine 
national security, one should have to 
prove it. 

Why do I say that? I spent 61/2 years 
on the Foreign Relations Committee. I 
have traveled to the Middle East several 
times, to Pakistan three times, to 
Afghanistan three times, and to Iraq 
twice. In regions of the world where 
our national security interests are directly 
at stake, we have personnel—either 
uniformed or diplomatic personnel. 
I have seen directly how much 
people can be at risk at those postings 
in embassies, consulates, and how dependent 
they are on having marines or 
literally soldiers to protect the embassy 
or a consulate, but how dependent 
they are on good intelligence. 

There are a lot of reasons to open the 
government. There are a lot of reasons 
for the House to vote on this today and 
open the government, but there are few 
as compelling as national security and 
intelligence. 

I wish to go through a list of impacts 
that the shutdown is having. 

We know that the shutdown has an 
impact on small businesses. Why do we 
know that? Well, the SBA on a weekly 
basis provides help to many small businesses 
across the country. We know 
that more than 1,000 businesses a week 
could see their critical financial support 
deferred until the government 
opens again. It is bad for small business 
for the government to be shut 
down. 

A shutdown would end nutrition support 
for pregnant women and children, 
the Women, Infants and Children Program, 
WIC. WIC is the acronym we frequently 
hear. It is a great program. In 
the event of a shutdown such as we are 
living through now, WIC will only be 
able to continue serving participants 
for 1 week. We are in day 2 of the shutdown. 
After 1 week, they would have to 
stop serving participants. 

What are the numbers here? The 
basic numbers from fiscal year 2012 are 
that the average monthly participation 
totaled more than 8.9 million people. Of 
that 8.9 million, 4.7 million are children 
and 2.1 million are infants. This is 
another good reason to pass this bill in 
the House today with a quick vote. It 
would be overwhelmingly bipartisan. In 
addition to national security and intelligence, 
this would make sure that the 
WIC Program will serve people who 
need it. 

A government shutdown would compromise 
public health. Why do I say 
that? In the shutdown, 70 percent of 
NIH employees would be furloughed. 
This is the National Institutes of 
Health which does research on all 
kinds of diseases and ailments. It is the 
envy of the world. No other country in 
the world has anything equivalent to 

the National Institutes of Health, but a 
shutdown will lead to the furlough of 70 
percent of their employees. That is another 
reason. 

As we heard on the news this morning, 
there is a lot of reporting about 
the Centers for Disease Control. It is 
also adversely affected in the shutdown. 


A shutdown also compromises school 
readiness for young children. A government 
shutdown delays funding for 22 
Head Start providers across the country, 
jeopardizing early childhood education 
care for the 18,000 children and 
families those programs serve. We are 
speaking about 22 providers for Head 
Start not being able to provide services 
for 18,000 children and families. 

Finally, a shutdown endangers benefits 
owed to our veterans. The Veterans’ 
Administration will run out of 
money to pay mandatory benefits for 
existing beneficiaries by the end of this 
month. I know we have heard people 
saying: Well, this check or that check 
will not be stopped. Ultimately, there 
is going to be a direct impact if the 
shutdown is continuous. 

I would say to our friends in the 
House they can take action right now 
to prevent this from happening. How 
may they do that? It is very simple. All 
they need to do is take the bill sitting 
there and put it on floor. A lot of people 
can vote against it, but the vote for 
it would be overwhelming. 

If Speaker BOEHNER puts that on the 
floor today, tonight or tomorrow—he 
should do it tonight—we can be beyond 
this. According to a new report in the 
National Review there are potentially 
more than 100 House Republicans who 
would be open to a so-called clean CR. 
When we hear that, this is a clean bill 
to fund the government. It doesn’t 
have anything attached to it. It includes 
the $70 billion compromise 
Democrats have already agreed to by 
reducing the overall cost of the funding 
of the government. 

I hope we could end the shutdown 
today by having the House adopt this 
legislation. I urge the Speaker to put 
the bill on floor for a vote in the House 
today. 

I wish to conclude with some separate 
remarks related to the shutdown, 
but they are also related, unfortunately, 
to a lot of other budget items. 
I wanted to do this the other day and 
want to put it on the record. 

In addition to everything else I have 
spoken about, during the shutdown 
over 30,000 correctional officers in our 
Federal prisons report to work not 
knowing when they will receive their 
next paycheck. These are officers who 
put their lives at risk every day and 
deserve to know when they will be 
paid. During the last shutdown in the 
midnineties, some guards went well 
over a month without being paid. 
These men and women are literally 
putting their lives on the line every 
day. Yesterday, I was scheduled to be 
at an event with a number of families 
who have been directly impacted by 

the violence that is perpetrated against 
corrections officers, but I couldn’t be 
there because it was at the same time 
as our 9:30 vote on the budget trying to 
reverse the shutdown. 

I was supposed to meet with Don and 
Jean Williams, the parents of Eric Williams, 
who lost his life as a corrections 
officer. Officer Williams lost his life 
performing his duties at a U.S. penitentiary 
in northeastern Pennsylvania, 
my home area. I was able to meet his 
parents briefly at his viewing. That is 
real life for the Williams family. 

Unfortunately, they were not the 
only family represented at the event 
yesterday. There were several other 
families who had lost loved ones in 
that way. 

I am not sure I had a full appreciation 
for this before I was elected to the 
Senate. We have corrections officers in 
Pennsylvania in our State system. I 
had some exposure to their work, but it 
wasn’t until I spent a lot of time talking 
to corrections officers at the Federal 
level that I learned the gravity of 
this problem. It is a problem with multiple 
elements. 

One, of course, is an erosion of support 
for corrections officers over time, 
so that over time the ratio of one corrections 
officer to inmates has grown. 
To say they have grown to dangerous 
proportions is an understatement. 

One of the reasons Officer Williams 
lost his life is because often these officers 
are in situations where they are 
outnumbered, sometimes by hundreds 
of inmates. They, of course, can’t carry 
a weapon. The tragedy officer Eric Williams 
suffered, and the tragedy others 
have suffered, serves as a stark reminder 
of the risks that corrections officers 
and staff face every day. 

Budget cuts over time, with across-
the-board-cuts from sequestration, plus 
a shutdown leads to a very dangerous 
situation for corrections officers. We 
need to address their concerns and 
these issues as part of this overall debate 
about the budget. 

In conclusion, I reiterate that I hope 
the House will take up the bill that can 
end this crisis and open the government. 


I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today 
we continue to find ourselves in the unfortunate 
position of a partial government 
shutdown. Following a veto 
threat from the President, last night 
Democrats in the House of Representatives 
killed three spending bills that 
would have funded parks and monuments, 
veterans programs, and the DC 
government. Senate Democrats have 
already rejected four House-passed proposals 
that would have provided Americans 
with relief from ObamaCare while 


S7118 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

ensuring that government operations 
continued. Senate Democrats even rejected 
one proposal that would have 
sent the two Chambers to conference— 
the House and Senate—to work out 
some sort of a solution to this standoff 
we find ourselves in, but they haven’t 
even been willing to talk. In fact, when 
that request from the House came to 
the Senate to create a conference that 
would allow the House and Senate to 
come together to try to find a solution, 
it was tabled. It was soundly rejected— 
tabled—by the Democrats here in the 
Senate. 

So we are continuing in this holding 
pattern as the House continues to send 
proposals over and they continue to be 
rejected by the Senate, with Senate 
Democrats not even wanting to sit 
down and talk with the House about 
how we might resolve this. 

I am happy to hear the President has, 
after a week of essentially ignoring 
congressional Republicans, called the 
leaders to the White House tonight. I 
am a little confused, however, about 
the purpose of the meeting, as the 
White House continues to say they are 
not going to negotiate. I hope the 
President does change his mind on 
that, that he is evolving on it, and that 
he will at this meeting express a willingness 
to work with Republicans because 
it really is important for the 
President to be engaged in this process. 

I can’t imagine a scenario where we 
have consequences such as these, with 
a continuing funding resolution still 
not approved, a partial government 
shutdown, a debt limit coming up in 
the middle of the month, and the President 
essentially saying: I am not going 
to negotiate. I am not going to negotiate 
on any of this. 

I think that is a position that is completely 
unreasonable, and I think the 
American people find it to be completely 
unreasonable as well. 

In the meantime, we have an opportunity 
now to address some of the concerns 
that have been raised by people 
about various parts of our government 
that as a result of this unnecessary 
shutdown are not open. So Republicans 
continue to try to work to open government 
and at the same time to provide 
ObamaCare fairness for all. 

I have said this before, but I get the 
sense some of our colleagues on the 
Democratic side and the President 
seem to be content with shutting down 
the government. Well, we Republicans 
are not. We are consistently trying to 
come up with solutions. 

The House of Representatives will be 
meeting today, and they are going to 
be voting again on some of the same 
proposals that were voted down last 
night by House Democrats. They are 
commonsense spending bills that would 
ensure that important functions of 
government can resume. These bills 
would ensure that benefits for our Nation’s 
veterans continue uninterrupted, 
they would allow our members of the 
National Guard and Reserve to be paid, 
and they would provide funding for the 

National Institutes of Health to ensure 
this senseless shutdown does not prevent 
patients from receiving lifesaving 
treatments. 

I will explain briefly what some of 
these bills would do that are going to 
be coming over later today from the 
House of Representatives to the Senate, 
where, at least to date, none of the 
proposals that have been advanced by 
the House of Representatives have been 
accepted here in the Senate. They have 
been tabled by the majority leader. 
That is unfortunate because it is the 
essence of what the American people 
believe we ought to be doing, which is 
working together, coming together to 
find a solution to some of these big 
problems. Unfortunately, as I said before, 
when the request came over to go 
to conference with the House, that was 
tabled as well. So there has been no 
discussion, no willingness to talk, no 
willingness to think and cooperate in a 
way that would help us get the fundamental 
operations of government up 
and running again. 

Anyway, these bills are going to 
come over from the House today, and 
they follow, as I said, the same track 
they tried to get approved last night. 
One deals with the availability through 
the annual appropriations process of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
continue to serve veterans—namely, 
veterans’ disability payments, the GI 
bill, education and training, and VA 
home loans—under the same conditions 
that were in effect at the end of the 
just-completed fiscal year. In other 
words, it would take all those programs 
that benefit veterans and make 
sure they continue uninterrupted and 
are funded just as they were at the end 
of the fiscal year until such time as 
Congress can come up with a longer 
term solution. That might be an appropriations 
bill—which, frankly, should 
have been passed much earlier this 
year and wasn’t because none of the appropriations 
bills were moved here in 
the Senate—or another temporary 
funding measure, such as a continuing 
resolution, that is put forward. A similar 
proposal was introduced by a number 
of Senate Democrats. So when it 
comes over from the House of Representatives 
today, I hope we will have 
broad bipartisan support in the Senate 
for making sure veterans programs are 
continued and are funded. 

There is also going to be a bill coming 
over that deals with national parks 
and museums, and it would provide immediate 
funding for National Park 
Service operations, the Smithsonian, 
the National Gallery of Art, and the 

U.S. Holocaust Museum at the same 
rate and under the same conditions as 
were in effect at the end of the just-
completed fiscal year. So the same 
thing I mentioned with regard to the 
veterans programs—these functions of 
government would be funded at the 
same level they were at the end of the 
year we just completed until such time 
as an appropriations bill is passed or a 
temporary funding measure is put in 
place. 
That was something the House voted 
on yesterday, and it was defeated. I 
shouldn’t say Democrats universally 
defeated it, but almost so when that 
measure was brought up yesterday. 
Hopefully, today they will get a different 
outcome in the House. I think 
they will, and it will come over to the 
Senate. 

Another bill the House will move 
today will provide for the immediate 
availability of local funds—which are 
subject to the control of Congress 
through the annual appropriations 
process—for the District of Columbia, 
again under the same conditions as 
were in effect at the end of the just-
completed fiscal year. 

Finally, there will be a bill that 
comes over from the House that provides 
funding for the pay and allowances 
of military personnel in the reserve 
component who are in active status. 
So it will fund the Guard and Reserve. 
Those funds would be made 
available at the same level as the just 
completed fiscal year until such time 
as Congress takes more formal action. 

Finally, there will be a fifth bill coming 
from the House that will provide 
immediate funding for the National Institutes 
of Health at the same rate and 
under the same conditions as in effect 
at the end of the just completed fiscal 
year. So the important work done by 
the National Institutes of Health will 
continue—if the bill is enacted here in 
the Senate—and go on even in the 
midst of a partial shutdown. 

What I am saying is Republicans are 
trying to address all of these concerns 
that we have about various elements of 
our government that are not functioning 
today because of this partial 
shutdown. Last night they were met 
with resistance in the House of Representatives 
and they were voted down 
by Democrats. We are hoping for and I 
think we will have a different outcome 
today in the House of Representatives, 
at which point those bills will come 
here to the Senate. 

So if the Senate is interested in 
going on the record and making sure 
there is funding available for veterans 
programs, for the museums and our 
monuments, for our Guard and Reserve, 
for the National Institutes of 
Health, and for the District of Columbia—
which is under the jurisdiction of 
the Congress when it comes to fund-
ing—the Senate should vote affirmatively 
and actually ensure that those 
important functions of our government 
are addressed and funded. 

What I am simply saying is that time 
and time again the House of Representatives 
has sent to the Senate legislation—
measures—that would continue 
to fund the government, and in earlier 
cases when they came over here addressed 
what I think the American people 
have said they want to see addressed 
in ObamaCare. 

The President of the United States 
has granted a 1-year delay to employers 
in this country from the employer 
mandate. So essentially he gave a 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7119 

delay—a waiver—to big business. The 
House of Representatives in one of the 
bills they sent to the Senate said we 
ought to in fairness give the same 
break to individuals. There is an individual 
mandate in the ObamaCare law 
that kicks in, and we ought to be able 
to give individuals in this country the 
same treatment that we give to big 
businesses. So as a matter of fairness 
that was proposed by the House of Representatives. 


When that bill came over, it also included 
a provision that would ensure 
that Members of Congress and their 
staffs and the staffs at the President’s 
office and in the executive branch of 
the government are all subject to the 
same law and to the same provisions— 
that the ObamaCare law is applied in 
the same way as to other Americans. 
So we had a 1-year delay—a temporary 
relief from the individual mandate—included 
in that, and a provision that ensured 
that those of us here and our 
staffs and members of the executive 
branch are treated the same way as are 
other Americans. That too was tabled 
in the Senate. 

It strikes me that as we think about 
the impact of this law, we ought to ensure 
that middle-class Americans deserve 
the same relief that the President 
and Democrats here in the Senate 
have already given to Members of Congress 
and to their staffs, as well as to 
big businesses in this country. 

We had an opportunity to do that the 
other night. That was rejected by the 
Senate. I think the question that every 
American ought to be asking is, Why 
wouldn’t Democratic Senators give the 
same break to the American people 
that big businesses have received? I 
would again argue this is an issue of 
basic fairness. We think it ought to be 
delayed for all Americans, not just for 
the favored few. 

There is bipartisan support for this. I 
mentioned before that we have a Democratic 
Senator in the Senate who has 
said a delay in the individual mandate 
is a very reasonable and sensible approach. 
I hope at some point that view 
will start to spread to others, and we 
will be able to actually provide some 
relief to the American people from the 
harmful effects of ObamaCare. 

But at least while we are in this period, 
as this continues to be discussed 
and hopefully, eventually a solution 
reached, we ought to be protecting 
those Americans who are being hit by 
the shutdown. 

When these bills come over from the 
House of Representatives today, I hope 
the Senate will pick them up quickly 
and act on them. 

We had an example or incident yesterday 
where a number of World War II 
veterans came here to Washington, DC, 
as Honor Flight guests. This is an organization 
that brings World War II veterans 
here to see their monument—the 
World War II monument—here in 
Washington, and they couldn’t get access 
to it because of the shutdown. 
That should be unacceptable to every 

American. We need to ensure that 
never happens again. 

There was even reporting that they 
had made a request of the administration 
to be able to go there and they 
were turned down. I can’t imagine 
turning down a group of World War II 
veterans who simply wanted to see and 
have access to the very memorial for 
which they fought and defended our 
country. 

So those are the types of things that 
action taken by the Senate here could 
prevent, if in fact when these bills 
come over from the House of Representatives 
the Senate will act in an 
expeditious way, pick up those bills 
and pass them, so we can ensure that 
people have access to those types of 
monuments and memorials. We can ensure 
that veterans programs continue 
to be funded and operational. We can 
ensure the National Institutes of 
Health and the important work that it 
does continues, and we can ensure that 
our National Guard and Reserve also 
are funded through this time. It strikes 
me that is a very commonsense way to 
approach the situation in which we 
find ourselves today. 

I hope that at the end of the day we 
can come to some resolution that 
would allow the government to be 
funded on a more sustainable basis. I 
think when we continue to do these 
things on a short-term basis, it is not a 
good way to govern a country as large 
as ours. We can do better. The American 
people deserve better. But at 
least, at a minimum, until we get that 
broader issue resolved, we ought to 
work and ensure that veterans and 
members of the Guard and Reserve, 
people who are visiting our country 
wanting to see the memorials and museums 
and that sort of thing have the 
opportunity to do that. We can do that 
today by picking up and passing the 
bills coming over from the House of 
Representatives. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Maryland. 

Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, let 
me review where we are. 

Listening to my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle talk about the effects 
of a government shutdown, I will admit 
I am pretty sensitive about this. My 
State of Maryland that I have the 
honor of representing is home to 286,000 
Federal workers—124,000 furloughed 
today. We have 172,000 Federal workers 
who work in the State of Maryland. So 
I am very much aware of what the consequences 
of this government shutdown 
have been to our local economy. But 
let me review where we are, because I 
am one who wants to get together and 
get government open as quickly as possible. 
I hope we can reach agreements 
and move forward, pay our bills, get rid 
of sequestration, and get a budget that 
makes sense. But let me just review 
how we got to this point, because it has 
been 6 months since the Senate passed 
a budget. That is the blueprint for our 
committees to work. 

The House passed a budget, which 
was different than the Senate budget. 
Then it was important for both sides to 
negotiate well before October 1 to get a 
budget we could agree on so we could 
pass the appropriations bills. But one 
party—and one party alone—refused to 
meet. That was the Republican Party. 
They refused to meet. 

Then we got to October 1. This is not 
the first time in American history that 
Congress hasn’t been able to pass appropriations 
bills by October 1. It happens 
too frequently. But what we do if 
we can’t reach agreement is that we 
keep government open while we continue 
at last year’s funding level. That 
is called a continuing resolution. That 
is what this body did. We passed a continuing 
resolution so the government 
would stay open at the funding level 
the Republicans wanted. We didn’t 
want to get into that fight because of 
the importance of keeping government 
open. 

Then we had the votes to pass that. 
We passed it here. We had the votes in 
the other body. But for one person—the 
Speaker of the House—not bringing 
that up for a vote in the House of Representatives 
where we could have had a 
bipartisan majority—the government 
shut down at midnight on September 
30. 

I know people say it is a Democrat 
speaking or a Republican speaking. So 
let me read from the Baltimore Sun 
today and what they said about the negotiations. 


It would be tempting, of course, to write 
that this impasse—the inability to agree on 
a continuing resolution to fund government 
past the end of the fiscal year—was the fault 
of Democrats and Republicans alike. But 
that would be like blaming the hostages for 
causing the perpetrator to put a gun to their 
heads. As President Barack Obama noted, he 
and Congressional Democrats put forward no 
agenda other than keeping the government 
operating temporarily at current levels. 

House Republicans set conditions, not Senate 
Democrats. It’s not even clear how many 
in the GOP truly wanted this to happen. Conventional 
wisdom is that a so-called ‘‘clean’’ 
resolution funding government would have 
passed on a bipartisan vote if it had been allowed 
on the floor by House Speaker John 
Boehner— 

The editorial goes on and I continue 
to quote. 

Do House leaders think they can push the 
blame on President Obama? Some have already 
tried, but it sounds suspiciously like 
shoplifters blaming store owners for having 
so much tempting merchandise lying about. 
National polls show the public isn’t buying 
it—most Americans didn’t want the government 
to shutter over ObamaCare, and Congressional 
Republicans have a double-digit 
lead over the White House when it comes to 
the public’s choice for who most deserves the 
most blame. 

Even the unusual anti-government crowd 
can’t find much comfort in this, as sending 
federal workers home isn’t saving anybody 
any money. The last time the federal government 
had an extended shutdown—for 21 days 
in late 1995 to early 1996—it cost something 
on the order of $2 billion. What an extraordinary 
waste of money, particularly at a 
time when conservatives claim to be worried 
about the deficit. 


S7120 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

So it is hard to negotiate when one 
side has put on the table where we 
should be—allowing government to 
stay open using last year’s numbers— 
and the other side brings in issues that 
are totally unrelated to the continuation 
of government. 

Having said that, we have got to find 
a way to get government open. I am 
pleased the President is meeting with 
the leaders this afternoon. I am pleased 
they are also talking about making 
sure we pay our bills, which is at jeopardy 
in just 2 weeks. 

I mentioned earlier that I am a little 
sensitive about this because of the impact 
it has on the economy of my 
State. It has an impact on the entire 
country. In my State, it is $15 million 
a day in revenue that we lose directly 
as a result of the government shutdown. 
It has been estimated by 
Moody’s Brian Kessler that if the shutdown 
went 3–4 weeks, it would cost our 
economy $55 billion. This is no small 
impact on our economy. It is a major 
impact on our economy. 

It is not just Federal workers who 
aren’t going to get paychecks. It is the 
shop owners who depend on business 
that is going to be cut back. It is contractors 
who depend on the contracts 
being honored by the Federal Government, 
and the list goes on and on of the 
impact it has on our economy. As I 
quoted from the Sun paper, it is the 
taxpayers who will pick up the tab. 
They are not going to save any money. 
It is going to cost them money—not a 
few bucks. It is going to cost a lot of 
money. And every day we wait, it costs 
the taxpayers of this country more 
money. So we are interested in dealing 
with the deficit and keeping government 
operating. It is a huge waste of 
resources to shut down the government. 


We are going to lose some vital services. 
Earlier today I held a conference 
with Senator MIKULSKI, Senator WARREN, 
and Senator BOXER where we went 
over some of the real impacts that 
occur, and we were joined by Federal 
workers that wanted to be at work, 
doing service to this country, but because 
of the government shutdown 
they were furloughed. 

This is not the first attack against 
Federal workers we have seen. We have 
seen freezes on their budgets in the last 
couple of years. We have seen them furloughed 
as a result of sequestration. 
We have seen freezes on hiring so they 
are asked to do more with less. We 
have the fewest workers per capita in 
modern history, asked to do more 
work. Let me relate some of the stories, 
some of the accounts by people 
who came to Washington today so their 
stories can be told. 

Marcelo Del Canto works for the Substance 
Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration. He works in Rockville. 
He lives in Poolesville, MD. He 
has been a Federal employee for 8 
years. He does vital work to help prevent 
substance abuse. He has work on 
his desk that he could do today to help 

keep people healthier. Instead, he is 
furloughed, sitting at home—can’t go 
in to work. 

We heard from Amy Fritz, a meteorologist 
and physical oceanographer 
at the National Weather Service. She 
works in Silver Spring, MD. I have 
been there. This is the agency that 
tracks the storms. Thank goodness we 
had reliable information about Hurricane 
Sandy. That work was done not 
on the weather channel, it was done by 
Federal public servants. Amy has a 
double degree. She is a national expert 
in this area. 

Do you know what she said today? 
‘‘How do I know we should not be 
tracking a storm right now, getting additional 
information to keep our country 
safe?’’ That is what is at stake. We 
have seen incredible weather episodes 
of late. Every person should be on 
board, doing their work. NOAA had to 
furlough, same as a layoff, 55 percent of 
their workforce, 6,633 employees furloughed 
as a result of the government 
shutdown. 

We heard from Carter Kimsey. She 
works for the National Science Foundation. 
She has been there since 1976. 
She works with young people, getting 
them involved with science, awarding 
grants for the basic research that is 
critically important for economic 
growth and this country’s competitiveness. 
She tells us she has work on her 
desk that is critically important to 
young people continuing in science. 
She can’t work today because of the 
government shutdown. That is going to 
affect America’s competitiveness. We 
are going to lose scientists. We are 
going to lose a great deal as a result of 
government being shut down. 

I heard from Steve Hopkins, Office of 
Pesticide Programs at the Environmental 
Protection Agency. EPA had to 
furlough 94 percent of their workers; 
15,181 workers were furloughed at EPA. 
What is he not doing today that he 
could have been doing? Helping keep 
our environment safe from the overuse 
of pesticides, making it a little bit 
safer for our children as they breathe 
the air and drink the water of this 
country. That is what is at jeopardy 
here. 

I could tell you about their individual 
stories. When I talked to 
Marcelo Del Canto, he told me he recently 
purchased a home in 
Poolesville, MD. We are happy about 
that. But he has a mortgage payment. 
He is married. I asked how is his spouse 
doing? She is also furloughed. How are 
they going to make their mortgage 
payment? 

Carter Kimsey was telling us about 
the ethics they use in scientific experiments. 
She talked about how they 
treat the animals they use. She said: 
You know, we make sure they get the 
resources necessary. They are fed, they 
are taken care of. How about our Federal 
workers? Shouldn’t they have 
their paycheck to pay their food bills? 

This is outrageous as far as being 
wasteful, as far as being against eco


nomic growth in this country, but it is 
also wrong. It is wrong to the people 
who have been victimized by this, who 
do not know if they are going to get a 
paycheck. We have people working who 
do not know if they are going to get 
paid. We have people who are not working 
who do not know they are going to 
get the money to pay their bills. Where 
is the empathy here for what you are 
doing? This is outrageous. 

My colleagues already talked about 
the National Institutes of Health located 
in Maryland; 73 percent of their 
employees are furloughed. Do you 
know what they do? Just the most incredible 
research in the world so we 
can stay healthy, we can find out the 
mysteries of incredible diseases. They 
are working on a vaccine now to deal 
with influenza to save millions of lives, 
and what do we do? Tell them to go 
home and not work? This is not a 
game. We are affecting people’s lives 
by what we are doing here. 

Two hundred patients will be denied 
care this week at NIH as a result of the 
shutdown. Who knows for one of those 
individuals whether it is a question of 
life or death? That is what is involved. 

At the FDA, 45 percent of their employees 
are furloughed. They will not 
be able to conduct the inspections for 
the compliance and enforcement of our 
food laws, our food safety laws. 

At the Department of Interior, 81 
percent of their employees are furloughed. 
What an embarrassment. 

I was talking to a reporter from another 
country. 

What an embarrassment, the iconic 
national parks of America are closed, 
but it also affects the businesses all 
around those parks as well as inconveniencing 
the public. 

At the Small Business Administration, 
two-thirds of their employees are 
furloughed. Suppose you are a small 
business person depending on a loan. 
You do not have the officer there to 
process that loan. What do you do? 

The list goes on and on. I could go 
through every agency. There is only 
one answer to this: Keep government— 
not one agency, two agencies, three 
agencies—keep every agency open. 
That is the responsible thing for us to 
do. We should do that. We should make 
sure we pay our bills, and yes, we 
should negotiate a balanced way to 
move forward with a budget. 

I have been talking on the floor 
many times about that. There is a give 
and take that we have to make on the 
budget moving forward. We have to 
balance our books. We need the revenues 
necessary to do it. We have to 
look at all spending, not just discretionary 
domestic spending. We have to 
look at all spending. We have to do 
that in a bipartisan manner because, 
guess what, the Republicans do not 
control the House, the Senate, and the 
White House, and the Democrats do not 
control the House. 

The public expects us to work together 
on a budget. That is not what 
this debate is about. This debate is 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7121 

about whether we are going to keep 
government open, whether we are 
going to pay our bills. We must do that 
for the sake of the people of this country. 


I want to mention one other issue. I 
filed yesterday legislation with many 
of my colleagues to make it clear that 
those Federal workers who are furloughed, 
we are going to fight to do 
what we did in the 1990s when we went 
on government shutdown, and pay all 
Federal workers. They are innocent. 
They should be made whole. My legislation 
is cosponsored by many of my 
colleagues. We have bipartisan support 
in the House of Representatives. We 
have to make sure we get that bill 
passed so every Federal worker is made 
whole as a result of this shutdown that 
is not their fault. 

I yield the floor. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

EXTENSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 

Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that morning business 
be extended until 5 p.m., and that 
all provisions under the previous order 
remain in effect, and that Senator REID 
be recognized following morning business 
and that all time spent in quorum 
calls be equally divided. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. CARDIN. I suggest the absence of 
a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Maryland. 

Ms. MIKULSKI. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
Ms. MIKULSKI. Madam President, I 
wish to speak as if in morning business 
and consume as much time as is necessary. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Ms. MIKULSKI. Wow, I think we are 
growing weary. I think we are growing 
weary of the gridlock, deadlock, and 
hammer lock on our government. I 
think we are growing weary of the partisan 
posturing by one faction in one 
party in one House. The American people 
want us to reopen government so 
that the government can meet the national 
security needs of the United 
States, protect the safety of the people 
of the United States, meet compelling 
human needs, and do what we can to 

create jobs today, such as physical infrastructure, 
and to lay the groundwork 
for jobs tomorrow by investing in 
research and development. 

The American people want a government 
that works as hard as they do, 
and so do I. Instead of working hard to 
serve our veterans or our elderly or 
promoting a growing economy, we are 
dealing with the shutdown of the government. 


The House is sending us bills which 
on first blush seem attractive. I mean, 
who doesn’t support our National 
Guard? Who doesn’t want to fund NIH? 
I certainly do. NIH is located in my 
State. I am so proud of the men and 
women who work there. Funding also 
goes to great State universities doing 
research, such as the University of Wisconsin. 
They are out there doing it. We 
cannot cherry-pick. What they are 
doing now is a public relations ploy. 

The House wants to send us cherry-
picked solutions to the shutdown problem. 
It is contrived, and it is cynical. 
What I am asking the House of Representatives 
to do is take up the Senate 
bill we sent them that is a clean 
continued funding resolution. What 
does clean mean? It means it is 
stripped of politically motivated ideological 
riders. 

The second thing is it would fund the 
government for 6 weeks. In that 6 
weeks, it would give us the chance to 
work out what our funding should be 
for the rest of the year. I would hope 
we could find a way to cancel the sequester, 
which is to reduce public debt 
without reducing jobs or opportunity, 
and get us through the debt ceiling. 
Please—that bill is pending in the 
House now, and I ask that they do that 
instead of sending us these piecemeal 
solutions. 

I remind my colleagues that the continuing 
funding resolution passed the 
Senate last Friday. It reopens the government, 
and it gives us the opportunity 
to renegotiate. I am willing to 
negotiate, but we can’t capitulate to 
these partisan demands to defund 
ObamaCare and do other kinds of riders 
that work against us. To move forward, 
we need to pass the Senate continuing 
resolution. 

I understand that later today the 
President is meeting with Speaker 
BOEHNER, NANCY PELOSI, Majority 
Leader REID, and Senator MCCONNELL. 
I hope that wiser heads will now prevail 
so we can get a path forward to reopen 
all of government, not just cherry-
picked items—many of which are 
absolutely desirable—and open the entire 
Federal Government. 

I know that the House wants to send 
something over to reopen NIH. Of 
course. That’s what I just said. But 
what about the Centers for Disease 
Control? So we open NIH, but we don’t 
open the Centers for Disease Control. It 
is an agency that is located in Atlanta, 
but it is part of our public health triad, 
which is the work at NIH, the work of 
the Food and Drug Administration, 
which stands sentry over the safety of 
our food supply and the safety and efficacy 
of our drugs and medical devices, 

and then there is the Centers for Disease 
Control, which is down in Atlanta. 

Right this very minute in Atlanta, 
GA, at the Centers for Disease Control, 
close to 9,000 people have been furloughed. 
Furlough is just a nice word 
that means layoff. It also means that it 
not only affects the labs in Atlanta, 
but it also affects labs in Colorado, 
Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. 

The work of the CDC is also nationwide 
because they are our biosurveillance 
system on infectious diseases. 
That means that State health departments—
all 50 States and the territories—
depend on the Centers for Disease 
Control to track and give them information 
on what the trends are related 
to infectious diseases. They are 
the ones who alert clinicians and pediatricians 
if there is a new kind of ear infection 
that could infect children. But 
because of the government shutdown, 
there is no one there who can do this. 

Earlier this year—to give an exam-
ple—Hepatitis A sickened 162 people in 
10 States. The CDC linked the outbreak 
to pomegranate seeds coming in from a 
foreign country in a frozen berry mix. 
We were able to go right to the private 
sector. They complied with us right 
away, and we were able to get that off 
the market and contain this so it 
wouldn’t spread to other people. They 
worked with the private sector in order 
to protect the American people. 

Don’t we want to reopen CDC? I could 
go over disease after disease and infection 
after infection which will not 
monitored. Let’s take the common one, 
flu. We have all had the sniffles, but 
the sniffles can also kill people. On average 
more 200,000 Americans will be 
hospitalized because of flu and 3,000 
Americans die from flu. Vaccines can 
prevent the flu. 

The CDC, the Centers for Disease 
Control, were out there making sure 
there was enough vaccine available, 
that it was being distributed fairly and 
equitably in the United States, but 
also watching the infection trends because 
if a trend was heading to one 
State or one locale, the public health 
people could work together in order to 
accelerate or expand our flu vaccine. 
This is what they do. 

Did you also know that there are disease 
detectives? Many people don’t 
know that there are disease detectives. 
So what does Senator BARB mean when 
she says this? 

Sometimes there is an outbreak and 
people get sick. People even die. They 
wonder what it is. They dial 911, and 
there is a group of people who are like 
a disease identification SWAT team. 
They work with the best and brightest 
at that State level, use the best technology 
in science from our country, 
and even around the world, to identify 
what that is. That is how we found out 
about Legionnaires’ disease, and the 
Hantavirus disease which affected Indian 
reservations. That is how we 


S7122 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

jumped in on the pomegranate seed situation. 
They get right in there. But 
you know what. Those people were furloughed. 
What is this? 

Do I want to reopen NIH? I absolutely 
do, but I am going to talk about 
the Centers for Disease Control. I could 
also talk about other Federal employees 
and what shutting down means. It 
obviously isn’t just public health. 

I believe in Social Security. I really 
do. It has meant so much to so many 
people. It is one of the great earned 
benefits in our country. I want to make 
sure there is no false alarm here: Social 
Security checks will go out. However, 
as of this week, the people who 
work at Social Security, those who 
oversee eligibility benefits for the elderly 
and disability benefits for those 
who are unable to work, have been furloughed. 
Over the entire United States 
of America, Social Security has furloughed—
there are 18,000 people who 
work in Social Security offices in local 
communities that were furloughed. 

Social Security is everywhere. They 
provide access for the American people 
to apply for their Social Security, to 
apply for disability benefits, and also 
to apply for their Medicare—18,000 people. 
Social Security is headquartered 
in Maryland. This isn’t because it is in 
Maryland. I know these workers. I 
know the exams they take to qualify to 
work for Social Security—whether it is 
a claims representative or an actuary 
predicting the trends. Those 18,000 people 
were proud to work for Social Security 
and make sure that one of the 
greatest social insurance programs 
ever was administered efficiently, effectively, 
and that the people who were 
eligible got what they earned. 

Did you know that the overhead for 
running Social Security is less than 2 
percent? It is lower than any private 
insurance company in America. Gosh. 
So they do it well and they do it smartly. 
They have been stretched because of 
sequester, but they are there. Right 
now, because of what we have been 
doing, we are only going to further 
delay these other benefits. So I want to 
open the doors of Social Security. 
When people apply, they want to be 
sure help is there. When people dial, 
they want people to be there. 

That is all, by the way, coming back 
to NIH and what they want to send 
over from the House. It is in the Labor-
HHS appropriations. That is under my 
very able subcommittee chairman, 
Senator TOM HARKIN. 

Senator HARKIN has worked very 
hard on his bill to make sure we meet 
the needs but we do it in a way that is 
cost-efficient. Did my colleagues know 
that because of parliamentary obstructionism, 
Senator HARKIN has not been 
able to bring his bill to the floor since 
2007—2007, year after year, hearing 
after hearing. When he wanted to bring 
up the funding for the Department of 
HHS, which these agencies are in—Education, 
as well as the Department of 
Labor, which has things such as mining 
safety in it—he could not even bring it 

to the floor because they would not let 
him or it would be filibustered. 

While everybody over there is strutting 
around saying we are going to 
fund NIH, after we shamed them into it 
yesterday, what they don’t tell us is 
they can’t move the Labor-HHS bill in 
the House. Do we know why? Because 
they fund it at $122 billion. Do we know 
what level that is? That is the 2003 
level. It is not even the 2012 level or the 
2010 level. They want to fund it back to 
George Bush and right around the 
funding level of 2003. They want to 
take us back a decade. They want to 
take us back to the Dark Ages. Well, 
not in the Senate. 

Senator HARKIN wanted to come to 
the floor with funding at $164 billion, a 
slight increase from last year. There is 
a 42-percent difference between the 
House and the Senate Labor-HHS bill: 
$164 billion to $122 billion. 

I want Senator HARKIN to be able to 
bring his bill to the floor and debate it. 
Do we want an NIH? Let’s fund it. Do 
we want a Centers for Disease Control, 
which is in the State of Georgia, with 
two excellent Senators from Georgia. 
Then fund it. Let’s debate. Let’s discuss. 
Let’s amend. Senator HARKIN cannot 
even get it to the floor. Over in the 
House, they can’t move it either because 
the funding for Health and 
Human Services, Education, and the 
Department of Labor is at the 2003 
level. So while they want to send us an 
individual bill for an individual agency—
for HHS and so on—as desirable as 
it is, I want to reopen government. 
That is what the Senate bill is. I want 
to reopen negotiations. I would like to 
return to a regular order, where using 
the parliamentary tools, tactics, and 
even tricks cannot delay bringing a bill 
to the floor. Since 2007, Senator HARKIN 
has not been able to bring a bill to the 
floor for an open debate, unfettered by 
filibuster, to be able to discuss this. 

So this is what this is all about. This 
isn’t about numbers. This is about 
meeting compelling human needs. In 
the Labor-HHS subcommittee, we fund 
NIH, the Centers for Disease Control, 
the Social Security Administration, 
mining safety, Department of Education. 
This is what we should be working 
on. We should be working on education, 
money for the disabled, et 
cetera. 

So I come to the floor again as the 
chair of the Appropriations Committee. 
I am proud of the work my subcommittee 
chairmen have done in getting 
bills ready to come to the floor for 
debate by following regular order. I so 
appreciate the cooperation we have received 
from the other side of the aisle 
in our committee. There has been a 
great sense of cooperation. We have 
had disputes and disagreements on 
funding levels and even matters of policy, 
but I had an open amendment 
process. Everybody had their say. Everybody 
had their day. We moved the 
bills forward. That is called regular 
order. That is called democracy. Everybody 
has their day and everybody has 
their say. But let’s move the bill. 

So let’s reopen government. Let’s 
have a true negotiation. I hope that 
out of the 5:30 meeting will come a 
path forward. But we have one now: 
Pass the Senate resolution in the 
House, come back, and let’s let the 
work of the Senate and the U.S. Government 
get going again. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HEINRICH). The Senator from Wyoming. 

Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I wish to 
thank the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee for her comments and 
all of the effort she has made and the 
bipartisan cooperation there has been 
to get bills to the floor. But we are in 
kind of a pickle right now. We are talking 
about a continuing resolution. A 
continuing resolution means we didn’t 
get our work done. If we had the appropriations 
bills passed through this 
body, we wouldn’t need a continuing 
resolution. Every agency would understand 
what it can spend for the whole 
next year. Instead, we are quibbling 
over how long a continuing resolution 
we ought to have and what ought to be 
in it. 

We haven’t done total appropriations 
by the October 1 deadline for I am not 
even sure how many years. That would 
be the answer to what we are going 
through right now. If we got to debate 
each of those bills in a timely fashion, 
with an open amendment process—I appreciate 
there has been an open amendment 
process in the committee. I am 
always disturbed that we haven’t had 
much of an open amendment process 
around here on the floor. Every time a 
bill comes to the floor—almost every 
time a bill comes to the floor—there 
are negotiations about how many 
amendments each side can have. I have 
seen those negotiations go on for 2 
weeks. Do you know how many amendments 
we could vote on in 2 weeks? I 
think we could probably vote on 50, 
maybe 100 in 2 weeks. Instead, we don’t 
vote on amendments, which gives everyone 
the impression, of course, that 
there isn’t an open amendment process. 

The longer the stopper is kept in the 
bottle, the more anger there is around 
here. I would say there is anger on both 
sides because both sides have amendments 
they would like to bring up. 

We have to quit dealmaking and 
start legislating around here. This is 
the way this process was designed. 
They had legislation in the committee, 
but we need to have the ability to legislate 
on the floor—not allocating 
something to a few people on both sides 
of the aisle and both ends of the building 
to come back with some kind of a 
proposal by some kind of a fiscal falloff 
date, and that fiscal falloff date, of 
course, happens to be in statute that 
the year begins on October 1. That was 
yesterday. That is when every agency 
is supposed to know exactly how much 
they can spend. 

How has that been affecting us? 
There was a sequester. The interesting 
thing about the sequester is it was 2.3 
percent of the amount of money an 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7123 

agency, program, department was to 
get. What did it actually turned out to 
be? It turned out to be 5.3 percent. Why 
did it turn out to be 5.3 percent? We 
were already eight-twelfths of the way 
through the year before they found out 
that there was going to be a sequester, 
that they found out for sure that there 
was going to be a limitation on their 
spending. They had already spent one-
twelfth of what they spent the year before, 
each month, during that 8-month 
period and then found out that for the 
whole year’s worth of revenue that 
they got—eight-twelfths of what they 
already spent—they have to take a 2.3-
percent cut. That makes it a 5.3 cut. 
That makes it much more difficult. 

Actually, CBO scored my penny 
plan—that is where we just do a 1-percent 
reduction in every dollar the U.S. 
Government spends, with flexibility— 
and if we add that to the sequester, 
which would bring it to 3.3 percent, 
they say the budget would balance in 2 
years—2 years we could balance the 
budget. It hasn’t happened for over a 
decade. It only happened four times, I 
think, in the last 50 years. But we 
could do it, and I am pretty sure the 
people would say if we had our appropriations 
done timely so the agencies 
knew what they were doing on October 
1 and then had a sequester plus 1 percent, 
I think they could live with it. I 
think they could make effective cuts, 
if they wanted to. 

One of our problems around here is 
that government doesn’t usually like 
to make effective cuts. Government 
likes to make it hurt. When it hurts, 
people come back and are very upset at 
what has been taken away from them. 
But we have a lot of redundancy in 
government. We have a lot of waste. 
We have a lot of programs that are 
happening in a whole bunch of different 
agencies, none of which are effective, 
but we are still doing it everywhere. 
We could get rid of all that duplication 
or at least half of it. Half of it is all 
that could be totally effective and give 
them a little bit of a bonus for doing it. 
But we are now at a point where we are 
going to make it hurt. 

There were World War II veterans in 
town yesterday. They were flown in 
here so they could see their memorial, 
a tribute to their tremendous efforts. 
What did they find? They found barricades. 
I have been to the World War II 
Memorial a lot of times. There haven’t 
been any barricades there. I also didn’t 
see another person there if I was there 
late at night. So what was the purpose 
of the barricades? We have the national 
parks. Did the national parks get shut 
down? 

Here is the extreme this is being carried 
to: Over in Teton National Park 
they even have barricades at the turnouts. 
Turnouts can be used to fix a flat 
tire or get a rest if one is tired of driving. 
They can also be used to take pictures 
of gorgeous scenery such as the 
Tetons. That is what the turnouts are 
primarily designed for. But how much 
does it cost us if somebody pulls off 

and takes a picture of mountains? How 
much could that cost us? How much 
does it save us by putting up barricades 
so they can’t pull off the road? How 
much did it cost us to put barricades 
out there so they can’t pull off the road 
and take pictures of the Tetons? 

Throughout government, we are trying 
to make it hurt. We are trying to 
emphasize to people that we did so 
poorly they need to suffer, and if they 
suffer enough, they will get hold of us 
and make us reverse what we have 
done. We should have been busy last 
April working on appropriations and 
working through that process. 

The President is about to leave on a 
trip. I am not planning on leaving until 
everything has been cleared up here, 
and I would suggest that he not do that 
either. 

I got an interesting letter from one 
of my constituents that says: How does 
the private sector see the Federal Government? 
The private sector sees the 
Federal Government as a wagon being 
pulled by the private sector, and the 
wagon is filled with people who work 
for the Federal Government, and there 
aren’t enough people pulling the wagon 
and too many people riding in the 
wagon. He makes quite a point. He does 
admit that the people riding in the 
wagon pay taxes too, but he also points 
out that those taxes came from the private 
sector to pay the wages from 
which the taxes are taken. So, yes, 
there are people riding in the wagon, 
even though they are working as well, 
but he is pointing out how the private 
sector has this extra load and now they 
are getting a little bit more of a load. 
He makes the point that we need more 
people in the private sector and said 
that maybe the private sector ought to 
shut down. 

What would happen if the private sector 
shut down? What would happen if 
trucks did not haul any more goods 
across this country? What happens if 
the filling stations do not open? What 
happens with the myriad of things, groceries, 
the things we count on every 
day that come from the private sector? 
He just wanted me to know he is tired 
of pulling the wagon with so many people 
in the wagon. 

We have a chance to reduce the load 
in the wagon, and we ought to take advantage 
of that, but we are not. We 
need to take advantage of that in a 
timely manner, and we need to get this 
wrapped up and get the government 
under way so people are not suffering 
in the ‘‘make it hurt atmosphere’’ we 
have right now. There is another way 
to do it. There is a better way to do it. 
We should have done it. We should have 
been doing it much earlier. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I have 
great affection for my friend from Wyoming. 
He is a fine man. I enjoy working 
with him. I am not going to nitpick 
what he said, but I am going to direct 
my attention to one thing he said: Why 

didn’t we do our appropriations bills? 
Mr. President, please, I would not expect 
that coming from him. We have 
tried. We were filibustered. We tried 
one here. Remember Transportation 
appropriations? We got one Republican 
vote. SUSAN COLLINS. They killed that. 
So do not come and lecture us on why 
didn’t we do the bills last April. 

I have often said I sympathize with 
JOHN BOEHNER, and I do. He has a very 
difficult job. Even when the Speaker 
would prefer to be reasonable, when he 
would prefer to be the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives—the whole 
House, Democrats and Republicans, because 
that is what he is—instead of 
just Speaker of the Republicans in the 
House of Representatives and sometimes 
appearing to be the Speaker for a 
minority within his majority—he 
seems to be kowtowing to everything 
they ask. This is the tea party. These 
voices in his caucus push him further 
and further to the right and over the 
cliff. 

It can be difficult to balance the responsibilities 
of remaining true to 
one’s party’s core beliefs and doing the 
right thing for the government as a 
whole. 

I would like to give a personal example. 
I try not to do that often, but I 
will give one today. 

The Presiding Officer was not here 
during the Iraq war. I did not just oppose 
it, I thought it was bad for our 
country. I will give you some reasons 
why I did not like it at all. I hated it 
as much as I am sure JOHN BOEHNER 
dislikes the Affordable Care Act. But 
even though I voted for the 2002 authorization 
to confront Saddam Hussein, 
I quickly was appalled at how 
that authority was used, and the information 
that got me to vote for it was 
absolutely false. There were no clear 
objectives, not a coherent strategy. No 
one even knew in the administration 
the difference between Shias and 
Sunnis. There was no international 
support for that. 

I spent many, for lack of a better description, 
gut-wrenching nights and 
some days trying to figure out what I 
should do. I was disgusted and mad at 
President Bush and Republicans in 
Congress that even one more American 
would be killed or maimed. I was so 
angry that I said things I wish I had 
not. They are in the history books. 
They are there. Some of my friends on 
the other side of the aisle, especially 
JOHN MCCAIN, as he can do, told me 
how wrong I was in opposing the war. 

I thought I would be willing to do 
anything to stop that war, but I faced 
a choice in 2007. The Commander in 
Chief, President George Bush, requested 
$93 billion for additional government 
funding to continue the war. 
Without that, no more war. 

Congress sent President Bush a supplemental 
appropriations bill that 
ended his blank check in Iraq. He vetoed 
that bill. At this point, I could 
have taken the very same steps Speaker 
BOEHNER has taken this week. I 


S7124 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

could have blocked funding for the 
Federal Government in order to block 
funding for that war. I faced immense 
pressure from the left—moveon.org. 
Oh, I got thousands and thousands and 
thousands of e-mails and letters from 
that organization, from my own base, 
to do just that. 

It was a very difficult choice for me. 
I could put my own opposition to that 
senseless war and my fellow Democrats’ 
opposition to the war before everything 
else. But as the leader of the 
Senate, I had an obligation to ensure 
the smooth operation of the Federal 
Government. I could not do both. I 
tried to figure out a way to do both. I 
could not figure out a way because 
there was no way. I could not do both. 

It is a decision I took extremely seriously, 
as I know anyone else would. In 
the end, I actually defied the strident 
voices on the left urging me to stay 
true to my personal belief that the war 
in Iraq was an unjust war and that I 
should end that war at any cost, but I 
felt I had other responsibilities; one 
was to make sure our government was 
funded, that we did not lose face in 
front of the international community 
and resort to that kind of extremist 
legislative tactic. So we funded the 
government. We funded the war I did 
not like. My choice made a lot of 
Democrats very unhappy. It made people 
on my own staff upset with me, 
their boss. But looking back on that 
decision, I came to the right decision, 
in my own mind. 

Today, the country finds itself perhaps 
in a similar situation. Republicans 
in Congress, for reasons we have 
discussed on the floor, are obsessed 
with ObamaCare. They do not like it. I 
have no reason to doubt their sincerity. 
I doubt their logic, but I do not 
doubt their sincerity when they say 
they believe the Affordable Care Act is 
damaging our country. They are 
wrong. They are wrong now, and time 
will show how truly wrong they are because 
millions of Americans, right now 
today, are already benefiting from this 
law, and millions more will benefit in 
the years to come. So when these history 
books are written that people will 
read, ObamaCare will be seen as one of 
the greatest single steps to help America. 
It is in the same league as Social 
Security and Medicare and it will provide 
quality affordable health care for 
America—all Americans. I understand 
why my Republican colleagues disagree 
with what I just said. 

Unfortunately, though, when Speaker 
BOEHNER was faced with the same 
choice I was faced with in 2007, he made 
a very different decision. He put his 
own opposition to ObamaCare and his 
fellow Republicans’ opposition to 
ObamaCare above all else, even above 
ensuring the strength of our economy 
and the smooth operation of this government 
we love. History will prove 
that to be shortsighted and wrong. But 
regardless of right or wrong, our responsibility 
as leaders is to find a path 
forward to reopen the government and 
protect our economy. 

So earlier today, at a quarter to 11 or 
thereabouts—no, it was a quarter to 12 
this morning—I offered JOHN BOEHNER, 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
a reasonable compromise that 
respects both of our priorities. 

Before the House is a Senate-passed 
legislative tool to reopen the government. 
The measure funds the government 
at the level chosen by not us but 
the House leaders, a level much lower 
than I would have chosen or Senator 
MURRAY would have chosen or the 
chairman of our Appropriations Committee 
Senator MIKULSKI would have 
chosen. 

I propose that the Speaker allow this 
joint resolution to come for a vote before 
the full House of Representatives. 
Every Democrat will vote for that over 
there, and according to news reports, 
more than 100 House Republicans are 
prepared to vote for it as well. 

In short, what it says is: Reopen the 
government. Then I, on behalf of the 
Democratic caucus, commit to name 
conferees to a budget conference, as 
the Speaker has requested. This conference 
can engage on the important 
fiscal issues facing our Nation. The 
Speaker has often cited these fiscal 
issues as the most important challenge 
to our generation. 

A conference will be an appropriate 
place to have these discussions. In a 
letter that I wrote to the Speaker, we 
did not limit what we would talk about 
in the conference. In fact, I will read 
parts of this letter: 

Now we find ourselves at loggerheads. 

I say in the letter to JOHN BOEHNER: 

There needs to be a path forward to reopen 
our Government and protect our economy. 
This is a communication to you offering a 
sensible, reasonable compromise. 

Before the House you have the Senate-
passed measure to reopen the Government, 
funded at the level that the House chose in 
its own legislation. I propose that you allow 
this joint resolution to pass, reopening the 
Government. And I commit to name conferees 
to a budget conference, as soon as the 
Government reopens. That conference can 
discuss the important fiscal issues facing our 
Nation. You and your Colleagues have repeatedly 
cited these fiscal issues as the 
things on which we need to work. This conference 
would be an appropriate place to 
have those discussions, where participants 
could raise whatever proposals—such as tax 
reform, health care, agriculture, and certainly 
discretionary spending like veterans, 
National Parks, and NIH—they felt appropriate. 


That is pretty direct and to the 
point. These conferees could do whatever 
they wanted without the threat of 
a government shutdown and ensuing 
economic collapse hanging over their 
heads. 

Together, we can end this government 
shutdown and work to address 
the important issues facing our Nation. 
Together, we can work to put our nation 
on sound fiscal footing by engaging 
in a responsible, long-term budget 
process—not 5 weeks like the CR that 
is now before us. 

This morning on the Senate floor I 
warned of the effects of a Republican 

government shutdown that have already 
come to bear. My colleagues 
have done this all day about what has 
this done to Federal employees generally? 
What has it done to NIH? What 
has it done to transportation? What 
has it done to the Centers for Disease 
Control? And on and on with all these 
programs that are now stunningly 
stopped. 

There are many unintended consequences 
of this irresponsible and 
shortsighted shutdown. It is reckless 
and irresponsible. 

But Speaker BOEHNER can end this 
Republican government shutdown 
today. We have given him what he 
wants. They sent over from the House: 
Let’s go to conference. We are saying: 
We will go to conference on anything 
you want to go to conference on. 

Defy the strident voices on the right 
urging you to put your personal beliefs 
and the beliefs of your caucus before 
the strength of our economy and the 
needs of our country. 

I ask unanimous consent that the 
letter to which I referred be printed in 
the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follow: 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, October 2, 2013. 

Hon. JOHN BOEHNER, 

Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: I hated the Iraq war. I 
think I hated it as much as you hate the Affordable 
Care Act. Even though I voted in 
2002 to give President Bush the authority to 
confront Saddam Hussein, I became appalled 
at how that authority was used—without 
clear objectives, a coherent strategy, or significant 
international support. There were 
many gut-wrenching nights when I struggled 
over what I needed to do to end the carnage. 
In those days, when President Bush was 
Commander in Chief, I could have taken the 
steps that you are taking now to block Government 
funding in order to gain leverage to 
end the war. I faced a lot of pressure from 
my own base to take that action. But I did 
not do that. I felt that it would have been 
devastating to America. Therefore, the Government 
was funded. 

Now we find ourselves at loggerheads. 
There needs to be a path forward to reopen 
our Government and protect our economy. 
This is a communication to you offering a 
sensible, reasonable compromise. 

Before the House you have the Senate-
passed measure to reopen the Government, 
funded at the level that the House chose in 
its own legislation. I propose that you allow 
this joint resolution to pass, reopening the 
Government. And I commit to name conferees 
to a budget conference, as soon as the 
Government reopens. That conference can 
discuss the important fiscal issues facing our 
Nation. You and your Colleagues have repeatedly 
cited these fiscal issues as the 
things on which we need to work. This conference 
would be an appropriate place to 
have those discussions, where participants 
could raise whatever proposals—such as tax 
reform, health care, agriculture, and certainly 
discretionary spending like veterans, 
National Parks, and NIH—they felt appropriate. 



October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7125 

I hope that we can work together in this 
fashion. Together, we can end this Government 
shutdown and work to address the important 
fiscal issues facing our Nation. I 
look forward to hearing from you. 

Sincerely, 

HARRY REID, 

United States Senator. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Washington. 

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, Democrats 
and Republicans have some serious 
differences when it comes to our 
policies and our values and our priorities. 
But one thing we should be able 
to agree on—the bare minimum expected 
of us in Congress—is that we 
should not actively allow our constituents 
to be hurt. 

That is why Senate Democrats will 
be here today with a clear message to 
Republicans: Open the government. 
End the shutdown. Allow the government 
to open, make sure our families 
and communities that we represent do 
not have to pay the price for the disagreements 
we have and then come 
back to the table and work with us on 
a long-term budget deal to avoid these 
constant crises. 

Majority Leader REID has made it 
very clear to Speaker BOEHNER that he 
is willing to sit down and talk, and I 
truly hope House Republicans take him 
up on that. 

On Monday night, as the government 
was shutting down, Speaker BOEHNER 
and the House Republicans lurched 
even deeper into the theater of the absurd. 
I was shocked. I could not believe 
my ears when I heard, with minutes to 
go before the shutdown began, Speaker 
BOEHNER was asking us for a conference 
on the spending bill. I thought: 
Is he serious? Is this some kind of joke? 

Even by the standards of a party that 
shut down the government to stop the 
health care reform law that was going 
to come online yesterday, no matter 
what they did, that was bizarre. 

I say to Speaker BOEHNER today: Yes, 
let’s start a budget conference. It is a 
bit late. I have been fighting to start 
one for 6 months, but better late than 
never. Let’s sit down, let’s negotiate, 
let’s work toward the balanced and bipartisan 
long-term budget deal that 
our constituents are expecting—a real 
budget conference, not like the photo 
op we saw in the House of Representatives 
yesterday; a budget conference 
where the two sides can sit at a table, 
offer some compromises and work toward 
a balanced and bipartisan long-
term budget deal the American people 
expect. 

But there is one condition. It is a 
reasonable one. It could not be more 
important. Speaker BOEHNER and the 
House Republicans should stop allowing 
our families and our communities 
to be hurt while we negotiate. They 
should pass our short-term bill, reopen 
the government, and then join us at 
the table for a budget conference where 
we can work together toward a long-
term deal. This is common sense. It is 
the responsible thing to do. There is 
absolutely no reason why we should 

not get the government back open, 
right now, while all of us get in a room 
and work on a deal. 

Given that Republicans spent the day 
yesterday talking about their newfound 
interest in a conference, I think 
it would be helpful to go back a bit to 
remind people who are following us 
here today how we got to this point. 

For 4 years Republicans in the Senate 
and in the House said it was critical 
that the Senate pass a budget. 
They came here to the floor, they 
blasted out press releases, they made it 
part of every one of their campaigns 
across the country. 

At the beginning of this year, it 
seemed that Democrats and Republicans 
agreed on at least one thing: The 
budget debate should proceed through 
regular order. The House was going to 
pass their budget, the Senate was going 
to pass ours, and then we were going to 
get together in a conference room and 
work out our differences. 

Senator MCCONNELL said back then 
that once the Senate and House passed 
budgets, ‘‘the work of conferencing 
must begin.’’ Republicans said a conference 
was the ‘‘best vehicle’’ for the 
budget debate ‘‘because we are doing it 
in plain sight.’’ 

I absolutely agree. The Senate Budget 
Committee wrote our strong 
progrowth, pro-middle-class long-term 
budget. I am sure the hours that we 
spent debating this budget are not forgotten 
by anybody on this floor. We 
spent a week here in an open process 
debating and voting on amendment 
after amendment until the very wee 
hours of the morning. On March 23, the 
Senate passed our budget. We all remember 
that. The House, by the way, 
passed theirs earlier that day. 

I thought the next step would be we 
would go to a conference as quickly as 
possible. I went to the House Budget 
Committee chairman, Chairman RYAN. 
I told him the American people were 
expecting all of us to get in a room and 
work it out. I thought it was a no-
brainer. We had significant differences 
between our two budgets, but I was 
ready to go to work with my colleagues 
and make compromises. 

With 6 months to go before the end of 
the fiscal year, we had plenty of time. 
But I was absolutely floored when I 
heard the House Republicans had 
changed their mind. They no longer 
wanted to go to conference. They no 
longer wanted to follow regular order. 

I am sure the idea of debating their 
budget and having it compared in an 
open and public forum was pretty unpleasant 
to them. They knew how unpopular 
their plans were to end Medicare 
as we know it and to cut taxes to 
the rich. But they put it in their budget 
and now it was their job to negotiate 
with them. 

I came here to the Senate floor and I 
asked for consent to go to a budget 
conference. I was joined by Senator 
REID and many others. We asked to 
begin bipartisan negotiations. But Senate 
Republicans said no. We tried again 

and again and again. On April 23, we 
were blocked—April 23, blocked by 
Senator TOOMEY; on May 6, Senator 
CRUZ stood up and objected; on May 7, 
May 8, May 9, May 14, and May 15, Senator 
MCCONNELL said no; on May 16, 
Senator LEE said no; on May 21, Senator 
PAUL blocked our negotiation; 
May 22, it was Senator RUBIO; May 23, 
Senator LEE; June 4, Senator RUBIO; 
June 12, Senator LEE; June 19, Senator 
TOOMEY; June 26, Senator CRUZ; July 
11, Senator RUBIO; July 17, Senator 
LEE; on August 1, Senator RUBIO 
blocked us from starting a conference, 
right before the August recess. 

We have come here 18 times. Every 
single time we tried to get in that 
room, every time we tried to start a 
conference and negotiate, Republicans 
stood and they blocked us. 

By the way, it was not just Democrats 
either. Quite a few of our Senate 
Republicans joined us in pushing for a 
conference. My colleague Senator 
MCCAIN joined Democrats on the floor 
and said blocking a conference was ‘‘incomprehensible’’ 
and ‘‘insane.’’ 

Senator CORKER said to ‘‘keep from 
appointing conferees is not consistent.’’ 


Senator FLAKE said he ‘‘would like to 
see a conference.’’ 

Republicans offered one excuse after 
another. By the way, none of them add 
up. First, they said they wanted a 
preconference framework, even though 
that is exactly what a budget is, and 
was exactly what we were negotiating 
over. 

Then they said they would not allow 
us to go to conference unless we guaranteed 
in our budget that the wealthiest 
Americans and biggest corporations 
would be protected from paying a 
penny more in taxes. Then they said 
they did not want a bipartisan conference 
to take away the leverage that 
they would have during a debt ceiling 
debate. Then they called for a ‘‘do-
over’’ of the budget debate, including 
another 50 hours of debate here on the 
floor, and a whole new round of unlimited 
amendments, even after, I will remind 
all of us, many of them praised 
the open floor debate that we had during 
the Senate budget debate. 

Their story kept changing. Senator 
MCCAIN said Republicans’ preconditions 
and excuses were ‘‘absolutely 
out of line and unprecedented.’’ 
Senator COLLINS said that even though 
there is a lot we do not see eye to eye 
on, we should at least go to conference 
and make our best effort to make a 
deal. 

The stalling from some Republicans 
was, to quote Senators MCCAIN and 
COLLINS, ‘‘a little bit bizarre’’ and 
‘‘ironic, to say the least.’’ 

Republicans kept making excuses for 
stalling. But the bottom line was that 
after spending years saying the most 
important thing was for the Senate to 
pass a budget, once we did, they ran 
away as quickly as they could. You 
know, I told Republicans again and 
again, right here on the Senate floor 


S7126 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

and when I talked to them in private, 
if you do not join us in a conference 
and give us the time we need to work 
out a deal, you are going to be pushing 
us into a completely avoidable crisis. 
They did not listen. They did not want 
to conference. They did not want to negotiate. 
They thought they would have 
more leverage in a crisis. They were 
doing everything they could to push us 
to one. Well, they were right; they 
pushed us into a crisis. Now families 
across our country are paying the 
price. 

If Speaker BOEHNER truly wants to 
negotiate and end this lurching from 
crisis to crisis, he would let the House 
vote to keep the government open. It 
would pass, by the way, with a strong 
bipartisan vote. Then he would join us 
at the table in a conference that I have 
been trying to start for months. 

I am going to ask unanimous consent 
for the 19th time to start a budget conference. 
To be very clear, this is not a 
replacement for an immediate end to 
this shutdown. It would build on a 
short-term bill to end this crisis. It is 
not to negotiate a short-term deal 
while our families and our communities 
are being hurt by a shutdown. It 
is to make sure the door is open for 
long-term negotiations that can start 
as soon as the threat of a shutdown is 
taken off the table. 

I am hopeful our Republican colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle 
who have watched as our constituents 
look on in amazement at the Senate 
and House as they say: We were unable 
to do the job that we have been asked 
to do, which is to govern the country in 
a responsible way—I would hope they 
would take a moment to pause and to 
say: It is time to stand. It is time to be 
a leader. It is time to stop holding our 
country and our communities hostage. 
It is time to stop putting fear into the 
lives of so many people. It is time to 
say, yes, we are going to open the government, 
we are not going to hold this 
country hostage, we are going to do our 
job. That is simply what we are asking 
to do today, allow the Senate bill to 
come up for a vote in the House. It will 
pass. We know we have the votes, Republicans 
and Democrats together, who 
want to stop this crisis. 

Then we will sit down and do what we 
have been asked to do by the Republicans 
for a number of years now, to 
write a budget, to have the House write 
a budget and sit down and work out our 
differences. 

I see Senator DURBIN here on the 
floor. Senator DURBIN worked on the 
Simpson-Bowles Commission for many 
years to try and resolve our differences. 
I think he would agree with 
me, it is time to get this done. 

I see Senator WARNER on the floor 
right now. He has spent a great deal of 
time working to get us to a point 
where we can solve this crisis and have 
a way to go forward and a path that 
our country can rely on. 

I think many of our colleagues are 
ready to get past this crisis, are ready 

to open the government, and begin the 
responsible thing of working in the 
way we are supposed to. I hope they listen 
to Senator REID and what he offered 
them today. I hope they do the 
right thing so families across our country 
do not have to continue bearing the 
burden of the Republican Party’s dysfunction 
and division. 

With that, I ask unanimous consent 
that when the Senate receives a message 
from the House that they have 
passed H.J. Res. 59, as amended by the 
Senate, the Senate then proceed to the 
consideration of Calendar No. 33, H. 
Con. Res. 25; that the amendment at 
the desk, which is the text of S. Con. 
Res. 8, the budget resolution passed by 
the Senate, be inserted in lieu thereof; 
that H. Con. Res. 25, as amended, be 
agreed to, the motion to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the 
table; that the Senate proceed to a 
vote on a motion to insist on its 
amendment, request a conference with 
the House on the disagreeing votes of 
the two Houses, and authorize the 
Chair to appoint conferees on the part 
of the Senate, with all of the above occurring 
with no intervening action or 
debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, in a second 
I am going to ask we go into a quorum 
call so the Republicans can give this 
due consideration. I do not want to try 
to rush into this, so we are going to go 
into a quorum call, giving the Republicans 
the opportunity to look at and 
study this consent agreement. 

We have done what we thought the 
Speaker would want, what the Republican 
leader would want. We have said 
we will discuss whatever you want to 
talk about in the conference. We hope 
this is something they will accept. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. REID. I ask unanimous consent 
that the order for the quorum call be 
rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Is there objection to the request of 
the Senator from Washington? 

The Senator from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. TOOMEY. Reserving the right to 
object, I would point out a couple of 
things I didn’t hear in the discussion of 
the Senator from Washington. 

One is the fact that the House has 
passed three different measures to fund 
the government. That has already happened. 
They were sent over here, and 
each one was rejected by the Senate 
Democrats, one after another, so that 
we are now in a government shutdown. 

I would also point out that after the 
Senate Democrats rejected every measure 
the Republicans sent over to fund 
the government, the Republican House 
sent over a measure to go to conference 
so that we could resolve this problem. 
I find it a little bit ironic, to say the 

least, that our Democratic colleagues 
are saying: We need to go to conference 
on the budget resolution. Now, I know 
the terminology here can get confusing 
for people, but that is a vehicle that 
has nothing to do with the immediate 
problem we have right now, which is 
the funding of the government, because 
we don’t have a continuing resolution 
to actually fund the discretionary 
spending of the government, and that 
having expired and our Democratic 
friends having voted down every attempt 
by the Republicans to fund the 
government, we are in this bind. 

Now we have the unanimous consent 
request, if I have this right, that says 
that if the Republicans agree to every 
demand the Democrats have made beforehand, 
initially, then and only then 
would our Democratic friends like to 
have a conference on the budget. This 
is what I am hearing. 

What I would ask is whether the Senator 
from Washington would consider a 
modification to the unanimous consent 
request, and this would be two things. 
One would be that they also would 
agree to go to conference on the CR so 
we can work out the problem that is 
preventing us from reopening the government. 
The other would be that when 
we go to conference—— 

Mr. SCHUMER. Would the Senator 
yield for a clarification? 

Mr. TOOMEY. I yield to the Senator. 

Mr. SCHUMER. Your request that we 
go to conference would be while the 
government is shut down. It doesn’t 
matter in your request whether the 
government is shut down or not; is that 
correct? 

Mr. TOOMEY. My request is that we 
try to find a resolution to the shutdown. 
Go to conference—— 

Mr. SCHUMER. While the government 
is shut down? 

Mr. TOOMEY. Go immediately, right 
now. The government is shut down. 
Let’s go right now to conference as the 
House has requested so that we can reopen 
the government and can work out 
an agreement rather than have this impasse. 
Let’s try to break the impasse 
by trying to go to conference. That 
would be one condition. 

Then I would go back to what our 
concern has been about the budget conference 
all along. I have asked unanimous 
consent to go to conference on 
the budget. I am a member of the Finance 
Committee. I would like us to do 
that. What I have objected to and what 
many of us have objected to is using it 
as an opportunity to break the Senate 
rules and airdrop in a debt ceiling increase 
without the opportunity to have 
the 60-vote threshold we ought to have 
in the Senate if we are going to consider 
increasing the debt burden on the 
American people. 

I would ask unanimous consent that 
the Senator from Washington agree to 
those two modifications. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the 
Senator so modify her request? 

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, reserving 
the right to object, let me 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7127 

make it very clear that what the Senator 
from Pennsylvania is asking is 
that we continue to hold our country, 
our communities, and our families hostage 
while they try to get something 
out of a conference. Mainly, the Senator 
is talking about saying 
ObamaCare will be repealed unless we 
pass a very short-term—a few weeks— 
continuing resolution. That is completely 
unacceptable not only to this 
Senator but to the vast majority of 
Americans. 

The Senator is also saying we can 
talk while everyone is not at work 
while the government is shut down. We 
have been asking to talk for a long 
time, but the American people deserve 
to be able to go to work, get their paychecks, 
and to have our communities 
and our country running without the 
threat of this over their heads. 

I object to the Senator’s request. 

I repeat my request that we allow the 
House to vote on the bill that was sent 
over to them, that they have the votes 
on, open the government, and then do 
as we have asked 19 times, do what the 
American people expect us to do, which 
is to go to conference and work out our 
disagreements. 

I renew my original request. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the request of the Senator 
from Washington? 

Mr. TOOMEY. The Senator from 
Washington objects to my request that 
we go to conference so we can resolve 
the impasse of the shutdown of government 
and instead wishes to go to conference 
on something else, which is the 
budget resolution, in the event it does 
not reopen the government. 

I object. 

Mrs. MURRAY. I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

Mrs. MURRAY. Let me make it 
clear. The Senator from Washington 
does not believe we should be negotiating 
in the dark of night. The government 
should be open, public, and people 
should be able to see what we are 
doing. That is why our unanimous request 
was so important. I am so disappointed 
the Republicans are saying: 
Hold the country hostage. That is the 
place we are left in. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New York. 

Mr. SCHUMER. I know my colleague 
from Pennsylvania has gone. Let’s 
clarify a few things because obfuscation 
is the rule of the day when you are 
not holding many cards. 

First, the Senator from Pennsylvania 
said they have asked to open the government—
they have asked, rather, to 
go to conference three times and open 
the government. Yes, they have—if 
ObamaCare is repealed, if ObamaCare 
is delayed for 1 year, and if the individual 
mandate is delayed for 1 year. 
That is not a request to go to conference. 
That is saying: Unless I get my 
way on ObamaCare—which has been 
voted on by these Chambers, which has 
been litigated in the election—I am 

going to shut the government down. 
Their position hasn’t changed. The bottom 
line is very simple. The bottom 
line now is very simple. The bottom 
line now is, oh, let’s go to conference. 
All of a sudden—sure. Let’s go to conference 
while cancer treatments are 
being refused. The more we delay, the 
worse that is. Let’s go to conference 
while veterans’ benefits can’t be processed, 
and the more we delay, the more 
veterans will be hurt. Let’s go to conference 
before 800,000 people get their 
paychecks, which they need to feed 
their families. Let’s go to conference 
while the Statue of Liberty is closed 
and my little sandwich shop nearby is 
not making any revenue. 

Please, I say to my colleague, what 
the Senator wants to do is use a bludgeon 
since a small group of tea party fanatics, 
as they are called, has Speaker 
BOEHNER in the palm of their hand and 
they have the power not to fund the 
government. They say: Until you do 
what we want, we won’t fund the government. 
So nothing has changed, and 
there is no concession or willingness to 
negotiate on a fair basis by the other 
side—no. 

Let me repeat to my colleague from 
Pennsylvania, you have it backward. 
You are saying: Let’s negotiate, and 
then we might open the government. 
The right way to do it is by the resolution 
offered by the chairwoman of the 
Budget Committee. Let’s open the government, 
and then we will be happy to 
sit down and negotiate. That is the 
fundamental difference here. 

On whose side are the American people? 
Ours—70 to 22. On whose side is 
every Democrat at each end of Pennsylvania 
Avenue? Ours, of course. If 
you look at the quotations in the 
House and Senate, a large number of 
votes from the other side of the aisle 
are on our side too. But because a 
small number of irresponsible members 
of the tea party have Speaker BOEHNER 
in their control right now, we can’t 
succeed. So the tea party shutdown, 
the shutdown, originated, engineered, 
and put into place by the tea party 
with Speaker BOEHNER’s fearful acquiescence, 
is still the law of the day. It 
will not be for much longer. The pressure 
from the public, on the economy, 
and the pressure from Members on the 
other side of the aisle will increase, 
and I believe in a short while—in a 
short while—the other side will have to 
say: OK, we will fund the government; 
now let’s sit down and talk. That is 
what Leader REID and Chairwoman 
MURRAY have simply asked for today. 
It will just take a few days more, but it 
will happen. 

I wish the other side would acquiesce 
now because so many innocent millions 
are being held hostage and being hurt. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The assistant 
majority leader. 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the 
unanimous consent request made by 
the Senator from the State of Washington 
is eminently sensible. It basi


cally says: Why hold 800,000 Federal 
employees hostage while we go about 
the negotiation of our future budget? 
The majority leader has made this 
offer. He has said we are going to go 
forward. He has offered to Speaker 
BOEHNER the opportunity—the opportunity—
for us to open the government 
and then get into meaningful negotiations 
on all of the major issues. 

So what do we hear from the Senator 
from Pennsylvania, Senator TOOMEY? 
His objection. He wants to continue to 
keep the government shut down while 
we are supposed to initiate negotiations. 
Who pays the price for that? 
Well, it wouldn’t be any Senator. The 
people who pay a price for it are those 
800,000 furloughed employees and all of 
the people in America who count on 
their services every single day. 

I have said it before, but it bears repeating. 
Two hundred people were 
turned away from the National Institutes 
of Health this week who wanted 
to enter clinical trials because of a serious 
life-threatening illness, including 
30 children—cancer patients coming to 
the NIH with their parents for one last 
hopeful move to save their lives. So the 
Senator from Pennsylvania says: 
Sorry, we can’t take care of those children. 
We can’t take care of those seriously 
ill Americans. We have to sit 
down and negotiate. 

It is easy for him, and perhaps easy 
for others to say it is all about us, but 
it isn’t. It is all about America. It is all 
about the people we were sent here to 
represent. It is all about the reputation 
of this Nation. 

What it will take to get beyond this 
current crisis is very obvious. We have 
unity on the Democratic side to open 
the government. We have sent a continuing 
resolution to the House to do 
the same. What has to happen now is 
for moderate Republicans to step forward. 


It is interesting to me in the last 48 
hours how few have come to the Senate 
Floor to talk about this issue. Privately 
they tell me they are torn and 
worried over what this is doing to our 
country and what it is doing to their 
party. But some moderate Republicans 
in the House of Representatives have 
spoken. I would like to, if I can, at this 
point, recount what has been said by 
some of those who have spoken. 

Representative PAT MEEHAN, Republican 
of Pennsylvania, said: 

At this point, I believe it’s time for the 
House to vote for a clean, short-term funding 
bill to bring the Senate to the table and negotiate 
a responsible compromise. 

A clean short-term funding bill. That 
has already passed the Senate. It is sitting 
in the House waiting for the 
Speaker to call it up. 

Representative MIKE FITZPATRICK, 
another Republican from Pennsylvania. 
A Fitzpatrick aide tells the 
Philadelphia Inquirer the Congressman 
would support a clean funding bill if it 
came up for a vote. 

Representative LOU BARLETTA, Republican 
of Pennsylvania. Barletta said 


S7128 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

he would ‘‘absolutely’’ vote for a clean 
bill in order to avert a shutdown of the 
government. 

Representative CHARLIE DENT, Republican 
of Pennsylvania said: ‘‘I’m 
prepared to vote for a clean continuing 
resolution,’’ he told the Huffington 
Post. 

In addition to that, Representative 
JIM GERLACH, another Republican from 
Pennsylvania, issued a statement saying 
he would ‘‘vote in favor of a so-
called clean budget bill.’’ 

The list goes on—and I have mentioned 
a few on this list: Representative 
PAT MEEHAN, Republican of Pennsylvania; 
Representative SCOTT 
RIGELL—I am sorry if I mispronounced 
that—Republican of Virginia; Representative 
JON RUNYAN, Republican of 
New Jersey; Representative MIKE 
FITZPATRICK, Republican of Pennsylvania; 
Representative LOU BARLETTA, 
Republican of Pennsylvania; Representative 
PETER KING, Republican of 
New York; Representative DEVIN 
NUNES, Republican of California; Representative 
CHARLIE DENT, Republican 
of Pennsylvania; Representative FRANK 
WOLF, Republican of Virginia; Representative 
MICHAEL GRIMM, Republican 
of New York; Representative ERIK 
PAULSEN, Republican of Minnesota; 
Representative ROB WITTMAN, Republican 
of Virginia; Representative 
FRANK LOBIONDO, Republican of New 
Jersey; Representative RANDY FORBES, 
Republican of Virginia; Representative 
JIM GERLACH, Republican of Pennsylvania; 
Representative LEONARD LANCE, 
Republican of New Jersey, and Representative 
MIKE SIMPSON, Republican 
of Idaho. 

Seventeen. Why is that number significant? 
It takes only two or three 
more Republican Congressmen—Republican 
Congressmen—to step up and say 
they will vote for the CR we sent over 
from the Senate to reopen the government 
of the United States of America. 

There are six Republican Congressmen 
in my State of Illinois. I challenge 
all of them to join this group of their 
fellow colleagues and Democrats in the 
House who don’t want to punish America 
and 800,000 Federal workers. 

What is at stake here? It isn’t just 
bragging rights about how this crisis 
ends. What is at stake is much more. It 
even goes beyond the life-and-death 
situation faced by hundreds at the National 
Institutes of Health. I am still 
stunned by what I was told yesterday 
by Senator FEINSTEIN. It is public 
knowledge. She announced it on the 
floor. Seventy-two percent—72 percent—
of the civilian workforce in 
America’s intelligence agencies have 
been furloughed. What do they do? 
Well, I will tell you what they do. They 
listen closely to places and people all 
around the world to see a threat coming 
against the United States. They are 
sent to work each day with the most 
serious mission of almost anyone working 
for our government. They are sent 
there with the mission to avoid the 
next 9/11, to spare innocent people 

across America the possibility of a terrorist 
attack. 

I am not over-dramatizing it. That is 
what the intelligence agencies are all 
about every day. Today, almost three 
out of four of the professional men and 
women on the civilian side of intelligence 
are home. They are not listening. 
They are not watching. They have 
been sent home by this tea party Republican 
shutdown. It will only take 
about 3 more Republican Congressmen 
to step forward and say: This has to 
come to an end for the good of our Nation, 
for the safety of our Nation, and 
for the future of our economy. That is 
what we are up against. 

What we are trying to do is get the 
conversation underway to resolve some 
major issues. I hope we are successful. 
But in the meantime, let us protect 
America. Let us serve the people who 
sent us here. Let us reopen this government 
as quickly as possible. It has 
gone on now for a day and a half. It 
should end this afternoon. 

Speaker JOHN BOEHNER has it within 
his power to end this government shutdown 
in a matter of minutes—minutes—
and then we can start a conversation 
about the important issues 
facing us. I think the President is 
right. We have to do this in a responsible 
manner and to say once and for 
all we are not going to hold the American 
people, the American taxpayers or 
America’s security, hostage to a political 
temper tantrum. We have to face 
our responsibilities honestly and directly. 


I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
COONS). The Senator from Virginia. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I want 
to thank my colleague, the Senator 
from Illinois for his comments on this 
issue. I will comment as well, but I also 
want to thank the chair of the Budget 
Committee for asking one more time 
and saying: Let’s negotiate this. 

I think it is important to note, as the 
Senator from Illinois mentioned, some 
of the folks who say this is not just 
about the 800,000 Federal workers who 
are going on without pay, it is about 
national security. Seventy-two percent 
of the folks who work in the intelligence 
community, who are civilians, 
are furloughed today. It means our 
troops in harm’s way are in greater 
danger. Our embassies are in greater 
danger, and our country is in greater 
danger. 

I also have heard some remarkable 
comments from some of our colleagues 
on the other side about the free enterprise 
system. I have to say I have spent 
longer in the free enterprise system 
than I have in elective office. I can 
never imagine two businesses that were 
negotiating saying: We are going to 
shut down our business rather than negotiate. 
I mean this really has entered 
into a new realm of the theater of the 
absurd. 

We think about why so many of those 
Congressmen from Virginia have 
stepped up, and it is because this is not 

just about the Federal workforce. I 
point out that today, at NASA Langley, 
one of our premier research institutions 
in America, where there are 
normally 3,500 employees, there are 
only six working today. But this 
doesn’t just affect NASA Langley. It 
affects the gas station nearby, where 
the folks who go to work at NASA 
Langley buy gas. It affects the shops 
and restaurants around there, where 
people go to eat. 

I wonder what the folks who talk 
about the free enterprise system will 
say to that motel owner along Skyline 
Drive in Virginia or outside Yosemite 
who has a cancellation this weekend. 
That is not a government worker. That 
is part of the free enterprise system. 
No business leader in America, regardless 
of political stripe, thinks shutting 
down the Federal Government makes 
good business sense. 

Earlier today, along with my colleagues 
from Maryland—Senator KING 
couldn’t be there, but he was very supportive—
we brought in some—not faceless 
budgets but real folks who were directly 
affected by this shutdown. We 
had a woman who had worked for the 
National Science Foundation for close 
to 40 years, saying she had gone 
through a $2,500 hit from furloughs already 
and was unsure. She hadn’t 
bought a car last week because this 
was hanging over her head. She felt she 
was going to be fine in some way, but 
she wondered what young scientist 
would come work in public service 
today. Again, in a free enterprise sys-
tem—this is a competitive world—the 
rest of the world is not going to stop 
their science, their innovation, their 
creativity because America can’t get 
its act together and keep its government 
operating. 

I have been occasionally called by 
some of my colleagues on this side of 
the aisle too reflexively bipartisan. 
There is always both sides of an argument. 
But on this argument, with these 
facts, there is no lack of clarity in my 
mind that holding not just our Federal 
workforce but the economy of America 
hostage, and saying that until we get 
our way we are not going to reopen the 
largest enterprise in the world—the 
Federal Government of the United 
States—is more irresponsible than anything 
I have seen, not only in my political 
life but in my business life. 

I have had some of the same conversations 
my colleagues have had, and 
I know there is a great deal of uneasiness 
on the other side. I actually don’t 
believe this is Democrats versus Republicans. 
We have our bill over on the 
House side, and I believe, candidly, we 
will see the majority of the House Republicans 
join in reopening the government. 
Then let’s have this kind of very 
real debate about health care, about 
tax reform, about getting our country’s 
balance sheet right. 

The notion that we are basically 
going to affect the lives of 800,000 folks 
who are furloughed, and countless millions 
of others who depend on those 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7129 

services, or countless millions others 
in the free enterprise system who depend 
upon our workforce as their customers, 
is stunningly irresponsible. All 
of us here say we want our economy to 
recover. Well, let’s get our balance 
sheet right. But in the meantime, let’s 
open the government. Let these folks 
get back to their job, and let’s have 
this conference that has been called for 
18 different times. 

I will close, and I know other folks 
have mentioned this. No matter what 
happens going forward, we are going to 
ask our Federal workforce to do more 
with less resources. Again, I have spent 
more time in the private sector than in 
the public sector. I have built companies. 
The last thing you do to your 
workforce, when you are asking them 
to do more with less, is disrespect them 
continuously the way we have done to 
the Federal workforce over the last 3 
years—3 years without a pay increase, 
furloughs, being told that somehow 
they are riding in the wagon not driving 
the wagon. 

Let me say, as somebody who got 
here because of a good public school, 
because of a student loan program, because 
I had a free enterprise system 
that allowed me to fail, but then succeed 
because there was a support system 
put forward by a Federal Government, 
I think those folks are pulling 
that wagon every bit as much as every 
other American. 

I hope we will be able to get not only 
those folks in the House but others to 
be willing to say it is time to get this 
government bill, it is time to have a 
long overdue conversation about our 
balance sheet. I appeal to all of my colleagues, 
let’s get this behind us. 
Please, don’t bring somebody down 
here and say that under the free enterprise 
system somehow it is rational, 
logical, or makes good business sense 
to keep this government shuttered. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, first of 
all, in all this mess there is some good 
news. The Affordable Care Act is up 
and running, and the people of America 
are responding in remarkable numbers. 

Remember how the Republicans said 
this is bad, it is a failure? They kept 
saying it was a failure even though it 
had not even started. In the first 24 
hours of healthcare.gov being up, the 
national marketplace, 4.7 million people 
visited. In California, which has its 
own State-run marketplace, 5 million 
people visited that site yesterday. I 
noted that I heard the Republican leader 
out here earlier today. In his home 
state of Kentucky, with 78,000 visitors, 
they started nearly 4,700 applications 
and completed more than 2,900 yesterday 
in the first day. 

I think what this all indicates is the 
American people is hungry to get covered 
with health insurance. With 30 
million people out there without 
health insurance, with a preexisting 
condition, or maybe they are ill right 

now, maybe they have had other things 
happen or are out of work—now they 
can go on the marketplace and get 
health insurance coverage. And they 
are flocking to it, because it has been 
sorely needed for decades. 

The Republicans still want to hold 
the government hostage and defund the 
Affordable Care Act. I would like to 
know what the Republican leader 
might say to those 4,700 people who applied 
in Kentucky yesterday. And we 
know it is going to be more as the 
weeks and months go by. We have 6 
months to sign up. But think about 
those figures just in the first day. 

Fifty-five thousand people went to 
Colorado’s exchange and 1,450 created 
accounts to allow them to start shopping. 
I mentioned New York. There 
were 10 million attempts to reach their 
Web site. 

We had some glitches. Yes, some Web 
sites froze because they didn’t expect 
that many people to come on the first 
day. 

Andrew Stryker was among the first 
people to purchase health care through 
the marketplace. Mr. Stryker is 34 
years old and lives in Los Angeles 
where he is a freelancer. He has a preexisting 
condition—high blood pressure—
and says health insurance companies 
had denied him coverage on the 
individual market. He said signing up 
for coverage through the marketplace 
will save him over $6,000 per year when 
compared with his monthly premium 
for his COBRA plan. For that, he said, 
I would have waited all day. 

So the Affordable Care Act is up and 
running, and people all over this country 
are flocking to it to get the good 
news that they can get affordable coverage 
for themselves and their family. 

The same is happening in my own 
State of Iowa, where the plans have 
come in as some of the lowest in the 
country. 

So that is the good news. The bad 
news is Republicans here are still trying 
to stop it before too many people 
get health insurance because then they 
know they won’t be able to turn it 
back. The people of America have waited 
too long to have health insurance 
coverage for themselves and their families. 
Now everyone can get health insurance 
at a price they can afford. So 
we are going to have health coverage 
not just for the healthy and the 
wealthy but for everyone in this country. 
That is the good news. 

We are now in day 2 of the Federal 
shutdown. If we listen to some Members 
across the aisle and in the other 
body, one might get the sense that it is 
no big deal. The Congressman from my 
own State said, the sky hasn’t fallen. 
We have had government shutdowns 
and the sky hasn’t fallen, the roof 
hasn’t caved in. No big deal. I may 
have paraphrased a little bit, but that 
is basically what he said. They seem to 
think you can simply turn off the Federal 
Government for a few days or a 
month or two and it won’t matter. I 
don’t understand this attitude, but it is 

what we hear from Members of the 
other party. 

Let me explain what a government 
shutdown means in the areas I am 
most familiar with as the chair of the 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Committee and as chair of the 
Appropriations Committee that funds 
those programs. 

As of yesterday, the National Institutes 
of Health stopped enrolling new 
patients in 497 ongoing clinical research 
trials. Of those trials, 255 are 
studying treatments for cancer and 50 
involve children with cancer. These are 
ongoing clinical research trials right 
now—stopped—50 involving children 
with cancer. What do you say to those 
families? Clinical trials can’t be completed 
if they don’t have enough patients. 
But as long as there is a shutdown, 
the process stops. 

I remind everyone, when I am talking 
about NIH I am not just talking about 
Bethesda, MD. I am talking about all 
over this country. NIH funds research 
and clinical trials in every State in 
this country. As of yesterday, the NIH 
began turning away people from its 
clinical research center. Each week of 
a shutdown, NIH estimates it will close 
its doors to 200 new patients who need 
help. Also yesterday the NIH stopped 
processing applications for new research 
grants. These applications are 
submitted by scientists all over the 
country, from universities and other 
places in our States, not just from Bethesda 
and not just from Washington, 
DC. 

We might say OK, so they have 
stopped processing new research 
grants. So what. The sky hasn’t fallen, 
the roof hasn’t caved in, according to 
the Congressman from Iowa. We have 
no idea which of those grant applications 
might lead to the next cure for 
cancer or Alzheimer’s or diabetes or 
might be that one bit of research that 
fits into that slot where other people 
can build on it to find cures. But so 
long as there is a shutdown, none of 
them will be considered. That is the effect 
on NIH. 

I understand the House is proceeding 
to some kind of a measure to pass an 
appropriations measure just for NIH 
and maybe a couple other things, and 
they are going to send it over here. Do 
you know what they are missing if 
they want to talk about health? They 
are missing the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. 

The CDC is the premier public health 
agency—not just in America but in the 
world. The people who work there protect 
America from threats to our 
health and safety like infectious diseases, 
chronic diseases, outbreaks of 
foodborne disease. As of yesterday, the 
CDC—the premier public health agency 
in the world—is shut down. All of their 
labs are closed. The scientists are furloughed. 
The expert hotlines that physicians 
and the public call for information 
are turned off. The emergency operations 
center is on a skeleton crew 
for outbreak response. Maybe that 


S7130 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

should give us some comfort. But the 
CDC is not doing any disease monitoring. 
So who is going to sound the 
alert if they are not doing the monitoring? 
I have to add, viruses don’t just 
break out when the government is 
open. 

I will never forget what our former 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee, 
and under whom I served some 
years ago, Mark Hatfield, the great 
Senator from Oregon, said when he 
gave his final speech here on the Senate 
floor. I remember it well. I remember 
him saying it is not the Russians 
are coming, the Russians are coming; 
it is the viruses are coming, the viruses 
are coming. 

Senator Hatfield was looking ahead 
because he knew what was happening. 
We know for a fact that the viruses are 
coming because October is the beginning 
of flu season. And yet because the 
government is shut down, there is no 
one at CDC monitoring influenza. 

Why is that important? For most of 
us, I suppose flu is an inconvenience. 
For most of us, we can go down here to 
the doctor’s office and get our flu shot. 
But for many people, flu can be a matter 
of life and death. More than 200,000 
Americans are hospitalized from flu 
every year. In a mild year, 3,000 Americans 
who get the flu will die. In a severe 
year, that toll can rise to almost 
50,000. 

So right now is precisely when the 
Center for Disease Control should begin 
monitoring which strains are circulating 
across the country, which communities 
are being hit hardest, so they 
can isolate it, find out what is happening, 
and keep it from spreading. As 
long as there is a shutdown, the CDC is 
not doing this. 

This past April, a new strain of flu, 
H7N9, appeared in China during their 
flu season. It is very deadly. Twenty 
percent of the people who got it died. 
Thank goodness, we haven’t had that 
outbreak in America; but as long as 
the CDC is shut down, no one is watching 
for it. No one is monitoring to see 
if that strain of flu might cause an outbreak 
someplace in this country. 

I say that to tell people we may 
think everything is just fine and 
dandy. My fellow Congressman from 
Iowa may say, well, the sky hasn’t fallen, 
the roof hasn’t caved in. And I hope 
and pray we don’t have an influenza 
outbreak. I hope and pray we don’t 
have any serious virus outbreaks in the 
next few days. But viruses don’t just 
wait around for the government to be 
open. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has used 10 minutes of his time. 

Mr. HARKIN. Under what order are 
we proceeding? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is 
a unanimous consent agreement that 
Senators will speak for 10 minutes. 

Mr. HARKIN. I have more to say 
about the Centers for Disease Control, 
but I guess I will have to seek my 10 
minutes later on in the day. 

I thank the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Hampshire. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Mr. President, if the 
Senator from Iowa needs a couple of 
minutes to wrap up, I don’t think I will 
take my whole 10 minutes so I would be 
happy to cede to him a couple of minutes. 


Mr. HARKIN. I thank the Senator. 
She is very kind. I have at least another 
5 to 7 minutes to go. I have some 
data from CDC that I want to put in. 
So I thank her very much. 

I have been talking about the Centers 
for Disease Control and what the shutdown 
means in terms of monitoring 
outbreaks, food-borne outbreaks, illnesses, 
virus outbreaks—and that is 
not happening now. 

I want to turn to another thing; that 
is, what CDC is and how CDC keeps 
Americans safe every day, and that is 
in food safety. 

The Centers for Disease Control has 
stopped its epidemiological work to 
identify potential outbreaks and link 
the outbreak to a food source. I can’t 
tell you what might be missed while 
the CDC is shut down. I can give a few 
examples where recently the CDC has 
sounded the alarm and kept Americans 
safe. 

Only 12 days ago, 162 people in 10 
States became ill with hepatitis A as a 
result of eating contaminated frozen 
berries—the kinds of mixed berries you 
get in the grocery store freezer department. 
The States are as far apart as 
Arizona, California, New Jersey, Hawaii, 
and Wisconsin, but because of the 
expertise of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, they were able 
to go out, get this secured, recall the 
food, and trace it down. They traced it, 
believe it or not, to some pomegranate 
seeds that came from Turkey—not 
America but Turkey. This is another 
way in which the Centers for Disease 
Control protects the safety of Americans. 


In August cyclospora infected 643 
people who ate a particular salad mix 
in 25 States. A lot of people may remember 
that. The outbreak was first 
identified in my home State of Iowa. 
They immediately called the Centers 
for Disease Control, and then the CDC 
got a hold of other States. The next 
place it popped up was Texas—Iowa, 
then Texas. They traced it. CDC put its 
detectives, as I call them, to work. 
They isolated this salad mix, and it 
was traced to a place in Mexico. It was 
recalled. Yes, 643 people got sick, but 
we stopped it before it spread any further 
and before anybody died. That is 
what the CDC did. 

Now, because of the government 
shutdown, CDC has stopped. 

I hope there is not another outbreak 
like this, but one never knows. But the 
detectives on the CDC epidemiology 
team are now furloughed. What does 
that mean for the safety of Americans? 

When the Congressman from Iowa on 
the other side said: Well, you know, the 
sky hasn’t fallen and the roof hasn’t 
caved in because the government has 

shut down, implying that it is no big 
deal, I hope and pray we don’t have a 
virus outbreak, a bacteria outbreak, or 
a food-borne outbreak such as I just 
mentioned. Well, will food contamination 
happen tomorrow? Will a flu outbreak 
happen this weekend? 

I have heard people say: We shouldn’t 
be too concerned about the shutdown. 
It might last only a few days. 

To those I ask, how many days can 
we afford to lose when a virus emerges? 
In those few days, how many people 
will buy and eat a contaminated product? 
How many more people will catch 
the flu, West Nile virus, hepatitis or E. 
coli? I could go on and on. How long 
can we afford to put a blindfold on the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention? 


I am not trying to unduly frighten 
anybody, but I am telling the facts. 
What I said here happened recently. 
This is not mythological. This is not 
maybe. These things actually happened 
within the last few weeks in America. 
People got sick. People lost work. 

Again, we have to be concerned. Yes, 
maybe the sky hasn’t fallen or the roof 
hasn’t caved in. Is that what we have 
to have happen before we reopen the 
government? I say to that Congressman 
from Iowa, is that what has to 
happen—must a lot of people have to 
get sick, or do lot of people have to 
die? Then maybe we will say: Oh, I 
guess now we have to reopen the government. 
What a terrible way to run a 
government. 

In another area—and again I am 
talking about things under my jurisdiction 
as the chair of this committee—
the Social Security Administration 
furloughed 18,000 Federal employees 
and Social Security officers 
across the country—29 percent of the 
agency’s workforce. 

I suppose some would say: Well, so 
what. They are just bureaucrats. 

Let’s take a look at them. Checks 
will still go out, Social Security 
checks will still go out, disability and 
retirement claims will still come in, 
but that is it. What that will mean is 
delays in basic services for the 180,000 
people who visit a Social Security office 
every day in America or the 445,000 
people who call Social Security offices 
every day who have a problem, who 
have a question, maybe a lost card. 
Need I mention what it means when 
you have a lost Social Security card, 
don’t have that ID, trying to get some 
health care services or something else 
and you don’t have your Social Security 
card? Some 22,000 Americans a day 
file for retirement benefits. Twelve 
thousand a day apply for disability 
benefits. 

As I said, Social Security will continue 
to accept those, but nothing will 
happen. That means the backlog piles 
up and piles up and piles up every day. 
Twenty-two thousand a day file for retirement 
benefits. They can file it, but 
nothing happens. So that just builds up 
day after day after day, and the backlog 
gets worse. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7131 

It already takes about 13 months, on 
average, to get a decision on an appeal 
for disability benefits. With this shutdown, 
it is going to be longer. It is 
going to be 14 months, 15 months and 18 
months, and on and on. If you need a 
new Social Security card, sorry. As 
long as there is a shutdown, you can’t 
get one. You cannot get a new Social 
Security card. If you need to replace 
your Medicare card, tough luck, you 
are going to have to wait a long time. 

The Department of Labor staff, who 
investigate worker violations such as 
wage theft, will be at home instead of 
on the job. Some worker protection 
staff are still on the job but they are 
only looking at the highest risk facilities 
or responding after an accident has 
occurred. This isn’t acceptable. 

Take, for example, MSHA, the Mine 
Safety Health Administration. It is unable 
to conduct all of its required inspections 
because of the shutdown. 
How many safety and health violations 
won’t be identified and corrected? How 
many miners are at risk of lifelong injuries 
and illnesses because of this 
shutdown? 

As someone remarked the other day: 
You know, these mine operators, they 
can smell a mine inspector 2 miles 
away. Well, now, what are these mine 
operators going to do, when we know 
what their track record has been in the 
past, violating safety precautions? 
When they know they are not going to 
get inspected, will they ramp up production? 
They will get as much out of 
their miners as they can and they 
won’t worry about the safety because 
the inspectors aren’t coming around. 
How many miners will have their 
health affected or will be injured? I 
certainly hope not die, but you never 
know. That is just at the Department 
of Labor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BLUMENTHAL). The Senator has used 10 
minutes. I apologize for interrupting 
him. 

Mr. HARKIN. I ask unanimous consent 
to speak for 10 more minutes. 

Mr. President, it is not just our current 
workforce that is impacted by this 
stalemate. The government shutdown 
is also threatening to shut the door at 
Head Start classrooms. This month, 
grants for 22 Head Start providers are 
scheduled to be renewed. These are 
simply continuations of existing 
grants. The providers have already enrolled 
children. But after a shutdown, 
this funding will be cut off. As a result, 
18,000 children and families that those 
programs serve are going to be losing 
access to early childhood education 
services this month—this month—this 
month. 

As I said, I could go on and on, but I 
just wanted to point out how people 
are being affected by this shutdown. It 
may not be visible to all, but it is 
there, and it is hurtful to them and 
their families and to our country. This 
shutdown needs to stop. It is time for 
cooler heads to prevail. It is time to 
end this mindless, damaging, preventable 
shutdown. 

There is one simple way to do it. All 
the Speaker of the House has to do is 
bring up a clean continuing resolution 
which is sitting over there right now— 
bring it to the floor of the House. The 
votes are there to pass it, and the government 
will be back in business tomorrow. 
If he did that, the shutdown 
would be over, and Americans would 
know their safety and health—everything 
from food to illnesses to viruses 
to bacteria and food safety—will again 
be protected by the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. We would 
know the research and the operations 
of the National Institutes of Health 
will continue. We would know our 
workers will be safe once again on the 
job because of the Department of 
Labor. We would know our Social Security 
offices will be open and running 
and will be able to process claims and 
issue new Social Security cards and 
Medicare cards. 

I just want to make it very clear 
there are a lot of people being hurt by 
this. They may not be on the front 
lines or highly visible, but they are out 
there and they are being hurt today. It 
is a shameful, shameful comment on a 
great nation like ours that we continue 
this government shutdown, hurting so 
many people in this country. 

With that I yield the floor. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Mr. President, as I said 
before—and I said certainly as I came 
to this floor last week—governing by 
crisis is no way to run a government. 
We simply have to get our act together 
and work together to get the government 
funded again, to not lose the forest 
for the trees in terms of addressing 
the fiscal challenges our country faces, 
to come up with a fiscally responsible 
plan that puts our Nation first and 
puts us on a path to economic security. 
And, frankly, we have wasted too much 
time and energy on political brinkmanship 
and self-inflicted fiscal crises that 
also keep us from focusing on the real 
challenges we face, including our $17 
trillion in debt, an economy that could 
be much stronger than it is right now 
to create the best climate for jobs in 
this country. 

As I came to this floor last week, I 
reiterated my strongly held opposition 
to ObamaCare because I have seen the 
impact, hearing from businesses and 
individuals in New Hampshire concerned 
about rising health care costs. 
In New Hampshire, we only have one 
insurer that will be on the exchange, 
and 10 of our 26 hospitals will be excluded 
from the exchange. 

But I also said last week that shutting 
down the government in an attempt 
to defund ObamaCare was not a 
winning strategy for success. Why? We 
have already seen exhibit A why it was 
not a winning strategy for success—because 
the government shut down yesterday 
and the ObamaCare exchanges 
opened and continued anyway. Why is 
that? We knew in advance that the 
Congressional Research Service had 
told us that the mandatory funding 
piece that was put in ObamaCare would 

continue even if the government were 
to shut down. We have seen that happen. 


While I continue to believe this law 
is wrong for America because it is 
causing rising health care costs, because 
of the notion—in fact, I think it 
was well said recently by the chairman 
of the board of trustees of the Frisbie 
Memorial Hospital, who originally supported 
the Affordable Care Act but recently 
came to say: I supported it because 
we were told we could keep our 
doctor, and that has turned out to be a 
lie. 

I certainly want to work with my 
colleagues to do whatever I can to 
come up with ways that we can repeal 
ObamaCare, replace it with reforms 
that are actually going to drive down 
health care costs, allow people to keep 
their physicians, and foster more competition 
in the insurance sector to give 
people more choice, but we need to end 
where we are right now. We need to 
come to a resolution to keep this government 
funded in a fiscally responsible 
way. 

I am glad congressional leaders are 
going to speak to the President tonight. 
We do not need another photo 
op. What we need is results. We need 
both sides of the aisle working together 
to negotiate, to come up with a 
plan to fund the government, to move 
forward, to find common ground. 

I know there is some common ground 
in areas of ObamaCare that both sides 
of the aisle are concerned about—for 
example, the medical device tax. When 
we had the budget votes earlier this 
year, the vote was 79 to 20 to repeal the 
medical device tax. Members on both 
sides of the aisle decided that tax was 
not good for innovation, for jobs, and 
that it drives up health care costs. 
That is an area where we have had 
some common ground in how we can affect 
this health care law—a health care 
law I still deeply oppose, but it is time 
for us to make sure we can get the government 
funded again. 

Why? In my home State of New 
Hampshire right now, at the Portsmouth 
Naval Shipyard—one of our Nation’s 
four public shipyards—the 
skilled workers there are being put in 
jeopardy. They have a very important 
function to defend our Nation, to maintain 
our Virginia-class submarines. 
Yet, due to the government shutdown, 
more than 1,700 workers at the Portsmouth 
Naval Shipyard are being furloughed. 
Instead of maintaining our 
submarine fleet and defending our Nation, 
they are worried about their paychecks. 
It is wrong. 

For our National Guard, more than 
330 of our New Hampshire National 
Guard military technicians are being 
furloughed. These individuals lost 25 to 
30 percent of their pay this summer 
when they were furloughed because of 
sequestration. This is no way to treat 
Americans who are helping defend our 
country. They play a critical role in 
the operations of our Guard. Yet we are 
also being told that the New Hampshire 
Air National Guard—if they do 


S7132 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

not receive more furlough exceptions, 
they may have to shut down their air-
refueling and air-bridge operations to 
Europe and the Middle East. This is 
about the defense of our Nation. Many 
of them canceled their civilian job days 
at work to come to their drill weekend 
this weekend, which is now being canceled, 
so they are losing those days of 
pay as well. 

Yesterday I was answering my 
phones. I had a constituent call me 
saying that his family had saved for 
years for a vacation, that it was going 
to cost them $25,000 to $30,000, and they 
were at the Grand Canyon. They said: 
Senator AYOTTE, what is going on? We 
took our kids out of school for 2 weeks, 
we saved for years for this vacation, 
and we cannot go down into the canyon. 


We must get this resolved, and we 
must look for common ground on both 
sides of the aisle to negotiate this, to 
get a responsible fiscal plan for the Nation. 


By the way, we are fighting about 6 
weeks of a continuing resolution right 
now. Give me a break. We should be 
looking at long-term funding for this 
Nation, not 6 weeks. To have this kind 
of impasse over 6 weeks? I can understand 
why the American people are 
frustrated and angry. 

All I can say is that tonight, as congressional 
leaders on both sides of the 
aisle meet with the President of the 
United States, we do not need any 
more posturing. Let’s give up the 
blame game on both sides. No more 
photo ops. You have all seen enough 
photo ops at this point. Come out of 
that meeting with results. Yes, results 
means that both sides are going to 
have to negotiate. Both sides are not 
going to get everything they want, but 
that is what people do in their daily 
lives. That is what I know people in 
New Hampshire do to resolve their differences. 
That is what the American 
people expect of us. 

I hope this ends soon so we can move 
forward on behalf of this great Nation. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Vermont. 

Mr. LEAHY. On Tuesday at midnight, 
the Federal Government shut its 
doors, closed for all but the most essential 
business concerning national security 
and the safety of the American 
people. 

Mr. President, you know Vermonters, 
like Americans in every State and 
town of this country, are frustrated. 
They are angry and confused. They 
have seen Congress’s inability to do its 
job and keep the government running. 
They have seen us pass a budget—we 
passed a continuing resolution here in 
the Senate—and a small group in the 
House of Representatives, a small 
group of Republicans said: No, we have 
to have everything we want or nothing. 

Visual consequences of the shutdown 
can be found around Washington, 
where museums and national monuments 
are barricaded. But it is more 
than just that. It is more than that. 

In the States, national parks and national 
refuges have closed their gates 
and thousands of Federal offices are 
shuttered. We heard this morning in 
the Senate Judiciary Committee from 
the Director of the National Security 
Agency, Keith Alexander, that as 
‘‘each day goes by, the impact and the 
jeopardy [of a shutdown] to the safety 
and security of this country will increase.’’ 
That is true, but the toll of 
this needless exercise is just beginning 
to be felt. 

While some decry Federal spending 
as though it were some kind of communicable 
disease, millions of American 
families—Republicans, Democrats, 
Independents—rely on government-supported 
programs that provide the very 
lifeline keeping them afloat. Key nutrition 
programs like the Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program support 
100,000 Vermonters. Another 1,600 children 
and families benefit from Head 
Start. They are the ones who are going 
to create and run our jobs in the next 
generation. More than 117,000 seniors 
are enrolled in Medicare, and close to 
200,000 Vermonters are enrolled in Medicaid. 
These Vermonters will continue 
to receive assistance through the shutdown, 
but at what pace, when and for 
how long is uncertain. They do not 
know how long this is going to continue. 


The shutdown is hurting in other 
areas, too. Buyers hoping to purchase a 
home with a loan from the Federal 
Housing Administration will be turned 
away. Can you imagine that ripple effect, 
when real estate has finally started 
to pick back up? 

What they are saying is: oh, the 
economy; we worry about the economy. 
They are trying to kill the economy by 
not letting the Federal Housing Administration 
work. 

Our Nation’s readiness to respond is 
threatened. In Vermont alone, 450 technicians 
in the National Guard were furloughed 
yesterday, and another 100 
were released from active orders. That 
has a financial effect, of course, but the 
national security effects are amazing. 

In Vermont we have a lot of agriculture. 
For farmers in Vermont requiring 
assistance from the Department 
of Agriculture, there is no one in 
the field and no one in the office; over 
200 USDA workers—who, especially at 
this time of the year, are there to help 
Vermonters—have been forced to close 
up shop as a result of the shutdown. 

WIC, the supplemental food program 
for pregnant women and young children 
is 100 percent federally funded; 
there is only two weeks of funding 
available in Vermont for the nearly 
16,000 participants in the State. 

We will say in two weeks, sorry, 
child, or sorry, pregnant woman, we 
cannot feed you. Can you just wait 
until we get our act together? We are 
eating very well, but could you go 
without food for a few weeks because 
we have a few more press conferences 
and a few more photo ops? 

What will happen to them? Our Republican 
colleagues in the House will 
not say. They apparently do not care. 

Just yesterday, my office heard from 
one Vermont organization, Rural Edge. 
With the assistance of the USDA Rural 
Rental Housing Loan Program, Rural 
Edge is building much needed affordable 
rental housing in St. Johnsbury, 
VT. The time has come for Rural Edge 
to pay their contractor. They have the 
money, but nobody is home at USDA’s 
Rural Development office to authorize 
the payment, and the work is likely to 
stop. People are apt to be laid off. Winter 
is going to come, and the time to 
construct this affordable housing will 
be lost. This is just one of countless examples 
of how this needless shutdown 
has already started to impact my 
State. Every Senator could tell similar 
stories. 

Many Americans think a government 
shutdown is a Washington, D.C. problem, 
and that the hundreds of thousands 
of Federal workers furloughed 
live in or near the Nation’s capital. 
Nothing could be further from the 
truth. Federal agencies operate in all 
50 States. We know that. More than 40 
Federal agencies operate in Vermont, 
from the Department of Homeland Security, 
to the U.S. Postal Service, the 
Veterans Administration to the Department 
of Defense, the Department 
of Agriculture to the Department of 
Justice. 

These agencies employ over over 7,000 
people in my little State alone. Nearly 
1,000 of these employees reported to 
work on Tuesday only to receive a furlough 
notice. These workers and their 
families are facing an unnecessary financial 
hardship, all because a handful 
of ideologues in Washington have elected 
to shut the government down rather 
than come to the table to find an acceptable 
way to pay our bills and respond 
to the needs of the American 
people. 

These people have families. They 
have mortgages. They have payments. 
They have medical expenses. Suddenly, 
we said: Oh, I am sorry, people; Republicans 
in the House of Representatives—
a small segment of them—are 
saying, we are making points for our 
supporters, so tough for you. You are 
not going to find an acceptable way to 
pay your bills. We want you to pay 
your bills; we are just not going to pay 
ours. 

Failing to fund the government does 
not simply mean Federal workers are 
furloughed and government programs 
are suspended. No. Revenue streams for 
the Federal Government also dry up. 

The Department of Education? Nobody 
is there to collect on defaulted 
student loans. 

The Department of Justice? Civil 
fraud investigations and litigation, including 
False Claims Act and fraud 
cases that bring a lot of money back to 
the government, are on hold. 

They are on hold. 

The Internal Revenue Service? Audits 
that recoup millions in owed taxes 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7133 

are suspended. Billions of American 
taxpayers’ dollars invested across the 
country and around the world. A shutdown 
means no one is home monitoring 
those investments. 

After ping-ponging a continuing resolution 
back and forth, the House of 
Representatives has now adopted a 
piecemeal approach to reopening the 
government, agency by agency. Cherry-
picking the parts of the government 
they want to fund is no way to fulfill 
our responsibilities to the American 
people. Come on. 

If they really care about having the 
government going, they should pass 
the appropriations bills and go to conference. 
Let’s do it without being filibustered 
here by some of their same 
supporters. Go to conference and vote 
them up or down. 

If Republicans in the House were so 
concerned with staffing our National 
Parks, they should have passed an Interior 
appropriations bill which would 
have funded not only the National 
Park Service, but also the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Forest 
Service, and other agencies. 

They did not. 

If Republicans in the House want to 
address funding for individual agencies, 
there is a clear path forward. Let’s reopen 
the government and get to the 
business of passing and conferencing 
appropriations bills in regular order. 
Let’s consider the spending bills that 
include funding for the National Parks 
and the Smithsonian, but which also 
include funding for wildfire prevention 
and clean drinking water. 

Let’s consider spending bills that 
fund the District of Columbia, along 
with the Treasury and Federal Judiciary. 


The Democrats in the Senate have 
passed a continuing resolution to fund 
all Federal agencies and would provide 
us the time needed to consider a path 
forward over the next 6 weeks. This is 
a crisis driven by a handful of partisans 
in the House of Representatives who 
say: No, we can’t do it. 

Vote after vote, day after day, the 
Senate has rejected one flawed House 
proposal after another, and still the 
House has not voted on the clean continuing 
resolution passed by the Senate. 
For a handful of House members, 
there is no path to compromise to keep 
our government running. 

We are elected officials sent here to 
make decisions—not slogans—on behalf 
of our constituents. We are sent here to 
make government work for the American 
people. This Vermonter, like so 
many others, is sick and tired of the 
politics-as-usual approach that has led 
to this shutdown. 

Let’s come to the table. Let’s be 
grownups and do what we said we ran 
to do. Let’s work together for the good 
of the American people, reopen the 
government, and find a responsible and 
reasonable way to get our fiscal house 
in order. 

It’s time for each of us to be a leader, 
not a sloganeer. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Indiana. 

Mr. COATS. Mr. President, today is 
day 2 of the ongoing government shutdown, 
and negotiations to find a resolution 
to our differences remain at a 
stalemate. Actually, I don’t think we 
can use the word ‘‘negotiations’’ because 
you really can’t negotiate if 
there is only one side at the table. It 
takes two parties, and there is only one 
party there. Yesterday Majority Leader 
REID made it crystal clear when he 
blocked the House Republican proposal 
to sit down and talk. For months we 
have heard that Republicans need to 
sit down and talk—from the Senate. 
The House sent over a bill to do just 
that, and the majority leader blocked 
that. 

To say that the people in my State 
are frustrated with this type of action 
is an understatement. Hoosiers and 
Americans are tired of the ongoing dysfunction 
in Washington and the inability 
of Congress and this administration 
to do our job. We can’t do our jobs if we 
are not talking to each other and if the 
White House continues to be absent. 

I recently learned that the President 
has called congressional leaders from 
both parties to come to the White 
House. I initially thought that was a 
positive step, but then I heard the news 
that the White House has already released 
a statement saying the President 
is doing this to reiterate he will 
not negotiate. So my question is: What 
is the point? Maybe it is a chance for a 
photo opportunity, but certainly no 
progress will be made on the stalemate 
we are addressing today, tomorrow, 
and perhaps for weeks ahead. 

It is ironic that the President is willing 
to talk and negotiate with the 
President of Iran or the President of 
Russia but is unwilling to negotiate 
with Republicans or Democrats in the 
Congress. Sadly, this has been the 
model over at the White House—continued 
campaigning, ignoring governing, 
and assembling pseudo-campaign-
like settings to blast Republicans. 
This is not a helpful strategy to 
achieve a resolution to this shutdown. 

We have seen a series of attempts by 
House Republicans to send over legislation 
that would at least fund some of 
the more dysfunctional effects of a 
shutdown. Fortunately, we agreed we 
will fund our troops. They are in 
harm’s way. They have families at 
home who are trying to pay the mortgage, 
keep things together, buy food 
for the kids, save money for their education. 
They do all of those things 
while their spouses are overseas defending 
our country. It would be unconscionable 
to stop their paychecks, 
and that is the positive step we have 
taken. 

House Republicans have also offered 
a number of other initiatives—all of 
which has been deep-sixed by the majority 
leader. They are not even allowing 
debate—we can do that in this 
morning business time—under the bill. 
We simply have a motion to table 

which does not even allow us an up-or-
down vote. 

I wish to mention two things that the 
House is going to send over—and it 
may already be here—which is five 
more proposals and they also involve 
our uniformed soldiers. I am a U.S. 
Army veteran, but I think every American—
whether you are a Democrat or 
Republican, veteran or not—would 
agree we have a duty to remember, 
honor, and support those who have sacrificed 
so much to protect and defend 
our country. When they complete their 
service and come home, those veterans 
deserve to receive the care and support 
they need. 

The House has sent over an act called 
Honoring Our Promise to America’s 
Veterans Act. It is a bill that would 
provide funding for disability payments, 
the GI bill, education, training, 
and VA home loans under the same 
conditions as in effect at the end of the 
just completed fiscal year. 

This legislation needs to be brought 
before us. It needs to be debated, and it 
needs to be passed—hopefully unanimously. 
I am asking the majority leader 
not to deep-six this legislation. This 
is too important for our veterans, it is 
needed, and it should be funded. Any 
attempt to deny this, I believe, would 
be a great disservice to the men and 
women who dedicated so much and put 
themselves at so great a risk to serve 
in our military. 

Another one of those proposals—and 
there are five, but I will just talk about 
two—is the Pay Our Guard and Reserve 
Act. The bill provides funding for the 
pay and allowances of military personnel 
in the Reserve component who 
are scheduled to report for duty—many 
as early as this weekend. In Indiana, 
we have over 20,000 reservists and 
guardsmen. It is the fourth largest 
Army National Guard in the country 
and the sixth largest National Guard 
Force out of all of the 54 States, provinces, 
and territories when it is combined 
with the Air National Guard. 

Indiana is home to two Air National 
Guard wings: the 122nd Fighter Wing in 
Fort Wayne and the 181st Intelligence 
Wing in Terre Haute, as well as the 
434th Air Refueling Wing at Grissom 
Air Reserve Base. 

The Senate unanimously approved to 
pay our troops and remove them from 
the crossfire of the government shutdown 
debate. Let’s do the same for our 
reservists and guardsmen who are 
doing their traditional duty of one 
weekend a month for, as Winston 
Churchill said, ‘‘They are twice the citizen.’’ 


Some things simply need to rise 
above politics. Let’s join together, address 
this issue, and make sure the 
men and women who have served our 
country do not pay the price for Washington’s 
failure to govern. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Georgia. 

Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that immediately 


S7134 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

following my remarks, the Senator 
from Vermont, Mr. SANDERS, be recognized. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, so ordered. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO CHRIS CARR 
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise 
not to talk about ObamaCare, not to 
talk about a shutdown, not to talk 
about the debate we have been going 
through the last couple of days but, 
rather, I rise to talk about a man by 
the name of Chris Carr, who is my chief 
of staff and has been my chief of staff 
since I have been in the Senate. 
Chris will be leaving my office on November 
1 to become the commissioner 
of economic development in the State 
of Georgia. It is a tremendous opportunity 
for him and my State. While it 
is a loss for me personally, it is a continuation 
of economic development in 
my State, where my fingerprint still 
lies because he will be replacing my 
former State director, Chris 
Cummiskey, who has been the commissioner 
of economic development in the 
State of Georgia, which means I will 
still have that fingerprint there. 
Chris is a very special person who deserves 
a tribute on the floor of the Senate 
for all he has done for me, not just 
as a Member of the Senate or as my 
chief of staff but as a deep and abiding 
personal friend. 
Chris joined me in 2003 when I announced 
I was going to run to replace 
Zell Miller, who retired as a Senator 
from Georgia. Before that, Chris had 
been an attorney at Alston & Bird for 
what he always refers to as a 15-minute 
brief time of period. But he went on 
from there to be an adviser to the 
Georgia Public Policy Foundation, and 
a dear friend of ours by the name of T. 
Rogers Wade, who, by the way, was the 
executive director for Herman Talmadge 
and chief of staff years ago in 
the Senate. 
Chris joined me in 2003 for a great adventure—
my race for the Senate. He 
guided us through a primary a lot of 
people said I couldn’t win and a lot of 
people said I would never win without 
a runoff. My two opponents were a 
former Congressmen from the State of 
Georgia and Herman Cain, who everybody 
knows later ran for President of 
the United States. 
Georgia is a primary State that requires 
50 percent plus 1 in terms of 
votes. So we had to get 50 percent plus 
1 in a Republican primary. We did that 
without a runoff because of Chris’s 
leadership, his dynamics, and his hard 
work in how he guided that campaign. 
We won the general election by 58.8 
percent. I brought Chris to Washington, 
DC, to be my chief of staff in 
my office, and he has done a phenomenal 
job. He has traveled with me 
to Africa—as the Presiding Officer 
knows because he has been with us on 
some of these trips. He has guided me 
through difficult times in my journey 
from the Foreign Relations Committee 

to the Finance Committee to the Commerce 
Committee. He has been a great 
guiding hand. 

Most important, he brought together 
a staff that has been loyal, dedicated, 
and gotten the job done for the people 
of the State of Georgia. 

Chris is a great Georgian. He is what 
we refer to in our State as a ‘‘double 
dawg.’’ He graduated with his undergraduate 
degree from the University of 
Georgia—which I might add beat LSU 
very handily last Saturday—and then 
went to law school at the University of 
Georgia to get his second degree, a 
bachelor of law degree from the University 
of Georgia. 

After that he went on, as I said, to 
Austin & Bird, and then to the Public 
Policy Foundation, but he has been 
with me ever since—almost a decade. 
During that period of time, he has 
served me as chief of staff. My deputy 
chief of staff, Joan Kirchner, will be replacing 
him as chief of staff, so we will 
have a continuity of service in our office. 


I know I would not be where I am 
today if it weren’t for Chris Carr. I 
know the State of Georgia is going to 
go places it never thought it would go 
because of his guiding leadership as 
commissioner of economic development. 


So for a brief minute on the floor of 
the Senate, I wish to pay tribute to a 
friend, a chief of staff, a leader, someone 
who has had a positive influence on 
my life but, most importantly has had 
a positive influence on his country, the 
United States America. 

I am thankful to Chris Carr for his 
support and thankful for all he has 
done for my State, my country, and 
our office. 

I yield back my time and defer to the 
Senator from Vermont. 

Mr. SANDERS. I thank the Senator 
from Georgia for yielding, and I ask 
unanimous consent to address the Senate. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BROWN). Without objection, it is so ordered. 


The Senator from Vermont. 

f 

CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS 
Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, in 
Vermont and all across this country 
there is huge frustration with what is 
going on in Washington. It is clear to 
me that with the middle class of this 
country disappearing, with millions of 
Americans working longer hours for 
lower wages, with poverty today at an 
alltime high in terms of the number of 
people living in poverty, with young 
people graduating college deeply in 
debt and others not having the resources 
to go to college, with real unemployment 
at close to 14 percent, 
youth unemployment higher than that, 
minority unemployment very high, an 
infrastructure that is collapsing, with 
the IPCC, the scientists all over the 
world who are studying global warming 
and telling us we have a planetary cri


sis that must be addressed by cutting 
greenhouse gas emissions, what people 
are seeing is that we have all these 
problems affecting them, their kids, 
and the planet, and in the Congress we 
cannot even get a budget passed. 

People are angry in Vermont and 
across the country and they are frustrated. 
I know many people are saying 
a plague on everybody; you people are 
all terrible. 

I just hope we can go a little bit beyond 
that and try to understand, in 
fact, what is happening and what the 
cause of this terrible government shutdown 
is and why 800,000 decent people 
who happen to work for the Federal 
Government are not at work, are not 
earning a paycheck, and are scared to 
death about how they are going to provide 
for their families or take care of 
other basic needs. 

How did it happen? I think, very simply, 
what we should understand is that 
the Senate passed a conservative budget—
continuing resolution—until November 
15. It was much lower than I 
had wanted. In fact, it is a Republican 
budget. It includes this terrible sequestration—
something I strongly opposed—
that was passed as a compromise 
gesture, and it was sent to the 
House. 

Here is the most important point 
people need to understand in terms of 
what is going on in Congress: Right 
now, according to a very knowledgeable 
source, the House of Representatives 
has the votes to pass a clean continuing 
resolution, the bill that was 
passed in the Senate. They have the 
votes. It is not a question of the Speaker 
coming forward and saying: Gee, I 
just don’t have the votes. They have 
the votes. 

The political problem is that the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives 
has chosen to be the Speaker of 
the Republican Party, not of the whole 
House of Representatives. What is happening 
is he has 30 or 40 extreme right-
wing people who are absolutely insistent 
that they want to repeal or defund 
the Affordable Care Act, or 
ObamaCare. The only way they will 
support any budget is if there is language 
in it that defunds ObamaCare. 

The reason we cannot support that 
language is not just because 
ObamaCare was passed close to 4 years 
ago and signed by the President and it 
is the law of the land, it is not just because 
the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 
that it was constitutional, it is not just 
because there was an election held last 
year in November in which this was 
perhaps the major issue and the President 
won reelection by 5 million 
votes—and in the Senate the Republicans 
lost two seats and in the House 
they lost some seats—the real reason 
we cannot accept that language is that 
we would begin to accept a terrible 
precedent. 

What the precedent would be is that 
it doesn’t matter what happens in an 
election. It doesn’t matter what happens 
in terms of the normal legislative 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7135 

process of the Congress. What we would 
be saying is that a small group of people 
can blackmail the American people 
and hold the American people hostage 
unless they get their way. 

If they are successful in succeeding 
in terms of what they want to do right 
now, I can absolutely guarantee that in 
2 weeks, when this Congress and the 
White House are going to have to deal 
with the debt ceiling and the question 
of whether, for the first time in the 
history of the United States of America, 
we do not pay our bills, the money 
we owe, we could drive the American 
financial system and the world’s financial 
system into what economists are 
describing as a catastrophic situation. 
Nobody knows what will happen. It has 
never occurred before, that the largest 
economy in the world would say, We 
are deadbeats; we are not paying our 
bills. But some economists believe this 
could have a huge impact all over the 
world: financial chaos, significant 
shrinkage of GDPs all over the world— 
gross domestic products—more and 
more unemployment, at a moment 
when the world’s financial system is already 
fragile. 

People don’t have to believe BERNIE 
SANDERS in saying that. Ironically, we 
have all of these guys on Wall Street— 
no friends of mine. We have the Chamber 
of Commerce and all the 
multizillion-dollar businesses, saying 
to the Republicans: Don’t do it. Don’t 
take us over the edge; it will have a 
catastrophic impact on the economy. 

When we talk about what is going on 
here, I don’t want people to take my 
word for it. I have a political position 
and people know what that is. But I 
want you to hear what some responsible 
Republicans are saying about the 
reckless actions taking place in the 
House. I am not going to read them all, 
but let me read just a few. These statements 
are what Republicans are saying 
about the House Republican attempt to 
attach ObamaCare to the budget resolution 
and bring the U.S. Government 
to a shutdown. 

SAXBY CHAMBLISS, Republican Senator 
from the State of Georgia, who is 
no friend of ObamaCare, says: 

I’d love to defund ObamaCare too, but 
shutting down the government and playing 
into the hands of the President politically is 
not the right thing to do. Plus, it is going to 
do great harm on the American people if we 
pursue that course. We have been there; it 
didn’t work. 

DAN COATS, Republican from Indiana, 
on the floor a moment ago: 

Here’s the hard truth. President Obama 
will not overturn his signature legislation so 
long as he is President and the Democrats 
have control of the Senate. Along with these 
political realities, refusing to pass legislation 
to keep the government funded will not 
stop ObamaCare from going into effect. 

Representative PETER KING, Republican 
from New York, in the House: 

We should not be closing down the government 
under any circumstances. That doesn’t 
work. It’s wrong, and you know, ObamaCare 
care passed. We have to try to defund it. We 
have to try to find ways to repeal it, but the 

fact is we shouldn’t be using it as a threat to 
shut down the government. 

Many more Republicans are saying 
the same. 

What we believe right now is that a 
significant majority in the House of 
Representatives today is prepared to 
end the shutdown if the Speaker will 
give them the opportunity. 

Interestingly enough, while we have 
great discussions here about 
ObamaCare and many of my Republican 
friends come to the floor to say 
how terrible it is, the American people 
are today in a sense voicing their opinion 
on ObamaCare all over this country—
in their homes and in their offices 
all across America. Nationally, more 
than 10 million Americans have gone 
onto the Web site healthcare.gov and 
other Web sites to look for affordable 
health insurance plans under 
ObamaCare or to receive more information—
10 million Americans in a 2-day 
period. 

The truth of the matter is 48 million 
Americans have no health insurance— 
something my Republican friends forget. 
Many of them are paying much 
more than they can afford for health 
insurance. So, yes, people want an opportunity 
to get insurance if they don’t 
have it and they want an opportunity 
to get more affordable insurance if 
they can. So while these guys are talking 
about ending ObamaCare, millions 
and millions of people all across the 
country are trying to find out how they 
can get into the program, and these 
guys are saying, Well, we don’t care 
what millions of people want; we are 
going to defund it. 

I mentioned 10 million people have 
gone to the Federal Web site. In my 
small State of Vermont, more than 
13,000 people have visited our Affordable 
Care Act Web site. California, if 
we can believe this—one State—has reported 
5 million visits to its Affordable 
Care Act Web site. In Kentucky, more 
than 78,000 visitors have gone to its Affordable 
Care Act Web site. Importantly, 
Kentucky is the only State in 
the South that has chosen to participate 
fully in ObamaCare by both expanding 
Medicaid and operating a 
State-level health insurance exchange. 

In New York State, almost 10 million 
people visited the Web site on the first 
day. 

So, to nobody’s surprise, if people 
don’t have any health insurance, or if 
people today have health insurance 
they cannot afford, and they are given 
an opportunity to come into a program 
which provides them with some help, 
people are taking advantage of it. 

As millions and millions of people 
are trying to figure out how they can 
get into the system, we have our Republican 
friends over in the House who 
are saying, No, we want to defund it; 
we don’t want to give people that opportunity. 


There is a Web site called 
nationofchange.org, a very good Web 
site. I wish to read some of the headlines 
they have assembled about how 

people are responding to the Affordable 
Care Act. In Connecticut: ‘‘Health Care 
Plans Begin: 28,000-plus Go Online to 
State Marketplace.’’ 

Georgia: ‘‘Enrollment Sites Are 
Swamped On First Day,’’ according to 
the Augusta Chronicle. 

Idaho: ‘‘Idaho Health Exchange 
Launches With Few Hiccups,’’ Idaho 
Statesman. 

Indiana: ‘‘Insurance Marketplace 
Draws Strong Early Interest,’’ from 
Journal and Courier. 

Kentucky: ‘‘Kynect Opens To High 
Demand,’’ the Courier-Journal. 

Maine: ‘‘Insurance Marketplace 
Opens To Flood of Interest.’’ 

Delaware: ‘‘Off And Running In New 
Market: Website Overwhelmed On First 
Day Of Access.’’ 

Michigan: ‘‘Insurance Exchange 
Debut Draws Millions,’’ the Detroit 
News. 

New Mexico: ‘‘ObamaCare: Plenty Of 
Interest, a Bevy Of Computer Snags.’’ 

On and on and on. 

Colorado: ‘‘Heavy Traffic Slows 
Health Website On Debut Day.’’ 

All across the country, to nobody’s 
great surprise, people who have no 
health insurance are saying, Yes, we 
don’t want to go throughout life worrying 
about whether we are going to go 
bankrupt or whether we are going to be 
able to go to a doctor, and they are 
trying to get more information about 
the Affordable Care Act, and they are 
signing up in huge numbers—higher 
than people had anticipated. 

Our Republican friends in the House 
are saying, We don’t care that on the 
first day 10 million people expressed interest 
in this legislation. We want to 
end it. We want to end it. 

It passed. It is the law. Millions of 
people are signing up, gaining information. 
And they are saying, We will continue 
to shut down the U.S. Government, 
deny a paycheck to 800,000 American 
workers; we don’t care what happens 
to them, unless we get our way. 
And right here in the Senate—and in 
the House—we have sensible Republicans 
who are saying what is obvious: 
You don’t have to agree with 
ObamaCare. I don’t agree with 
ObamaCare. I think it needs to be improved. 
I believe in a Medicare-for-all, 
single-payer program. But at least 
ObamaCare is providing health insurance 
to some 20 million Americans 
today who do not have it. 

I think it is important to make a 
point that is not being made often 
enough in terms of putting what is 
going on today with this shutdown in a 
broader context. Of course we can have 
an argument over ObamaCare. I don’t 
think it is perfect; I want to see it improved. 
But where our extreme right-
wing friends in the House are coming 
from is a lot more than trying to end 
ObamaCare. Everybody needs to understand 
this, and I think there is too little 
discussion on this issue. What we 
are looking at is a small group of people—
these are tea party folks, right-
wing extremist people—people who are 


S7136 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

funded by billionaires such as the Koch 
brothers who are worth some $71 billion, 
and I want to tell my colleagues 
what their vision is for America, because 
this is not just about 
ObamaCare. It is a vision for America 
and what these guys want to accomplish. 
For them, I should say—and 
some of them have been quite public 
about it—shutting down the government 
is great. It is great because they 
don’t believe in the concept of government. 


I think one of the good sources we 
can use to get a clue as to where these 
rightwing extremists are coming from 
is the Texas Republican Party platform 
of 2010. I want to use that. I could use 
other sources, but Texas is a very large 
State. Texas is today controlled by 
very conservative Republicans. And the 
truth is that the party platform of 
Texas, of one State, ends up being 
the—the ideas in it end up being adopted 
more or less by Republicans here in 
the Congress and all over the country. 
What they say is—this is not some 
small fringe group. I am not finding 
some whacko group out there. This is 
the State of Texas Republican Party 
platform of 2012. 

I want to be very clear in telling my 
colleagues what this platform they 
have is about. These are the ideas by 
and large that our rightwing extremist 
friends believe in. It is about a lot 
more than ObamaCare. This is what 
the 2012 Republican Party platform 
states: 

We support an immediate and orderly transition 
to a system of private pensions based 
on the concept of individual retirement accounts, 
and gradually phasing out the Social 
Security tax. 

Well, if we phase out the Social Security 
tax, we are ending Social Security. 
Goodbye, Social Security. In my view, 
Social Security is probably the most 
important program ever passed by this 

U.S. Government. Today, over 50 million 
people are in the Social Security 
system. Social Security has gone a 
very long way in lowering poverty for 
senior citizens. Before Social Security, 
it was close to 50 percent; now it is 
somewhere around 10 percent. We have 
a long way to go to get that number 
lower, but we have made real progress. 
What they are saying is they want to 
eliminate Social Security funding, 
eliminate Social Security, and when 
they do that, I am not quite sure what 
happens to a working person when that 
person is 67, 68, 75 years of age. No Social 
Security. And for people who doubt 
me, go to the Texas Republican Party 
platform. I just read exactly their 
quote. 

This is the other thing they want to 
do—and I speak now as the proud 
chairman of the Senate Committee on 
Veterans’ Affairs. We have oversight 
over what the Veterans’ Administration 
is doing. Within the Veterans’ Administration 
right now, we have about 
152 VA hospitals, we have some 900 
community-based outreach clinics, we 
have hundreds of vet centers. In my 

view, they are providing not perfect 
but pretty good health care for the veterans 
of America, some 6 million of 
whom are now within the VA health 
care system. It is something I believe 
we should expand. I think we should 
make VA health care available to 
every veteran in this country. 

This is what the Texas Republican 
Party platform says: 

We support the privatization of veteran’s 
healthcare. 

I am not quite sure what that means, 
but it means ending the VA system as 
we know it because the VA is a government-
funded system. If you privatize 
it—you can do it in a million ways— 
but, most likely, it sounds to me as 
though you would give veterans a 
voucher, something similar to what the 
Republicans in the House wanted to do 
with Medicare. Give people a sum of 
money. Go out, find the doctor or hospital 
you need. I think that is a terrible 
idea for the veterans of this country. 
But, again, I quote the Texas Republican 
Party platform of 2012: 

We support the privatization of veteran’s 
healthcare. 

Another plank in terms of what they 
want: 

We support abolishing all federal agencies 
whose activities are not specifically enumerated 
in the Constitution; including the Departments 
of Education and Energy. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. SANDERS. Did I have a time 
limit? I was not aware there was a time 
limit. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The only 
time remaining is for Republicans. 

Mr. SANDERS. I see. Let me conclude, 
if I may. I ask unanimous consent 
for 2 additional minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. SANDERS. Let me say this: This 
debate is a lot bigger than whether the 
Republicans are successful in shutting 
down the government because of their 
insistence that ObamaCare be 
defunded. This debate is about whether 
a minority of the people in the House 
of Representatives is able to blackmail 
and hold hostage the American people 
and the U.S. Congress and the President 
and say: If we do not get our way, 
we do not care what happens to 800,000 
workers and the millions of people who 
depend on government services. We do 
not care. It is our way or the highway. 
And in 2 weeks, these same people, I assure 
you, will be saying: We do not care 
if there is an international financial 
collapse, maybe the loss of millions of 
jobs. We do not care unless we get our 
way. 

To surrender to that approach would 
be a horrible precedent because I can 
guarantee you absolutely that if we 
move down that path of government, 
they will be back again and again, and 
maybe next year it is: We are going to 
shut down the government unless you 
abolish Social Security; we are going 
to shut down the government unless 
you end the concept of the minimum 

wage because we do not believe in the 
minimum wage. 

I hope that Speaker BOEHNER becomes 
the Speaker of the U.S. House of 
Representatives and not just for the 
Republican Party. Let the Members of 
the House vote. And if they do, I believe 
this government will be reopened 
within hours. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

The Senator from Oklahoma is recognized. 


Mr. COBURN. Mr. President, I will 
respond to a couple points my colleague 
from Vermont referred to. If one 
looks at the votes on everything that 
has come to the Senate thus far, I 
think the lowest vote total was 221, 
which is a majority of the House. A 
majority of the House spoke. What we 
do with it is our business here in the 
Senate. So it is not necessarily a minority 
of the minority. If it were, you 
would not have 221 votes. That is the 
first point I make. 

The second: I do not know what the 
Texas Republican Party’s platform is. 
But yours truly has thought that one 
of the things we ought to do for veterans 
is to give them real health care 
rather than promise them health care 
and then make them travel 200 miles to 
get it. 

So part of privatization is giving veterans 
who have service-connected 
health care available to them a card 
that says you can go wherever you 
want so you do not have to travel—like 
in Oklahoma, if you are going to have 
a knee operation—145 miles to the VA 
center in Oklahoma City. You can actually 
get it done by an orthopedist 
who has a whole lot more experience 
than a local hospital, paid for at Medicare 
rates. 

So the point is, there are options 
that will give our veterans better access 
than they have now. I do not know 
if that is what they are talking about. 
But that was part of the Patient’s 
Choice Act that was never considered 
by the Senate. 

I want to spend some time talking 
about where we are and why we are 
here, and then I want to talk about the 
continuing resolution, whether it has 
something attached to it or not. 

As I look at the process, what I see us 
stuck on has to do with a principle 
that has been true throughout our Nation. 
When you do big things in government, 
the only way those things are 
successful is when they are done in a 
bipartisan manner. To quote Daniel 
Patrick Moynihan: Historic laws don’t 
pass barely. They pass 70-to-30 or they 
fail. They either fail in implementation 
or they fail in acceptance by the 
American public. 

I applaud the vigor of my friends in 
opposing the Affordable Care Act. As a 
practicing physician, I see what this is 
ultimately going to do. As the majority 
leader has spoken, the whole idea 
behind this—and I think my colleague 
from Vermont would concur—is for a 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7137 

single-payer government system as a 
better solution. 

Certainly what we had was not working 
well. I would not disagree with 
that. But not having a bipartisan 
health care bill, rather than a strictly 
partisan health care bill, has probably 
instigated a lot of the problems we 
have with this bill, besides the fact 
that over 62 percent of the American 
public do not favor this bill. They do 
not want the Government shutdown 
over it. That is obvious. But we are 
where we are. 

One of the reasons we are where we 
are is failed leadership, both by Republicans 
and Democrats, and a polarization 
in our country that is not healthy. 

So we have now said—with 800,000 
employees on furlough, having a real 
but small negative effect on our econ-
omy—what has to happen when you 
have people far apart? What you have 
to have is leadership that says: I am 
going to try to solve this problem by 
brokering toward the middle. I do not 
know what that middle is. But what I 
have not seen yet in the leadership, including 
the President, is a willingness 
to find the common ground that will 
move us in a direction that puts us 
where we need to be. 

The thing we forget too often in the 
Senate is that we are all Americans, 
every one of us. What we do up here 
matters. It has a profound effect on individual 
lives. The fact that we find 
ourselves unable to come to a consensus 
on this very difficult subject is 
what happens when you have an absence 
of leadership. 

So it is great that the President is 
meeting or has met with the leaders of 
the House and the Senate. It would be 
great if they spent time working on a 
solution rather than giving press reports 
after the meeting. It would be 
good for all Americans if we were not 
in a government shutdown. 

The very premise that you can get 
the President and those who have foisted 
the Affordable Care Act—which I 
think will be highly unaffordable for 
our children and us—to change this law 
at this time is probably not going to 
happen. 

But there has to be a way for a continuation 
of dialog rather than to say: 
We will not consider anything. So the 
House today is going to offer up several 
bills that will actually take care of 
very great necessities of this country. 
It will be unfortunate if we do not consider 
them. We can vote them down. 
But not considering is not talking. It is 
not reaching across and trying to find 
a solution. It is hardening positions. 

I would think the American people 
would want us to take a timeout and 
say: What are you doing? What is your 
job? I recently got a letter from the 
Liberty Foundation of America, from a 
man I greatly respect, Dr. David 
Brown, a renowned orthopedist in 
Oklahoma. What he is saying to people 
in America today is a recognition of 
the failure of our leadership. 

I ask unanimous consent his letter be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

THE LIBERTY FOUNDATION OF AMERICA, 

Oklahoma City, OK, September 30, 2013. 
Subject: An Open Letter to the Leadership of 

the United States of America. 

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: The vast majority 
of the American people oppose the Affordable 
Care Act, many because the measure 
is proving to be quite unaffordable. We 
have a nation falling off the edge of the fiscal 
cliff, and the best our government can do 
is have our President assure the people that 
our deficit has decreased in its growth rate— 
meaning we are still going broke but luckily 
at a slower pace than before. We have an extremely 
dysfunctional federal government; 
the two legislative branches can’t put aside 
differences to accomplish anything positive 
for the country, the executive is merely interested 
in popularity and amassing power, 
and the judiciary has forgotten how to read 
the Constitution. It has been stated, and 
surely was intended, that we have a representative 
form of democracy—one ‘‘Of the 
People, For the People and By the People’’— 
something for which many men and women 
greater than us made the ultimate sacrifice. 
Therefore, when the government reaches 
such a level of dysfunction and incompetence 
as present, it becomes imperative that the 
people take over responsibility and monitor 
that government with essential diligence. 
Today, our nation has reached a necessary 
impasse, with countless Washington-based 
solutions that solve little, if anything. 
Therefore, it behooves each and every state 
to monitor their representation in Washington—
to the tune of each and every vote— 
and publicize this information, unedited, so 
the people can ensure their interests and 
that of their state are truly represented, as 
opposed to the vested Washington interests 
that currently enjoy splendor. The status of 
our country’s ineffective leadership from all 
three branches and the unsatisfactory biased 
reporting needs to be bypassed for America 
to solve her problems. 

To those elected officials in our nation’s 
capital: Do not follow; lead or get the hell 
out of the way. 

To my colleagues in each state-based organization: 
You are the closest to the grassroots—
the people, the voters. Do your duty 
for the United States of America. 

Respectfully, 

DAVID R. BROWN, M.D., 

Trustee; The Liberty Foundation of America, 
Chairman Emeritus; The Heritage 
Foundation, Chairman & Founder; The 
Oklahoma Council of Public Affairs. 

Mr. COBURN. He makes some profound 
observations about where we are 
and the lack of leadership. Here is a 
practicing orthopedist who loves his 
country, who wants us to solve the 
problems, who wants us to take back 
control of our government and do what 
is in the best long-term interests of the 
country, not what is in the best long-
term interests of a politician or a political 
party. I think that is where we 
have gotten off. Everything is measured 
by the next election rather than 
by the next generation. 

Although I do not always agree with 
my colleagues, as most of them know, 
I am willing to work and compromise 
and meet as long as we are attaining 
long-term good goals for our fellow 
countrymen and for our children. 

The other issue I want to talk about 
is the CR itself, because lost in all of 

this battle is a CR that plays a lot of 
games on the American people. It is 
disappointing for me to see that we 
play games with mandatory spending 
by moving numbers from one year to 
the next year so we can actually spend 
more money in a present year. 

I did not vote to have a sequester because 
I think it is an idiotic way to cut 
spending. But I do support trimming 
the spending of the Federal Government. 
As a matter of fact, nobody in 
the last 9 years has done more to offer 
amendments, to outline duplication, to 
outline fraud, to outline abuse than I 
have on the floor of the Senate. 

So it is one thing to do it stupidly. It 
is wholly another to actually keep 
your commitments to the American 
people. The vast majority of my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle 
voted for the Budget Control Act, as 
did most Republicans. So we have a 
commitment to keep our word. 

I will outline to you that—first of all, 
I will make two points. One is that we 
are not keeping our word with the continuing 
resolution coming from the 
House. It actually will spend $38 billion 
more than what we promised the American 
people we would spend. I know in 
Washington $38 billion is not a large 
amount of money. But the way you get 
rid of trillion-dollar deficits is a billion 
dollars at a time—or $38 billion at a 
time. 

I am disheartened we are playing the 
green-eyeshade and walnut-shell game 
on the American people with this bill. 

To make my point, I would like to 
outline some of the spending and some 
of the false maneuvers that have been 
done in what is called CHIMPS, which 
are changes in mandatory program 
spending. 

We have a program in the United 
States called the DOJ Assets Forfeiture 
Fund. These are funds that the 
Justice Department collects that are 
forfeited by criminals, by people breaking 
the law, whether it be a car in a 
drug bust or the money from a drug 
bust. So what we are going to do is 
take that money out of that fund, 
which goes toward things that actually 
enforce our law enforcement, and plus 
that down—in other words, steal that 
money—so we can spend more money 
somewhere else. That is just $723 million. 
It is almost $1 billion. 

More concerning to me is the fact 
that there is a victims compensation 
fund in this country—and that is where 
criminals pay into a fund to compensate 
victims—there is $8.9 billion in 
that fund, supposedly. But last year 
the appropriators did exactly the same. 
They took that $8.9 billion and said 
they would pay it back next year—this 
year—and they were allowed to spend 
almost $9 billion more on other things, 
taking that money that should have 
been given to victims and spending it 
through the Federal Government. 

Lo and behold, they did not add the 
$8.9 billion back this year. They counted 
the same thing again. So now we 
have $18 billion of not taxpayer money 


S7138 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

but criminal money that should be 
going to victims that is now going to 
be spent on other things, and the victims 
will not receive the money that is 
due them through either court orders 
or judgments. 

Finally, there is a lot of spending in 
the bill that most Americans would see 
as foolish. I thought I would outline 
just a little bit of it. 

One other point I would make. The 

U.S. Patent and Trademark Office collects 
fees when you file a patent. For 
years they have been falling further 
and further behind. Thankfully, they 
got caught up. But the money that is 
paid for a patent application has been 
siphoned off, not for patent applications 
but for spending on other things. 
It is a user fee. Consequently, now it is 
over 8 months if you file a patent before 
someone ever even looks at that at 
the Patent Office. It is 27 months before 
you get a response. If we are going 
to get ahead and compete in this competitive 
world, we have to allow our 
Patent Office to work. They are taking 
hundreds of millions of dollars from 
the Patent and Trademark Office. 
What does the CR spend money on 
that we really should not? Here are 
some examples for last year when we 
spent money that we should not have: 
funding for the National Science Foundation 
for the development of a 
Snooki, a robot bird that impersonates 
a female sage grouse; funding an NSF 
grant that studies American attitudes 
toward the filibuster in the Senate; an 
NSF grant, sitegrabber.com, a new Web 
site to rate the trustworthiness of 
other Web sites; an NSF grant funding 
ecoATM, a company commercializing 
an ATM to give out cash if you give 
them your old cell phone—that is totally 
a private separate sector venture, 
yet we are funding that, in an era when 
we have a $750 billion deficit this year 
and a $17 trillion debt—an NSF grant 
paying for participant expenses to attend 
an annual snowmobile competition 
in Michigan through 2015. 

I do not think that is a priority when 
we are struggling to pay our bills. 

I have a list of Department of Agriculture 
grants. I will put those in the 
RECORD. 

We are still spending $30 billion a 
year for 47 job training programs, none 
of which have a metric on them. All 
but three, according to the Government 
Accountability Office, overlap 
one another, in other words, do the 
same thing. 

There are 20 Federal programs across 
12 different Federal agencies for the 
study of invasive species. I think we 
should study invasive species, but I do 
not think we should have 12 agencies 
studying them. I think we should have 
one agency study them. We ought to 
concentrate the dollars so we get good 
value out of that. 

We are still sending unemployment 
checks to people who make more than 
$1 million a year. 

We have 15 different financial literacy 
programs, a new one being cre


ated by the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau. This is across 15 different 
agencies. We are spending millions 
on that. 

We are spending $1 million for NASA 
to test food that can be eaten on Mars 
30 years from now. I would not think 
that is a priority. 

We are spending $4 billion for 250 different 
grant programs at the Department 
of Justice which, as GAO says, 
has the worst record of any agency in 
terms of monitoring their grants and 
the veracity and the compliance of 
those grants. 

We are spending $3 billion on 209 different 
programs for science, technology, 
engineering, and math across 
13 different Federal agencies. I think it 
is fine if we want to incentivize that, 
but do we really need over 200 programs 
to do that? No, we do not. But 
we have not addressed any of that. It 
has been known. 

We have the GAO out with a report, 
their third report this year, and they 
will come with another one next year, 
outlining at least $250 billion that 
could be saved by the Federal Government 
on duplicative services; in other 
words, multiple agencies doing the 
same thing, stepping on each other. 

Not one bill has come before this 
body that addresses that $250 billion 
expenditure that could be saved every 
year, not one bill in this session of 
Congress. So we are having a fight over 
spending. Yet Congress is the very real 
problem we are having on spending. We 
need to look at what the real problem 
is. The real problem is the failure to do 
our job, the failure to look at programs 
and see if they are effective, the failure 
to look at programs and see if they are 
truly a role for the Federal Government 
as far as the Constitution and as 
far as common sense, a failure to offer 
substantive changes or have the ability 
to offer substantive changes to those 
bills. 

I will conclude with one final remark. 
The Appropriations Committee 
did a good job this year, even though at 
higher levels above the Budget Control 
Act, of getting their bills in order. 
Only one of those bills was offered on 
the floor. It was withdrawn when Members 
of my caucus were not allowed to 
offer amendments, because it was not 
going anywhere if we were not allowed 
minority rights to offer amendments to 
change an appropriations bill. So we 
are doing a continuing resolution to 
fund the government and handicapping 
the very employees we are going to ask 
to make good decisions for our country, 
because we will not pass appropriation 
bills on time. We do not need a 
budget to pass appropriations bills, because 
we have the Budget Control Act 
that spells out where we are going to 
be on discretionary spending for the 
next 10 years. We know what the levels 
are. 

Consequently, we end up at an impasse 
over a continuing resolution— 
over a continuing resolution that says 
we have not done our job anyway. I 

think what Dr. David Brown says in his 
letter is quite accurate. There is a 
total lack of leadership in this city, 
sitting at the executive branch, in the 
House and in the Senate. Only America 
can change that. I hope it does. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Delaware is recognized. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I come to 
the floor today to repeat a point that I 
think is worth repeating, which is that 
on this second day of the shutdown of 
our Federal Government, we need to 
focus more on manufacturing jobs than 
on manufacturing crises. 

I have been here as a Senator now 
just 3 years. As the Presiding Officer 
knows, and many of my other colleagues 
know, the folks from home are 
calling us in record numbers to say 
they want us to listen to each other, to 
work together, and to try to help to get 
America back to work. 

We all remember where we were 5 
years ago at the depth of the fiscal crisis, 
our financial system in collapse 
and our economy on life support. Millions 
lost their jobs and millions more 
lost their savings. We have begun to recover 
and to heal. We have had 71/2 million 
jobs created over the last 42 
months, jobless claims are now at a 5-
year low, and we have had 9 consecutive 
quarters of economic growth. I 
think we need to find ways to work together 
to continue to sustain that forward 
movement. The shutdown of this 
government does not help in any way. 

One thing I want to highlight is some 
good news we have had. We just learned 
the manufacturing sector grew last 
month at its fastest pace in more than 
2 years. We need to invest in that success 
and invest in that growth. 

In the first decade of this century, we 
lost 6 million manufacturing jobs in 
this country, good-paying jobs, high-
skilled jobs, jobs that come with benefits, 
jobs you can raise a family on. In 
the last 3 years, we have gained back 
half a million manufacturing jobs, but 
we are still way short of where we were 
in 2000. 

There are a few items we could focus 
on that would help us grow this sector: 
skills training, opening markets 
abroad, expanding access to capital, 
and creating a national manufacturing 
strategy. I hope to come back to the 
floor and speak to these in much more 
detail in the days ahead. 

Let me close by saying something 
that I think is simple. A shutdown is 
not the answer to this ongoing economic 
recovery. Defaulting on our debt 
is not the answer to what the folks 
from our home States are calling and 
asking us to do. The answer is for the 
Speaker of the House to allow the 
House to vote on a bill passed in this 
Chamber that, if adopted, would reopen 
the Federal Government and allow us 
to work together to revitalize our 
economy. 

I yield the floor. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7139 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate proceed 
to a period of morning business, with 
Senators permitted to speak for up to 
10 minutes each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

ABILITYONE PROGRAM 
S Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, today I 
wish to recognize an organization that 
has been providing opportunities for 
Arkansans that are blind or visually 
impaired since 1940. The Arkansas 
Lighthouse for the Blind started as a 
dream of a blind Methodist minister, 
the late Rev. Jeff Smith, and became a 
reality thanks to $100 in donations 
from friends. Since those humble beginnings, 
the Arkansas Lighthouse for 
the Blind has grown into a nationally 
recognized manufacturing business, 
now employing over 80 people in Little 
Rock. 
The Arkansas Lighthouse for the 
Blind is a partner of the AbilityOne 
Program, a Federal purchasing program 
that enables over 47,000 Americans 
who are blind or severely disabled 
to work and provides products and 
services to Federal and commercial 
customers. This year marks the 75th 
anniversary of AbilityOne, and I am 
pleased to have such an important organization 
promoting the employment 
and advancement of people who are 
blind and visually impaired in my 
State. 
Today in America, 70 percent of blind 
and visually impaired working-aged 
Americans are not employed. Through 
the AbilityOne Program, organizations 
like Arkansas Lighthouse for the Blind 
harnesses the purchasing power of the 
Federal government to provide quality 
products and services from participating 
community-based nonprofit 
agencies dedicated to training and employing 
individuals with disabilities. 
These workers proudly manufacture a 
wide range of paper, textile, and apparel 
products. From the small 
SKILCRAFT memo pads on our desks, 
to the shirts on the backs of our men 
and women in uniform, they are a part 
of our American manufacturing base 
that keeps our government moving 
each and every day. 
I have visited the Arkansas Lighthouse 
for the Blind and had several opportunities 
to meet with their employees. 
During each interaction, I have 
been impressed by the opportunities 
this organization provides their associates, 
both personally and professionally. 
It is a place that truly lives 
up to its mission and expands opportunity 
for persons who are blind 
throughout the State. I am a proud 
AbilityOne Champion and appreciate 
this partnership which allows us to 

work together to expand opportunities 
for individuals with disabilities. 

The month of October serves as National 
Disability Employment Awareness 
Month and I recognize the Arkansas 
Lighthouse for the Blind, as well as 
the AbilityOne program, for the opportunities 
they have provided for Americans 
with disabilities. Americans that 
have worked through this program 
over the years have acquired job skills 
and training, received good wages and 
benefits, as well as gained greater independence 
and quality of life. It is for 
this reason that I stand in support of 
the work they do each and every day to 
open doors of opportunity for Americans 
who are blind or visually impaired.
S 

f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

EC–3273. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Political-
Military Affairs, Department of State, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, an addendum to a 
certification, transmittal number: DDTC 
2013–1595, of the proposed sale or export of 
defense articles and/or defense services to a 
Middle East country regarding any possible 
effects such a sale might have relating to 
Israel’s Qualitative Military Edge over military 
threats to Israel; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–3274. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Global Strategic Affairs), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Department 
of Defense’s 2013 annual report to 
Congress entitled ‘‘The Worldwide Nuclear, 
Biological, and Chemical Weapons and Ballistic 
and Cruise Missile Threat’’ (DCN OSS 
2013–1593); to the Committee on Armed Services. 


EC–3275. A communication from the Director 
of Defense Procurement and Acquisition 
Policy, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement: Allowability of Legal Costs 
for Whistleblower Proceedings’’ ((RIN0750– 
AI04) (DFARS Case 2013–D022)) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
September 27, 2013; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–3276. A communication from the Director 
of Defense Procurement and Acquisition 
Policy, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement: Acquisitions in Support 
Operations in Afghanistan’’ ((RIN0750–AH98) 
(DFARS Case 2013–D009)) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
27, 2013; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–3277. A communication from the Director 
of Defense Procurement and Acquisition 
Policy, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement: Enhancement of Contractor 
Employee Whistleblower Protections’’ 
((RIN0750–AH) (DFARS Case 2013– 
D010)) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 27, 2013; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–3278. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 

report of a rule entitled ‘‘Temporary Registration 
as a Municipal Advisor; Required 
Amendments; and Withdrawal from Temporary 
Registration’’ (RIN3235–AK69) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 26, 2013; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–3279. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Registration of Municipal 
Advisors’’ (RIN3235–AJ86) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
September 26, 2013; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3280. A communication from the Director 
of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Maintenance, 
Testing, and Replacement of Vented 
Lead-Acid Storage Batteries for Nuclear 
Power Plants’’ (Regulatory Guide 1.129, Revision 
3) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 27, 2013; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3281. A communication from the Chief 
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations 
Branch, Customs and Border Protection, Department 
of Homeland Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘United States - Colombia Trade Promotion 
Agreement’’ (RIN1515–AD88) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on September 27, 2013; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–3282. A communication from the Chief 
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations 
Branch, Customs and Border Protection, Department 
of Homeland Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘United States - Panama Trade Promotion 
Agreement’’ (RIN1515–AD93) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on September 27, 2013; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–3283. A communication from the Federal 
Register Certifying Officer, Financial 
Management Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regulatory Reorganization; 
Administrative Changes to Regulations 
Due to Consolidation of the Financial 
Management Service and the Bureau of the 
Public Debt into the Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service’’ (RIN1510–AB31) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
27, 2011; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–3284. A communication from the Assistant 
Administrator, Bureau for Legislative 
and Public Affairs, U.S. Agency for International 
Development (USAID), transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report responding to 
a GAO report entitled ‘‘Haiti Reconstruction: 
USAID Infrastructure Projects Have 
Had Mixed Results and Face Sustainability 
Challenges’’; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

EC–3285. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Unique Device Identification 
System’’ (Docket No. FDA–2011–N–0090) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 27, 2013; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–3286. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel, Federal Retirement 
Thrift Investment Board, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Implementation of United States v. Windsor’’ 
(5 CFR Parts 1651 and 1690) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 


S7140 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

September 27, 2013; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–3287. A communication from the Chief 
Judge, Superior Court of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to modifications to the Jury 
Plan for the Superior Court of the District of 
Columbia; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3288. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the Commission’s fiscal year 2013 FAIR Act 
inventory; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 
The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 
By Mr. MENENDEZ, from the Committee 
on Foreign Relations, with amendments: 

S. 1545. A bill to extend authorities related 
to global HIV/AIDS and to promote oversight 
of United States programs (Rept. No. 113– 
112). 
f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. CRUZ: 

S.J. Res. 23. A joint resolution making 
continuing appropriations for fiscal year 
2014, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Appropriations. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 468 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 468, a bill to protect the health care 
and pension benefits of our nation’s 
miners. 
S. 813 

At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 813, a bill to require that Peace 
Corps volunteers be subject to the 
same limitations regarding coverage of 
abortion services as employees of the 
Peace Corps with respect to coverage of 
such services, and for other purposes. 

S. 897 

At the request of Ms. WARREN, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. MARKEY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 897, a bill to prevent the 
doubling of the interest rate for Federal 
subsidized student loans for the 
2013–2014 academic year by providing 
funds for such loans through the Federal 
Reserve System, to ensure that 
such loans are available at interest 
rates that are equivalent to the interest 
rates at which the Federal Government 
provides loans to banks through 
the discount window operated by the 
Federal Reserve System, and for other 

purposes. 
S. 1459 
At the request of Mr. KIRK, the name 
of the Senator from Massachusetts 

(Mr. MARKEY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1459, a bill to amend title 49, 
United States Code, to prohibit the 
transportation of horses in interstate 
transportation in a motor vehicle containing 
2 or more levels stacked on top 
of one another. 

S. 1467 

At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL, 
the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1467, a bill to establish the Office 
of the Special Advocate to provide advocacy 
in cases before courts established 
by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act of 1978 and for other purposes. 


S. 1525 

At the request of Mr. HATCH, the 
name of the Senator from South Carolina 
(Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1525, a bill to ensure that 
the personal and private information of 
Americans enrolling in Exchanges established 
under the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act is secured with 
proper privacy and data security safeguards. 


S. 1535 

At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the 
name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
FLAKE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1535, a bill to deter terrorism, provide 
justice for victims, and for other purposes. 


S. 1551 

At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the 
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr. 
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1551, a bill to reform the authorities of 
the Federal Government to require the 
production of certain business records, 
conduct electronic surveillance, use 
pen registers and trap and trace devices, 
and use other forms of information 
gathering for foreign intelligence, 
counterterrorism, and criminal purposes, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 1564 

At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the 
name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
HELLER) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1564, a bill making continuing appropriations 
for veterans benefits and 
services in the event of a Government 
shutdown. 

S. 1567 

At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the 
names of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. CASEY) and the Senator 
from Montana (Mr. BAUCUS) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1567, a bill to provide 
for the compensation of furloughed 
Federal employees. 

S. RES. 75 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 75, a resolution condemning the 
Government of Iran for its state-sponsored 
persecution of its Baha’i minority 
and its continued violation of the 

International Covenants on Human 
Rights. 
S. RES. 203 

At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
name of the Senator from Massachu


setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 203, a resolution expressing 
the sense of the Senate regarding 
efforts by the United States to 
resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 
through a negotiated two-state solution. 


f 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, 
AND PENSIONS 

Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on October 
2, 2013, at 10 a.m. in room SD–430 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND 
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS 

Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs be authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate 
on October 2, 2013. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY 

Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on the Judiciary be authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate 
on October 2, 2013, at 10 a.m. in 
room SD–226 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
‘‘Continued Oversight of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
AGREEMENT—S. 1566 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that if the Senate receives 
a bill from the House which is 
identical to S. 1566, a bill providing a 
short-term extension of Iraq special 
immigrant visas, as passed by the Senate, 
then the bill be read three times 
and passed and the motion to reconsider 
be laid on the table with no intervening 
action or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—
H.J. RES. 70, H.J. RES. 71, 

H.J. RES. 72, H.J. RES. 73; AND 
H.R. 3230 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that if the Senate receives 
from the House any of the following 
joint resolutions or bills by 11 

a.m. on Thursday, October 3, those 
measures be considered to have received 
their second reading and objection 
to further proceedings considered 
to have been heard under the provisions 
of rule XIV during Thursday’s 
session: H.J. Res. 70, H.J. Res. 71, H.J. 
Res. 72, H.J. Res. 73; and H.R. 3230. 

October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7141 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without Let’s think about what those prom-keeps government operations running. 
objection, it is so ordered. ises were. Last week, the President was It keeps parks open, and it keeps 
f in New York with Bill Clinton. They Americans working. Senate Democrats 

ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, OCTOBER 
3, 2013 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that when the Senate 
completes its business today, it adjourn 
until 10:30 a.m. Thursday, October 
3; that following the prayer and 
pledge, the Journal of proceedings be 
approved to date, the time for the two 
leaders be reserved for their use later 
in the day; that following any leader 
remarks, the Senate be in a period of 
morning business for debate only until 
2 p.m. with the first hour equally divided 
and controlled between the two 
leaders or their designees, with the Republicans 
controlling the first 30 minutes 
and the majority controlling the 
second 30 minutes, with Senators permitted 
to speak for up to 10 minutes 
each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, if there is 
no further business to come before the 
Senate, I ask unanimous consent that 
it adjourn under the previous order following 
the remarks of Senator BARRASSO 
of Wyoming for up to 10 minutes. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

HEALTH CARE EXCHANGES 

Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
come to the floor today, because Americans 
all across the country today are 
speaking out about their personal experiences 
with the ObamaCare exchanges 
yesterday. Instead of it being as easy 
as buying something from Amazon, 
which the President had promised, 
Americans ran into roadblocks and 
technical disasters State after State. 

Instead of getting good coverage, 
their computers crashed. These were 
not just glitches, they were system 
failures to the point that in the Casper 
Star Tribune, on the front page today, 
it was talking about people spending 
time working their way just trying—on 
the computer—one little section had a 
little cartoon at the bottom. The one 
guy worked so hard trying to work the 
computer that he ended up getting carpal 
tunnel syndrome, while trying to 
get through the computer to find out 
more about the costs of the Obama 
health care law through the exchanges. 

The Obama administration has had 3 
years to prepare for the launch that occurred 
on October 1. Even if the technology 
finally gets fixed, the issue of 
health care will not. After people finally 
get a chance to examine what is 
being offered to them when they make 
a decision about enrolling or not under 
the mandates of the law, Americans 
are still going to find that the exchanges 
do not match the President’s 
promise. 

had what seemed like an infomercial to 
me. What the President said is that: 
Most people will be able to shop and 
compare. For many people it is going 
to be cheaper than an average cell 
phone bill. 

The people are not going to find that 
it is cheaper, even with government 
subsidies, than the average cell phone 
bill. 

The President has also said: The 
process is going to be as easy as Amazon. 
Even if the administration is able 
to paper over the many problems with 
the exchanges, it is not going to be as 
easy as shopping on Amazon. 

Remember, from the beginning the 
President said: If you like your doctor, 
you can keep your doctor. We are now 
seeing in State after State that the exchanges 
are such that, to try to get 
costs down, they are limiting the market 
in a way and the networks in a way 
that fewer doctors are included, fewer 
hospitals are included. 

That is causing an uproar. Instead of 
doubling down on a broken system, the 
President should grant all Americans a 
1-year delay—the exact same delay he 
gave their bosses. 

The President talks a lot about a 
‘‘fair shake’’ for all Americans. We 
heard it in his campaign speeches, and 
we hear it as he goes around and talks 
to groups. He uses the words quite frequently. 


ObamaCare, unfortunately, delivers 
the exact opposite. What the President 
has done unilaterally is gone outside 
the law to grant special deals to almost 
everyone except to people who need it 
the most, which is the hard-working 
American public. He basically, I believe, 
shut down the Federal Government 
in order to continue his own policy 
of his health care law, picking winners 
and losers. This can’t continue. 

The good news is that today, after 
once again attempting to lead from behind 
in a crisis, the President is finally 
having congressional leaders down to 
the White House within the next hour 
to meet with him. This is an opportunity 
for the President to do the right 
thing, to open the government, and to 
finally deliver fairness for Americans 
under the health care law. After all, if 
we are going to give people’s bosses a 
break from the mandates of the health 
care law, the President ought to give 
hard-working men and women of America 
the same break. The same for Members 
of Congress. If the President decides 
that his own administration, 
White House employees, and Members 
of Congress have special treatment 
under the health care law, that 
shouldn’t be so. That should be eliminated. 


I do want to talk for a minute specifically 
about the government shutdown. 
Over the past week Senate and 
House Republicans have voted overwhelmingly 
for legislation passed by 
the House of Representatives that 

have overwhelmingly rejected these 
proposals and have allowed to have the 
government shut down, to have the 
gates closed at America’s national 
parks, and to have critical services for 
America’s veterans go unfunded 
through the Veterans’ Administration. 

Today or tomorrow the Senate will 
have the opportunity to pass legislation 
from the House that will immediately 
open our parks, fund services 
offered through the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and provide time-sensitive 
funding for the National Institutes 
of Health. We should pass these 
bills. We should make sure Americans 
can use these essential government 
services right now. 

I also would like to talk for a minute 
about another looming issue that is 
important to the American people, to 
our Nation, and one that the President 
has recently addressed. Later this 
month Congress will begin debate on 
the President’s sixth debt limit increase, 
the sixth time he has come to 
increase the debt limit in his 5 years of 
office. The President has said he is refusing 
to negotiate on this issue. Instead, 
I believe the President should 
accept that our country can no longer 
avoid a bipartisan agreement to reform 
entitlements. The President can no 
longer avoid a bipartisan agreement to 
reform entitlements. It is the President’s 
job, responsibility, obligation, 
and opportunity to lead the effort. 

If the President is unwilling to seriously 
deal with our country’s debt, 
Congress is left with little choice but 
to use the debt limit to force him into 
fiscal solutions. The debt ceiling is 
merely a symptom of a much larger illness, 
which is Washington’s addiction 
to spending. On spending, the status 
quo is not sustainable. 

It is interesting how the President 
has seemed to change his tune. The 
President gave a number of speeches in 
the Senate when he was a Senator. We 
can go back and see what he said about 
raising the debt ceiling. He said that 
adding to the debt—of course, this was 
when George W. Bush was President— 
his key word was ‘‘irresponsible.’’ 
President Obama as a Senator said it 
was unpatriotic—raising the debt ceiling—
unpatriotic and unacceptable. 
This was Barack Obama in this body, 
in this Chamber, in 2006. President 
Obama—at the time a Senator—actually 
called raising the debt ceiling ‘‘a 
failure of leadership.’’ Isn’t that what 
the President himself should be accused 
of right now as he tries to do 
what he so vehemently objected to 
when he was in the Senate? 

How bad is the situation? Well, in 
September the Congressional Budget 
Office reported that in the long term 
defense, education, infrastructure, and 
all discretionary spending will be 
squeezed by entitlement programs as 
well as interest on the debt. Over the 
next 75 years discretionary spending 


S7142 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 2, 2013 

will increase by 39 percent. This makes 
the sequester cuts look like child’s 
play. Medicaid and other health spending 
increases will be by 159 percent; interest 
on the debt increases 823 percent; 
Social Security spending rises by 
only 37 percent only because CBO assumes 
drastic benefit cuts in the year 
2033. 

The President recently spoke about 
making cuts, though, to discretionary 
spending. That number is underestimated. 
The President failed to mention 
that by refusing to make much needed 
changes to entitlement programs, he is 
guaranteeing that these investments, 
as he calls them, will continue to 
shrink. 

Entitlement reform is needed not 
only to preserve other Federal spending 
but in order to slow our ever-expanding 
debt. President Obama has 
bragged that he is no longer setting up 
the record-setting deficits he did in his 
first 4 years. Those self-congratulatory 

statements will be short-lived, as the 
Congressional Budget Office has predicted 
that deficits will soon start to 
rise unless real reforms are made 
today. Without real reform, America’s 
debt will continue to grow, and America’s 
interest and entitlement payments 
are on course to overwhelm the 
entire Federal budget. 

The American people deserve to hear 
the truth about the tough choices we 
must face together as a nation. They 
also deserve an open and honest discussion 
about how we are going to make 
those choices. The President and congressional 
Democrats ought to rethink 
their strategies of leadership via blame 
game and saving via spending. 

The President and Democrats have 
an opportunity today at the White 
House to put the games aside and work 
with us on opening the government, on 
delivering fairness for all Americans, 
and on actually reducing our debt. I 
hope they use this meeting to finally 

do what is right and to help the American 
people. 

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. HARKIN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the order for the quorum call 
be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10:30 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate now 
stands in adjournment until tomorrow 
at 10:30 a.m. 

Thereupon, the Senate, at 5:06 p.m., 
adjourned until Thursday, October 3, 
2013, at 10:30 a.m. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1415 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL 
CARL M. SKINNER 

HON. MAC THORNBERRY 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Major General Carl M. Skinner 
on the occasion of his retirement from the Air 
Force after 33 years of dedicated service to 
our Nation. Major General Skinner began his 
career after graduation from the Air Force 
Academy in 1980. His service is marked with 
distinguished performance as an Instructor 
Pilot in the T–38 Talon, Chief, Standardization 
and Evaluation in the FB–111 Aardvark, and 
Mobilization Assistant to the Air Force Chief 
Information Officer, the Director of the Defense 
Information Systems Agency and the 
Commander of the Air Force’s Air Education 
and Training Command. Major General Skinner’s 
career followed his father’s example during 
World War II and continues through his 
son, an Air Force physician stationed at Incirlik 
Air Base in Turkey. My colleagues join me in 
sincerely thanking Mike, his wife, Pam, and 
their children, Tom and Kelley Ann, for their 
service to the United States of America and a 
job well done. 

f 

HONORING JOHN PARSONS 

HON. HENRY A. WAXMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to the life of John Parsons, a man 
who gave so much of himself to the community. 
He had served as a City Councilmember 
in Redondo Beach and most recently as the 
Planning Commissioner. John has been a pillar 
in the South Bay community and will be remembered 
for his dedicated service to the City 
of Redondo Beach. 

I have had the great honor of working with 
John since I began representing the 33rd Congressional 
District. He helped me get to know 
the South Bay, its businesses and local 
Chambers of Commerce. 

John had a long history of public service in 
the beach communities and beyond. He 
served as chairman of the City’s Harbor Commission 
and Chamber of Commerce Board 
and was president of the Redondo Beach Rotary. 
Most recently, he worked as the business 
services and economic development manager 
for the South Bay Workforce Investment 
Board. 

One of John’s most important contributions 
to the community was as a founding member 
and original chairman of the Los Angeles Air 
Force Regional Alliance, which successfully 
protected the Los Angeles Air Force Base 
from the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure 
list. John’s tireless work helped the Air Force 

Base remain in El Segundo and remain a central 
part of the defense community. It continues 
to support tens of thousands of local 
jobs and supports our national security around 
the globe. 

John is survived by his wife, Mary Ann and 
two daughters, Nikki and Danielle; a sister, 
Lorraine Doolin of Virginia; and two brothers, 
Mike Parsons and Pat Parsons of Los Angeles. 
My thoughts and deepest sympathies go 
out to John’s family and friends during this difficult 
time. 

John will truly be remembered as a civic 
leader who always had the best interest of his 
community in mind. I ask that my colleagues 
join me in celebrating the remarkable life and 
tremendous contributions of John Parsons. 
Our community owes John a debt of gratitude 
for his service and he will not be forgotten. 

f 

ON THE OCCASION OF MONA AND 
CANTOR SAMUEL L. GREENBAUM’S 
FORTIETH ANNIVERSARY 
OF SERVICE TO 
CONGREGRATION BETH SHALOM 
AND THE JEWISH COMMUNITY 
OF GREATER DETROIT 

HON. GARY C. PETERS 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. PETERS of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to recognize Cantor Samuel Greenbaum 
and his wife, Mona, on the occasion of 
their fortieth year of service to the members of 
Congregation Beth Shalom. 

As a leader at Congregation Beth Shalom 
and in Greater Detroit’s Jewish community, 
Cantor Greenbaum has been present for thousands 
of Jewish Michiganders at every stage 
in their lives. Throughout his decades of service, 
Cantor Greenbaum has been involved in 
every facet of Beth Shalom’s community. 
From his mastery of the liturgy at religious 
services to his lessons as a teacher of Jewish 
education for members at all periods in their 
lives, Cantor Greenbaum has approached his 
work with a thoughtful balance of compassion, 
levity and pastoral care that have enabled him 
to effectively guide members of his congregation 
on their lifelong journey in establishing a 
deep and meaningful connection with their 
faith. One of his most important responsibilities 
is the commitment he makes to Jewish 
boys and girls as a Bar/Bat Mitzvah tutor— 
serving as a key advisor to the youth as they 
take on increased responsibilities in the Jewish 
community. 

Furthermore, it is not surprising that Cantor 
Greenbaum’s profound enthusiasm for his 
faith has led him to work that goes beyond the 
congregation of Beth Shalom and affects the 
broader Jewish community in Southeast Michigan. 
As one of just a few certified mohels in 
the Greater Detroit region, Cantor Greenbaum 
has been instrumental to thousands of newborn 
boys as they enter the covenant of Juda


ism and has taken part in the naming ceremony 
for thousands of newborn girls. He has 
been with families at moments of great joy, officiating 
countless weddings, and been of 
comfort to families while mourning the loss of 
loved ones. In recognition of his service to the 
Jewish community, Cantor Greenbaum was 
honored with an honorary Doctorate of Music 
degree from the Jewish Theological Seminary. 

As is often the case for spiritual leaders, 
Cantor Greenbaum is joined in life by his dedicated 
partner Mona, who mirrors his compassion 
and commitment for the well-being others. 
Mona has supported Beth Shalom 
through her work as a teacher in Jewish Day 
School and in the public school system. 

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Mona and Cantor 
Samuel Greenbaum on this tremendous 
milestone in their service to Congregation 
Beth Shalom and the Jewish community of 
Greater Detroit. For forty years, the Greenbaums 
have practiced compassion and dedication 
to their congregation and community— 
a shining example of service above self for all 
of us that seek to make a difference in the 
lives of others. 

f 

BISHOP D. RAYFORD BELL 

HON. DANNY K. DAVIS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, 
born Dennis Raphael Bell, in Leflore County, 
Mississippi, on July 9, 1923; to sharecropper 
parents. Dennis was raised by his 
grandparents. 

In spite of the absence of a dream of better 
conditions; something within him, at a very 
early age, rebelled against the status quo. He 
discovered in the South, if Black people refused 
to sink in despair and accept things as 
they were, then they had better have a ray of 
light from above. Bishop Bell is convinced it 
was that ray of light that brought him from the 
backwoods of Mississippi to the glorious 
heights of Pentecost; from a Mississippi plow-
boy to a Prince of the Church of God. 

In 1938, after living briefly in Morley, Missouri; 
a fifteen-year-old Dennis returned to 
Mississippi to find a new girl had moved into 
the area; Darlene Griffin. On July 20th, 1942, 
Darlene and Dennis were married. To this 
union were born two sons, Harvey and Curtis, 
and nine grandchildren. Shortly after Harvey 
was born, Dennis was drafted into the U.S. 
Army. After training, he was sent to Europe, 
where he saw action in the campaign of 
Northern France, Ardennes, Rhineland, and 
Central Europe. He was honorably discharged 
December 9th, 1945. 

Bishop Bell received the Holy Ghost on April 
1, 1949. Since that day, God has continually 
perfected that which concerned Bishop Bell. It 
has not always been easy, but the ray of light 
has never gone out. 

Bishop Bell has constantly sought to improve 
himself. After finishing his high school 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E1416 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 2, 2013 

education at LaSalle University in Chicago, 
one of his teachers told him ‘‘if the elevator to 
success is not running, take the stairs.’’ 
Bishop Bell was conferred his Bachelors degree 
with honors from Southwestern College 
in Oklahoma City, OK. As a straight ‘‘A’’ student 
at American Bible College, he was conferred 
a Masters of Theology. He continued 
onward and was conferred a Doctoral degree 
in Theology and Philosophy by Toledo Bible 
College and Seminary. Bishop Bell was the 
first person in that school’s history to earn two 
doctorate degrees in one year. 

In August of 1990, after 48 years of marriage 
and a lengthy illness, a grieving Bishop 
Bell buried his beloved Darlene. In God’s timing, 
the Lord saw fit to send a ray of sunshine 
into Bishop Bell’s life, in the form of Jacqueline 
Collins of Cincinnati, Ohio. They were 
married in April of 1991. 

An Apostolic preacher for over 55 years, 
Bishop Bell has spent a great part of his life 
serving the people of God in many ways. In 
addition to serving his church, he also serves 
the community as a Chaplain for the Chicago 
Police Department. Bishop Bell came up 
through the ranks of Christ Temple Church, 
serving in such positions as Sunday School 
teacher, Assistant and then Superintendent; 
Vice and Chairman of the Youth Department; 
Trustee; Assistant Pastor; Pastor in 1958 and 
now Senior Pastor. He is the founder of the 
Christ Temple Apostolic Church in Joliet, as 
well as, the founder and President of Midwest 
Apostolic Bible College in Chicago. He also 
founded Samuel Barnes Christian Academy, a 
K–8th grade school named in memory of his 
pastor and he created the Mother Darlene Bell 
Scholarship Fund to assist the educational 
dreams of deserving students. 

Dr. Bell served as the Assistant Presiding 
Bishop of the Pentecostal Churches of the Apostolic 
Faith, for 19 years, along side his best 
friend, the late Bishop Elzie W. Young. Thereafter, 
his tenure as the Presiding Prelate was 
from January 1990 to July 2000. He now 
holds the title of Senior Bishop. 

Bishop Bell has preached the Gospel from 
the street corners of Chicago to 49 states in 
America, over 50 countries, on all five inhabited 
continents, and to the isles of the sea. His 
chief joy continues to be the opportunity to 
share the life of Jesus Christ with someone. 
The sentiments of his heart play almost like 
the lyrics of a song which says, ‘‘if I can help 
somebody as I travel along, if I can cheer 
somebody with a word or song, if I can tell 
somebody that he is traveling wrong, then my 
living shall not be in vain.’’ 

It has been my great pleasure to be associated 
with Bishop Bell and his family since the 
1960’s when I was his nephew Fred Davis’ 
Social Studies teacher. 

Bishop, we all love and revere you for having 
been a great leader of your people and a 
blessing to all. 

f 

HONORING MARK E. LOPES 

HON. KYRSTEN SINEMA 

OF ARIZONA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Ms. SINEMA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
ask that my colleagues join me in honoring 
Mark E. Lopes for his nomination to the posi


tion of United States Executive Director of the 
Inter-American Development Bank. If confirmed, 
he will be one of 14 members on the 
board of executive directors and will represent 
the United States in all aspects of overseeing 
the conduct of the bank. 

Mr. Lopes, an Arizona native, has a distinguished 
and varied career in public service 
that makes him eminently qualified to carry out 
this role. He served as a Peace Corp volunteer 
in Paraguay and then worked for the U.S. 
Agency for International Development (USAID) 
as a Presidential Management Fellow. He 
spent the next portion of his career as a staffer 
on the House Appropriations State and Foreign 
Operations Subcommittee, and as the 
Senior Policy Advisor on the Senate Foreign 
Relations Development and Foreign Assistance 
Subcommittee. He later returned to 
USAID, and has risen to the position of Deputy 
Assistant Administrator of the Latin American 
and Caribbean Bureau. 

These accomplishments clearly demonstrate 
Mr. Lopes’ passion, sacrifice, and dedication. 
He is the epitome of expertise in International 
Development and it is my privilege to represent 
him in Congress. I ask my colleagues 
to join me in recognizing Mark E. Lopes on 
this momentous career achievement. 

f 

PAY OUR MILITARY ACT 

HON. RENEE L. ELLMERS 

OF NORTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mrs. ELLMERS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
submit the following: 

COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, October 1, 2013. 

Hon. CHUCK HAGEL, 

Secretary of Defense, Pentagon, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SECRETARY: I share the concerns 
you’ve expressed about the seriousness of the 
lapse in appropriations and the additional 
negative impacts on military readiness associated 
with a significant furlough of defense 
civilian workforce. In an effort to mitigate 
these harmful effects, the Congress reached 
unanimous agreement that the members of 
our Armed Forces, as well as the civilians 
and contractors who provide support to the 
Armed Forces, should continue to receive 
pay and allowances. As you know, this legislation, 
H.R. 3210, the Pay Our Military Act, 
sponsored by Representative Mike Coffman 
(R-CO), was signed into law last night. With 
the enactment of this law, active duty uniformed 
personnel can continue to be paid for 
their service and most civilian defense workers 
should remain on the job. 

I was heartened to read your statement indicating 
that it is a priority for your General 
Counsel to review the legislation, ‘‘to see if 
there’s any margin here, or widening in the 
interpretation of the law of exempt versus 
non-exempt civilians.’’ I believe the legislation 
provides you broad latitude and I encourage 
you to use it. The text does not 
limit the provision of pay to civilians who 
were previously categorized by the Administration 
as ‘‘excepted’’ or ‘‘essential’’ for the 
purposes of Department of Defense operations 
in the event of a government shutdown. 
Therefore, I strongly encourage you to 
use the authority Congress has given you to 
keep national security running, rather than 
keeping defense civilians at home when they 

are authorized to work. Likewise, as your 
General Counsel reviews the legislation, I request 
additional information regarding the 
provision of pay and allowances to members 
of the military Reserves and National Guard. 

I look forward to an update on the Administration’s 
interpretation of H.R. 3210 later 
today. I know you would agree with me that 
this is no time to use national security or 
our national security workforce as a political 
pawn. 

Sincerely, 

HOWARD P. ‘‘BUCK’’ MCKEON, 

Chairman. 

f 

IN HONOR OF SPC JON NAHOLNIK 

HON. JOE COURTNEY 

OF CONNECTICUT 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to honor SPC Jon Michael Naholnik who died 
suddenly on Wednesday, September 25 of a 
‘‘Wounded Heart’’ at the age of 32. Those who 
were lucky enough to have Jon in their life 
knew that he was a loving father, brother, son 
and friend. 

Jon was an Afghanistan veteran who proudly 
served his country in the Alpha Company, 
1st Battalion, 102nd Infantry Regiment. He attended 
Waterford High school and began work 
at Millstone Power Station as an armed guard 
after he graduated. In 2007, he decided to join 
the Army National Guard as his father Nik and 
his grandfather Charlie did before him. 

In 2011, after returning home to Montville, 
Jon survived a freak lightning strike outside 
his home. Although he knew that he was lucky 
to survive, Jon maintained a great sense of 
humor about the incident. He told a reporter 
that he enjoyed watching storms but would 
probably stay indoors in the future. 

I ask my colleagues to join with me to honor 
SPC Jon Michael Naholnik and his patriotic 
service to our Nation. Our thoughts and prayers 
are with his family in this difficult time. 

f 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 

HON. JOHN D. DINGELL 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, here we are 
again wasting the people’s time. But I want 
each and every one of my colleagues to know 
that we’re wasting their money, too. Seventeen 
years ago, Republicans shut down the 
government for 27 days. In today’s dollars, 
that cost American taxpayers $2 billion. For all 
the high-handed talk by my Republican friends 
about reducing deficits, they seem to have no 
problem with trying to score political points at 
the expense of hard-working American families. 


This afternoon, we’re going to take up the 
same cut-and-bite bills that the House rejected 
last night. We find ourselves hoping for a different 
outcome by doing the same thing over 
and over again. I’d like to remind my friends 
that this is the definition of insanity. On top of 
that, Republicans are using the World War II 
Memorial closure and veterans to try to shame 
us into going along with their charade. I’m one 
of two World War II vets left in this place, and 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1417 

I can tell you that the best way to honor and 
help this country’s veterans is to get the whole 
government running again. 

Mr. Speaker, I call on my Republican colleagues 
to gather the collective will to do the 
work the people expect of them. They are putting 
the economic well-being of this country at 
severe risk, which is beneath contempt. 
Enough of acting like spoiled children: It’s time 
to be adults and get this country moving 
again. The responsible choice here is to get 
together and pass a funding resolution for the 
ENTIRE government. The American people 
demand nothing less. 

f 

IN HONOR OF MRS. EVELYN 
LOWERY 

HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor an extraordinary woman and 
respected civil rights leader, Mrs. Evelyn Lowery, 
wife of the Reverend Dr. Joseph Lowery. 
Sadly, Mrs. Lowery passed away on Thursday, 
September 26, 2013. Her life was celebrated 
at a memorial service on Wednesday, 
October 2, 2013, at the International Chapel at 
Morehouse College in Atlanta, Georgia. 

Evelyn Gibson Lowery was born on February 
16, 1925, to the Reverend and Mrs. 
Harry Gibson, who were activists in Memphis, 
Tennessee and inspired her to become involved 
in civil and human rights activism. 
While her father served as President of the 
local National Association for the Advancement 
of Colored People (NAACP), she saw 
the injustices of society and had committed 
herself to working to improve those conditions 
before she had even turned eighteen. She attended 
Clark College and Youngstown University. 


In 1950, she married the love of her life, the 
Reverend Dr. Joseph Lowery, and they built a 
life that was based on the love of God, the 
love of each other, the love of family and the 
love of people. They knew that the love of 
these could lead one to a close and fulfilling 
relationship with God because they are an 
embodiment of His greatest commandments: 
to love Him with all your ‘‘heart, mind and 
soul’’ and to ‘‘love thy neighbor as thyself.’’ 

Not only was she a pillar of strength with 
love and devotion for Rev. Lowery and his 
work with the Civil Rights Movement, but her 
leadership and support of women in the Movement 
reflected her personal commitment to 
gender equality as part of the larger Human 
Rights Movement. Mrs. Lowery founded the 
Southern Christian Leadership Conference/ 
Women’s Organizational Movement for Equality 
Now, Inc. (SCLC/W.O.M.E.N.). Through the 
organization, she created the Drum Major for 
Justice Award, an annual award recognizing 
outstanding people who have made contributions 
to social justice. She led the establishment 
of monuments in various parts of Alabama 
to honor those who were instrumental in 
the Civil Rights Movement and in 1987, she 
created the Evelyn G. Lowery Civil Rights Heritage 
Tour. In addition, she spearheaded many 
education and awareness projects and programs, 
including the Women’s Empowerment 
Training Center in 1988 for GED and com


puter training and the Bridging the Gap—Girls 
to Women mentoring program in 1995. 

Mrs. Lowery’s life’s work was founded upon 
her commitment to justice and equality, which 
inspired her work to empower women and to 
better the community in so many different 
ways. During her life, she touched and enriched 
the lives of countless people in her 
community and throughout our nation and her 
legacy will live on through the many who were 
inspired by her. 

Mrs. Lowery was more than a wife, she was 
more than a civil rights leader, she was a 
servant to all humankind. Nelson Henderson 
once said, ‘‘The true meaning of life is to plant 
trees under whose shade you do not expect to 
sit.’’ Mrs. Lowery never stopped planting trees 
so that those in need could sit and rest and 
then stand up stronger than before. To God 
be the glory for blessing the world with a 
woman the caliber of Mrs. Evelyn Gibson Lowery. 
We are all better because she traveled 
this way. 

Mr. Speaker, today I ask my colleagues to 
join me, my wife, Vivian, the nearly 700,000 
people in Georgia’s 2nd Congressional District, 
and all Americans, in paying tribute to 
Mrs. Evelyn Lowery and her exceptional life’s 
work. We extend our deepest condolences to 
Dr. Joseph Lowery and the family during this 
time of bereavement. May they be consoled 
and comforted by their abiding faith and the 
Holy Spirit in the days, weeks and months 
ahead. 

f 

H.J. RES. 70, H.J. RES. 71, AND H.J. 
RES. 72 
HON. JAMES R. LANGEVIN 

OF RHODE ISLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, this shutdown 
is already affecting millions of Americans, and 
the bills before us today represent a recognition 
of that fact. What they most certainly do 
not represent is a solution. 

A small group of radical Tea Party Republicans 
has forced this shutdown on my constituents, 
on hundreds of thousands of federal 
employees and their families, on the businesses 
who depend upon them as customers, 
and on countless visitors to our nation’s most 
treasured sites. Now, these same Republicans 
are being faced with the real-world consequences 
of their actions: World War II veterans 
blocked from visiting the memorial built 
in their honor. Communities losing millions of 
dollars in tourism activity each day. Our nation’s 
capital at risk of suspending basic municipal 
services. 

These are all devastating impacts, and they 
are among the many reasons my Democratic 
colleagues and I have worked so hard to prevent 
a shutdown. But these piecemeal bills are 
not a serious or honest attempt to reopen our 
government. They are merely an attempt to 
put a Band-aid over some of the most visible 
and unpopular fallout from the shutdown, while 
doing absolutely nothing to get us closer to a 
real solution. 

These bills would not help the 800,000 dedicated 
public servants who have been furloughed, 
leaving them with mortgages, student 
loans, car payments and no paycheck. In 
Rhode Island, these furloughed employees in


clude hundreds of civilians at Naval Station 
Newport, airline safety inspectors from the 
FAA, civilian technicians from the Rhode Island 
National Guard, and staff at the U.S. Attorney’s 
office, the IRS and the EPA. 

These bills would not help my constituents 
who are trying to apply for disability benefits 
from the Social Security Administration. They 
would not help the dozens of children with 
cancer who have been turned away from clinical 
trials at NIH. They would not help the millions 
of mothers who cannot afford baby formula 
without assistance from the WIC nutrition 
program. They would not help the small business 
owners who can no longer receive loans 
from the SBA. They would not help the thousands 
of children whose Head Start classes 
will be canceled as early as this week. 

What these bills would do is merely prolong 
a disastrous situation. There is no doubt that 
the District of Columbia, our National Park 
system and most certainly our veterans are 
worthy of our attention and support. But what 
the Republicans are doing is using them all as 
pawns in a dangerous political game that 
leaves everyone else to fend for themselves. 

I want to make sure the American people 
know that Democrats have offered repeatedly 
to support a clean Continuing Resolution 
which funds the government until November 
15 at the rate the Republicans proposed—a 
rate which is lower than many of us would like 
but that we are willing to accept in order to 
achieve compromise and end this stalemate. 
This CR will allow us to completely reopen 
government and get back to work on the 
longer-term fiscal issues that demand our attention. 
And this CR has already been passed 
by the Senate and sits waiting in the House, 
if only the Republican Leadership would agree 
to allow us to vote on it. 

Mr. Speaker, all Americans are impacted by 
this shutdown, and all Americans deserve our 
support to end it. A piecemeal approach is not 
the answer. Let us vote on a clean CR and 
get our constituents, our economy and this 
Congress back to work. 

f 

CONGRATULATING HAROLD ‘‘HB’’ 
BRANCH III 

HON. KYRSTEN SINEMA 

OF ARIZONA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Ms. SINEMA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
ask that my colleagues join me in congratulating 
Harold ‘‘HB’’ Branch III on receiving the 
inaugural Universal Learning Centre Courage 
in Learning Award. This honor is given to an 
individual who has overcome adversity 
through the utilization of education. 

For Mr. Branch, this honor is well deserved. 
Overcoming childhood tragedy, abandonment, 
and poverty, he rose to receive national and 
international recognition for his written poetry 
and performance. He has also achieved notable 
success in public speaking and business 
training. Today, he serves at-risk youth of Arizona 
through his organization, HomeBase Poetry. 
This foundation gives youth a creative 
outlet to develop academically, socially, and 
professionally. I admire the efforts of Mr. 
Branch to help our youth grow and succeed. 
In doing so, he has helped lift up our communities 
and cultivate artistic talent. 


E1418 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 2, 2013 

Mr. Branch is a true inspiration and a model 
of excellence in service. It is my privilege to 
represent him in Congress. I ask my colleagues 
to join me in recognizing Harold ‘‘HB’’ 
Branch III on winning the 2013 Courage in 
Learning Award, and on the remarkable life 
achievements this award represents. 

f 

RECOGNIZING UNWARRANTED 
STIGMA IN SICKLE CELL DISEASE 

HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, Congress has 
designated September as National Sickle Cell 
Disease Awareness Month to help focus attention 
on the need for research and treatment of 
sickle cell disease. Sickle Cell Disease is an 
inherited condition which affects an estimated 
100,000 individuals in the United States and 
millions globally. While the disease is most 
common among African Americans, it also occurs 
in people of Hispanic, Indian, Caribbean, 
Mediterranean, Middle Eastern, and South 
Asian descent. 

Sickle cell anemia is the most common form 
of sickle cell disease (SCD). SCD is a serious 
disorder in which the body makes sickle-
shaped red blood cells. ‘‘Sickle-shaped’’ 
means that the red blood cells are shaped like 
a crescent. They tend to block blood flow in 
the blood vessels of the limbs and organs 
which can cause pain and organ damage. Tissue 
that does not receive normal blood flow 
eventually becomes damaged. This is what 
causes the complications of sickle cell disease. 


Creating more awareness and education 
about this disease remains a challenge of 
changing attitudes and dispelling myths about 
both the disease and about those who suffer 
from it. While those suffering from Sickle Cell 
are living longer, they continue to endure stigma 
and other psychosocial issues, including 
stress, that continue to be associated with the 
disease. 

Much of the stigma is based on myths and 
misinformation. Imagine going to a hospital ER 
and hearing the term ‘‘frequent flyer’’ or ‘‘drug 
seeker’’ to describe someone who has had to 
return to the ER often for a Sickle Cell Crisis? 
Imagine being labeled a ‘‘drug addict’’ and 
being looked at as a common narcotic drug 
seeker because you require excess doses of 
narcotics as a form of treatment for crisis 
pain? Imagine being told, ‘‘You should be 
used to this pain by now!’’ These are just a 
sampling of stories shared by sickle cell disease 
sufferers. 

Persons with Sickle Cell Disease may face 
this stigma throughout their lives but especially 
immediately after transitioning from pediatric to 
adult care when coordination of health care 
services are limited or non-existent for this 
population. One way our Nation can make 
progress in addressing the issue of stigma 
and other issues related to Sickle Cell Disease 
is to identify the areas where we can move 
forward quickly while debating the broader 
areas of concern. 

That is why I urge Congress to reauthorize 
the Sickle Cell Disease Research, Surveillance, 
Prevention, and Treatment Act of 2013 
(SCTA). The reauthorization of this bill will 

highlight the need to increase awareness and 
understanding of this disease, promote education 
and research, provide funding for treatment, 
new drugs and expand the development 
of transition services for adolescents to adult 
health care. 

As we consider our strategy toward improving 
care and treatment for Sickle Cell patients, 
I believe we must consider the long-term costs 
of stigma and other psychosocial issues. I applaud 
Sonja L. Banks, President and Chief 
Operating Officer of the Sickle Cell Disease 
Association of America, and the members of 
the organization for their efforts to promote 
awareness of this important issue. We must 
continue to educate ourselves, health care 
providers, school health nurses, and the business 
community about the specific and broad 
aspects of this crippling and chronic disease 
and advocate for new discoveries, advancements 
and breakthroughs for Sickle Cell, the 
most common and oldest inherited blood disorder. 


f 

OUR UNCONSCIONABLE NATIONAL 
DEBT 

HON. MIKE COFFMAN 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, on January 
20, 2009, the day President Obama took office, 
the national debt was 
$10,626,877,048,913.08. 

Today, it is $16,747,478,675,335.18. We’ve 
added $6,120,601,626,422.10 to our debt in 4 
years. This is $6.1 trillion in debt our nation, 
our economy, and our children could have 
avoided with a balanced budget amendment. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO STAYUNITED 

HON. HENRY A. WAXMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize a nonprofit organization in California’s 
33rd Congressional District, 
StayUNITED, and its founders, Mark and 
Ismini Svensson. 

StayUNITED has created a number of initiatives 
to improve lives in the United States and 
throughout the world. The organization has recently 
launched an initiative entitled ‘50 Acts 
of Giving Back’ to promote voluntarism and 
demonstrate how social media can be used to 
transform the way acts of social good can be 
communicated and replicated across the 
globe. Mr. and Ms. Svensson are traveling to 
all 50 states and performing 50 acts of kindness 
to encourage an online community to inspire 
others across state, national, and international 
lines to help make the world a better 
place. 

I ask that my colleagues join me in recognizing 
the vision of Mark and Ismini Svensson 
and their commitment to charitable giving. 

CELEBRATING NICHOLAS SENN 

HIGH SCHOOL’S CENTENNIAL 

YEAR 

HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize Nicholas Senn High 
School, an excellent Chicago Public High 
School in my district that is celebrating its centennial 
year. 

With its mission to develop life-long learners 
who value diversity and social awareness, 
Nicholas Senn High School is teaching its students 
critical-thinking skills that allow them to 
be active, responsible, and productive citizens. 
For the past 100 years, Senn has been promoting 
and supporting education for local students, 
adapting to an ever changing, ever vibrant 
community. Today there are over 55 nationalities 
represented and 35 languages spoken 
at Senn High School. 

Senn High School recently became the first 
school in Chicago to offer a wall-to-wall International 
Baccalaureate (IB) program, aided by 
a unique partnership with Loyola University, 
which provides a robust academic curriculum 
throughout the school. Senn students can also 
participate in Senn Arts, a Fine and Performing 
Arts Magnet Program where creative 
Chicago students pursue artistic and academic 
excellence. The school ensures they are helping 
all members of the diverse community by 
offering additional programs in Special Education, 
ELL and Smaller Learning Community 
Programs. 

Over the past several years, Senn High 
School has seen major improvements under 
the leadership of Principal Susan Lofton. Senn 
was recently named among the city’s top high 
schools and is a Level 1 school, the highest 
designation possible. Superior leadership, excellent 
teachers, the partnership with Loyola 
and strong community support all helped to 
make Senn the school it is today. 

Nicholas Senn High School is celebrating 
these achievements with a centennial celebration 
and a fundraiser to aid them in accomplishing 
their future goals on Saturday, October 
5th, 2013. I want to congratulate Nicholas 
Senn High School on its success over the last 
100 years and its lasting impact on the students 
of the City of Chicago. 

I am proud to have Nicholas Senn High 
School in my district and wish for its continued 
growth and success. 

f 

THE HOPPERS—A NORTH 
CAROLINA MUSICAL TREASURE 

HON. HOWARD COBLE 

OF NORTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. COBLE. Mr. Speaker, on Saturday, October 
5, 2013, the town of Madison, North 
Carolina, will unveil an historical marker to 
honor a legendary musical family known as 
The Hoppers. I am proud to say that The Hoppers 
live in the Sixth District of North Carolina, 
and that I have been invited to participate in 
the unveiling of this plaque. 

The Hoppers, known as Hopper Brothers 
and Connie until 1981, are musical legends 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1419 

and rightfully deserving of this honor. In the 
world of Gospel and Christian music, the Hoppers 
are at the forefront, not only for the quality 
of their music, but for their commitment to 
their faith. For more than half-a-century, this 
Rockingham County family has been spreading 
musical joy throughout the land. 

What was started in humble beginnings in 
1957 by Claude Hopper and his brothers, Will, 
Steve, Paul, and Monroe, came to be known 
as Hopper Brothers and Connie, when 
Claude, taking a break from his part-time job 
at the A&P food store in Madison, spotted 
Connie Shelton driving through the small town 
and asked her to join his Gospel group on the 
spot. Now celebrating 50 years of marriage 
and music together, they have mentored many 
musicians and singers over the years. Their 
sons, Dean and Michael, later joined the 
group as lead vocalist and drummer/vocalist. 

Kim Greene of The Greenes married Dean 
Hopper, and in 1989 she also joined The Hoppers 
as soprano. Soon, The Hoppers scored a 
string of number one Gospel hits including 
Here I Am, Milk and Honey, Mention My 
Name, Anchor to the Power of the Cross, 
Heavenly Sunrise, That’s Him, and Yes I Am. 
In 1996, Mike Hopper married Denice, who 
became the group’s pianist. In 1998, their 
version of Shoutin’ Time became their biggest 
hit. 

Over the ensuing years, numerous awards 
and accolades came their way. They have 
been nominated and received just about every 
major award in the Gospel music industry. 
Known as America’s Favorite Family of Gospel 
Music, The Hoppers are not just musicians, 
but business leaders in music publishing 
and concert promotions. Best of all, we 
can claim The Hoppers as North Carolina’s 
own. 

On behalf of the citizens of the Sixth District 
of North Carolina, we congratulate The Hoppers 
on more than half-a-century of outstanding 
Gospel music. Best wishes to everyone 
gathered on Saturday, October 5, 2013, 
as a plaque is unveiled in Madison to honor 
The Hoppers, a true North Carolina musical 
treasure. 

f 

SUPPORT FOR BREAST CANCER 
AWARENESS MONTH 

HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my support 
for Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
Since 1985, October has been designated as 
the month in which we campaign to raise 
awareness for breast cancer and celebrate the 
victories in research and innovation in treatment. 


In 2013, an estimated 300,000 new cases of 
invasive and non-invasive breast cancer in 
women will arise and almost 40,000 women 
will die of breast cancer. In men, more than 
2,000 cases of invasive breast cancer will be 
detected and about 400 men will die from 
breast cancer. Though the numbers are disheartening, 
breast cancer research has made 
significant strides. 

Early detection of breast cancer through 
mammograms improves survival rates. Reg


ular screenings remain the best way to detect 
breast cancer and women should be encouraged 
to get regular exams. While 70 percent 
of women receive regular mammograms, this 
number can still be higher to increase prevention. 


Unfortunately, we all know someone—a sister, 
mother, daughter, aunt, or another loved 
one—who has been diagnosed and suffered 
through breast cancer. Each year, the month 
of October reminds us of those lost and the 
survivors whose stories can empower us to 
continue to raise awareness and strive to find 
a cure for breast cancer. Please join me in 
supporting Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 

f 

CELEBRATING PROFESSOR 
ALBERTO RIOS 

HON. KYRSTEN SINEMA 

OF ARIZONA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Ms. SINEMA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
ask that my colleagues join me in celebrating 
Professor Alberto Rios, Arizona’s debut Poet 
Laureate. He will serve a two-year term in this 
venerable position. His duties include annual 
public readings and a major literary project 
aimed to educate the public about poetry. 

The Arizona Commission of the Arts selected 
Professor Rios because of his remarkable 
credentials. For nearly 40 years, Mr. Rios 
has preserved the culture and history of our 
great state through writing and community outreach. 
He has achieved recognition on both a 
local and national level. In his three decades 
of teaching at Arizona State University, Mr. 
Rios attained the status of Regents Professor—
the highest distinction for a faculty 
member. As my colleague, I applaud his work 
in helping to make ASU a preeminent institution 
for higher education. As a devotee of the 
arts, I thank him for everything he has done to 
promote and advance artistic expression. 
Through his life’s work, Professor Rios has 
helped enrich communities throughout Arizona. 


Professor Alberto Rios represents the best 
in arts, culture and service to the public. It is 
my privilege to represent him in Congress. I 
ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating 
Professor Alberto Rios on this exceptional 
honor and in wishing him the utmost success 
in his upcoming term as Poet Laureate of Arizona. 


f 

IN RECOGNITION OF MS. JEAN 
FICKLIN 

HON. MICHAEL M. HONDA 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. HONDA. Mr. Speaker, I along with Representative 
SWALWELL, rise today to honor Ms. 
Jean Ficklin of Newark, California, a highly 
distinguished community member who, along 
with her husband Herman and four children, 
has been a resident of Newark for fifty years. 
Ms. Ficklin’s excellence in education and promotion 
of African American culture and history 
is why she will be honored at the South County 
NAACP’s 35th Annual Community Awards 
Gala in Hayward. 

Ms. Ficklin set the stage for future instructors 
of color by being the first African American 
instructor in the school district. She spent 
thirty-three years educating and inspiring our 
youth as a teacher, ending her career in 1987 
at Newark Unified School District. 

Since her retirement, Ms. Ficklin has remained 
an active member in the community. 
She founded the Afro-American Cultural & 
Historical Society, Inc., an organization whose 
mission is to bring cross-cultural understanding 
of the African American community 
through the collection and preservation of art, 
artifacts, recorded media, and the sponsorship 
and coordination of awareness events. The organization’s 
reach is vast and covers Newark 
and the Tri-City area, including Fremont, 
Union City, and Hayward. Ms. Ficklin also 
holds memberships in the NAACP and Alpha 
Delta Kappa International Sorority for Women 
Educators, among a variety of other groups. 

The City of Newark, the California State 
Senate and Assembly, the County of Alameda, 
and so many more have previously recognized 
Ms. Ficklin for her excellence as an 
educator and cultural historian. 

Please join us in honoring the extraordinary 
accomplishments of Ms. Jean Ficklin and her 
outstanding dedication to improving our society 
and fostering cultural understanding. May 
her love of education and her endless compassion 
continue to flow throughout our community. 


f 

VETERANS BENEFITS CONTINUING 

APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION, 

2014 

SPEECH OF 

HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, October 1, 2013 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
opposition to H.J. Res. 72, the so-called ‘‘Honoring 
Our Promise to Veterans Act,’’ which 
purports to fund those activities of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs that are required to 
cease due to the House Republicans’ decision 
to shut down the government last night. 

The bill before us is a cynical attempt by the 
Republican majority to extricate themselves 
from the mess they created when they voted 
to shut down the government. 

Mr. Speaker, it would not be necessary to 
have to devote the considerable amount of 
time needed to debate and pass this legislation 
in the House and Senate and present it to 
the President if the House would simply pass 
the clean continuing resolution passed yesterday 
by the Senate. 

The CR approved by the Senate funds the 
government and would bring an end to the unnecessary 
shutdown engineered by House 
Republicans that disrupts the lives of innocent 
and hard working federal employees and their 
families and the millions of Americans who depend 
upon the services they provide. 

The clean CR passed by the Senate ensures 
that all the employees of the Federal 
Government are paid for the valuable and important 
service they provide to our Nation. 

President Obama has reiterated that he will 
sign that CR—and only that CR—into law. 

Mr. Speaker, instead of exempting certain 
groups and persons from the harm caused by 


E1420 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 2, 2013 

a government shutdown, we should instead be 
focused on ending the House Republicans’ 
shutdown, which helps no one and hurts our 
economy. 

Those of us who were serving in this body 
17 years ago remember the harm caused 
when the Republicans shutdown the government 
on two different occasions, which directly 
cost taxpayers $1.4 billion. That is $2.1 billion 
in today’s dollars. 

The last time Republicans engineered a 
shutdown of the government: 

368 national park sites were closed; 

200,000 applications for passports went unprocessed; 
and 

$3.7 billion of $18 billion in local contracts 
went unpaid. 

My State of Texas will again be hit very 
hard and suffer unnecessarily by this Republican 
shutdown. 

Within days Texas will begin experiencing 
the impact of cutbacks in the $64.7 billion in 
federal spending that it receives annually, including 
the loss of: $518 million in federal 
highway funds, $411 million for interstate highway 
maintenance, $130 million in home energy 
assistance for the poor, $71 million in 
Homeland Security grants, $55 million in coordinated 
border infrastructure, and $97 million 
in federal adoption assistance. 

As a senior member of the Homeland Security 
Committee, I am particularly concerned 
over the impact of a government shutdown on 
operations and activities that protect and secure 
the homeland. 

For example, a shutdown would adversely 
affect the following: 

Law Enforcement and Other Training: Law 
enforcement training would cease, including 
that conducted through the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center and the Secret 
Service’s J. Rowley Training Center. This 
would impact CBP, ICE, Secret Service, and 
the Federal Air Marshal Service, and would 
delay their ability to bring new hires into operational 
service. TSA would also not be able to 
conduct training for screeners, Behavior Detection 
Officers, or canine units. 

Frontline Personnel Hardships: The majority 
of workforces in Custom and Border Protection’s 
(CBP) Border Patrol and Immigration 
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) enforcement 
efforts, Transportation Security Administration’s 
(TSA) aviation passenger screening, and 
the Coast Guard, who are heavily reliant upon 
receiving biweekly paychecks, would not be 
paid biweekly during a federal funding hiatus. 

Grant Programs for State and Local Preparedness: 
All DHS and Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (FEMA) personnel working 
on grants programs would be furloughed, 
ceasing any further activity intended to help 
build State and local resiliency. Should a federal 
funding hiatus be prolonged, State and 
local communities may have to eliminate jobs 
that are dependent upon grants funding. Further 
activity under the Securing the Cities program 
would be suspended. 

In addition, a government shutdown will hurt 
children, seniors, working families, and the 
economically vulnerable: 

Military Readiness: In Texas, approximately 
52,000 civilian Department of Defense employees 
would be furloughed, reducing gross 
pay by around $274.8 million in total. 

Law Enforcement and Public Safety Funds 
for Crime Prevention and Prosecution: Funding 
will be halted to Texas on an annualized 

portion of the $1,103,000 in Justice Assistance 
Grants that support law enforcement, prosecution 
and courts, crime prevention and education, 
corrections and community corrections, 
drug treatment and enforcement, and crime 
victim and witness initiatives. 

Vaccines for Children: In Texas around 
9,730 fewer children will not receive vaccines 
for diseases such as measles, mumps, rubella, 
tetanus, whooping cough, influenza, and 
hepatitis B due to reduced funding for personnel 
who administer programs that provide 
funding for vaccinations. 

Nutrition Assistance for Seniors: Texas 
would lose approximately $3,557,000 in funds 
that make it possible to provide meals for seniors. 


For these reasons, instead of wasting time 
on piece-meal CRs like the one before us 
which have no chance of becoming law, we 
should be working to pass H.J. Res. 59 as 
amended by the Senate. That is the best way 
to keep faith with all persons who serve the 
American people as employees of the Federal 
Government, and those who depend upon the 
services they provide. 

f 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IMPACT 

ON TRANSPORTATION AND 

HOUSING PROGRAMS 

HON. ED PASTOR 

OF ARIZONA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. PASTOR of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, this 
reckless and irresponsible shutdown that has 
been masterminded by a small faction of the 
House is disruptive for our nation’s transportation 
system and for the programs that support 
our most vulnerable citizens. 

The majority has taken to moving bills that 
will provide piecemeal programs within the 
federal government. These bills leave out 
funding for critical transportation and housing 
programs that are vital to our economy. 

For example, there are no funds for the 
Federal Transit Administration’s capital investment 
grant program to build and expand mass 
transit systems across our nation. This is the 
program that helps create construction jobs 
and relieves congestion in our major cities. 
Operating and capital assistance for Amtrak is 
discontinued at a time when more than 30 million 
passengers rely on Amtrak to get to destinations 
all over the country. And finally, there 
is no funding to continue the important safety 
and capital investments for the Metro system 
that serves millions of Americans in our nation’s 
capital. 

With regard to safety, there is no funding to 
put more than 3,100 aviation safety inspectors 
back on the job. These men and women are 
sitting at home because they have been furloughed 
through this shutdown. Likewise, 
there is no funding for the important vehicle 
safety oversight functions of the National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration. 

In addition, the Federal Aviation Administration’s 
program to modernize our nation’s aging 
air traffic control system has come to a grinding 
halt. 

The Maritime Security Program gets no relief 
in this piecemeal approach. This program 
provides vital support by helping move the 
cargo that is necessary to support our national 
defense efforts overseas. 

The piecemeal approach puts millions of 
dollars in construction projects at risk and undermines 
job creation in the construction sector 
by not including funding to process multifamily 
housing mortgages. 

It puts our children at risk of lead poisoning 
by not funding Lead Abatement Grants. 

It also weakens economic development in 
our communities by not including funding for 
Community Development Block Grants. 

f 

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 

HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, today 
and yesterday we saw many of the Members 
who are responsible for the current government 
shut down, stand in front of the World 
War II Memorial, posturing before the veterans 
in attendance and the Fox news cameras— 
having knowingly voted to close the government 
and thus closing that same World War II 
Memorial. 

This is a sham. This is a disgrace. These 
antics need to stop. 

Pass a clean CR. 

f 

HONORING ELTON GALLEGLY 

HON. JULIA BROWNLEY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr. Speaker, 
today I rise to honor my predecessor, former-
Congressman Elton Gallegly for his steadfast 
dedication to Ventura County and his service 
as an elected official for thirty-three years. 

Starting his career as a member of the Simi 
Valley City Council and serving as Simi Valley’s 
Mayor, Congressman Gallegly was a tireless 
advocate for Simi Valley, Ventura County, 
and the State of California. He is remembered 
fondly in Congress by the many Members who 
had the pleasure of serving with him on the 
House Judiciary Committee and the House 
Foreign Affairs Committee. 

The Elton and Janice Gallegly Center for 
Public Service and Civic Engagement at California 
Lutheran University is a fitting tribute to 
Congressman Gallegly’s career and on-going 
service to our community. The Center will prepare 
our next generation of leaders for careers 
in public policy while also teaching them the 
core principles of integrity and veracity. 

In partnership with the center, the Ronald 
Reagan Presidential Library has generously 
offered to give students the prestigious opportunity 
to intern at the library. The Elton and 
Janice Gallegly Center for Public Service and 
Civic Engagement will be a great addition to 
Ventura County. 

I want to personally thank Congressman 
Gallegly for all of his years of public service to 
our Nation. I wish him, and his wife, Janice, all 
the best in the next chapter their life together. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1421 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 

Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate of February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules Committee—
of the time, place and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 

As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 

Meetings scheduled for Thursday, October 
3, 2013 may be found in the Daily 
Digest of today’s record. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

OCTOBER 7 
3 p.m. 
Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine Social Security 
disability benefits. 
SD–342 

OCTOBER 8 

9:30 a.m. 
Committee on Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine the impact 
of sequestration on the national defense; 
with the possibility of a closed 
session in SVC–217 following the open 
session. 

SD–G50 
10 a.m. 
Committee on Finance 

To hold hearings to examine transforming 
Medicare post-acute care, focusing 
on issues and options. 

SD–215 

2:30 p.m. 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry 
Subcommittee on Jobs, Rural Economic 
Growth and Energy Innovation 
To hold hearings to examine investing in 
small town America, focusing on the 
importance of a comprehensive farm 
bill. 

SR–328A 
Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs 

To hold hearings to examine the nomination 
of William Ward Nooter, to be an 
Associate Judge of the Superior Court 
of the District of Columbia. 

SD–562 

OCTOBER 9 
10 a.m. 
Committee on the Judiciary 
To hold hearings to examine certain 
nominations. 
SD–226 

2 p.m. 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine the Department 
of Veterans’ Affairs claims transformation 
efforts. 
SR–418 

OCTOBER 10 

9:30 a.m. 
Committee on Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine the nominations 
of Michael D. Lumpkin, of California, 
to be Assistant Secretary for 
Special Operations and Low Intensity 
Conflict, Jamie Michael Morin, of 
Michigan, to be Director of Cost Assessment 
and Program Evaluation, and 
Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to 
be Under Secretary of the Navy, all of 
the Department of Defense. 
SD–G50 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
the draft regional recommendation regarding 
the Columbia River Treaty. 

SD–366 

2:30 p.m. 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
To hold hearings to examine women-
owned small business, focusing on 
strengthening the Small Business Administration’s 
counseling and procurement 
programs. 

TBA 

OCTOBER 23 

2:15 p.m. 
Special Committee on Aging 
To hold hearings to examine the future 
of long-term care policy. 
SD–562 


Wednesday, October 2, 2013 

Daily Digest 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S7105–7142 

Measures Introduced: One resolution was introduced, 
as follows: S.J. Res. 23. Page S7140 

Measures Reported: 

S. 1545, to extend authorities related to global 
HIV/AIDS and to promote oversight of United 
States programs, with amendments. (S. Rept. No. 
113–112) Page S7140 
Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa—Agreement: A 
unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that if the Senate receives a bill from the House of 
Representatives which is identical to S. 1566, to extend 
the period during which Iraqis who were employed 
by the United States Government in Iraq 
may be granted special immigrant status and to 
temporarily increase the fee or surcharge for processing 
machine-readable nonimmigrant visas, as 
passed by the Senate, then the bill be read three 
times and passed, and the motion to reconsider be 
laid upon the table, with no intervening action or 
debate. Page S7140 

Appropriations Measures—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that 
if the Senate receives from the House of Representatives 
any of the following joint resolutions or bills 
by 11 a.m. on Thursday, October 3, 2013, that 
those measures be considered to have received their 
second reading and an objection to further proceedings 
considered to have been heard under the 
provisions of Rule XIV during the session of Thursday, 
October 3, 2013: H.J. Res. 70, making continuing 
appropriations for National Park Service operations, 
the Smithsonian Institution, the National 
Gallery of Art, and the United States Holocaust Memorial 
Museum for fiscal year 2014; H.J. Res. 71, 
making continuing appropriations of local funds of 
the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2014; H.J. 
Res. 72, making continuing appropriations for veterans 
benefits for fiscal year 2014; H.J. Res. 73, 
making continuing appropriations for the National 
Institutes of Health for fiscal year 2014; and H.R. 
3230, making continuing appropriations during a 
Government shutdown to provide pay and allow


ances to members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces who perform inactive-duty training 

during such period. Page S7141 
Executive Communications: Pages S7139–40 
Additional Cosponsors: Page S7140 
Additional Statements: Page S7139 

Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S7140 
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10:30 a.m. and 
adjourned at 5:06 p.m., until 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, 
October 3, 2013. (For Senate’s program, see the 
remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on 
page S7141.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

NOMINATION 

Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: 
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the 
nomination of Beth F. Cobert, of California, to be 
Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management 
and Budget, after the nominee testified and 
answered questions in her own behalf. 

NOMINATIONS 

Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: 
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the 
nominations of Tony Hammond, of Missouri, who 
was introduced by Senator Blunt, and Nanci E. 
Langley, of Hawaii, both to be a Commissioner, 
Postal Regulatory Commission, after the nominees 
testified and answered questions in their own behalf. 

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE 
ACT 

Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a 
hearing to examine continued oversight of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act, after receiving 
testimony from James R. Clapper, Director of National 
Intelligence; General Keith B. Alexander, Director, 
National Security Agency, and Chief, Central 
Security Service; Laura K. Donohue, and Carrie F. 
Cordero, both of the Georgetown University Law 
Center, Washington, D.C.; and Edward W. Felten, 
Princeton University Center for Information Technology 
Policy, Princeton, New Jersey. 

D940 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D941 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 9 public 
bills, H.R. 15. 3230–3237; 1 private bill, H.R. 
3238; and 2 resolutions, H.J. Res. 73–74, were introduced. 
Pages H6173–74 

Additional Cosponsors: Page H6175 

Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows: 

H. Res. 370, providing for consideration of the 
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 70) making continuing 
appropriations for National Park Service operations, 
the Smithsonian Institution, the National Gallery of 
Art, and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes; 
providing for consideration of the joint resolution 
(H.J. Res 71) making continuing appropriations of 
local funds of the District of Columbia for fiscal year 
2014; providing for consideration of the joint resolution 
(H.J. Res. 72) making continuing appropriations 
for veterans benefits for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes; providing for consideration of the 
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 73) making continuing 
appropriations for the National Institutes of Health 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes; providing 
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3230) 
making continuing appropriations during a Government 
shutdown to provide pay and allowances to 
members of the reserve components of the Armed 
Forces who perform inactive-duty training during 
such period; and providing for consideration of motions 
to suspend the rules (H. Rept. 113–241). 
Page H6173 

Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he 
appointed Representative Thompson (PA) to act as 
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H6105 

Recess: The House recessed at 11:49 a.m. and reconvened 
at 12 noon. Page H6116 

Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval 
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 246 yeas to 
173 nays with 2 answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 511. 

Pages H6116–17, H6133 

Recess: The House recessed at 12:40 p.m. and reconvened 
at 1:40 p.m. Page H6121 

District of Columbia Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2014: The House passed H.J. Res. 71, 
making continuing appropriations of local funds of 
the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2014, by a 
voice vote. Pages H6133–38 

H. Res. 370, the rule providing for consideration 
of the joint resolutions (H.J. Res. 70), (H.J. Res. 
71), (H.J. Res 72), and (H.J. Res. 73) and the bill 
(H.R. 3230) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of 
228 yeas to 198 nays, Roll No. 510, after the previous 
question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 
227 yeas to 197 nays, Roll No. 509. Pages H6122–32 
National Institutes of Health Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2014: The House passed H.J. 
Res. 73, making continuing appropriations for the 
National Institutes of Health for fiscal year 2014, by 
a yea-and-nay vote of 254 yeas to 171 nays, Roll 
No. 514. Pages H6139–46, H6155–56 

H. Res. 370, the rule providing for consideration 
of the joint resolutions (H.J. Res. 70), (H.J. Res. 
71), (H.J. Res 72), and (H.J. Res. 73) and the bill 
(H.R. 3230) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of 
228 yeas to 198 nays, Roll No. 510, after the previous 
question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 
227 yeas to 197 nays, Roll No. 509. Pages H6122–32 
National Park Service Operations, Smithsonian 
Institution, National Gallery of Art, and United 
States Holocaust Memorial Museum Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2014: The House 
passed H.J. Res. 70, making continuing appropriations 
for National Park Service operations, the 
Smithsonian Institution, the National Gallery of Art, 
and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum 
for fiscal year 2014, by a recorded vote of 252 ayes 
to 173 noes, Roll No. 513. Pages H6146–55 

Agreed to table the appeal of the ruling of the 
chair on a point of order sustained against the Van 
Hollen motion to recommit the joint resolution to 
the Committee on Appropriations with instructions 
to report the same back to the House forthwith with 
an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote of 230 yeas to 
194 nays, Roll No. 512. Pages H6153–55 

H. Res. 370, the rule providing for consideration 
of the joint resolutions (H.J. Res. 70), (H.J. Res. 
71), (H.J. Res 72), and (H.J. Res. 73) and the bill 
(H.R. 3230) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of 
228 yeas to 198 nays, Roll No. 510, after the previous 
question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 
227 yeas to 197 nays, Roll No. 509. Pages H6122–32 
Extending the period during which Iraqis who 
were employed by the United States Government 
in Iraq may be granted special immigrant 
status: The House agreed by unanimous consent to 
discharge from committees and pass H.R. 3233, to 
extend the period during which Iraqis who were employed 
by the United States Government in Iraq 
may be granted special immigrant status and to 
temporarily increase the fee or surcharge for processing 
machine-readable nonimmigrant visas. 

Page H6156 


D942 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST October 2, 2013 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Five yea-and-nay votes and 
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings 
of today and appear on pages H6131–32, H6132, 
H6133, H6154, H6155, and H6155–56. There were 
no quorum calls. 

Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and adjourned 
at 9:33 p.m. 

Committee Meetings 

FUTURE OF THE CFTC: PERSPECTIVES ON 
CUSTOMER PROTECTIONS 

Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on General 
Farm Commodities and Risk Management held a 
hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of the CFTC: Perspectives 
on Customer Protections’’. Testimony was 
heard from public witnesses. 

RESETTING THE FORCE FOR THE FUTURE: 
RISKS OF SEQUESTRATION 

Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readiness 
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Resetting the Force for 
the Future: Risks of Sequestration’’. Testimony was 
heard from Lieutenant General William M. Faulkner, 
USMC, Deputy Commandant Installations and 
Logistics, U.S. Marine Corps; and Lieutenant General 
Raymond V. Mason, USA, Deputy Chief of Staff for 
Logistics, U.S. Army. 

OVERSIGHT OF THE WIND ENERGY 
PRODUCTION TAX CREDIT 

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: Subcommittee 
on Energy Policy, Health Care and Entitlements 
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the 
Wind Energy Production Tax Credit’’. Testimony 
was heard from Curtis G. Wilson, Associate Chief 
Counsel, Passthroughs and Special Industries, Internal 
Revenue Service; and public witnesses. 

OPEN OUR NATIONAL PARKS AND 
MUSEUMS ACT; PROVIDE LOCAL FUNDING 
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ACT; 
HONORING OUR PROMISE TO AMERICA’S 
VETERANS ACT; RESEARCH FOR 
LIFESAVING CURES ACT; AND PAY OUR 
GUARD AND RESERVE ACT 

Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on 

H.J. Res. 70, Open our National Parks and Museums 
Act; H.J. Res. 71, Provide Local Funding for 
the District of Columbia Act; H.J. Res. 72, Honoring 
Our Promise to America’s Veterans Act; H.J. 
Res. 73, the ‘‘Research for Lifesaving Cures Act’’; 
and H.R. 3230, the ‘‘Pay Our Guard and Reserve 
Act’’. The Committee, granted, by record vote of 
9–3, closed rules for H.J. Res. 70; H.J. Res. 71; 
H.J. Res. 72; H.J. Res. 73; and H.R. 3230. The rule 
provides 30 minutes of debate on each measure 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. 
The rule waives all points of order 
against consideration of each measure and provides 
that each measure shall be considered as read. The 
rule waives all points of order against provisions in 
each measure. The rule provides one motion to recommit 
each measure. In Section 4, the rule provides 
that it shall be in order at any time through the calendar 
day of October 6, 2013, for the Speaker to entertain 
motions that the House suspend the rules 
and that the Speaker or his designee shall consult 
with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation 
of any matter for consideration pursuant to 
this section. Testimony was heard from Representatives 
Kingston, Lowey, and DeLauro. 

CHALLENGE OF RETIREMENT SAVINGS 
FOR SMALL EMPLOYERS 

Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a 
hearing entitled ‘‘The Challenge of Retirement Savings 
for Small Employers’’. Testimony was heard 
from public witnesses. 

FEMA REAUTHORIZATION: ENSURING THE 
NATION IS PREPARED 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Subcommittee 
on Economic Development, Public Buildings, 
and Emergency Management held a hearing entitled 
‘‘FEMA Reauthorization: Ensuring the Nation 
is Prepared’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses. 


Joint Meetings 

No joint committee meetings were held. 

f 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY, 
OCTOBER 3, 2013 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Armed Services: to receive a closed briefing 
on the situation in Syria, 9:30 a.m., SVC–217. 

Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to examine 
reversing Iran’s nuclear program, 10 a.m., SD–419. 

Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine the 
nominations of James Walter Brewster, Jr., of Illinois, to 
be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, Brian A. 
Nichols, of Rhode Island, to be Ambassador to the Republic 
of Peru, and Carlos Roberto Moreno, of California, 
to be Ambassador to Belize, all of the Department of 
State, 2:30 p.m., SD–419. 


October 2, 2013 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D943 

House 

Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing 
entitled ‘‘Al-Shabaab: How Great a Threat?’’, 10 a.m., 
2172 Rayburn. 

Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Public 
Lands and Environmental Regulations, hearing on the following 
legislation: H.R. 3188, to expedite the planning 
and implementation of salvage timber sales as part of Forest 
Service and Department of the Interior restoration and 
rehabilitation activities for lands within the Stanislaus 
National Forest and Yosemite National park and Bureau 
of Land management lands adversely impacted by the 
2013 Rim Fire in California; H.R. 298, to direct the Secretary 
of the Interior to conduct a special resource study 
to evaluate the significance of the Mill Springs Battlefield 
located in Pulaski and Wayne Counties, Kentucky, and 

the feasibility of its inclusion in the National Park System, 
and for other purposes; H.R. 712, to extend the authorization 
of the Highlands Conservation Act through 
fiscal year 2024; H.R. 1167, the ‘‘Restoring Storey County 
Act’’; H.R. 1259, the ‘‘Coltsville National Historical 
Park Act’’; H.R. 1633, the ‘‘Small Lands Tracts Conveyance 
Act’’; H.R. 1846, the ‘‘Lower East Side Tenement 
National Historic Site Amendments Act’’; H.R. 2015, 
the ‘‘Las Vegas Valley Public Land and Tule Springs Fossil 
Beds National Monument Act of 2013’’; H.R. 2259, 
the ‘‘North Fork Watershed Protection Act of 2013’’; 

H.R. 2657, the ‘‘Disposal of Excess Federal Lands Act of 
2013’’; and H.R. 2954, to authorize Escambia County, 
Florida, to convey certain property that was formerly part 
of Santa Rosa Island National Monument and that was 
conveyed to Escambia County subject to restrictions on 
use and reconveyance, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth. 

D944 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST October 2, 2013 

Next Meeting of the SENATE Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

10:30 a.m., Thursday, October 3 10 a.m., Thursday, October 3 
Senate Chamber House Chamber 
Program for Thursday: Senate will be in a period of Program for Thursday: To be announced. 
morning business for debate only until 2 p.m. 

HOUSE 

Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E1417, E1420 
Brownley, Julia, Calif., E1420 
Coble, Howard, N.C., E1418 
Coffman, Mike, Colo., E1418 
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E1416 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

Davis, Danny K., Ill., E1415 Pastor, Ed, Ariz., E1420 
Dingell, John D., Mich., E1416 Peters, Gary C., Mich., E1415 
Ellmers, Renee L., N.C., E1416 Rangel, Charles B., N.Y., E1418 
Honda, Michael M., Calif., E1419 Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1418 
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1419 Sinema, Kyrsten, Ariz., E1416, E1417, E1419 
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E1419 Thornberry, Mac, Tex., E1415 
Langevin, James R., R.I., E1417 Waxman, Henry A., Calif., E1415, E1418 

UNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
Congressional Record 
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 

States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
the U.S. Government Printing Office, at www.fdsys.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the 
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Printing Office. 
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. 
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made 
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following 
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents 
in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from 
the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


