UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.02 13:19:39 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 111th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 156 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2010 No. 27 

House of Representatives 

The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, March 2, 2010, at 12.30 p.m. 

The Senate met at 2 p.m. and was 
called to order by the Honorable MARK 

R. WARNER, a Senator from the Commonwealth 
of Virginia. 
PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, offered 
the following prayer: 

Let us pray. 

O God, whose approval we seek above 
humanity’s hollow applause, we pause 
today to experience the warmth of 
Your presence as You lift the light of 
Your countenance upon us. 

Give to the Members of this body 
pure hearts and a passion to faithfully 
serve You and country. Across their 
toiling hours, keep their hearts fixed 
on You, the author and finisher of their 
faith. In a world of suspense, suspicion, 
and turmoil, breathe now in this quiet 
moment Your peace on every heart. 
Lord, prepare solutions for our Senators’ 
complexities and resolve their 
conflicts in a way that will glorify 
You. 

We pray in Your sacred Name. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The Honorable MARK R. WARNER led 
the Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 

PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will please read a communication 

Senate 

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2010 

to the Senate from the President pro 
tempore (Mr. BYRD). 

The legislative clerk read the following 
letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, March 1, 2010. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3, 
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 
appoint the Honorable MARK R. WARNER, a 
Senator from the Commonwealth of Virginia, 
to perform the duties of the Chair. 

ROBERT C. BYRD, 

President pro tempore. 

Mr. WARNER thereupon assumed the 
chair as Acting President pro tempore. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The majority leader is recognized. 


f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, following 
leader remarks, there will be a period 
of morning business until 3 p.m., with 
Senators permitted to speak for up to 
10 minutes each. At 3 p.m., we will turn 
to consideration of H.R. 4213, the tax 
extenders legislation. Senator BAUCUS 
will be recognized to call up a substitute 
amendment. As previously announced, 
there will be no rollcall votes 
today. The first vote of the week will 
occur at 12:15 p.m. tomorrow. That vote 
will be on the motion to invoke cloture 
on the nomination of Barbara Keenan 
to be U.S. circuit judge for the Fourth 
Circuit. 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR—H.R. 4626 AND H.R. 4691 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, there are 
two bills at the desk due for a second 
reading. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will report the bills by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 4626) to restore the application 
of the Federal antitrust laws to the business 
of health insurance to protect competition 
and consumers. 

A bill (H.R. 4691) to provide a temporary 
extension of certain programs, and for other 
purposes. 

Mr. REID. I object to any further 
proceedings with respect to these two 
bills. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Objection is heard. 

The bills will be placed on the calendar. 


f 

COSTLY INACTION 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, every night 
too many out-of-work Nevadans and 
Americans, people who want to work, 
who need to support their families but 
can’t find a job, go to bed with at least 
the comfort of having unemployment 
insurance and health benefits. Last 
night, more than a million people 
throughout America who went to sleep 
relying on those benefits woke up without 
the confidence they will be there 
now. Early this morning, when they 
would rather be spending their mornings 
working, mothers and fathers in 
every State woke up to line up at the 
unemployment office in a long line. 
News reports today are that these lines 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

.
S825 


S826 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

are very long today, all over the country, 
from Virginia to Nevada to Kentucky. 
They are long because these 
people are worried about how they are 
going to put food on the table and pay 
the bills. For far too many Americans, 
those benefits were set to expire last 
night. So six times last week, Democrats 
asked to extend their unemployment 
benefits for a short time while we 
work on a longer extension. Six times, 
Republicans said no. They didn’t say 
no to us; that is, Members of the Senate, 
they said no to the families in 
their own States and all States who 
count on us to act when we need action, 
who count on us to respond in the 
event of an emergency. This is an 
emergency. 

Republicans in the Senate are standing 
between these families and the help 
they need while these benefits expire. 
It might work because under the Senate 
rules they can do that, but it certainly 
doesn’t work for working families 
whose need to buy groceries does 
not expire. The need to heat your 
homes, put gas in the car, make payments 
for furniture you buy, the car 
you bought, your house payment, the 
need to take medicine or support an 
aging parent or to take care of your 
kids, they don’t expire. 

Those opposed to helping our fellow 
citizens at their time of greatest need 
want to talk about process. My Republican 
colleagues came to the floor and 
talked about process. They had a right 
to do that. Under the rules, I guess 
that is true. But if you can’t afford to 
feed your kids, process doesn’t mean 
anything to you. 

We often talk about the cost of inaction. 
It is the reason we insist on creating 
jobs and making health care 
more affordable and on strengthening 
national security. When we talk about 
the cost of inaction, it is more than 
just rhetoric; it comes with dire consequences. 
Americans who woke up 
this morning without the benefits they 
need now know that better than anyone 
else. 

The Associated Press runs all over 
the country—a newswire. Among other 
things, this article says this morning: 

Two thousand federal transportation workers 
will be furloughed without pay [today]. 

The reason we are talking about 
2,000, this doesn’t count the thousands 
and thousands, up to 1 million people 
who are not going to have jobs as a result 
of not extending the highway bill. 
That is what we want to do—let these 
people work—because what has happened 
is that even the inspectors can’t 
go out and do their jobs, so people are 
just walking away from these jobs. 
Secretary LaHood, the Secretary of 
Transportation—a Republican Congressman 
until he was appointed—said 
construction workers will be sent home 
from jobsites because Federal inspectors 
must be furloughed. They named a 
long list of construction sites that will 
be halted: George Washington Parkway 
in Virginia, the Humpback Bridge—I 
don’t know where that is in Virginia— 

bridge construction in Coeur d’Alene, 
ID. All over the country, this is happening. 
The safety inspectors have no 
pay, so they have to leave. Nothing is 
happening. This is going to lead to untold 
numbers of people—I said up to 1 
million people—who will not be able to 
work. 

It is really wrong what has taken 
place here. It is not too late to right 
that wrong. I hope Republicans will reconsider, 
think about their constituents 
standing in the unemployment 
lines as we speak. I hope they reconsider. 


f 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST— 
H.R. 4691 

Mr. REID. Based on that, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate proceed 
to H.R. 4691, which is a 30-day extension 
of provisions which expired 
yesterday—unemployment insurance; 
COBRA, which is the health insurance 
for people out of work; flood insurance; 
Satellite Home Viewer Act—11/2 million 
people today are unable to watch TV 
who could last night at midnight— 
highway funding—I talked about that— 
SBA business loans; small business provisions 
of the American Recovery Act; 
the doctors fix, the SGR, and poverty 
guidelines, received from the House 
and at the desk; that the bill be read 
three times, passed, and the motion to 
reconsider be laid upon the table. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Is there objection? 

Mr. BUNNING. I object. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Objection is heard. 

Mr. REID. I thank the Chair. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
leadership time is reserved. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, there 
will now be a period of morning business 
until 3 p.m., with Senators permitted 
to speak therein for up to 10 
minutes each. 

The Senator from Kentucky. 

f 

UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 

Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, just a 
brief explanation of why we are where 
we are with this extension bill, a brief 
extension of 30 days. 

There was an agreement between the 
majority leader of the Finance Committee 
and the minority leader on the 
Finance Committee, Senators BAUCUS 
and GRASSLEY, on a 3-month extension 
of these very same provisions. There 
were more provisions in the bill also. It 
cost a little more than the $10 billion 
that is asked for because it was a 3-
month extension. Senator REID pulled 
that bill from the floor of the Senate. 

He did it. The leader of the Democrats 
pulled that bill from the floor. 

I support extending unemployment 
benefits, COBRA benefits, flood insurance, 
the highway bill fix, the doc fix, 
small business loans, distant network 
television for satellite viewers. If we 
can’t find $10 billion to pay for something 
we all support, we will never pay 
for anything in the Senate. I have offered 
several ways to do this, including 
trying to negotiate with the majority 
leader’s staff. None have been successful. 


We cannot keep adding to the debt. It 
is over $14 trillion and going up fast. If 
the budget before us passes, it will add 
another $1.5 trillion to the debt. 

Recently, we passed pay-go. For 
those who don’t know what pay-go is, 
it means you have to pay for everything 
you bring before the Senate. You 
can’t charge it on the debt. You can’t 
charge it. That is what pay-go says. 
Understanding that, I hope the American 
people understand my serious objection. 


f 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT REQUEST— 
H.R. 4691 

Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of H.R. 4691; that the amendment 
at the desk, which offers a full offset, 
be agreed to; the bill, as amended, be 
read a third time and passed; and the 
motion to reconsider be laid upon the 
table. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Is there objection? 

Mr. REID. Reserving the right to object, 
history is something I think you 
have to be involved in to understand 
what really transpired. 

First of all, there was no bill on the 
floor for me to take off the floor. There 
was discussion between Democrats and 
Republicans. On the Thursday before 
we left for the last weeklong break we 
took, I was in the back hall with Senators 
GRASSLEY, BAUCUS, and MCCONNELL. 
Senator MCCONNELL, my friend, 
said they weren’t ready to agree to 
anything yet. 

Well, it is very clear if we are going 
to extend benefits for a lot of tax provisions 
that are very important to business, 
then we should at least consider 
extending benefits for people who are 
down and out in the same period of 
time. 

So understand, the bill that came before 
the Senate included a jobs package 
that extends the highway benefits for 1 
year, saving a million jobs, creating 
jobs by allowing small businesses—or 
any businesses—to hire somebody who 
has been out of work for 60 days. They 
do not have to pay their withholding 
tax and they get a $1,000 tax credit at 
the end of the year. 

In addition to that, to help small 
businesses, we had a provision to allow 
small businesses to write off and not 
depreciate up to $250,000 of purchases in 
a year—very important to create and 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S827 

stimulate business—and we also had in 
that bill a provision to stimulate the 
economy by extending the Build America 
Bonds that were so successful in 
our Recovery Act and those funds expired. 


One can have all the excuses one 
wants. The fact is, my friends on the 
other side of the aisle are opposing extending 
unemployment benefits for 
people who are out of work. 

I would also say this: Pay-go is very 
interesting. I am glad my friend 
brought that up. I am glad he brought 
up the big deficit because it is very big. 
But where was my friend from Kentucky 
when we had two wars that were 
unpaid for during the Bush administration, 
tax cuts that cost more than $1 
trillion unpaid for? Where were my 
friend and the Republicans objecting to 
that? 

Pay-go is important, and we passed 
pay-go here—we, the Democrats, 
passed it. My friend did not vote for it. 
It passed because Democrats voted for 
it. Not a single Republican voted for it. 
We had these in effect during the Clinton 
years, and it worked. We paid down 
the debt in the last Clinton years. 

We also understand how important 
the debt of this country is. It started to 
build up so strong during the 8 years of 
the Bush administration. We brought 
to this floor—no one worked harder 
than the Acting President pro tempore 
to come up with something to address 
the debt with the chairman of our 
Budget Committee and others. 

We wanted a debt commission, and 
we brought to this floor a debt commission, 
a good one. It was based upon 
what we did with military base closings. 
We tried for decades to close 
bases that were unnecessary in the 
country anymore, after World War II 
was over, the Korean war was over, 
Vietnam. We did not need all those 
bases. But because of what happens 
when trying to close a base because of 
local politics, we could not do it. So we 
passed a bill that said we are going to 
have a base closing commission. They 
will come back with recommendations, 
and the House and the Senate have a 
choice: either vote no or yes on their 
recommendations. And they voted yes, 
both the House and the Senate, and we 
closed numerous bases all over the 
country. 

The debt commission we established 
was based upon that—the same thing— 
and we voted, we Democrats voted. It 
would have passed. Why did it not 
pass? Because seven Republicans who 
cosponsored the legislation voted 
against it. 

So we do not need lectures here on 
debt. What we need is to recognize 
there are poor people all over America 
who are desperate today, and people 
who are working, making good money 
on these road projects all over America 
today who are being told to go home 
because we do not have inspectors to 
take care of their work. 

Therefore, Mr. President, I object. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Objection is heard. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, unless my 
friend has more to say, I suggest the 
absence of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent to speak in 
morning business for up to 15 minutes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. ALEXANDER. Thank you. Mr. 
President, will the Acting President 
pro tempore please let me know when I 
have consumed 12 of the 15 minutes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Yes. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Thank you very 
much, Mr. President. 

f 

HEALTH CARE 
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, it 
was my privilege last Thursday, along 
with some other Members of the Senate, 
to attend a health care summit at 
the invitation of President Obama. It 
went on a long time. We learned one 
thing we already knew, that our President 
is smart and knows a lot about 
health care. So he stayed the whole 
time. 
But it gave those of us on the Republican 
side a chance we do not have the 
opportunity to have as often, which is, 
to be on center stage and let the American 
people know, A, who we are, and, 
B, what our ideas are. So it was a terrific 
way for us to show, for example, 
that our goal is to reduce health care 
costs, that we wish to move step by 
step toward that goal. 
We identified a number of areas, such 
as being able to buy health insurance 
across State lines, allowing small business 
health plans to pool together, reducing 
junk lawsuits—all of which will 
tend to bring down the cost of premiums, 
which is what most Americans 
want. 
During the discussion, early on, actually, 
the President and I had a little 
disagreement about whether his plan, 
which is based upon the Senate bill, 
which passed on Christmas Eve, would 
raise premiums. What I had said in my 
opening remarks on behalf of Republicans 
was that millions of Americans, 
under the Democratic plan, would pay 
higher insurance premiums in the individual 
market because of government 
mandates and taxes. The President 
says that is wrong. I cited a Congressional 
Budget Office report to show I 
was right. And rather than dispute the 
President of the United States in public—
I thought I had enough time to 
make my case—I said I would send him 
a letter, which I did that same day. So 
I ask unanimous consent, Mr. Presi


dent, to have printed in the RECORD the 
letter I gave to President Obama on 
Thursday. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, February 25, 2010. 

Hon. BARACK OBAMA, 

President, The White House, Pennsylvania Avenue, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: During today’s discussion 
on health care, you and I disagreed 
about whether the health care bill that 
passed the Senate on a party-line vote on December 
24 would cause health insurance premiums 
to rise even faster than if Congress 
did not act. I believe premiums will rise because 
of independent analysis of the bill: 

On November 30, the non-partisan Congressional 
Budget Office (CBO) wrote in a letter 
to Senator Bayh that ‘‘CBO and JCT estimate 
that the average premium per person 
covered (including dependents) for new 
nongroup policies would be about 10 percent 
to 13 percent higher in 2016 than the average 
premium for nongroup coverage in that same 
year under current law.’’ 

When you asserted that CBO says premiums 
will decline by 14 to 20 percent under 
the Senate bill, you are leaving out an important 
part of CBO’s calculations. These reductions 
are overwhelmed by a 27 to 30 percent 
increase in premiums due to the mandated 
coverage requirements in the legislation. 
CBO added those figures together to arrive 
at a net increase of 10 to 13 percent—as 
shown in their chart in that same letter. 

In that same letter, CBO wrote, ‘‘The legislation 
would impose several new fees on 
firms in the health sector. New fees would be 
imposed on providers of health insurance and 
on manufacturers and importers of medical 
devices. Both of those fees would be largely 
passed through to consumers in the form of 
higher premiums for private coverage.’’ 

On December 10, the chief actuary for the 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services—
who works for your administration— 
concurred with the CBO. In his analysis, the 
actuary said, ‘‘We anticipate such fees would 
generally be passed through to health consumers 
in the form of higher drug and device 
prices and higher insurance premiums.’’ He 
also said, ‘‘The additional demand for health 
services could be difficult to meet initially 
with existing health provider resources and 
could lead to price increases, cost-shifting, 
and/or changes in providers’ willingness to 
treat patients with low-reimbursement 
health coverage.’’ 

For these reasons, the Senate-passed bill 
will, indeed, cause Americans’ insurance premiums 
to rise, which is the opposite of the 
goal I believe we should pursue. 

Sincerely, 

LAMAR ALEXANDER. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. But today what I 
wish to do in the next few minutes is 
explain why I believe I am correct, that 
under the President’s health insurance 
plan, which is based upon the Senate 
plan, for millions of Americans in the 
individual market, premiums would go 
up because of one-size-fits-all government 
mandates, because of taxes that 
are passed on to consumers; but for 
other reasons as well—by shifting 
costs. 

When you dump 15 million people or 
18 million people into a program called 
Medicaid, what happens is, we do not 
pay the doctors and the hospitals well 
enough to take care of those folks. So 


S828 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

those providers shift the costs to people 
who are paying with private insurance, 
and premiums go up. 

Costs for young people in the individual 
market will go up under this 
plan because if you put in a rule that 
says my insurance at my age cannot go 
up more than a certain amount compared 
with my son’s insurance, then his 
insurance goes up, and because a 
scheme like the Democratic plan depends 
upon requiring everybody to buy 
insurance. There is a weak provision 
for that, and I suspect many young 
people will rather pay the $750 fine 
rather than buy a $2,500 insurance policy, 
which they think they cannot afford. 


The President made the point in his 
usual very persuasive way that, wait a 
minute, actually you would be getting 
better insurance. But that is comparing 
apples and oranges. As George 
Will said on ABC’s ‘‘This Week’’ yesterday—
he asked this question: If the government 
required you to buy a better, 
more expensive car, even if it was better 
than the car you have, it would 
still be more expensive, would it not? 

That is the case with the President’s 
health care plan. In fact, premiums 
will go up for millions of Americans in 
the individual market, up more than 
they otherwise would over the next 
several years—and we all know how 
rapidly they are rising—and the whole 
exercise we have been going through 

over the last year is to bring premiums 
down, not help drive premiums up. 

What I said to the President, with respect, 
was that the Congressional 
Budget Office, on November 30, said 
this about the Senate bill: 

The Congressional Budget Office and the 
Joint Committee on Taxation estimate that 
the average premium per person covered for 
new nongroup— 

That means individual policies— 
would be about 10 to 13 percent higher in 2016 
than the average premium for nongroup— 

That is individual coverage— 
in the same year under current law. 

In other words, if you buy an individual 
policy—that means not a policy 
with your employer—by 2016 it will be 
at an average of 10 to 13 percent higher 
than it otherwise would. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD the relevant 
parts of the Congressional Budget Office 
letter of November 30 to Senator 
EVAN BAYH on this point. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

U.S. CONGRESS, 
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, 
Washington, DC, November 30, 2009. 

Hon. EVAN BAYH, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR: The attachment to this letter 
responds to your request—and the interest 
expressed by many other Members—for 
an analysis of how proposals being considered 
by the Congress to change the health 

care and health insurance systems would affect 
premiums paid for health insurance in 
various markets. Specifically, the Congressional 
Budget Office (CBO) and the staff of 
the Joint Committee on Taxation have analyzed 
how health insurance premiums might 
be affected by enactment of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act, as proposed 
by Senator Reid on November 18, 2009. 

I hope this information is helpful to you. If 
you have any further questions, please contact 
me or the CBO staff. The primary staff 
contact for this analysis is Philip Ellis. 

Sincerely, 

DOUGLAS W. ELMENDORF, 

Director. 

Attachment. 

SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 

The effects of the proposal on premiums 
would differ across insurance markets (see 
Table 1). The largest effects would be seen in 
the nongroup market, which would grow in 
size under the proposal but would still account 
for only 17 percent of the overall insurance 
market in 2016. The effects on premiums 
would be much smaller in the small 
group and large group markets, which would 
make up 13 percent and 70 percent of the 
total insurance market, respectively. 

NONGROUP POLICIES 

CBO and JCT estimate that the average 
premium per person covered (including dependents) 
for new nongroup policies would be 
about 10 percent to 13 percent higher in 2016 
than the average premium for nongroup coverage 
in that same year under current law. 
About half of those enrollees would receive 
government subsidies that would reduce 
their costs well below the premiums that 
would be charged for such policies under current 
law. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S829 



S830 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Now, the President 
said: Wait a minute. The premiums 
in the individual market will go 
down 14 to 20 percent. That is also in 
the same letter. Of course, he is right 
about that. They go down because of 
administrative efficiencies and new enrollment, 
but he left out that there are 
other factors involved so that the government 
mandates will drive them up 
27 to 30 percent or, in the end, the average, 
as the CBO said, premium per person 
covered in an individual policy 
would be up 10 to 13 percent. 

The bill has subsidies in it for some 
Americans. The same letter says about 
half of Americans who buy in the individual 
market will get a subsidy. Well, 
we are paying for that subsidy, but 
let’s concede that point. Still, that 
leaves half of the people in the individual 
market for whom premiums will 
go up on an average of 10 to 13 percent. 

Why is that? One reason is because 
the Senate bill says people will have to 
buy a richer policy than they have 
today. That means it has a higher actuarial 
value. They call it in the bill 
‘‘minimum creditable coverage.’’ It 
means this is the amount of insurance 
I think you should have before you buy 
a policy. That might be a good decision. 
It undoubtedly would be good to 
have the insurance. It just costs 27 to 
30 percent more than today’s average. 

The National Federation of Independent 
Businesses wrote a December 
12 letter in opposition to the Senate 
bill saying the benefit mandates will 
put small business owners ‘‘at risk of 
having to drop coverage due to cost increases 
that outpace their health budgets.’’ 


I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD the letter from 
NFIB to Senator MCCONNELL and Senator 
REID, dated December 8. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF 
INDEPENDENT BUSINESS, 

December 8, 2009. 

Sen. HARRY REID, 

Majority Leader, Hart Senate Office Building, 
Washington, DC. 

Sen. MITCH MCCONNELL, 

Minority Leader, Russell Senate Office Building, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR SENATORS REID AND MCCONNELL: As 
the Senate continues to debate the future of 
comprehensive healthcare reform, the National 
Federation of Independent Business, 
the nation’s leading small business association, 
is writing in opposition to the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 
3590). 

When evaluating healthcare reform options, 
small business owners ask themselves 
two specific questions. First, will the bill 
lower insurance costs? Second, will the bill 
increase the overall cost of doing business? If 
a bill increases the cost of doing business or 
fails to reduce insurance costs, then the bill 
fails to achieve their No. 1 goal—lower costs. 

In both cases, the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590) fails the 
small business test and, therefore, fails small 
business. The most recent CBO study detailing 
the effect that H.R. 3590 will have on insurance 
premiums reinforces that, despite 

claims by its supporters, the bill will not deliver 
the widely-promised help to the small 
business community. Instead, CBO findings 
report that the bill will increase non-group 
premiums by 10 to 13 percent and result in, 
at best, a 2 percent decrease for small group 
coverage by 2016. These findings tell small 
business all it needs to know—that the current 
bill does not do enough to reduce costs 
for small business owners and their employees. 


Despite the inclusion of insurance market 
reforms in the small-group and individual 
marketplaces, the savings that may materialize 
are too small for too few and the increase 
in premium costs are too great for too 
many. Those costs, along with greater government 
involvement, higher taxes and new 
mandates that are disproportionately targeted 
at small business and are being used to 
finance H.R. 3590, create a reality that is 
worse than the status quo for small business. 
The shortcomings of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act include: 

A NEW SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH INSURANCE 
TAX 

Unlike large businesses, which self-insure 
and find security under the blanket of 
ERISA, most small businesses are only able 
to find and purchase insurance in the fully-
insured marketplace. The Senate bill includes 
a new $6.7 billion annual tax ($60.7 billion 
over 10 years) that falls almost exclusively 
on small business because the fee is 
assessed on the insurance companies. CBO’s 
most recent study reinforces those costs will 
ultimately be passed on to their consumers, 
leaving the cost to be disproportionately 
borne by small business consumers in the individual 
and small-group marketplace whose 
only choice is to purchase those products or 
forgo insurance altogether. 

A NEW MANDATE THAT PUNISHES EMPLOYERS, 

EMPLOYEES AND HINDERS JOB CREATION 

Employer mandates fail employers and employees 
in two ways. First, mandates do 
nothing to address the core issue facing 
small business—high healthcare costs. Second, 
mandates destroy job creation opportunities 
for employees. The job loss, whether 
through lost hiring or greater reliance on 
part-time employees, harms low-wage or 
entry-level workers the most. The employer 
mandate in H.R. 3590 sets up potentially 
troubling outcomes for this sector of the 
workforce. The multiple penalties assessed 
on full-time workers will most certainly result 
in a reduction of full-time workers to 
part-time workers and discourage the hiring 
of those entrants into the workforce who 
might qualify for a government subsidy, 
hardly an outcome that contributes to a 
greater insured population. 

A POORLY-STRUCTURED SMALL BUSINESS TAX 
CREDIT 

As structured, the small business tax credit 
will do little, if nothing, to propel either 
more firms to take up coverage or produce 
greater overall affordability. Due to its 
short-term temporary nature and the limitations 
based on the business’ average wage, 
its benefit is, at best, a temporary solution 
to the long-term cost and affordability problem. 
A tax credit that is poorly structured is 
not going to provide sustainable and long-
term relief from high healthcare costs, and 
the recent CBO finding that the tax credit 
would benefit only 12 percent of the small 
business population illustrates its lack of effectiveness. 


A BENEFIT PACKAGE THAT IS TOO HIGH A 
HURDLE FOR SMALL BUSINESS 

NFIB has voiced concern over establishing 
a benefit threshold that is too high a price 
tag for small businesses to meet. Small businesses 
are especially price sensitive. They 

need purchasing choices that provide the 
flexibility in coverage options that reflect 
their marketplace and business needs. If 
Congress doesn’t adjust the actuarial value 
standards in the legislation, what may be affordable 
this year may be unaffordable next 
year. As a result, small business owners will 
be at risk of having to drop coverage due to 
cost increases that outpace their healthcare 
budgets. 

DESTRUCTIVE RATING REFORMS AND PHASE-IN 

TIMELINES THAT THREATEN AFFORDABILITY 

FOR ALL 

NFIB supports balanced federal rating reforms 
that protect access and affordability, 
regardless of an individual or group’s health 
status. However, the excessively tight age 
rating (3:1) in H.R. 3590 will increase more 
costs than it will decrease, and make coverage 
unaffordable for the very populations 
that are most beneficial to the insurance 
pool—the young and the healthy. Independent 
actuaries have analyzed the negative 
impact of such tight bands and have indicated 
that there will be devastating effects 
to the long-term viability of a pool without 
action to correct this rating imbalance. 

Additionally, to prevent volatile spikes in 
insurance premiums, also known as ‘‘rate 
shock,’’ federal rating reforms must be appropriately 
applied to all marketplaces and 
phased in over a responsible period of time. 
If this is not done, then certain plans, including 
‘‘grandfathered plans,’’ will utilize 
different rating practices when underwriting 
risk, which can create adverse selection 
issues. Those selection problems will have a 
striking negative impact on the new exchanges—
exchanges that are meant to improve, 
rather than decrease, affordability for 
small business and individuals. 

NATIONAL PLANS THAT PROVIDE LIMITED 
PROMISE FOR SUCCESS 

Leveling the playing field for small business 
starts with allowing uniform benefit 
packages to be purchased across state lines. 
If done right, this can provide a greater security 
that, as people change jobs and move 
from state to state, they can keep the benefit 
plan that meets their healthcare needs. 
National plans would be particularly helpful 
for states with smaller populations and 
where consumers lack a robust marketplace 
with choice and competition for private 
plans. Specifically, the state ‘‘opt-out’’ language 
in the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act would create more disincentives 
than incentives for carriers to embark 
on these new opportunities. If the national 
plan section is not significantly restructured 
to make national plans a viable option, then 
these new opportunities will never materialize 
for small business. 

THREATENS FLEXIBILITY AND CHOICE FOR 

EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES 

Small employers need more affordable 
health insurance options and new alternatives 
for employers to voluntarily contribute 
to individually-owned plans. Provisions 
also need to be structured to insure 
that options are widely available to both employers 
and employees. The simple cafeteria 
plan language in H.R. 3590 excludes the owners 
of many ‘‘pass-through’’ business entities 
from participating in these arrangements. If 
owners are unable to participate in the plan, 
they will be less likely to provide insurance 
to their workforce. Finally, small business 
needs the freedom and flexibility to preserve 
options that are already proven to work. 
Prohibiting the use of HSA, FSA and HRA 
funds to purchase over-the-counter medications, 
along with the $2,500 limit on FSA 
contributions, diminishes that flexibility 
and threatens to further limit the options 
employers have to provide meaningful 
healthcare to their employees. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S831 

NEW PAPERWORK COSTS ON SMALL BUSINESSES 

The cost associated with tax paperwork is 
the most expensive paperwork burden that 
the federal government imposes on small 
business owners. The Senate bill dramatically 
increases that cost with a new reporting 
requirement that is levied on business 
transactions of more than $600 annually, 
leaving small business buried in paperwork 
and increasing their paperwork compliance 
expenses. 

AN UNPRECEDENTED NEW PAYROLL TAX ON 
SMALL EMPLOYERS 

Since its creation the payroll taxes that 
fund the Medicare programs have not been 
wage-based and are dedicated specifically to 
funding Medicare. The Senate bill changes 
the nature of the tax and creates a precedent 
to use payroll taxes to pay for non-Medicare 
programs. 

THE ABSENCE OF REAL MEDICAL LIABILITY 
REFORM 

NFIB strongly supports medical liability 
reform as a means to both inject more fairness 
into the medical malpractice legal system, 
and to reduce unnecessary litigation 
and legal costs. Taking serious steps to 
adopt meaningful medical liability reform is 
a significant step toward restoring common 
sense to our medical liability litigation system. 
It also is especially critical to improving 
access to healthcare for those living in 
rural areas, where it is becoming increasingly 
difficult for those in need to locate specialists 
such as OB/GYNs and surgeons. 

THE CREATION OF A NEW GOVERNMENT-RUN 
HEALTHCARE PROGRAM 

A government-run plan will drive the private 
healthcare marketplace out of business. 
Private insurers will be unable to compete in 
a climate where the rules and practices are 
tilted in favor of a massive government-run 
plan. This means millions could lose their 
current coverage. This will decrease choice 
and increase costs. On both accounts, the 
government-run plan will leave small business 
with a single option the government-
run plan, which is the exact opposite outcome 
small businesses want from healthcare 
reform. 

There is near universal agreement that, if 
done right, small business has much to gain 
from healthcare reform. But if it is done 
wrong, then small business will have the 
most to lose. The Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act, which is short on savings 
and long on costs, is the wrong reform, at 
the wrong time and will increase healthcare 
costs and the cost of doing business. NFIB 
remains committed to healthcare reform, 
and urges the Senate to develop common 
sense solutions to lower healthcare costs 
while ensuring that policies empower small 
business with the ability to make the investments 
necessary to move our economy forward. 


Sincerely, 

SUSAN ECKERLY, 

Senior Vice President, 
Public Policy. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. The one-size-fits-
all provision in the Democratic bill 
says all individual and small group 
policies must have an actuarial value 
of 60 percent. 

Senator SUSAN COLLINS of Maine, 
who was the insurance commissioner of 
Maine, made a speech on the Senate 
floor on December 18, and pointed out 
that 87 percent of the individual policies 
that are purchased in Maine today 
would cost more under the Reid bill. 

I commend to my colleagues the Senator’s 
testimony of December 18, 2010. 

Senator COLLINS used the example 
that the most popular individual market 
policy sold in Maine costs a 40-
year-old about $185 a month. Under the 
Senate bill that 40-year-old would have 
to pay at least $420 a month, more than 
twice as much for the policy that 
meets the new minimum standard, or 
face a $750 penalty. It is true Maine 
citizens, as is true for all Americans— 
about half of them—would receive subsidies 
to help them buy that policy, but 
the average premium for the other half 
of the 87 percent is going to go up 
under the Democratic bill. 

We believe Americans ought to have 
more choices than that. That is a fundamental 
difference of opinion. Should 
Washington decide you need to buy a 
richer policy, or should you decide that 
for yourself based upon the other needs 
of your family? 

The Congressional Budget Office does 
state, as I have mentioned, that there 
are a number of enrollees—about half— 
who would have the subsidies, and that 
is in the letter I have already introduced 
into the RECORD. But someone is 
paying for those subsidies: the taxpayers 
are paying for them, which 
brings up the second reason I said on 
Thursday that premiums for millions 
of Americans in the individual market 
will go up. 

The commonsense idea is that if you 
tax an insurance company or a medical 
device company or a manufacturer of 
drugs, they will pass the taxes on to 
whom? To us, who are buying insurance 
policies or medical devices or 
drugs. So we end up paying. In fact, 
one part of the President’s proposal deliberately 
does that. It is a 40-percent 
excise tax on insurance companies for 
what we call Cadillac plans, the high-
cost private insurance plans. 

A letter from the Joint Committee 
on Taxation, dated February 24, says 
the 40-percent excise tax will raise $32.7 
billion, all of which will be passed 
along to consumers in the form of higher 
insurance premiums. That may be a 
good thing. In fact, I think it is because 
it helps to discourage the purchase 
of more expensive policies. But it 
does raise premiums in the individual 
market. 

The Joint Committee on Taxation 
Memorandum on High Cost Plans, 
dated September 29, says: 

The excise tax would be mainly passed 
along through increases in premiums. 

Because the new tax is indexed to 
regular inflation plus 1 percent instead 
of medical inflation, which goes up 
very much higher and quicker, the new 
tax, like the alternative minimum tax, 
will pretty soon start to hit Chevy and 
Buick insurance policies and not just 
Cadillac policies. 

But there are other taxes in the 
President’s proposal. There are up to 
$1/2 trillion in new taxes, which will be 
passed on to consumers: $20 billion in 
excise taxes on lifesaving medical devices, 
$33 billion on drugs, and $60 billion 
on health insurance companies. In 
the previously mentioned CBO letter 

and a JCT letter to Senator GRASSLEY 
in October of last year, both said these 
taxes will be passed on to patients, increasing 
health insurance premiums. 

The Chief Actuary of the Center for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services, who is 
a part of the Obama administration 
said: 

We anticipate such fees would be generally 
passed through to health consumers in the 
form of higher drug and device prices and 
higher insurance premiums. 

That was on December 10 of last 
year, about the Senate bill. 

The Lewin Group, on October 30, said: 

Employer spending would increase steadily 
under the [Democratic] act, reflecting the 
cost of paying the various excise taxes under 
the act. Total employer health spending 
would increase by 2.1 percent by 2019. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD the executive 
summary of the Lewin Group letter. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
In this study we estimate the impact of 
The America’s Healthy Future Act as adopted 
by the Senate Finance Committee. The 
Act would require most Americans to have 
health insurance. To assure access to affordable 
coverage, the Bill expands the Medicaid 
program to 133 percent of the Federal Poverty 
Level (FPL) for all adults. It also provides 
a new premium tax credit for people 
living between 133 percent and 400 percent of 
the FPL (e.g., $88,000 for a family of four). 
In addition, the Act establishes an ‘‘exchange’’ 
that presents consumers with a selection 
of health coverage alternatives that 
is available to individuals and firms with 
fewer than 100 workers. States would have 
the option to extend eligibility to larger employers 
beginning in 2017. Only people participating 
in the exchange who do not have 
access to employer coverage would be eligible 
for the premium tax credit. The Act also 
reforms insurance markets by assuring guaranteed 
issue of coverage and prohibiting 
plans from varying premiums with health 
status. 
Employers with more than 50 workers are 
required to pay a penalty for each uninsured 
worker receiving a premium tax credit 
through the exchange. The Act also provides 
an employer health insurance tax credit for 
up to two years for firms with fewer than 25 
workers with an average employee earnings 
of less than $40,000. Workers offered coverage 
by an employer are not eligible for premium 
subsidies offered in the exchange unless the 
cost of employer coverage exceeds 10 percent 
of income. 
The Act is funded with reductions in 
spending under Medicare and Medicaid, a 
new excise tax on high cost health plans 
(premiums over $8,000 for individuals and 
$21,000 for families). It also includes a second 
excise tax on insurance, new excise taxes on 
branded prescription drugs and device manufacturers, 
and other changes in revenues. 
In this study we provide estimates of the 
program’s impact on coverage and spending 
for the federal government, state and local 
governments, private employers and consumers. 
To demonstrate the long-term impact 
of the Act, we provide estimates for a 
20-year period from 2010 through 2029. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. The National Federation 
of Independent Business letter 
says the same. There are other reasons 
the premiums will go up. 


S832 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

Mr. President, seeing no one else 
here, I wonder if I might ask unanimous 
consent for 5 additional minutes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. ALEXANDER. I thank the President. 


Here is a third reason, in addition to 
government mandates and taxes, that 
will cause premiums to rise. We call it 
cost-shift. Premiums will increase because 
the bill dumps 15 million to 18 
million more Americans into the government 
program called Medicaid. This 
is the analysis of the Chief Actuary on 
January 8, 2010. 

I ask unanimous consent that the 
relevant portions be printed in the 
RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN 

SERVICES, CENTERS FOR MEDICARE 

& MEDICAID SERVICES, 

Baltimore, MD. 
Date: January 8, 2010 
From: Richard S. Foster, Chief Actuary 
Subject: Estimated Financial Effects of the 

‘‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care 

Act,’’ as Passed by the Senate on Decem


ber 24, 2009. 

The Office of the Actuary has prepared this 
memorandum in our longstanding capacity 

as an independent technical advisor to both 
the Administration and the Congress. The 
costs, savings, and coverage impacts shown 
herein represent our best estimates for the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. 
We offer this analysis in the hope that it will 
be of interest and value to policy makers as 
they develop and debate national health care 
reforms. The statements, estimates, and 
other information provided in this memorandum 
are those of the Office of the Actuary 
and do not represent an official position 
of the Department of Health & Human Services 
or the Administration. 

This memorandum summarizes the Office 
of the Actuary’s estimates of the financial 
and coverage effects through fiscal year 2019 
of selected provisions of the ‘‘Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act’’ (PPACA) as 
passed by the Senate on December 24, 2009 

(H.R. 3590, as amended). Included are the estimated 
net Federal expenditures in support 
of expanded health insurance coverage, the 
associated numbers of people by insured status, 
the changes in Medicare and Medicaid 
expenditures and revenues, and the overall 
impact on total national health expenditures. 
Except where noted, we have not estimated 
the impact of the various tax and fee 
proposals or the impact on income and payroll 
taxes due to economic effects of the legislation. 
Similarly, the impact on Federal 
administrative expenses is excluded. A summary 
of the data, assumptions, and methodology 
underlying our estimates of national 
health reform proposals is available in the 
appendix to our October 21 memorandum on 
H.R. 3200. 
SUMMARY 

The table shown on page 2 presents financial 
impacts of the selected PPACA provisions 
on the Federal Budget in fiscal years 
2010–2019. We have grouped the provisions of 
the bill into six major categories: 

(i) Coverage proposals, which include the 
mandated coverage for health insurance, the 
expansion of Medicaid eligibility to those 
with incomes at or under 133 percent of the 
Federal poverty level (FPL), and the additional 
funding for the Children’s Health Insurance 
Program (CHIP); 
(ii) Medicare provisions; 
(iii) Medicaid and CHIP provisions other 
than the coverage expansion and CHIP funding; 
(iv) Proposals aimed in part at changing 
the trend in health spending growth; 
(v) The Community Living Assistance 
Services and Supports (CLASS) proposal; and 
(vi) Immediate health insurance reforms. 
The estimated costs and savings shown in 
the table are based on the effective dates 
specified in the bill as passed. Additionally, 
we assume that employers and individuals 
would take roughly 3 to 5 years to fully 
adapt to the insurance coverage provisions 
and that the enrollment of additional individuals 
under the Medicaid coverage expansion 
would be completed by the third year of 
implementation. Because of these transition 
effects and the fact that most of the coverage 
provisions would be in effect for only 6 
of the 10 years of the budget period, the cost 
estimates shown in this memorandum do not 
represent a full 10-year cost for the proposed 
legislation. 

ESTIMATED FEDERAL COSTS (+) OR SAVINGS (-) UNDER SELECTED PROVISIONS OF THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AS PASSED BY THE SENATE 

[In billions] 

Fiscal year— 

Total,

Provisions 

2010–19

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 

Total* 
.................................................................................................................................................. $11.6 $0.1 ¥$14.8 ¥$32.8 $14.7 $63.0 $71.4 $60.9 $55.8 $49.7 $279.5 
Coverage† 
............................................................................................................................................ 4.7 6.6 1.7 ................ 86.5 128.0 150.1 156.4 167.9 180.7 882.5 
Medicare .............................................................................................................................................. 2.2 ¥3.6 ¥12.1 ¥23.4 ¥62.6 ¥55.1 ¥70.2 ¥87.6 ¥104.6 ¥123.7 ¥540.7 
Medicaid/CHIP ..................................................................................................................................... ¥0.4 ¥0.1 0.2 ¥3.8 ¥3.1 ¥3.8 ¥3.9 ¥4.1 ¥4.0 ¥3.9 ¥27.1 
Cost trend‡ 
......................................................................................................................................... ................ ................ ................ ................ ¥0.0 ¥0.1 ¥0.2 ¥0.4 ¥0.6 ¥0.9 ¥2.3 
CLASS program ................................................................................................................................... ................ ¥2.8 ¥4.5 ¥5.6 ¥5.9 ¥6.0 ¥4.3 ¥3.4 ¥2.8 ¥2.4 ¥37.8 
Immediate reforms .............................................................................................................................. 5.0 ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ 5.0 

* 
Excludes Title IX revenue provisions except for section 9015, certain provisions with limited impacts, and Federal administrative costs. 
† 
Includes expansion of Medicaid eligibility and additional funding for CHIP. 
‡ 
Includes estimated non-Medicare Federal savings from provisions for comparative effectiveness research, prevention and wellness, fraud and abuse, and administrative simplification. Excludes impacts of other provisions that would affect 
cost growth rates, such as the productivity adjustments to Medicare payment rates, which are reflected in the Medicare line. 

As indicated in the table above, the provisions 
in support of expanding health insurance 
coverage (including the Medicaid eligibility 
changes and additional CHIP funding) 
are estimated to cost $882 billion through fiscal 
year 2019. The net savings from the Medicare, 
Medicaid, growth-trend, and CLASS 
proposals are estimated to total about $603 
billion, leaving a net cost for this period of 
$279 billion before consideration of additional 
Federal administrative expenses and 
the increase in Federal revenues that would 
result from the excise tax on high-cost employer-
sponsored health insurance coverage 
and other revenue provisions. (The additional 
Hospital Insurance payroll tax income 
under section 9015 of the PPACA is included 
in the estimated Medicare savings shown 
here.) The Congressional Budget Office and 
Joint Committee on Taxation have estimated 
that the total net amount of Medicare 
savings and additional tax and other revenues 
would somewhat more than offset the 
cost of the national coverage provisions, resulting 
in an overall reduction in the Federal 
deficit through 2019. 

The chart shown below summarizes the estimated 
impacts of the PPACA on insurance 
coverage. The mandated coverage provisions, 
which include new responsibilities for both 
individuals and employers, and the creation 
of the Health Benefit Exchanges (hereafter 

referred to as the ‘‘Exchanges’’), would lead 
to shifts across coverage types and a substantial 
overall reduction in the number of 
uninsured, as many of these individuals become 
covered through their employers, Medicaid, 
or the Exchanges. 

By calendar year 2019, the mandates, coupled 
with the Medicaid expansion, would reduce 
the number of uninsured from 57 million, 
as projected under current law, to an 
estimated 23 million under the PPACA. The 
additional 34 million people who would become 
insured by 2019 reflect the net effect of 
several shifts. First, an estimated 18 million 
would gain primary Medicaid coverage as a 
result of the expansion of eligibility to all 
legal resident adults under 133 percent of the 
FPL (In addition, roughly 2 million people 
with employer-sponsored health insurance 
would enroll in Medicaid for supplemental 
coverage.) Another 21 million persons (most 
of whom are currently uninsured) would receive 
individual insurance coverage through 
the newly created Exchanges, with the majority 
of these qualifying for Federal premium 
and cost-sharing subsidies. Finally, we 
estimate that the number of individuals with 
employer-sponsored health insurance would 
decrease overall by about 4 million, reflecting 
both gains and losses in such coverage 
under the PPACA. 

As described in more detail in a later section 
of this memorandum, we estimate that 
overall national health expenditures under 
this bill would increase by an estimated 
total of $222 billion (0.6 percent) during calendar 
years 2010–2019, principally reflecting 
the net impact of (i) greater utilization of 
health care services by individuals becoming 
newly covered (or having more complete coverage), 
(ii) lower prices paid to health providers 
for the subset of those individuals who 
become covered by Medicaid, and (iii) lower 
payments and payment updates for Medicare 
services, together with net Medicaid savings 
from provisions other than the coverage expansion. 
Although several provisions would 
help to reduce health care cost growth, their 
impact would be more than offset through 
2019 by the higher health expenditures resulting 
from the coverage expansions. 

The actual future impacts of the PPACA 
on health expenditures, insured status, individual 
decisions, and employer behavior are 
very uncertain. The legislation would result 
in numerous changes in the way that health 
care insurance is provided and paid for in the 
U.S., and the scope and magnitude of these 
changes are such that few precedents exist 
for use in estimation. Consequently, the estimates 
presented here are subject to a substantially 
greater degree of uncertainty than 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S833 

is usually the case with more routine health 
care proposals. 

The balance of this memorandum discusses 
these financial and coverage estimates—and 
their limitations—in greater detail. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. The point is, Medicaid 
only pays doctors and hospitals 
about 60 percent of the cost of serving 
the 60 million patients who are now 
there. The Democratic bill would add 
15 million to 18 million more patients. 
So what do the doctors and hospitals 
do? They see these patients, but then 
they shift the costs to the patients 
they see who have private insurance. 

The President himself said that adds 
about $1,000 to every policy today, this 
cost-shifting. I have included that comment 
from the Chief Actuary. 

The PriceWaterhouseCoopers report 
on the Senate Finance Committee bill 
in October of 2009 indicated that the 
net effect of the bills before Congress 
will make the Medicare and Medicaid 
cost-shift even more severe, raising the 
cost of private insurance premiums for 
large employers by $255 a year between 
2015 and 2019. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD the relevant portions 
of the PriceWaterhouseCoopers 
report. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
POTENTIAL IMPACT OF HEALTH REFORM ON THE 

COST OF PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE COV


ERAGE 

ISSUE C—INCREASED COST SHIFTING 
Today, certain costs (e.g., hospital expenses) 
are shifted to the private sector (employers 
and consumers) as some participants 
in the system pay less than their share of the 
cost of their care. Public programs such as 
Medicare and Medicaid reimburse less than 
the cost of care for hospitals’ services. In addition, 
the uninsured or underinsured may 
not be able to cover the full cost of care, and 
this cost is then also transferred to the private 
market. 
The initial hope of health reform was that 
by improving coverage of the currently uninsured, 
a significant percentage of uncompensated 
care would be eliminated. This is still 
anticipated to happen. However, the cost 
shift ‘‘gains’’ from decreasing the numbers of 
uninsured now appear to be more than offset 
by the losses from proposed cutbacks in 
Medicare and Medicaid spending allocated to 
the hospital sector. 
It should also be noted that the impact of 
covering the uninsured may be different in 
communities constrained by limited hospital 
capacity. In those communities, covering the 
uninsured could actually increase cost-shifting 
if the newly insured increase demand for 
healthcare services and the overall mix of 
hospital patients migrates towards lower 
paying government programs. 
The net impact is likely to result in an increase 
in cost shifting which translates into 
a 0.8 percent average annual increase in the 
private sector spending between 2010 and 
2019, or $145 on average per year for family 
coverage in a large group plan (and $55 for 
single coverage). We note that this cost burden 
ramps up over the projection period, 
with an average annual increase in health 
costs of 1.2 percent over the second five-year 
period. We assume that this increased cost to 
the private sector will ultimately impact the 
cost of coverage for individuals and businesses 
in both the insured and self-insured 

market. As a result, premium costs for large 
group plans will be $37 higher each year between 
2010 and 2014 for family coverage ($14 
for single coverage), and $255 higher each 
year between 2015 and 2019 ($96 for single coverage). 


Mr. ALEXANDER. Younger Americans 
in the individual market will pay 
higher premiums under the Democratic 
plan because, as I mentioned earlier, it 
will mandate for individual coverage 
that I can’t pay more than three times 
as much as my son can pay for an insurance 
premium. That might help 
keep my premiums down, but it is 
going to send his up pretty far because 
42 States, including Tennessee, allow 
more variance of that. So young people 
across America, who include about 30 
percent of the uninsured, are in for a 
big surprise when their individual policies 
jump up 30 to 35 percent, which is 
what the Oliver Wyman report on September 
28 said theirs might do, or 
when, since they are uninsured, they 
are required to buy insurance and they 
find the insurance they are required to 
buy is very expensive. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD the conclusion 
of the Oliver Wyman report. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

CONCLUSION 
As Congress considers approaches to maximize 
health insurance coverage in the United 
States, it is important to consider the impact 
of premium rate compression on current 
purchasers and the uninsured. Providing affordable 
premiums to young people is critical 
to encourage their participation and ensure 
the long-term sustainability of the insurance 
pool in the years following health 
insurance reform. 
Requiring a young person to pay multiples 
of their expected medical expenses for health 
insurance is likely to cause these individuals 
to decline to purchase coverage. Maintaining 
adequate flexibility in rating will minimize 
the rate shock that many could see in the 
marketplace and encourage higher levels of 
coverage over time. Moreover, the elimination 
of health status as a rating factor 
will already provide significant benefit to 
older individuals, who are more likely to suffer 
from chronic health conditions. 
In conclusion, our modeling demonstrates 
that the 5:1 age band, as originally included 
in the Senate Finance Committee’s Chairman’s 
Mark, will reduce disruption compared 
to tight age bands. Maintaining 5:1 age 
bands will encourage more young people to 
participate in the insurance market, thereby 
keeping average rates more affordable. This, 
in turn, will result in higher overall levels of 
participation in the insurance market and 
fewer uninsured. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Finally, the 
young and the healthy can skip out of 
this. That will drive up premiums. 
They may decide they would rather 
pay a $750 fine than $2,500 for a health 
insurance policy they think they don’t 
need. 

The American Academies of Actuaries 
wrote a letter on the Reid bill on 
November 20 that said: ‘‘Any premium 
variations by age limited to a 3.1 ratio 
between the highest and lowest premiums,’’ 
and then it goes on to say, 
‘‘would cause higher premiums on average 
relative to current premiums.’’ 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD the letter from 
the American Academy of Actuaries of 
November 20, 2009. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

NOVEMBER 20, 2009. 
Re: Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act. 
Hon. HARRY REID 

Majority Leader, U.S. Senate, Hart Senate Office 
Building, Washington, DC. 

Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL, 

Minority Leader, U.S. Senate, Russell Senate 
Office Building, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MAJORITY LEADER REID AND MINORITY 
LEADER MCCONNELL: The American Academy 
of Actuaries’ Health Practice Council 
commends members of the Senate as you 
prepare to debate and vote on the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act. We 
share with you the goals of reducing the 
numbers of uninsured, increasing the availability 
of affordable coverage, controlling 
health spending growth, and improving the 
quality of care. On behalf of the council, I 
appreciate this opportunity to provide the 
following comments outlining the three key 
criteria that need to be considered when 
evaluating whether this legislation will lead 
to a viable health insurance system, and how 
the legislation can be improved to meet 
these goals. In particular: 

For insurance markets to be viable, they 
must attract a broad section of risks. Implementing 
market reforms to prohibit insurers 
from denying coverage and to restrict how 
much premiums can vary will result in adverse 
selection and upward pressure on premiums 
unless lower-risk individuals have incentives 
to purchase coverage. An individual 
mandate can bring lower-risk individuals 
into the pool. To be effective, however, the 
penalties for not complying with the mandate 
must be meaningful relative to the premium 
faced. The penalties in the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act are very 
low, which is especially problematic given 
the bill’s limits on premium variations by 
age, which will raise premiums for younger 
individuals. Strengthening the bill’s individual 
mandate through higher financial 
penalties is needed to reduce adverse selection 
that would arise due to the new issue 
and rating restrictions. 

Market competition requires a level playing 
field. All plans, including any new public 
plans or health insurance cooperatives must 
operate under the same rules. As written, 
the public plan and cooperatives established 
under the legislation would be subject to the 
same market rules and benefit requirements 
that apply to public plans. They would also 
be required to negotiate rates with providers. 
The bill should retain these provisions 
and also ensure that start-up funds provided 
to these plans are adequate to meet 
not only pre-operational expenses but also 
solvency needs. 

For long-term sustainability, health spending 
growth must be reduced. Provisions to 
control health care spending should include 
not only one-time improvements that will 
help address short-term goals, but also options 
that permanently reduce spending 
growth to address long-term goals. The Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act includes 
provisions that aim to reduce long-
term spending growth by shifting the health 
care payment and delivery systems to focus 
on cost-effective and high-quality care. 
Many of these efforts take the form of studies 
and demonstration projects. Policymakers 
need to focus intently on finding 
ways to control spending and ensuring that 


S834 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

promising approaches and successful demonstration 
projects are adopted on a broad 
scale in a timely manner. . . 

To this end, the Act also includes provisions 
that would help shift the health care 
payment and delivery systems from rewarding 
quantity of care to rewarding quality of 
care. The legislation includes many cost containment 
and quality improvement strategies 
focused on the Medicare program, including 
provider payment and delivery system 
reforms that provide incentives for coordinated 
and cost-effective care. Such a 
comprehensive and coordinated approach to 
addressing quality and costs is needed to 
fundamentally transform the health system 
to ensure its long-term sustainability. However, 
acknowledging that the impact on 
health spending and health outcomes of 
many potential programs is still unclear, the 
legislation directs many of these efforts in 
the form of studies and demonstration 
projects. Analyses from the Centers on Medicare 
and Medicaid Services and from the 
Congressional Budget Office suggest that at 
least in their current limited form, these 
provisions will have only a minimal impact 
on health spending growth. Policymakers 
need to focus intently on finding ways to 
control spending and ensuring that promising 
approaches and successful demonstration 
projects are adopted on a broad scale 
and in a timely manner. 

SUMMARY 

The American Academy of Actuaries’ 
Health Practice Council strongly supports 
three key considerations for a sustainable 
health insurance system with increased access 
to affordable health insurance. In particular, 
for insurance markets to be viable 
they must attract a broad cross section of 
risks; market competition requires a level 
playing field; and for long-term sustainability, 
health spending growth must be reduced. 


Outcomes of the reforms before you, because 
they involve so many complex interactions 
including market behavior, may not 
be fully known until implementation. Even 
actuaries must make certain assumptions in 
their projections, based on experience and 
expertise, as to what the exact effects will 
be. However, as the full Senate casts votes, 
we urge you to first and foremost examine 
these criteria as a litmus for determining 
the success of this reform effort. In particular, 
we believe that strengthening the individual 
mandate through higher financial 
penalties is needed to reduce the adverse selection 
that would arise due to the new issue 
and rating restrictions. 

We welcome the opportunity to serve as an 
ongoing resource to you as health care reform 
legislation is considered in the Senate 
and through remainder of the legislative 
process. If you have any questions or would 

like to discuss these comments further, 
please contact Heather Jerbi, the Academy’s 
senior health policy analyst (202.785.7869; 
Jerbi@actuary.org). 

Sincerely, 

CORI E. UCCELLO, 

Senior Health Fellow. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. All in all, these 
factors suggest why, when Senator 
COLLINS took a look at Maine, she 
found that 87 percent of people in 
Maine are paying less for their individual 
policies than the policies would 
cost under the Reid bill. It is true that 
half or more of them would receive 
some subsidy, which would reduce their 
costs, but around half of them will pay 
more. In Tennessee, Blue Cross Blue 
Shield, which covers about one-third of 
Tennessee’s individual market, estimates 
the premiums for those individuals 
will increase by 30 to 45 percent 
under the Reid bill. 

I ask unanimous consent to include a 
chart which demonstrates that. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S835 



S836 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

Mr. ALEXANDER. At our summit on 
Thursday, there were a number of good 
ideas about reducing health care costs 
that the President seemed to share 
with Republican Members who were 
there. There was some obvious irritation 
on the part of the majority leader 
and others when we said things such as 
there is $1/2 trillion worth of cuts in 
Medicare, which there are. Our real objection 
to it is that the cuts are not 
used to save Medicare, which is going 
broke, but spent on a new program—$1/2 
trillion in new taxes. There is $1/2 trillion 
in new taxes. 

As I have just said, they tend to increase 
premiums for millions of Americans. 
There are premium increases. 
There is a deficit increase. 

It is true the CBO has said that what 
was presented to them didn’t increase 
the deficit, but what was not included 
in what was presented was paying doctors 
to serve patients in the government 
program we call Medicare. That 
is like having a horse race without the 
horses. How are you going to have a 
comprehensive health care bill and not 
include within its costs paying doctors 
to serve patients in the government 
program? When you put it in, the deficit 
goes up. 

Then there is a problem of the passing 
off to States these expanded Medicaid 
costs without paying for them. I 
know as a former Governor—and I see 
the former Governor of Virginia in the 
chair—I struggled with that every single 
year. All the Governors are today 
in both parties. They don’t want us 
sending them a bill for expanded health 
care. They can’t pay the bills they 
have. We shouldn’t do that. If we want 
to expand it, we should pay for it. That 
is another part of the bill. 

So I came to the floor today to, No. 
1, express my appreciation to the President 
for inviting us Thursday. It gave 
us a chance to show who we are and 
what we are for. I thought it was a 
good discussion. I believe there are 8 or 
10, maybe a dozen different good ideas 
Senator COBURN and people on both 
sides of the aisle suggested. There are 
some differences between those ideas 
but, basically, they represent a way to 
move forward to reduce health care 
costs. That is what we ought to do. We 
don’t do comprehensive very well in 
the Senate. Comprehensive immigration 
failed of its own weight. Comprehensive 
economy-wide cap and trade 
seems to be failing, again of its own 
weight. Comprehensive health care is 
very difficult to pass. That shouldn’t 
be a surprise to any of us. This is a 
very big, difficult, complicated country 
with people of many different backgrounds 
and, in my judgment, we are 
just not wise enough for a few of us to 
rewrite the rules for 17 percent of our 
economy. 

I think the American people have 
tuned into that. They want us to fix 
health care, but they want us to reduce 
costs. Again, we on the Republican side 
are ready to set that goal and, as we 
said 173 different times on the Senate 

floor the last six months of last year, 
we have offered 6 steps to move toward 
that goal. Maybe the President can 
think of six more. Maybe we can think 
of six more. We did that with the 
America COMPETES Act. We asked 
the national academies: What are the 
10 steps that can help us become more 
competitive as a country? They gave us 
20, and we passed most of them. In 
clean energy, we are coming together 
on nuclear power, offshore drilling, and 
energy development. Those are steps 
toward a goal that would be a more 
sensible way for us to work. 

In the meantime, the unpleasant 
truth is, the current bill being considered—
will cut Medicare, not spend it 
on Medicare—will raise taxes, and it 
will, as I have tried to demonstrate 
with respect to the President, raise individual 
premiums because of the one-
size-fits-all government mandates and 
tax increases. 

Finally, I commend to my colleagues 
today’s editorial from the Wall Street 
Journal detailing how the Massachusetts 
health care plan has unexpectedly 
caused premiums to rise over the last 
couple years and what lesson there 
might be in that for us. 

I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Morning business is now closed. 

f 

TAX EXTENDERS ACT OF 2009 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
Senate will proceed to the consideration 
of H.R. 4213, which the clerk will 
report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 4213) to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring 
provisions, and for other purposes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Montana. 

PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the following 
staff be allowed the privilege of the 
floor during consideration of the pending 
bill: Randy Aussenberg, Aislinn 
Baker, Brittany Durell, Dustin Stevens, 
Greg Sullivan, Max Updike, and 
Ashley Zuelke. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


AMENDMENT NO. 3336 

(In the nature of a substitute) 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I now 
call up my amendment by number and 
urge its consideration. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will report the amendment 
by number. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Montana [Mr. BAUCUS] 
proposes an amendment numbered 3336. 

(The amendment is printed in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’) 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, Martin 
Luther King, Jr., once said: 

Life’s most urgent question is: What are 
you doing for others? 

Pretty much all of us came here to 
the Senate to work on that urgent 
question. Pretty much all of us came 
here to help other Americans. 

On a number of levels, the legislation 
before us today is urgent legislation. 
The legislation before us today is urgent 
because it would prevent millions 
of Americans from falling through the 
safety net. 

The legislation before us is urgent 
because it would extend vital safety 
net programs that expired yesterday. 

The legislation before us is urgent 
because it would put cash in the hands 
of Americans who could spend it quickly, 
boosting economic demand. 

The legislation before us today is urgent 
because it would extend critical 
programs and tax incentives that create 
jobs. 

The legislation before us today is urgent 
because it is important that we 
here can do this for other Americans. 

Since the recession began, more than 
7 million Americans have lost their 
jobs. The unemployment rate remains 
nearly 10 percent. For Americans without 
a job, this great recession is a 
great depression. If you do not have a 
job, it is a depression. 

Last week, with a solid bipartisan 
vote, we passed legislation to help create 
jobs. We can and should do more, 
and by extending this package of vital 
provisions we can do just that. 

The provisions in this bill are important 
to American families. They are 
important to communities that have 
suffered a natural disaster. They are 
important to businesses competing in 
the global economy. They are important 
to furthering America’s commitment 
to energy independence. 

The need is urgent. Yesterday many 
of these important provisions expired. 
Millions of Americans are being put at 
risk. The expiration of these provisions 
has left gaping holes in the safety net. 

Among the provisions that expired 
yesterday are these: expanded unemployment 
insurance benefits; COBRA 
subsidies to help people keep their 
health insurance; a provision that 
keeps folks right at the poverty line 
from losing their benefits; the small 
business loan program; the temporary 
measure to prevent a 21-percent cut to 
doctors under Medicare; the Flood Insurance 
Program; the Satellite Home 
Viewer Act. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S837 

Unless we reinstate the programs in 
this bill, there will be real world consequences 
for the people who depend on 
these programs today. 

Take unemployment insurance. This 
bill would extend the program for expanded 
unemployment benefits. These 
benefits expired on Sunday. The bill 
would extend what is called Federal 
emergency unemployment compensation. 
This bill would extend 100 percent 
Federal extended benefits. That is a 
program where State governments normally 
have to pay 50 percent. We would 
also extend the additional $25 a week 
for each beneficiary receiving unemployment 
benefits. 

According to the National Employment 
Law Project, 5.6 million people 
are currently benefiting from one of 
the Federal unemployment benefits. 
Mr. President, 5.6 million people today 
benefit. Between March and November 
of last year, we distributed nearly $8.3 
billion in additional benefits through 
the additional $25-a-week supplement. 

For example, my office received word 
about one unemployed Montana worker 
who had been living in a homeless shelter 
for more than a month. This Montanan 
used emergency unemployment 
compensation benefits to move closer 
to an out-of-State relative. The relative 
helped the Montanan through 
this difficult time. With the help of 
emergency unemployment compensation 
benefits and the help of family, 
this Montanan was able to find work 
again. 

Unemployment benefits also make 
good economic sense. The nonpartisan 
Congressional Budget Office estimates 
that every dollar spent on unemployment 
benefits generates up to $1.90 in 
additional gross domestic product. 
That is $1 to $1.90. This makes unemployment 
benefits one of the most cost-
effective policies for stimulating the 
economy. 

By helping our unemployment workers 
through this long recession, we help 
to keep the neighborhood gas station 
operating. We help to keep a house 
from foreclosure. And we help to keep 
our economy from further damage. 

We must act immediately to help the 
more than 1 million people who lost 
their benefits yesterday. My heart goes 
out to them and to their families and 
hope that they can hold on while we 
work to clear up this mess, in order to 
clear this bill and bring them the help 
they deserve and on which they have 
been depending. 

A second vital program in this bill 
that expired yesterday is a program 
that provides a tax benefit for COBRA 
health benefits. What is that? That is 
the program that helps workers who 
lose their jobs to keep their health insurance. 
When workers lose their jobs, 
they lose more than just their paychecks. 
Unfortunately, they often lose 
their ability to afford health care coverage 
as well. 

Today, roughly 60 percent of the non-
elderly population receives health insurance 
through their jobs. In most 

cases, unemployed workers have the 
right to keep their work coverage for 
up to 18 months through the COBRA 
program. But to receive COBRA health 
benefits, workers must typically pay 
all of the premium costs, plus an additional 
2 percent for administrative 
costs; that is, they pay 102 percent. 
That is not right. 

For a family of four, the average 
monthly COBRA premium is $1,100. For 
most people out of work, that is simply 
unaffordable. How can a family who is 
out of work pay health benefits at a 
rate of $1,100 a month? They cannot do 
it. 

The Recovery Act helped unemployed 
workers and their families to cover the 
costs. This assistance helped millions 
of unemployed workers and their families 
to maintain health insurance while 
they look for a new job. 

Unfortunately, COBRA assistance expired 
yesterday, and that is the provision 
that gave a 65-percent subsidy. It 
expired yesterday. This means workers 
who lose their jobs today or afterwards 
will not be eligible for COBRA assistance. 
They can still buy health insurance 
through the COBRA program if 
they can find the dollars to pay full 
freight. That is 102 percent of their current 
premium. For many folks, that is 
simply unaffordable. Unless we act, the 
ranks of those living in fear without 
health insurance will grow even more. 

Third, without this legislation, physicians 
who treat our seniors and military 
families will face an immediate 
21-percent pay cut. That is right, an 
immediate 21-percent cut in pay. That 
is more than families lost in net worth 
during the worst of the recession in 
2008, and that is nearly twice as much 
as home prices fell last year. 

This cut would force doctors to stop 
seeing patients. This cut would mean 
less access to care for our parents and 
our grandparents. This cut would mean 
our doctors would be forced to cut 
their own costs, potentially forcing 
them to lay off staff. 

Thankfully, the administration announced 
on Friday it will use its existing 
authority to delay the effect of this 
cut for the immediate future. But that 
is not going to last very long. We cannot 
delay action any longer. Seniors, 
military families, and physicians deserve 
better. 

In Montana, 2,000 doctors serve 
140,000 seniors who depend on Medicare 
for lifesaving health care. Montana has 
32,000 military families who should not 
be turned away from their doctor’s 
door either. They deserve access to the 
best health care we can give them. 
They deserve a Congress willing to put 
politics aside and put them first. 

This bill before us today will avert 
the 21-percent cut because of the so-
called sustainable growth rate. We 
adopt here another short-term stopgap. 
Next time, we hope and expect that we 
will come back to a long-term solution. 
We must find one. 

By exempting part of the SGR from 
the new statutory pay-go rules, the 

Senate recently recognized that a long-
term solution will require a short-term 
investment. The House followed suit. I 
hope this push will aid us in finding a 
permanent solution for the sake of our 
seniors’ continued access to medical 
care. 

A fourth provision in this bill affects 
the 2009 poverty guidelines. Why is this 
important? Let me tell you. Dozens of 
programs are available to help lower 
income Americans. We all know the 
important role these programs play in 
keeping those less fortunate fed, keeping 
them healthy and safe. I am talking 
about programs such as Medicaid, 
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program—formerly known as food 
stamps—the School Lunch Program, 
and the Low Income Home Emergency 
Assistance Program, otherwise known 
as LIHEAP. 

Eligibility for these and many other 
programs is based on the Federal poverty 
guidelines. These guidelines are 
updated every year for inflation. But 
the update for this year, 2010, will 
cause people who are currently eligible 
for and benefiting from these programs 
to lose their eligibility. You may wonder 
why at a time of economic crisis 
poverty-based program eligibility 
would decrease. You might think that 
sounds counterintuitive. 

One of the effects of the current economic 
crisis is that inflation went 
down. That means the average cost of 
everyday things, such as clothes, transportation, 
and rent, is less than it was 
the year before. However, because the 
Federal poverty guidelines are based on 
the average cost of everyday goods, the 
poverty level for 2010 would be less 
than it was for 2009. This is the first 
time in the history of the guidelines 
that such a decrease would occur. 
That, clearly, is not the right outcome. 
We should not make fewer people eligible 
for poverty-based programs at precisely 
the time when those safety-net 
programs are serving the very purpose 
for which they were created. Safety-net 
programs are there to help people when 
times are tough. That is their purpose. 
But there is a simple solution: we can 
simply leave the guidelines developed 
for 2009 in place. That way, people who 
were eligible can remain eligible. Leaving 
the 2009 guidelines in place would 
mean people would not lose their 
health care by being kicked off of Medicaid. 
It would mean families would not 
go hungry because they lost their eligibility 
for a number of nutrition programs. 
It would mean low-income folks 
could still heat their homes this cold 
and snowy winter thanks to LIHEAP. 
Keeping the 2009 guidelines in place 
would not increase eligibility. It would 
mean we would avoid pulling the safety 
net out from under the people it is 
there to protect. 

Fifth, for individuals and families, 
this bill provides much needed tax relief 
in a time of economic uncertainty. 
For example, many students don’t have 
the books or supplies they need. Some 


S838 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

teachers have to buy classroom supplies 
using money from their own pockets, 
if you can believe it. This bill extends 
the expense deduction for teachers 
buying school supplies for their 
classrooms. It extends the qualified 
tuition deduction to help with college 
costs. The bill provides much needed 
relief to families who have suffered 
from natural disasters. It extends a 
package of disaster relief provisions developed 
to address all federally declared 
disaster areas with immediate, 
reliable, and robust tax relief. 

It extends important business provisions 
to help create jobs and make our 
companies competitive in a global 
economy. America counts for one-third 
of the world’s investment in scientific 
research and development. We rank 
first among all countries, but relative 
to the size of our economy, America is 
in sixth place. The trends show that 
maintaining American leadership in 
the future depends on an increased 
commitment to science and research. 
Yet our R&D tax credit expired at the 
end of last year. This will put American 
corporations at a competitive disadvantage. 
Corporations are unsure if 
they will be able to obtain the R&D 
credit next year, and they need to plan 
for the future. 

American financial services companies 
successfully compete in world financial 
markets. We need to make sure 
the U.S. tax rules do not change that. 
This legislation extends the active financing 
exception to subpart F. In so 
doing, it preserves the international 
competitiveness of American-based financial 
services companies, while including 
safeguards to ensure that only 
truly active businesses benefit. This 
provision will put the American financial 
services industry on an equal footing 
with foreign-based competitors 
that are not taxed on active financial 
services income. 

Several energy tax incentives also 
expired at the end of last year. This 
bill extends those incentives to encourage 
continued investment in technologies 
that promote energy independence. 
For example, the bill extends 
incentives for new hybrid battery technology 
and the construction of new energy-
efficient homes. 

Sixth, in addition to these important 
provisions that provide direct assistance 
and job creation, the bill includes 
other proposals that will provide relief 
for businesses and individuals. One 
such provision is pension funding relief. 
These days, American employers 
are faced with the need to make higher 
pension contributions. Several factors 
have combined to require these higher 
contributions: There is the funding 
changes of the Pension Protection Act 
of 2006, there is the slide in the stock 
market in 2008, and then there is the 
ensuing great recession. These requirements 
for higher contributions are 
coming upon employers just when they 
are facing lower asset values and lower 
cash flow. Meeting these requirements 
could divert resources employers could 
use to keep workers on the payroll. 

We addressed this bind temporarily 
in the Worker, Retiree and Employer 
Recovery Act of 2008, but employers 
are still facing the prospect of closing 
plants and stores. Employers are still 
faced with the possibility of terminating 
workers in order to make up for 
lost asset values. The bill contains additional 
temporary, targeted, and appropriate 
relief for these employers. At 
the same time, the bill still maintains 
the pension and security system. 

Seventh, this bill would also extend 
several important health provisions 
that expired at the end of 2009. Notable 
among these is the exceptions process 
for Medicare therapy caps. Extending 
this provision will help ensure Medicare 
beneficiaries will continue to receive 
access to the therapy services 
they need. Several rural policies are 
also extended. 

Eighth, these tough economic times 
have hit the States hard as well. So included 
in this bill is a 6-month extension 
of the additional Federal financial 
assistance for State Medicaid Programs. 
This will allow States to plan 
for their next fiscal year with the certainty 
of continued help from the Federal 
Government. Additional Federal 
Medicaid match money—known as 
FMAP—helps the economy grow. According 
to economist Mark Zandi, this 
funding has return on investment of 
about $1.40 for every dollar invested. 
The Nation’s Governors have repeatedly 
asked for an extension of this Federal 
assistance, and this bill answers 
their pleas. 

With so many Americans out of 
work, our country needs Congress to 
enact this legislation. This bill continues 
valuable tax incentives to families 
and businesses that will help them 
in these difficult economic times. The 
bill sustains vital safety-net programs 
that will also help foster economic 
growth. 

As I said at the outset, this is not 
just ordinary legislation; this is urgent 
legislation. It would prevent millions 
of Americans from falling through the 
safety net. It would extend vital programs 
that expired yesterday—expired 
yesterday. It would put cash in the 
hands of Americans who would spend it 
quickly, boosting economic demand. It 
would extend critical programs and tax 
incentives that create jobs. It is an important 
bill that we here can do for 
other Americans. So let’s help America’s 
businesses to create more jobs. 
Let’s join to work across the aisle on 
this commonsense legislation, and let’s 
enact these tax incentives and safety-
net provisions into law. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. GRASSLEY. I yield myself such 
time as I might consume. Maybe I better 
ask, are we under a time agreement? 


The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
There is no time limit. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, 
today, the Senate starts debate on expiring 
tax and health provisions, for 
people outside Washington. Around 
here, those tax provisions are generally 
referred to with the word ‘‘extenders.’’ 
But before I discuss the bill before us, 
I would like to make a couple points on 
the process, before I get into the substance 
of the substitute before the Senate. 
What I find surprising is, we are 
taking up a package that, similar to 
last week’s exercise, absolutely belongs 
to the Senate Democratic leadership; 
that is to say, we are not taking up a 
bipartisan package that I put together 
with my friend, Finance Committee 
Chairman BAUCUS. 

To be sure, some of the structure reflects 
the agreement I have with Senator 
BAUCUS, but this package is almost 
three times the size of the package 
we agreed upon. Virtually all the 
additional cost is due to proposals I 
would not have agreed to in representing 
the people of Iowa or the Republican 
conference. 

I was under the impression the Senate 
Democratic leadership was genuine 
in its desire to work on a bipartisan 
basis, but clearly I was mistaken. Although 
the Senate Democratic leadership 
was highly involved in the development 
of that original bipartisan bill, 
they arbitrarily decided to replace it 
with a bill that skews toward their liberal 
wing. So my first comment to my 
colleagues, also to the media and to 
the entire Nation, is: Don’t let this 
package be mislabeled as the Baucus-
Grassley package. It is not the package 
my friend, Chairman BAUCUS, and I negotiated. 
Again, the package before the 
Senate dramatically differs in cost, 
balance, and dramatically is different 
in intent from the Baucus-Grassley 
compromise announced on February 12. 

My second preliminary comment 
goes to the way in which these expiring 
tax provisions have been described by 
many on the other side, including 
those in the Democratic leadership. If 
you roll the videotape back a week or 
so, you would hear a lot of disparaging 
comments about these routine, bipartisan 
extenders. From my perspective, 
those comments were made in an effort 
to sully the bipartisan agreement 
reached by Chairman BAUCUS and this 
Senator. If you take a look at newspaper 
accounts of a week or so ago, you 
come away with the impression that 
the tax extenders are partisan work of 
Republicans and only for Republican 
interests. A representative sample 
comes from one report which describes 
the bipartisan bill as: 

. . . an extension of soon-to-expire tax 
breaks that are highly beneficial to major 
corporations, known as tax extenders, as 
well as other corporate giveaways that had 
been designed to win GOP support. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S839 

The Washington Post included this passed the Senate by unanimous con-ever, these bills were all missing a critattribution 
to the Senate Democratic sent and one vote against it on the con-ical ingredient for spurring job creleadership 
in an article last week: ference report. One Member on the ation, and that was substantial tax re


.We’re pretty close,’’ [the majority leader] other side said: lief targeted to small business. 

said Friday during a television appearance in 
Nevada, adding that he thought, ‘fat cats’ 
would have benefited too much from the 
larger Baucus-Grassley bill.’’ 

That quote happens to be from the 
majority leader. 

The portrait that was painted by certain 
members of the majority and was 
echoed without critical examination— 
and in some press reports was outright 
inaccurate. For one thing, the tax extenders 
included provisions such as deductions 
for qualified tuition and related 
expenses and also the deduction 
for certain expenses for elementary and 
secondary schoolteachers. If you are 
going to college or if you are a grade 
school teacher, the Senate Democratic 
leadership apparently views you as a 
fat cat. If your house was destroyed in 
a recent natural disaster and you still 
need any of the temporary disaster relief 
provisions contained in the extenders 
package, too bad because helping 
you would amount to a corporate giveaway 
in the eyes of some. Such distortion 
of the extenders—some of them 
have been on the books for a long period 
of time; some of them passing this 
body by consensus—belittles helping 
some people who have needs. 

Again, I wish to say the tax extenders 
have been routinely passed repeatedly 
because they are bipartisan and, 
frankly, very popular. Democrats have 
consistently voted in favor of extending 
these tax provisions. Let me tell 
you what House Speaker NANCY PELOSI 
released recently, a very strong statement 
when the House passed these very 
same tax extenders at the end of last 
year saying this was ‘‘good for business, 
good for homeowners, and good 
for our community.’’ 

That was December of 2009, not very 
long ago. 

In 2006, the then Democratic leader 
released a blistering statement ‘‘after 
Bush Republicans in the Senate 
blocked passage of critical tax extenders 
American families and businesses 
are paying the price because this Do 
Nothing Republican Congress refuses 
to extend important tax breaks.’’ 

Recent bipartisan votes in the Senate 
extending bipartisan tax provisions had 
come in the Emergency Economic Stabilization 
Act of 2008 and the Tax Relief 
and Health Care Act of 2006. By the 
way, that passed the Senate by unanimous 
consent. Then we had the Working 
Family Tax Relief Act of 2004, 
which originally passed the Senate by 
voice vote, although the conference report 
only received 92 votes in favor and 
a whopping 3 against it. 

Let me give what the nonpartisan 
Congressional Research Service has to 
say about the history of these extenders 
which are now before us, which 
should have been passed in December. 
They have been consistently widely 
supported because they mention the 
Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999, which 

Our side isn’t sure that the Republicans 
are real interested in developing good policy 
and to move forward together. Instead, they 
are more inclined to play rope-a-dope again. 
My own view is, let’s test them. 

So we are testing each other when we 
are talking about merely reimposing 
some policy that has been on the books 
for a long period of time and just happens 
to sunset, to force some review by 
Congress. 

We had another Member of this large 
59-vote majority exclaim: 

It looks more like a tax bill than a jobs bill 
to me. What the Democratic caucus is going 
to put on the floor is something that’s more 
focused on job creation than tax breaks. 

Reading these comments, I found myself 
obviously scratching my head. The 
only explanation for this behavior is, 
certain Senators decided last week it 
serves a deeply partisan goal to slander 
what had been for several years bipartisan 
and popular tax provisions benefiting 
many different people. 

The Washington Post article I quoted 
from earlier includes a statement from 
a Democratic Senate leadership aide 
saying that ‘‘no decisions have been 
made, but anyone expecting us immediately 
to go back to a bill that includes 
tax extenders will be sorely disappointed.’’ 


You can imagine that, today, a little 
over a week after these comments, I 
scratch my head, once again. We have 
before us the expiring tax and health 
provisions that were disparaged just a 
short time ago. Have they morphed 
from corporate tax pork? Have they 
suddenly reacquired their bipartisan 
character? Are these time-sensitive 
items, now expired for more than 2 
months, suddenly jobs related? 

We are beginning another debate, a 
jobs bill debate. So I wanted to focus 
on the economy, small business, and 
jobs after giving you that partisanship 
that should not have existed a week 
ago, to explain that it existed and not 
much has changed since then, but all of 
a sudden there is some idea of being bipartisan. 


So we are going to talk about the 
substance of this bill. We all agree our 
Nation is currently facing challenging 
economic times. While there have been 
some signs of improvement such as the 
recent growth in our gross domestic 
product, job losses continue to mount 
and many hard-working Americans are 
struggling to make ends meet. 

According to the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, over 8 million jobs have 
been lost since our economy officially 
slipped into recession in December 2007. 
The unemployment rate is currently 

9.7 percent, which is simply an unacceptable 
level. The lack of job creation 
continues despite aggressive action 
taken at the Federal level in order to 
stabilize the economy. 
This includes the enactment of TARP 
and the $800 billion stimulus bill. How-

Everybody knows small business is 
where the jobs are created in America; 
70 percent of the net new jobs. In October 
2008, Congress enacted the Troubled 
Asset Relief Program that we all call 
TARP around here, T-A-R-P. That was 
a $700 billion financial bailout bill that 
we were told had to be enacted immediately 
in order to deal with the so-
called toxic assets to keep credit from 
drying up, which would have choked off 
the lifeblood of the American economy. 

What we actually got—because we 
sure did not take out these toxic assets. 
So what we actually got was direct 
infusion of cash into the largest 
Wall Street banks, which was 180 degrees 
different than what we were told 
by Treasury before that bill was voted 
on, and the purpose of that bill as well. 
Later came the bailout of General Motors 
and Chrysler using TARP money 
after the Senate had just voted not to 
bail out GM and Chrysler. 

This inconsistent policy by Treasury 
created uncertainty in the financial 
markets and the business community. 
Moreover, exorbitant bonuses were 
paid to executives and the management 
of firms that would have been out of a 
job if not for Congress and Treasury 
and the Federal Reserve intervening. 

How effective was the bailout in improving 
the credit markets? In October 
2009, the Government Accountability 
Office released a report reviewing 
TARP’s first-year performance. The 
GAO report found credit had improved 
based on certain market indicators. 
However, they were not able to determine 
how much, if any, was attributed 
to TARP as compared to general market 
forces or other Federal action. 

While it is unclear the extent credit 
has been freed up as a result of TARP, 
it is clear who has reaped the benefits 
of those programs. This past year, 
many financial firms, including Goldman 
Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, and others 
who received TARP funds, posted 
record or near-record profits. 

While Wall Street executives have 
clearly benefitted form TARP, small 
businesses and their employers have 
not been that fortunate. Small businesses 
continue to struggle to obtain 
credit in order to expand their operations, 
purchase inventories, and even 
make payroll. The so-called stimulus 
bill, enacted almost solely by an overwhelming 
Democratic majority in Congress 
last February, has not spurred 
job creation either. 

This massive $800 billion spending 
bill was hastily rushed to the floor of 
the Senate with little time to deliberate 
its merit. Lawrence Summers, 
the Director of President Obama’s National 
Economic Council, said: 

The test for the stimulus is whether it is 
timely, targeted, and temporary. 


S840 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

This stimulus bill hit the trifecta. It 
has failed in all three. Through a report 
issued in January 2009 by the current 
Chair of President Obama’s Council 
of Economic Advisors, Christine 
Roemer, the administration predicted 
that the stimulus would save or create 
3 million jobs. We were told by the 
Obama administration that if the bill 
was not passed quickly we would experience 
unemployment of 9 percent. 

At this point we have a chart. The 
middle line, where it says 9 percent, 
the White House projected unemployment 
at 9 percent with no stimulus. 
However, we were also told by the 
Obama administration that if the stimulus 
bill passed, unemployment would 
not go over 8 percent, and that would 
be the bottom line. 

Well, the bill was passed. But what 
did we get for $800 billion of debt before 
interest that was laid at the feet of our 
children and our grandchildren? The 
unemployment rate jumped from 7.7 
percent in January right before the 
stimulus was enacted, to a high of 10.1 
percent in October. 

While unemployment recently dipped 
slightly to 9.7 percent—you can see 
that is the red line at the top—this was 
not due to job creation but because 
millions of individuals have literally 
given up looking for work and obviously 
do not show up in the unemployment 
statistics. 

The Obama administration also stated 
that ‘‘more than 90 percent of the 
jobs created are likely to be in the private 
sector.’’ 

In all, 3.3 million jobs have been lost 
since the stimulus bill was enacted. 
That is 3.3 million compared to the 3.7 
million the President said. Of course, 

3.2 million of those jobs were in the private 
sector. 
In summary, the Obama administration 
was terribly inaccurate regarding 
its stimulus jobs projection. At the 
time the stimulus bill was passed, I 
raised concerns that the bill was not 
targeted enough at small businesses 
and job creation. However, my point of 
view lost out and less than one-half of 
1 percent of the bill included tax relief 
for small business. 

The money in the stimulus bill gave 
tax credits to people who buy electric 
plug-in golf carts or to pay for rattle-
snake husbandry in Oregon, among 
other ill-advised provisions, which 
would have been better allocated to 
small business tax relief, the place 
where employment starts. Since the 
stimulus, small businesses have been 
bearing the brunt of job losses in our 
economy. However, the words of those 
on the other side regarding the importance 
of small business job creation do 
not match their action when looking at 
the paltry amount of small business 
tax relief being provided. 

Again, in the jobs bill, or stimulus 
bill, or whatever you want to call it 
that passed the Senate last week, there 
was only one provision directed solely 
to small business tax relief. That was a 
provision I supported which increased 

expensing of equipment purchased by 
small businesses. But it is a very small 
provision. It only gave small businesses 
what they have already been getting 
for the last couple of years, just extending 
it; in other words, just extending 
that figure. That provision was 
only $35 million out of $62 billion, the 
$15 billion that everyone talks about, 
plus the $47 billion for the highway 
trust fund that is typically not mentioned. 


Last year, I introduced S. 1381, the 
Small Business Tax Relief Act. My bill 
would double the amount of equipment 
that small businesses could expense 
and would make those higher levels 
permanent instead of just for 1 year, as 
the Reid bill did. 

In my negotiations on the jobs bill, I 
sought to include provisions for my 
small business tax relief bill. But there 
was no agreement to put small business 
tax relief provisions for my bill in 
the bipartisan compromise that we 
reached. Instead, we were asked to 
defer those provisions to a future tax 
bill. 

According to ADP, national employment 
data from January 2009 through 
January 2010, small businesses with 
fewer than 500 employees saw employment 
decline by 2.67 million jobs, while 
large businesses with 500 or more employees 
saw employment decline by 
694,000. 

While I am sure many of us disagree 
about the effectiveness of the financial 
bailout and stimulus spending in getting 
our economy back on track, I 
know for sure that we all agree there 
has been a lack of job creation and too 
many people continue to be unemployed. 
Because the stimulus bill has 
so clearly failed in what it was supposed 
to do, which was to create jobs, 
and the administration and the congressional 
Democratic leadership are 
running away from the word ‘‘stimulus’’ 
faster than the Triple Crown 
winning horse Secretariat. Everything 
proposed now is called a ‘‘jobs bill’’ 
even if it includes proposals that were 
always labeled ‘‘stimulus’’ in the past. 

Only 6 percent of Americans believe 
the stimulus bill created jobs. That is 
less than the 7 percent of Americans 
who believe that Elvis is still alive. 
Last week, the Senate passed a bill 
that included provisions designed to increase 
hiring. This includes a payroll 
tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed 
workers and a tax credit for 
the retention of newly hired individuals 
throughout all of 2010. 

The payroll tax holiday part of this 
proposal is likely to spark some modest 
hiring at businesses at the margins 
among those who have seen some improvement 
in their business but are on 
the fence about whether to hire somebody 
now or wait a while. However, 
many businesses continue to struggle 
and will not hire new employees just 
because it is the stated policy goal of 
Congress. 

Before a business can hire a new employee, 
they need to know that new 

employee will generate additional revenue 
that exceeds the cost of the employee. 
The latest survey of the Small 
Business Economic Trends—and that is 
produced by the National Federation of 
Independent Businesses, or NFIB, as we 
know it—shows that many small businesses 
may not be in a place that they 
can afford to hire new employees even 
with the provisions of that bill passing 
the Senate last week called the Payroll 
Tax Holiday. 

I have a chart from the National Federation 
of Independent Businesses to 
which I now want to refer. That chart 
has selected components from the 
Small Business Optimism Index. While 
many components of this index improved 
slightly from December, it is 
clear that small businesses continue to 
struggle. You will see from the chart a 
net negative 1 percent of owners who 
plan to create new jobs in the next 3 
months. You will see on the chart a net 
positive of only 1 percent of business 
owners expect the economy to improve. 
Only 4 percent of business owners said 
it was a good time to expand, and a net 
negative 42 percent of owners reported 
higher earnings. 

This last component is especially important 
for businesses when it comes to 
hiring new employees. If earnings are 
declining, there is little a payroll holiday 
will do to spark hiring since businesses 
need to know that the revenue 
generated by the additional employees 
will exceed the cost, not just today but 
in the future. 

Before I go on to this NFIB survey, at 
the grassroots of my State, I had the 
opportunity the previous weekend to 
spend part of a Friday and part of a 
Sunday afternoon in what is called the 
Des Moines Home and Garden Show 
which has probably been around for 30 
years or so, that one weekend a year. 
On the Saturday in between, I had an 
opportunity to attend a like show 
called the Home Improvement Show in 
Waterloo. You walk around and talk to 
vendors, small business people. You 
kind of look at what do they expect 
Congress to do about creating jobs. I 
never got anything positive about 
something we might do, but I got a lot 
of ideas that they want us to do that 
said: You have to give us some certainty. 


Do you know what they quoted. They 
quoted the big tax increase coming up 
at the end of this year as some of that 
uncertainty. They quoted the cap-and-
trade tax that possibly could pass the 
Senate. Then they quoted the potential 
cost to small business because of the 
health care reform bill. They said: 
Take all of those potential things out 
of the picture, and we will start hiring. 
But it is the uncertainty that is out 
there of what Congress is going to do 
to us that is keeping us from hiring 
people. 

I want to go back to the NFIB survey. 
When businesses are asked what 
the single most important problem facing 
their business is, the answer is lack 
of sales. That is in addition to the uncertainty 
I related. But this is closely 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S841 

followed by what I did say, taxes, and 
then government regulation, and red-
tape. I am glad my colleagues on the 
other side have recognized that true 
job creation comes through the private 
sector and have thus sought hiring incentives 
through payroll tax relief. 

However, this minor tax relief is a 
drop in the bucket considering the 
challenges small businesses face due to 
the economy and proposed increased 
taxes and redtape included in the 
President’s budget. Whether we are 
speaking about cap and trade that will 
drastically increase energy costs, 
health care reform that would mandate 
small businesses offer health benefits 
that will increase the cost of labor, or 
the call for tax increases on so-called 
wealthy taxpayers earning over $200,000 
that will largely fall on the backs of 
small businesses, if our intention is to 
increase long-term employment, the 
last thing we should be doing at this 
time of economic uncertainty is to increase 
taxes and place additional burdens 
on those who are responsible for 
creating 70 percent of the jobs in our 
economy; namely, small business. 

Providing small businesses a payroll 
tax holiday while intending to impose 
increased taxes, regulations, and mandates 
amounts to throwing them a few 
peanuts while taking away their supper. 
In recent months, I have spoken at 
length about the impact of tax increases 
set to kick in 10 months from 
today. I have examined the impact of 
these tax increases on small businesses. 
I think Members ought to take 
a closer look at it before we actually 
enact big tax hikes. 

The President and my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle have proposed 
increasing the two marginal tax 
rates from 33 and 35 percent to 36 and 

39.6 percent, respectively; increasing 
the tax rates on capital gains and dividends 
to 20 percent, fully reinstating 
the personal exemption phaseout for 
those making over $200,000, and fully 
reinstating the limitation on itemized 
deductions for those making more than 
$200,000. 
With these two provisions fully reinstated, 
the individuals in the top two 
rates could see their marginal tax rates 
increase over 15 percent or more. My 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
respond that these proposals will only 
hit ‘‘wealthy individuals’’ and only a 
small percentage of small businesses 
fall into this category. I have been trying 
to tell them for 3 or 4 years that 
what they want to talk about, the 
small percentage of small businesses 
falling into that category—I will not 
convince them, because I don’t know 
what they are reading—is wrong. Because 
small business is going to be hit 
very definitely by these increases. 
What my colleagues fail to understand 
is that the small businesses that fit 
into this group are not static but consist 
of different businesses over time 
that go in and out of the top two tax 
brackets depending on the market. 

Data from the Joint Committee on 
Taxation, which is a nonpartisan offi


cial congressional scorekeeper on tax 
issues, shows that 44 percent of the 
flowthrough business income will be 
hit with the increase in the top two tax 
rates proposed by the President. This 
hits small businesses particularly hard 
since most small businesses are organized 
as flowthrough entities. It will 
increase taxes on single small business 
owners who make more than $200,000 
per year, even if they plow all of their 
income back into their small business 
to keep paying their workers and hire 
additional workers. Increasing taxes on 
this group punishes their success and 
limits their ability to reinvest in their 
company. It prevents them from putting 
away funds for tough economic 
times to keep their business afloat. 

Government is currently creating a 
climate of uncertainty where the private 
sector does not know what we will 
do next, what taxes will be raised, and 
what regulatory barriers will be put in 
their way. We can start to put some 
certainty back into the business world 
by declaring we will not increase taxes 
on businesses 1 dime, by making the 
2001 and 2003 bipartisan tax measures 
permanent. 

Let me be clear: Businesses do not 
want to be certain that the government 
is going to raise their taxes and 
make them go up through more red-
tape. They want to be certain that it is 
not going to happen. Until then, many 
will simply sit on the sidelines and not 
hire more workers, as I reported from 
my weekend before last at a couple affairs 
in the State of Iowa. 

Moreover, we can directly provide 
targeted relief to small businesses. 
Last June, I proposed legislation to do 
that. I introduced the Small Business 
Tax Relief Act to lower taxes on job-
creating small businesses. Since the 
Democratic leadership barred any 
amendments last week, I am hopeful 
we will debate and vote on an amendment 
offered by Senator THUNE. Many 
provisions in my bill are contained in 
the Thune bill. My bill contains a number 
of provisions that will leave more 
money in the hands of small businesses 
so they can hire more, continue to pay 
the salaries of their current employees, 
and make additional investments. This 
includes allowing flowthrough small 
businesses, partnerships, S corporations, 
LLCs, and sole partnerships to 
deduct 20 percent of their income, effectively 
reducing their taxes by 20 percent. 
My bill also includes tax relief for 
small business owners from the unfair 
alternative minimum tax. It takes general 
business credits, such as the employer-
provided childcare credit, out of 
the alternative minimum tax. This 
would allow a mom-and-pop retail 
store that provides childcare for its 
employees to get the same tax relief a 
Fortune 500 company gets when it provides 
childcare for its employees. 

My bill would also allow more than 
nearly 2 million small C corporations 
to benefit from the lower tax rates for 
the smallest C corporations. There are 
so many small C corporations because 

they were formed as C corporations before 
other entities such as LLCs became 
more widely used. 

Among other provisions, my bill 
would also lower the potential tax burden 
on small C corporations that convert 
to S corporations. 

The NFIB has written a letter supporting 
my small business tax relief 
bill, stating: 

To get the small business economy moving 
again, small businesses need the tools and 
incentives to expand and grow their businesses. 
S. 1381 provides the kind of tools and 
incentives that small business needs. 

I want to talk about an opportunity 
for true bipartisanship that was killed 
by the Democratic leadership. The 
same day Chairman BAUCUS and I released 
a bipartisan bill that contained 
significant compromises, behind closed 
doors the Democratic leadership cherry-
picked four provisions out of the 
larger bill Chairman BAUCUS and I 
agreed to. Those provisions had been 
agreed to in a meeting of senior Members 
of the other side only while Chairman 
BAUCUS and I were negotiating. I 
was extremely disappointed to see the 
Democratic leadership blow up the bipartisan 
deal Chairman BAUCUS and I 
reached. To pour a little salt into the 
wound, the Democratic leadership then 
prohibited any Senator on either side 
of the aisle from even offering an 
amendment to improve a bill that he 
hijacked. One of the four provisions the 
Democratic leaders cherry-picked is 
Build America Bonds. If it had been 
just me drafting the bill, I wouldn’t 
have included this provision. However, 
for the sake of bipartisanship and compromise 
in the context of a much larger 
bill, I reluctantly agreed that putting 
this provision in the bill would not 
cause the overall bill to lose my support. 
Build America Bonds is a very 
rich spending program disguised as tax 
cuts. Bloomberg reported that large 
Wall Street investment banks have 
been charging 37 percent higher underwriting 
fees on Build America Bonds 
deals than on other deals. Therefore, 
American taxpayers appear to be funding 
huge underwriting fees for large 
Wall Street investment banks as part 
of the Build America Bonds program. 

Democratic leadership has said the 
Build America Bonds program is about 
creating jobs. I wanted to know whether 
it is about lining the pockets of Wall 
Street executives. So last week I asked 
the Goldman Sachs CEO a number of 
questions about these much larger underwriting 
fees subsidized by American 
taxpayers. I expect to have that discussion 
shortly. 

Turning back to the bill being debated 
this week, the Thune amendment, 
which incorporates many of the 
provisions from my small business tax 
relief bill, provides substantial small 
business tax relief and should be adopted. 


In this bill, I hope we can all work 
toward improving our economy, not 
through more government but by letting 
the engine of job creation, meaning 
small business, keep more of its 


S842 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

own money in the form of substantial 

small business tax relief. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
KAUFMAN). The Democratic whip. 

Mr. DURBIN. First, let me serve notice 
on the Republican side that I will 
be making a unanimous consent request 
about the extension of unemployment 
benefits so that Senator BUNNING 
or someone else on his behalf will be on 
the floor if they care to object. 

Let me say, before my friend from 
Iowa leaves the floor, one of the reasons 
we can’t get to the issues you 
want is because we are in the midst of 
a filibuster by the Senator from Kentucky 
who has stopped us from extending 
unemployment benefits, COBRA 
benefits for 30 days. As I understand it, 
that filibuster now applies to a noncontroversial 
judicial nominee. So we 
have multiple filibusters holding us 
back from considering some of the 
measures you mentioned. I might say, 
some of them I find appealing and hope 
we can make them part of the package. 
The reason why your initial agreement 
with Senator BAUCUS met some resistance 
on our side of the aisle is that we 
thought there was a lack of balance. 
Although I support the tax extenders 
being extended for the remainder of the 
year in your initial agreement with 
Senator BAUCUS, the extension of unemployment 
benefits and COBRA was 
only for a few months. We felt that 
both should be extended until the end 
of the year. I hope we can reach that 
agreement when we come back to the 
amendment that is pending before us, 
as soon as the filibusters that have 
been initiated by the Senator from 
Kentucky are completed. 

Let me say a word about those filibusters. 
We tried last week to extend 
for 30 days unemployment benefits that 
would run out across America, starting 
literally at midnight last night. There 
was one objection from Senator 
BUNNING from Kentucky; he objected to 
extending unemployment benefits and 
COBRA benefits. The net result of this 
one Senator’s objection is to put us 
into a procedural process that could 
literally take days. 

What happens to the people who were 
on unemployment during that period of 
time? They are cut off. Fifteen thousand 
people on unemployment in Illinois 
last night were cut off because of 
the Senator from Kentucky, and roughly 
400,000 nationwide have seen their 
unemployment benefits cut off. 

I met two of those people in Chicago 
yesterday. They have been unemployed 
for extended periods of time, and they 
have been spending literally every day 
trying to find a job. One of them has a 
little 3-year-old daughter. I asked him: 
What is going to happen now that you 
do not have your unemployment 
check? 

He said: I don’t know. The first thing 
I will do is default on my student loan. 
I will have to do that. I can’t make my 
payment if I want to put food on the 
table. 

So there are real-life consequences to 
your objection, and the real-life consequences 
are being visited on innocent 
people who, through no fault of their 
own, lost their job and cannot find one 
in an economy where we have five unemployed 
people for every job available. 


In your State of Kentucky, my State 
of Illinois, and virtually every other 
State, these people are struggling. 
Some of them have reached the end of 
the rope. They are making decisions 
you and I would never want to face 
about whether they are going to have 
to give up a home—literally give up a 
home. And it could happen. 

It is great to have a political debate 
in the Senate. We should. That is what 
the Senate is supposed to be about. But 
when the victims in the middle of the 
debate are unemployed people, I do not 
think that is fair. I do not think it is 
fundamentally fair. These people are 
trying—this one young man, David 
Seanior, showed me a list of 300 applications 
he had made to try to find a job 
during the last year. He said: I go on-
line every day. This is a man who had 
worked for years, had a strong work 
record, until he was laid off. He said: I 
just can’t find anything. I am desperate. 
I am trying everything I can 
think of, and now you are going to cut 
off my unemployment benefits. 

Frankly, we came to the Senate floor 
last Thursday night to urge the Senator 
from Kentucky to reconsider his 
objection. The net result of this is 
going to create hardship all across 
America, and it gets worse by the day. 
We estimate that roughly 2,000 more 
people tonight will lose their unemployment 
benefits in Illinois. So by 
next Sunday, instead of 15,000 losing 
their checks, it will be up to nearly 
30,000. By the end of March, the total is 
estimated to be 65,000 people who will 
lose their unemployment checks because 
of the objection of Senator 
BUNNING of Kentucky and this initiation 
of a filibuster. 

I do not think that is what we should 
do. This is an economic emergency facing 
this Nation. It is not the first time 
Senator BUNNING has been asked to extend 
unemployment benefits that were 
not paid for. See, that is his issue: You 
are not paying for the unemployment 
benefits. You should not extend it. 

Senator BUNNING voted for the fiscal 
year 2008 war supplemental bill which 
extended unemployment insurance 
benefits for 13 weeks. He also supported 
ending debate and did not object to the 
voice vote of a measure to extend unemployment 
benefits for an additional 
7 weeks for workers who exhausted 
their current compensation by March 
31, 2009. That bill also extended benefits 
for an additional 13 weeks—half the 
duration of regular unemployment 
compensation—for workers in States 
with unemployment rates of 6 percent 
or higher. Neither of the extensions he 
voted for—one in a record vote and one 
by voice vote—had any budget offsets. 
So to argue that now we are taking a 

stand on principle, the fact is, twice, at 
least—I do not know if there were more 
times—the Senator has reached an opposite 
conclusion and agreed with the 
majority, the bipartisan majority, that 
we were truly in an economic emergency. 


There is one other aspect of this 
which is troubling, and that is the first 
casualty of most people who are unemployed 
is health insurance. The employer 
is not paying it any longer. If 
you want to continue health insurance, 
COBRA lets you pay for it all, and it is 
too expensive—roughly $1,300 a month 
for health insurance for a family in my 
State of Illinois, and the unemployment 
compensation is about $1,100 a 
month. So do the math and understand 
that most people cannot do it. 

So President Obama said, as part of 
our effort to turn this economy around, 
we will help people pay for their health 
insurance through COBRA. We will pay 
I believe the figure is 65 percent of the 
premiums so people will be paying one-
third of their health insurance premiums 
when they have lost a job—still 
a substantial sum of money: $300 or 
$400 they would have to pay each 
month. But imagine if you had a sick 
child at home, and imagine that child 
needed at least the possibility of coverage 
should they be hospitalized for 
diabetes or cancer or whatever the 
cause may be. If you get a gap in coverage 
and you lose your health insurance 
because you cannot afford to 
make the payment, you could find 
yourself in a predicament where you 
not only do not have health insurance 
but the prospect of buying additional 
health insurance is next to zero. 

Senator BUNNING’s objection cut off 
this benefit, this 65-percent benefit on 
health insurance. We have tried to extend 
it for 30 days. So that means these 
people will not only lose their unemployment 
check, they will lose this 
help with their COBRA benefit. 

I have been, once in my life, in a predicament 
being a father with a sick 
child and no health insurance. Mr. 
President, I want to tell you, if there is 
something that tears you apart as a 
dad, it is going into a hospital with no 
health insurance with a sick baby. I 
have been there. I have done that. 
Thank God it happened years ago and 
my little girl made it through that episode. 


But we are forcing literally hundreds 
of thousands of Americans into this 
situation because of the objection and 
the filibuster of one Senator from Kentucky. 
That is unfair—not only unfortunate 
but unfair. If we are going to 
fight a battle over our budget deficit 
and get involved in lengthy debates, as 
we can, there are plenty of chances to 
do it. We will have a budget resolution 
in just a few months. We will have a 
score—at least a dozen—of appropriations 
bills to fight this battle over, and 
I think the battle can be joined. 

We said to the Senator from Kentucky: 
If you want to offer an amendment 
to pay for the unemployment 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S843 

benefits and the COBRA benefits, you 
are entitled to offer that amendment. 
You are entitled to come to the Senate 
floor, express your point of view on 
how this should be paid for, and to accept 
the will of the Senate. Let them 
vote on your amendment. If they agree 
with you, fine. If they disagree, it will 
be a matter of public record. You will 
have your day on the floor of the Senate, 
which is about the best most of us 
could hope for in this job. 

But the Senator from Kentucky said: 
No, I am not going to do it because I 
might lose. Well, yes, you might win 
and you might lose, and that is what 
we all face when we come forward with 
an idea on how to deal with the budget 
deficit. I do not think it is fair to insist 
that it is my way or the highway when 
it comes to something as basic as unemployment 
benefits and health care 
for the people who are unemployed 
across America. 

As I visit these unemployment offices 
and meet with these people, I find a lot 
of determined folks whom you would 
think would have given up a heck of a 
long time ago still trying. They consider 
it a victory if at the end of the 
day one of the posted jobs on the Internet 
leads to an interview. They are 
that desperate. Yet we are saying to 
them: We are going to cut off the 
money you need to feed your family in 
an effort to make a point about deficit 
reduction. That, I think, is unfortunate. 


We have asked for an extension of unemployments 
benefits repeatedly because 
we are in the worst shape in our 
economy in 75 years, and a lot of people 
are struggling to make ends meet. I 
know there are those who argue that at 
some point we have to cut off these unemployment 
benefits. But I would ask 
them to consider this as well: Unemployment 
assistance is the most direct 
infusion of money into the economy. 
Those who are economists tell us the 
first dollar you give in unemployment 
assistance is going to be spent immediately. 
It is not going to be banked, 
saved, or invested. These folks need it, 
and they will spend it the day after 
they get it, for obvious needs, and that 
creates more economic activity. 

So you are not only doing the right 
thing that a caring nation does when 
so many of us are facing hard times, it 
is an economic stimulus—No. 1, incidentally, 
by the Congressional Budget 
Office—in terms of what we can do to 
get this economy moving forward. It is 
not just a matter of helping those who 
are helpless; it is a matter of injecting 
money into the economy in the most 
efficient way. 

I am afraid this has happened before. 
The last time the Senate extended unemployment, 
the other side of the aisle 
objected three times—the leaders on 
those three occasions. Incidentally, 
that extension of unemployment benefits 
was completely paid for. So it appears 
whether it was paid for or not 
paid for, there is objection on the Republican 
side of the aisle. 

I do not get it. I do not understand it. 
President Obama is doing his best to 
get this economy moving forward. He 
inherited a weak economy that was 
losing 700,000 to 800,000 jobs a month. 
Things have improved somewhat, 
though they are not where we want 
them to be, and I believe we ought to 
be standing behind the people in our 
Nation who are struggling to find a job 
and get back to work. Many of them 
are trying to keep families together 
and care for their children. 

Last week, nearly 500,000 Americans 
filed for unemployment for the first 
time. The number surged to just below 
500,000 last week. It climbed more than 
12 percent over the past 2 weeks. I wish 
that were not the case but it is. So you 
see, the economy is still struggling. I 
believe the first thing we ought to do is 
to care for our own. If someone came to 
the floor with an emergency request 
now because of a drought, a flood, a 
hurricane, a tornado, we would honor 
it. We do that almost on a regular basis 
because at some point you say: First, 
help these poor people. Then deal with 
the budget challenge it brings at another 
time. 

But now, when it comes to helping 
our own, the citizens of this country 
who are out of work, that, unfortunately, 
is not the case. Right now over 

4.6 million Americans continue to collect 
unemployment. That is up 6,000 
from the preceding weeks—the number 
of claimants. 
In addition to the filibuster initiated 
by Senator BUNNING hurting those who 
are unemployed, it is also going to 
have an impact on the Small Business 
Administration. Most everyone agrees 
the key to bringing this economy forward 
is helping small businesses stay 
in business and create jobs. The Small 
Business Administration loans money 
to small businesses, which during difficult 
times need a helping hand. 

The Senator’s filibuster and his objection 
has closed down SBA programs 
that provide credit to small businesses. 
What are we thinking to stop assistance 
to small businesses at this moment 
in our history? Most of us believe 
this is central and essential if we are 
going to turn the corner and move forward. 
Yet the Senator from Kentucky 
has objected. 

It also has some ramifications in cutting 
back on money that is available 
for transportation. I do not know if the 
Senator is even aware of what he has 
done when it comes to his objection, 
but in my State and many others, we 
are finding that people are losing their 
jobs today. We have been running our 
Federal transportation program with 
short-term extensions since September 
30 of last year—almost 5 months. These 
stopgap extensions were underfunding 
our transportation system and hurting 
our States, cities, counties, and workers. 
The short-term extensions created 
an unstable environment in the Federal 
transportation program. 

We passed a yearlong extension in 
last week’s jobs bill, but the House 

could not pass it on time to keep the 
Transportation Department authorized. 
So we came to the floor to pass a 
30-day extension of transportation law 
along with the COBRA and unemployment 
benefits. Senator BUNNING’s objection 
has basically shut down the 
highway trust fund, the Federal highway 
trust fund. 

This is uncharted territory. We do 
not let surface transportation legislation 
expire. It has not happened before. 
The Department of Transportation is 
shutting down highway reimbursements 
to States. That means hundreds 
of millions of dollars that should be 
flowing from the Federal Treasury to 
these States are not. 

The Department of Transportation is 
furloughing nearly 2,000 employees 
without pay as of today because of Senator 
BUNNING’s objection. The Department 
of Transportation is removing 
Federal inspectors from critical construction 
projects, forcing work to stop 
on Federal lands. 

DOT’s safety agencies, such as the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
are furloughing employees 
who work on safety programs—programs 
that stop drunk driving, reduce 
traffic injuries, and increase child passenger 
safety—because of the objection 
of the Senator from Kentucky. 

In my State, we are going to lose 50 
Federal Highway Administration employees—
furloughed today. These 
workers have been instructed not to report 
to work until we pass this extension. 


Second, the Illinois Department of 
Transportation will not be receiving 
Federal reimbursement for projects because 
of this objection by the Senator 
from Kentucky. They were scheduled 
to submit the next Federal bill for reimbursement 
as of tomorrow. The Illinois 
Department of Transportation will 
submit a bill of about $25 million for 
work already completed to which they 
are entitled. But because of the objection 
of the Senator from Kentucky, 
that bill cannot be paid. There is no 
question that my State is entitled to 
it. I imagine the State of Kentucky has 
a similar situation. The question is 
whether there is anyone there to process 
it, and because of his objection, 
there is not. 

Delays in Federal reimbursements 
will make it difficult for the Illinois 
Department of Transportation to pay 
the contractors and workers on these 
projects. So the ripple effect of this is 
the money doesn’t go back to the construction 
companies or to the workers 
and their families, leading to unemployment. 


The Senator from Kentucky is opposed 
to extending unemployment 
compensation. The unemployment 
rate, incidentally, in the construction 
industry is 24 percent nationwide. Laying 
off more construction workers at 
this time is exactly the opposite of 
what we ought to be doing in this economy. 
Future work on Illinois transportation 
projects could be in jeopardy if 


S844 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

we do not pass an extension. The Illinois 
Department of Transportation is 
scheduled to release the largest bid 
lettings on April 23 for projects underway 
this construction season, and so 
the construction season will be delayed. 


I am trying to give the whole picture. 
As we wait for the Senator from Kentucky 
to agree to a short-term extension 
of these critical programs, we are 
jeopardizing jobs, more people will be 
unemployed, and we are jeopardizing 
future projects which will be shortchanged 
because construction seasons 
are limited. 

This 1-month extension of transportation 
law—and that is all we are asking 
for—has already had overwhelming 
bipartisan support in the past, and the 
1-month extension itself costs nothing. 
Last week, we passed a 1-year transportation 
fix as part of the jobs bill. 

The following groups have written 
letters urging us to move on this extension: 
the American Association of 
State Highway and Transportation Officials, 
the American Road and Transportation 
Builders Association, the Associated 
General Contractors of America, 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 
the Laborers International Union, and 
the American Automobile Association. 

The House did its work last week and 
passed this 30-day extension, sending it 
over to us, where we learned Thursday 
night that the Senator from Kentucky 
was going to object. Nine of us took to 
the floor Thursday night and made a 
request several times for him to withdraw 
his objection, which he refused to 
do. I made another request on Friday 
morning on the floor and the Senator 
continued his objection and then several 
today. 

So I am going to make the 11th request 
of the Senator from Kentucky, 
on behalf of the people I represent in Illinois, 
some 15,000 who have lost their 
unemployment checks because of his 
filibuster, and 400,000 across America 
who are wondering: What happened? 
What did we do wrong here? Why aren’t 
we receiving the check we need for the 
necessities of life? 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the immediate 
consideration of H.R. 4691, the 
30-day extension of provisions which 
expired on Sunday, February 28, including 
unemployment insurance, 
COBRA, flood insurance, the Satellite 
Home Viewer Act, highway funding, 
SBA business loans and small business 
provisions of the American Recovery 
Act, SGR and poverty guidelines, received 
from the House and at the desk; 
that the bill be read three times, 
passed, and the motions to reconsider 
be made and laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. BUNNING. I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, keep in 
mind we have repeatedly offered to the 
Senator from Kentucky an opportunity 

for a vote: Bring your approach to the 
floor. Let the Senate decide. Accept 
the decision of the Senate, win or lose. 
That is the most any Senator can ask 
for. Yet he wants more. He wants a 
guarantee that he wins. Well, there is 
no guarantee you win in the Senate. 
There is no guarantee you win in baseball. 
You do the best you can. Under 
these circumstances, I think what we 
have reached is a point that is difficult 
to understand and explain. 

I would like to invite my Republican 
colleagues—all of them—to come to 
the floor and express themselves on 
this. If they believe we should cut off 
unemployment benefits, health insurance 
benefits, close down the U.S. Department 
of Transportation’s work in 
the States, close down the SBA programs 
for small businesses, I hope they 
will come and express that point of 
view. They should, if they feel that 
way. If they feel, as I do, that this is 
unfair and unfortunate, if they will 
come forward and join us on the floor, 
we can try to build up some momentum 
for moving this issue forward. 

There are people in every State of 
the Union who are suffering today because 
of the objection of one Senator, 
because of the filibuster of one Senator, 
and that is a sad indication of 
what has happened in the Senate; that 
we have reached this point and that 
even offering an up-or-down vote on an 
amendment is not enough. 

What the Senator is looking for is a 
guaranteed result. We can’t give him 
that guaranteed result. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Kentucky. 

Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, it is 
amazing to me the Senator from Illinois 
has what we call a convenient 
memory. Just last week there was a bipartisan 
bill proposed by Senator BAUCUS 
and Senator GRASSLEY that would 
have covered the extension of unemployment 
benefits, COBRA health care 
assistance, flood insurance, highway 
bill assistance, the doc fix, small business 
loans, and the Rural Satellite Television 
Viewer Act. The convenient 
memory loss of the Senator from Illinois 
has allowed him to forget that his 
leader, Senator REID, did not allow 
that bill to come to the floor and instead 
substituted his jobs bill. The majority 
leader’s jobs bill was also not 
fully paid for, by the way. Ten billion 
dollars wasn’t; five billion dollars was. 
So $10 billion from the jobs bill that 
was passed went to the bottom of the 
deficit. 

There comes a time when 100 Senators 
are for something we all support, 
if we can’t find $10 billion to pay for it, 
we are not going to pay for anything. 
We will not pay for anything fully on 
the floor of the Senate. 

He said I only offered one way to pay 
for this. That is untrue. I offered more 
than one way. I negotiated with the 
leader—the leader’s staff, rather—and 
we had worked out a 2-week extension 
for $5 billion with a different pay-for. 

The debt we have arrived at, even the 
head of the Federal Reserve Bank, 
Chairman Bernanke, said is not sustainable. 
It is unsustainable. What does 
that mean to the American people, to 
the same people who are struggling to 
pay for bills, who are on unemployment, 
who could have been covered had 
the Baucus-Grassley bill been considered 
and could have been covered not 
for 30 days but for 3 months? Because 
there were some tax extenders in that 
bill, the Democratic majority stopped 
the bill from being considered. 

I am not filibustering the bill. A filibuster 
is somebody who talks a long 
time. I am exercising my right as a 
Senator, duly elected from Kentucky, 
to object to a UC. That is completely 
different than filibustering. Everybody 
knows a Member of this body, any 100 
of us can object to anything that is 
brought to the floor of the Senate, 
whether it be a nominee, whether it be 
a judge, whether it be somebody who is 
appointed to the Treasury. Anybody 
can object. There is a procedure that 
takes place that can overcome that objection. 
Why doesn’t the Democratic 
majority use that procedure? 

So I am going to take one more shot. 
As long as we continue to have the extenders 
being brought forth unpaid for, 
I am going to object. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the immediate 
consideration of H.R. 4691; 
that the amendment at the desk, which 
offers a full offset, be agreed to; the 
bill, as amended, be read a third time 
and passed, and the motions to reconsider 
be laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, reserving 
the right to object, the Senator, 
again, is asking that he win without a 
vote. I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

Mr. BUNNING. Mr. President, we 
tried and we will continue trying. As 
many people who get up and propose 
that UC, I will be there, whenever it is. 
I want it passed as badly as the Senator 
from Illinois does because I also 
have people in Kentucky who have the 
same problems as his people do in Illinois. 
All the States that are represented 
by two Senators do as well, 
but let’s do it and pay for it because 
the money is available in many areas. 
The money was available for the Grassley-
Baucus bill, which extended things 
for a year, in some cases, and extended 
these provisions I am talking about 
and the Senator from Illinois is talking 
about for a full 3 months. We would not 
be in this position if the Senator from 
Nevada had allowed that bill to come 
to the floor. 

Thank you. I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Republican 
whip. 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, until my 
voice gives out, I wish to address the 
bill that is on the floor. The bill has 
been denominated by my colleagues on 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S845 

the Democratic side as a jobs bill, but 
it will not create any new jobs and 
when considered in conjunction with 
the health care legislation the President 
has proposed will actually cost 
jobs and I wish to address that. 

This legislation extends some current 
provisions of law, including tax provisions, 
unemployment compensation, 
COBRA insurance. It extends a provision 
of Federal subsidies to the States 
for Medicaid, and there are a few other 
provisions. None of these create new 
jobs. The tax extenders are useful. 
That is our Washington, DC, speak for 
provisions of the Tax Code that last 1 
year and have to be renewed each year. 
They are generally used to enable businesses 
to deduct from their taxes ordinary 
business expenses and include 
things such as research and development 
tax credits which I think are supported 
by all 100 Senators. So we do 
this every year. We extend these tax 
provisions for another year. It should 
have been done at the end of last year; 
it wasn’t. So it has to be done now and 
made retroactive to the beginning of 
the year. One could argue that some of 
those may theoretically create a few 
jobs, but they are something we do 
every year, and they are not for the 
purpose of creating jobs; they are simply 
good business practices. So this bill 
takes on the usual business of the Senate. 
There is nothing new, as I said, to 
create jobs. 

What of the subject of unemployment 
coverage extension which we have just 
been debating? That doesn’t create new 
jobs. In fact, if anything, continuing to 
pay people unemployment compensation 
is a disincentive for them to seek 
new work. I am sure most of them 
would like work and probably have 
tried to seek it, but you can’t argue it 
is a job enhancer. If anything, as I said, 
it is a disincentive and the same thing 
with the COBRA extension and the 
other extensions here. So it is not a 
jobs bill, and it is beyond me how it 
could be denominated as such. 

Moreover—and the reason for my colleague’s 
objection to the temporary 
bill—the Congressional Budget Office 
preliminary estimate shows this bill 
adds $104 billion to the deficit over the 
next 10 years, and that is in addition to 
the $10 billion that would be added that 
my colleague, Senator BUNNING, has 
been talking about. This number is primarily 
due to the extension of unemployment 
insurance, the expanded 
COBRA extension, and the new Federal 
assistance to States for Medicaid patients. 
These are given emergency designations. 
As a result, we don’t have to 
supply an offset, a spending reduction, 
to pay for the cost of these provisions. 

This comes just a week after our 
Democratic colleagues were bragging 
about the fact that they passed a bill 
called the pay-go bill. 

The pay-go bill is supposed to require 
that if we are going to spend money, 
we find an offset in the form of a spending 
deduction or revenue enhancement 
that covers the cost of that new spend


ing. We predicted that as soon as we 
passed the pay-go legislation, our 
Democratic colleagues would come to 
the floor and seek to have their next 
legislation exempted from it. Sure 
enough, that is exactly what was done. 

Both the matter Senator BUNNING 
has objected to and the bill we are on 
now have to be exempted from the pay-
go requirements and, therefore, add to 
the Federal deficit—in this case, $104 
billion. Some of these provisions are 
useful provisions. But the truth is you 
can’t, on the one hand, say everything 
we do has to be offset with spending 
cuts or tax increases and then waive 
the pay-go legislation every time you 
want to do it—as it turns out so far, 
every time we have considered legislation. 


The reality is, we could pay for this 
legislation and, as Senator BUNNING 
said, we could pay for the so-called 
temporary extension of unemployment 
benefits because we have money we authorized 
and appropriated earlier in the 
so-called stimulus bill which would 
more than offset the cost of this legislation. 
Republicans, of course, would 
like to offer an amendment to pay for 
it from the stimulus funds. According 
to recovery.gov, the Web site for the 
stimulus bill, only $186 billion of the 
$499 billion in appropriated and direct 
spending from the stimulus has been 
spent so far. 

That means $313 billion or 63 percent 
remains unspent. So $160 billion of 
these funds hasn’t even been made 
available to be spent yet. 

The original CBO estimate of the 
stimulus shows 21 percent of the 
money, $122 billion of the appropriated 
and direct spending, will not occur 
until 2012 or thereafter. We have an immediate 
crisis. Our Democratic colleagues 
say we have to extend unemployment 
insurance. In fact, it is such 
an immediate crisis, they have to 
waive the pay-go requirements that 
would ordinarily apply because it is an 
emergency. 

If that is the case, then why not simply 
take this money that isn’t going to 
be spent until after 2012 and pay for the 
legislation that is before us right now? 
Why would we put aside stimulus 
money to spend in 2012 when people 
need it today? That is the very argument 
my colleague from Illinois was 
making to my colleague from Kentucky. 
Why pile on the deficit if we 
have this money available? Therefore, 
my colleague from Kentucky made a 
good point when he suggested this 
money should be paid for out of the 
stimulus funding. I am sorry to see my 
Democratic colleagues object to that 
request. 

The conclusion is, therefore, the bill 
will do nothing to create new jobs. 
What is more, when considered in conjunction 
with the health care legislation, 
it will actually cause a loss of 
jobs. 

The President, who talked about his 
plan last Thursday at the so-called 
health care summit, noted that the bill 

costs a lot of money and, therefore, 
they had to raise taxes in order to pay 
for it. Among other things, the President’s 
plan, unlike the plan that passed 
the House or the Senate, would raise 
the Medicare payroll tax on small businesses. 
It would raise taxes by 31 percent. 
It would also apply the Medicare 
payroll tax to investment income, such 
as interest, dividends, rent, and royalties. 


We all know if you tax something, 
you get less of it. Taxing investment 
income would, therefore, reduce investment 
in the economy. Putting a tax on 
the employment of people means businesses 
are going to hire fewer people or 
there are going to be fewer people on 
their payroll. We cannot afford to lose 
more people to unemployment. We 
need to begin hiring people. How do we 
do that? You surely don’t do it by making 
it more costly to employ people or 
by increasing by almost one-third the 
Medicare payroll tax. That makes no 
sense. To apply it now to investment 
income will directly drive down productivity 
and economic growth. Less 
investment will, obviously, lead to 
lower productivity, slower economic 
growth, weaker wages and salaries, and 
lower household wealth. 

For example, each new dollar of tax 
paid by a small business is one less dollar 
that could go toward hiring new 
employees. 

The Heritage Foundation just did a 
study on this proposal. It found that 
between 2011 and 2020, regarding this 
investment income proposal alone, it 
would result in an average of 115,000 
lost job opportunities per year; it 
would reduce household disposable income 
by $17.3 billion per year; it would 
cut wages and salaries by $14 billion 
per year; and it would decrease household 
wealth by $267 billion per year. 

Last week, Congress passed a new 
job-hiring tax credit. With great fanfare, 
my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle said this is the way to help 
small businesses hire more people. The 
whole idea was to put more people to 
work. The very same week, the President 
announces his health care proposal 
that will make it harder for people 
to go back to work. If the goal is to 
get more people to work, I submit that 
my Democratic friends should shelve 
their health care plan, which will have 
the opposite result. It is very hard to 
justify legislation that is going to hurt 
job creation. 

As I say, when you consider the fact 
that, No. 1, the bill before us creates no 
new jobs—and I challenge my Democratic 
friends to show us how doing 
what we always do and what was done 
last year—extending the R&D tax credit, 
extending COBRA insurance, extending 
unemployment benefits—creates 
jobs. What is the estimate for job 
creation by the CBO on this? It can’t 
be very much. 

Finally, my colleague from Illinois, 
in responding to Senator BUNNING a little 
bit ago, said Republicans always object—
and we have many times on previous 
occasions—to the consideration 


S846 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

of unemployment legislation. I recall 
back in October—in fact, I will quote 
from a story, dated October 13, 2009, by 
Dan Friedman. He says: 

Last Thursday, Democrats announced a 
deal that gave all 50 States a 14-week extension. 


I think that was about three extensions 
ago. I have forgotten exactly. 

The Senate Finance Committee Chairman, 
Max Baucus, within hours of that sought 
unanimous consent to pass the bill. Even 
though Republicans had already indicated 
that they would object so that they could try 
to amend the bill to replace the extension of 
the tax or to provide a pay-for in the Democrats’ 
plan with the use of stimulus money. 

It noted the fact that I had also 
asked that we see the CBO score on 
that. It noted that Senators REID, BAUCUS, 
and other Democrats quickly 
bashed Republicans: ‘‘The delay is a 
threat to millions of workers struggling 
to feed their families as they retain 
or search for new jobs,’’ my friend, 
the chairman of the committee, said. 

Earlier in this particular article—I 
will read how it starts off: 

Senate Democrats in recent weeks have repeatedly 
used unanimous consent agreement 
requests to rack up talking points against 
Senate Republicans—a tactic that GOP aides 
said the majority is using deceptively to 
blame Republicans rather than internal disputes 
for stalled legislation. Senate leaders 
have long used the tactic of asking for unanimous 
consent to pass legislation they know 
will draw an objection from the minority and 
then blasting the objectors for obstruction. 

I fear that is what we are seeing here. 
Immediately after Democrats, behind 
closed doors, develop legislation, they 
immediately come to the floor and say: 
Let’s pass it, and Republicans say: 
Let’s at least see how much it costs 
and give us a chance to amend it. We 
thought the Democrats liked to do 
that. Oh, no, we cannot have that, not 
when it applies to unemployment extension. 


That is all my colleague from Kentucky 
is trying to do. As I said, that is 
$10 billion not paid for. The bill before 
us is another $104 billion not paid for, 
and it doesn’t create a single new job. 
Yet my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle are unwilling to use stimulus 
money to pay for it. 

I will be very interested, when we do 
have an opportunity to amend the bill 
before us—I assume we will, and I assume 
one of those will be to pay for the 
bill with the stimulus funds—maybe we 
can make it clear these are not funds 
that would be spent until after the 
year 2012. It will be interesting to see if 
my Senate colleagues who support pay-
go would support that kind of amendment. 
After all, if this is supposed to be 
a stimulus bill for job creation, you 
would think it could be used for that 
purpose. 

I hope my colleagues will consider 
that every time we pass one of these 
bills, we are adding to the deficit and 
we are not creating new jobs. It is a legitimate 
point for Republicans to 
make. I hope we will have the opportunity 
to address that subject with 
amendments as this bill goes forward. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana is recognized. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, the Senator 
from Arizona argues that unemployment 
insurance is a disincentive to 
jobs. Nothing could be further from the 
truth. I don’t think anybody who is out 
of work and receiving unemployment 
insurance believes that payment is sufficient 
not to find a job. The payments 
are so much lower than a salary or 
wage would be, it is ridiculous. There 
are five unemployed Americans today 
for every job opening in the economy— 
five unemployed Americans who are 
looking for work but cannot find it. 
That is the case and has been the case 
for a long time. People are looking for 
work. They are not unemployed because 
they have a choice. It is because 
of the recession that struck and the 
economy. It is not because people don’t 
want to work. 

An additional point. Many of us 
asked the CBO to rank what measures 
would be most effective in helping the 
economy. The one they came up with 
was unemployment benefits because 
unemployment benefits generate about 
$1.90 in GDP growth for every $1 we 
paid out in terms of unemployment 
benefits. 

I wished to make the point—and I 
don’t know if the Senator meant this, 
but he strongly implied it, and I took 
him to mean that unemployment insurance 
is a disincentive for people to 
look for work. I don’t think it is because 
the benefits are so low and so 
many are looking for work—it is the 
economy or recession that cost us jobs. 

Mr. KYL. If my colleague will yield, 
I said it is not a job creator. If anything, 
it could be argued it is a disincentive 
for work because people are 
being paid even though they are not 
working. I certainly did not say, and 
would never imply, that the reason 
people don’t have jobs is because they 
are not looking for them. It is true 
that a lot of Americans have gotten so 
tired of looking for jobs or believe they 
are not going to find them that they 
have stopped looking and, as a result, 
the unemployment numbers are probably 
higher than the roughly 10 percent 
that is quoted now. Some people believe 
it could be as much as 17 percent. 
This is why I have supported every extension 
of unemployment benefits. I 
have voted for them. As my colleague 
says, there are five people looking for 
every job that exists. If they cannot 
get the jobs, they needed support. 

But what I said is true, and if my colleague 
can find a source that says it is 
not true, show me. But providing unemployment 
benefits doesn’t create 
jobs. The bill we have before us is denominated 
around here as a jobs bill. 
That is the biggest single expenditure 
in the bill, and it doesn’t create jobs. 

Mr. BAUCUS. I appreciate that. I 
have a question. First of all, unemployment 
benefits in Montana are about 
$300 a month. That is all. It is $300 a 
month in Montana. I know doggone 
well that is not enough to keep any


body going very long. Lots of folks are 
looking for jobs, and they are not 
available. Failure to pass the extenders 
bill could be fairly stated as a job destroyer 
because there are so many people 
who have taken advantage of many 
provisions of the bill—for example, the 
R&D tax credit, which the Senator 
mentioned, and there are other provisions 
in the bill, such as the teachers 
expense, for example, and there is a deduction 
for tuition. Take unemployment. 
Say unemployment insurance 
was not continued. That would be a 
huge drag on the economy. If the provisions 
we are seeking merely to extend 
were not passed, it would be a job destroyer. 


The President’s office said, and many 
commentators have often said, our goal 
is to save or create so many jobs. It is 
hard to know what is saved or created 
sometimes. But we certainly want to 
save jobs too. We don’t want the recession 
to be worse. Failure to pass this 
legislation is certainly going to cause 
tremendous hardship on a lot of Americans, 
and it would be a disincentive for 
the economy to turn around. It would 
be a disincentive for unemployment 
rates to come down to a lower level 
that we all find acceptable. Failure to 
pass this bill is a jobs destroyer. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I respond to 
my colleague, the point I was making 
is that it is hard to describe this as a 
jobs bill because it does not create 
jobs. Each year, we extend these tax 
provisions. That is why we in Washington 
call it the tax extenders bill. 
This is not some new job creator. I 
agree with my colleague that to the extent 
we continue this in practice— 
though everybody who takes advantage 
of it knows it will be extended. So they 
have not made decisions based upon 
the prospect that we are not going to 
do it. They know we are going to do it 
retroactively, so it is not creating any 
new jobs. I support the extension. I 
think it is a good thing. But let’s don’t 
call it a jobs bill. 

By contrast, as I said, the health care 
legislation my colleague supports is a 
job killer. I pointed out just one provision: 
115,000 jobs per year lost just because 
of the one provision taxing the 
so-called passive income, the dividends. 
And we are not even sure whether capital 
gains are taxed in that. Their estimate 
may even be low. 

The reality is, if we are really talking 
about saving or creating jobs, let’s 
forget this massive health care legislation 
that now adds two more job-killing 
provisions to it: a 31-percent increase 
in the payroll tax and taxing for 
the first time passive income as a part 
of Medicare. That is a job killer. 

If we are going to talk about jobs 
with regard to the legislation we have 
before us, I think it is a fair point to 
also talk about legislation our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle 
want very much to try to get passed. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I don’t 
want to prolong this too long, but the 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S847 

fact is, the President’s Council of Economic 
Advisers has concluded this legislation; 
that is, the health care reform 
legislation which is not before us right 
now, actually would create jobs, new 
jobs. That is the conclusion of the economic 
advisers. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alabama. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3337 TO AMENDMENT NO. 3336 

(Purpose: To reduce the deficit by 

establishing discretionary spending caps) 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I have 
at the desk amendment No. 3337. I ask 
for its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Alabama [Mr. SESSIONS], 
for himself and Mrs. MCCASKILL, proposes an 
amendment numbered 3337 to amendment 
No. 3336. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the reading of 
the amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(The amendment is printed in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’) 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this is 
the Sessions-McCaskill amendment, offered 
with Senator MCCASKILL, my colleague 
from Missouri. It is a bipartisan 
amendment, and it is one that I think 
is very important. I hope my colleagues 
will give it serious consideration. 
We have close to enough votes to 
make it law. I am absolutely convinced 
it is one thing that will work to reduce 
the surging deficits in our country. 

The week before last, I traveled my 
State of Alabama—25 stops, 6 days of 
travel. People continually expressed to 
me their concern about the financial 
future of our country. They want us to 
do something about it. 

I heard some of my colleagues express 
things like: This is just populist 
anger. It will pass off. We need to keep 
a cool head here. We don’t really have 
to change how we do business. Things 
are going to work out somehow, someway, 
although nothing in the numbers 
show that. 

Mr. Bernanke, the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve, said last week in his 
testimony before Congress that our 
path is unsustainable. That is not the 
first time he said that. Virtually every 
economist who has opined in the last 6 
months or more on our economy has 
said our spending levels are 
unsustainable and threaten the viability 
of our country’s economic system. 
It is very troubling. We all know that, 
and we do not need to go into a whole 
lot of discussion about it. 

The gross debt of our country has 
grown to approximately $12 trillion— 
the highest in our Nation’s history. 
Some of this is internal debt. We owe 
Social Security and Medicare and 
other trust funds that may be in surplus. 
But we also owe trillions on the 
public debt—the amount of debt this 
country owes outside the government. 
Within 5 years our public debt will double, 
and in 10 years the public debt will 

triple. I will show a chart on that point 
before I go into the details of it. One of 
the consequences of the public debt is 
that we pay interest and we have to get 
nations or individuals to loan us their 
money by buying our Treasury bills, 
bonds and notes. When they give us 
their money, this is not free. We have 
to pay them interest on all of the debt 
we run up. This bill that is on the floor 
today will add to the debt again because 
it is not paid for. 

This chart is what we get in stunning 
numbers. It shows that in 2009, interest 
on the public debt—the debt we owe to 
people outside our government—was 
$187 billion. The Congressional Budget 
Office scores it based on the 10-year 
budget President Obama submitted to 
us. If his budget is in effect for 10 
years, the deficit would go up every 
single year. The debt will continue to 
go up every single year, and in the out-
years the annual deficits will approach 
$1 trillion each year. The interest on 
the debt in 1 year would be $799 billion. 
That is well above the current defense 
budget. Aid to education is $50 billion 
or $60 billion. State and Federal aid to 
highways last year and the year before 
last was $40 billion. Mr. President, $800 
billion in interest in 1 year? It is a 
stunning number, a breathtaking number. 
It is going to crowd out all kinds 
of plans some of my spending colleagues 
would like to effectuate in future 
years because we are not going to 
have the money or else we are going to 
inflate the currency and damage this 
economy in a most systemic way. 

This disturbing trend of higher and 
higher deficits and deficit spending 
shows no sign of stopping. As of September 
30, the end of our fiscal year, 
we finished with a record $1.4 trillion 
deficit. That is more than three times 
the highest deficit we have ever had. It 
is projected that as of September 30 of 
this year we will have a $1.4 trillion or 
$1.5 trillion deficit this year, which 
would be the highest ever again in consecutive 
years. It is stunning. We cannot 
continue to spend the way we are 
spending. 

Between 1990 and 2002, however, Congress 
took some steps that actually 
worked to help get us out of a spiral of 
spending deficits. It was successful. 
What we did was we passed statutory 
caps on discretionary spending only, 
not Social Security, Medicare and 
those kinds of programs. We kept it to 
1 to 2 percent growth each year. As this 
chart shows, these caps led to a surplus. 
The chart is upside down really. 
These are the surplus years. These are 
the deficit years. During these years, 
we begin to show a decline in deficits, 
all the way to the surpluses. When it 
expired, it jumped up again. This looks 
like a high deficit, and it was a very 
high deficit in 2004. That was about the 
highest, at that point $400 billion. 

I just made the point that this past 
fiscal year, it was $1,400 billion and 
next year it is going to be $1,500 billion. 
We lost some discipline when we allowed 
those statutory caps or spending 
levels to be breached and go away. 

This amendment Senator MCCASKILL 
and I have offered both restores and 
strengthens the procedures that were 
proven to work in the 1990s. It would 
create 4-year discretionary spending 
caps or limits, and it would set those 
limits at the level of the fiscal year 
2010 budget resolution Congress passed 
last year. 

Last year, we passed a budget resolution, 
not 10 years as proposed by President 
Obama but 5 years. It is currently 
in effect. One of the things you learn 
around here is the only part of the 
budget that has any teeth is the year 
you are in. The discretionary spending 
on the omnibus bill that covered half 
the appropriations bills contained an 
increase of 12 percent. We are not doing 
a very good job at that. The budget has 
no teeth in these outer years. The 
amendment proposes, though, a fairly 
responsible spending increase of 2 percent 
or so a year over these 4 years. 

One could say: Senator SESSIONS, 
your State is cutting its budget. My 
State is having to reduce its budget. 
My city is reducing its budget. My 
county is reducing its budget. My family 
is reducing our budget. Why can’t 
you guys reduce the budget? And the 
answer is, we can, of course. 

Some have suggested and the President 
has suggested that we should have 
a freeze on the budget, which I would 
support. But I am just saying to my 
colleagues, last year our discretionary 
spending accounts had double digit increases; 
if we pass this amendment so 
that we have a statutory limit of 1 to 
2 percent increases for the next 4 years 
and it is subject to a two-thirds vote 
point of order in the Congress if there 
is a proposal to go above that on the 
basis of some emergency need, I think 
we will have a much better chance of 
making the kinds of tough decisions to 
contain this ever-growing spending 
level than we have been doing in the 
last several years. 

The Omnibus appropriations bill that 
passed last year increased Federal 
spending 12 percent in 1 year. That is a 
lot. At 7 percent, your money will double 
in 10 years. At 12 percent, the 
spending in those accounts would double 
in 6 or 7 years, no doubt about it, 
unless something is done about those 
trends. 

I think this legislation Senator 
MCCASKILL and I have offered will get 
us there. I was pleased to see that 17 
Democratic Senators voted for the bill 
because I think there is a growing bipartisan 
consensus that we can do better. 


A 2-percent containment in the 
growth of spending will not cause the 
United States to sink into the ocean. 
We are still going to exist. The American 
people are still going to have a 
government in Washington. There are 
still going to be bureaucrats here to 
take care of us if we just have a 2-percent 
growth in the discretionary account 
instead of 12 or whatever that 
number was last year. 

I note that the President suggested 
freezing some of the accounts. Though 


S848 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

there are some very significant gimmicks 
in it that make it much less 
tight than it would appear from his 
State of the Union Address, it still indicates 
that the President himself 
knows we have to reduce our spending, 
and in some of these accounts we could 
easily freeze them with no damage to 
our Nation. I salute him for that. 

This bill would create spending limits, 
not based on what JEFF SESSIONS 
says the limit should be, but these are 
the limits in the President’s budget, 
that first 5 years of it that he proposed 
and that Congress passed last year. We 
would be simply saying this would be a 
hard limit on how much we can spend. 
Now if we need to spend more than 
that on an emergency, we would have 
to have strong support in the Congress 
to create an emergency designation to 
spend above that. We have been able to 
do that many times in the past when a 
true emergency arrived. 

Some say: JEFF, you are focusing too 
much on the discretionary spending. 
Entitlements are bigger—Social Security, 
Medicare, those kind of things— 
and they are a bigger problem than discretionary 
spending. Well, there are 
three reasons we have to act on discretionary 
spending. One is that while entitlements, 
such as Social Security and 
Medicare, are large, they actually have 
a net surplus right now. In fact, Congress 
raided $137 billion from Social Security 
in fiscal year 2009 to pay for 
other things, such as the $800 billion 
stimulus package that we passed—that 
Congress passed—last year. 

Of course, a $137 billion Social Security 
surplus won’t pay for the 
Congress’s $800 billion stimulus package, 
so where did the rest of the money 
come from? We borrowed it on the 
world market, on which we are paying 
interest. And what about the Social Security 
surplus; is that free money? No, 
it is not, because Social Security is 
heading to default. When we take the 
Social Security surplus into the U.S. 
Treasury and spend it on increasing 
discretionary spending by 12 percent, 
we give them back a debt instrument, 
an IOU—a Treasury bond. 

I am told they are in some location 
in West Virginia. I am sure the chairman 
of the committee knows that but 
I want to go out and see them. They 
have notes out there, Treasury bills, 
evidencing the debt of the U.S. Treasury 
to the Social Security Administration. 
As soon as Social Security goes 
into deficit, it is going to call those 
notes. So it does not make much difference 
whether you borrowed it from 
Social Security or you borrowed it 
from the public. The interest rates are 
very similar, too. The government pays 
interest to Social Security and Medicare, 
when Medicare has a surplus. 

It is projected that Congress will raid 
another $90 billion in 2010—this year we 
are in—to pay for things such as this 
omnibus bill that is on the floor: for increased 
transportation and HUD funding, 
which went up 23 percent; create 
more funding for the State and foreign 

operations accounts, which went up 33 
percent this year, for a record $1.4 trillion 
deficit last year, and a projected 
$1.4-plus trillion for fiscal year 2010. All 
of that was driven not by deficits in 
Medicare and Social Security but from 
a discretionary spending account. 

Our appropriators are always saying 
the problem is all Social Security and 
Medicare. But the truth is, almost 
without exception, we have had surpluses 
in those accounts and we are 
spending that to supplement our general 
fund spending. We give evidence of 
debt back to our seniors from Medicare 
and Social Security, which the actuaries 
tell us, without any doubt, will 
soon be in deficit. We are going to call 
those notes, and the Treasury will have 
to come up with it. 

So there is no free lunch. Nothing 
comes from nothing. If you spend 
money you don’t have, you borrow it 
from somewhere. You can print money, 
I suppose, and devalue the currency. 
But everybody has the value, and the 
money in their pocket is devalued. It is 
the same as a tax. There is no way to 
do this in a free way. We have been irresponsible, 
and I think the American 
people are correct. 

When I go to townhall meetings, 
what can I tell them? Oh, we didn’t do 
anything wrong. The Senate and the 
House, we have been handling your 
money fine, my fellow Alabamian. We 
have done great. Don’t complain. Don’t 
get mad. You will get over it. 

We have an $800 billion interest payment 
coming up in 2019 and our children 
and grandchildren are going to 
pay that. Yet when Senator BUNNING 
asks that unemployment insurance be 
paid for out of this unspent $800 billion 
stimulus and not add it to the debt, 
which our grandchildren will pay, he 
was able to say with some personal 
conviction—with 42 grandchildren— 
that he wasn’t going to vote for it, and 
he didn’t. He didn’t support it and he 
didn’t agree to let it pass without an 
objection. He said we should have paid 
for it, and we could have paid for it out 
of the stimulus. 

Another reason I think we need to 
focus on discretionary spending is because, 
unlike the entitlements, such as 
Social Security and Medicare, discretionary 
spending has overhead. There 
is some, but really very little overhead 
in Social Security and Medicare. And 
we can do better. I know Chairman 
BAUCUS has worked on Medicare overhead. 
I don’t know how much can be 
squeezed out of Social Security overhead; 
not a lot, because most of it is 
that check that goes out to seniors, 
who count on it every month. But 
there is overhead in discretionary 
spending—all the things we spend our 
money on. Trust me, I have been in the 
Federal Government; I have worked 
there. I know it can be made more efficient. 


This past year, we increased spending 
on the Department of the Interior and 
EPA by 17 percent total. I think the 
EPA account went up 33 percent. In 1 

year they got a 33-percent increase in 
their budget. And by the by, this does 
not include any of the $800 billion stimulus 
funds that were allocated—about 
half of which has gone out. It doesn’t 
include that. EPA got money out of 
that, Interior got money out of that, 
highways got money out of that—large 
amounts. We are seeing unprecedented 
increases in spending in these accounts. 


Consider the Department of Agriculture. 
I remember people criticized 
President Bush for spending too much 
money on Agriculture. If you look at 
his Agriculture budget over the 8 years 
he was President, it averaged less than 
a 2-percent increase. Last year, our Agriculture 
budget—not counting the 
stimulus package, which sent a large 
amount to Agriculture—increased 15 
percent. I always try to support the 
Agriculture budget, but I could not 
support that. That would double the 
entire agriculture spending in, what, 5 
years, at compounded increases. It is 
not responsible. We have to do better. 

The American people, I think, are 
upset. This recent CNN poll asked a 
tough question of the voters in America: 
Which of the following comes closer 
to your view of the budget deficit— 
the government should run a deficit if 
necessary when the country is in a recession 
and at war, or the government 
should balance the budget even when 
the country is in a recession and is at 
war? Sixty-seven percent said balance 
the budget, you guys. Because they 
have heard these excuses before. They 
have heard all of it before. What they 
are seeing is red ink as far as the eye 
can see, with record deficits above anything 
we have ever seen. That is what 
I am hearing when I go out and talk to 
my constituents. And frankly, I am 
glad I don’t have to defend having 
voted for this stimulus package. I am 
glad I don’t have to defend the $700 billion 
Wall Street bailout, and $182 billion 
going to AIG. They sold off one of 
their most profitable companies, or are 
talking about it, I saw in the paper 
today, and they are going to bring in 
$35 billion. They are going to use a 
chunk of that to pay down some of that 
$182 billion debt. But if they keep selling 
off what they have, how will they 
have any money to pay the rest of it? 
I think they are not going to pay the 
rest of it. 

Finally, I will add that spending billions, 
adding billions to the baseline 
budget, makes a big difference. I made 
this chart for the DOD appropriations 
bill. It is an interesting little chart. I 
hope my colleague can pay a little attention 
to this weird, fine print chart. 
It shows what happens when there was 
gimmicked up on the bill an $18 billion 
add-on, all unpaid for. There was $18 
billion added to the Defense bill. If this 
gets in as baseline spending, which is 
what it tends to do, then next year 
when you advertise how much you increase 
the Defense bill, you have this 
$18 billion in and it adds up, so that 
next year it is not just $18 billion, it is 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S849 

the $18 billion additional money that is 
in the baseline from the previous year 
and then you add another $18 billion. 
Let’s say, hypothetically, you jack it 
up each year by $18 billion, and the net 
deficit is $36 billion; and then next it is 
$36 billion plus $18 billion; and the next 
year it is $54 billion plus $18 billion; 
and the next year it is $72 billion plus 
$18 billion. You carry that out to the 
tenth year, and it is $162 billion plus 
$18 billion, or $180 billion extra for the 
Defense budget in 1 year, which is 
about $990 billion over 10 years. 

So an $18 billion addition, or failure 
to contain the growth in a discretionary 
account, has tremendous ramifications 
over the years. It is this kind 
of psychology that has led us into this 
mess. Some of our appropriators and 
others in this Congress, I think, have 
felt a thrill if they can beat the limit 
on their account. If they have been 
given an account, and they get $80 billion 
or $100 billion to spend they can 
figure a way to gimmick it up $18 billion 
or $5 billion or $7 billion, and they 
can maneuver it through and then tell 
you when the bill hits the floor: Well, 
if you don’t vote for it, Sessions, you 
are against agriculture and people back 
home are going to attack you because 
you voted against agriculture. And I 
say: Well, Mr. Senator, you put too 
much money in there. I can’t vote for 
it; there is too big an increase. Therefore, 
you are either for agriculture or 
you are against agriculture. 

What they said to Senator BUNNING 
down here the other night, when he 
said unemployment insurance should 
be paid for, was: You are against unemployment 
insurance. You do not want 
people to have any unemployment insurance. 
That was absolutely false. 
They repeated it over and over and 
over again. But he stood like a solid 
rock and he didn’t give in. He said: I 
am not agreeing to it because you 
could pay for it, and it is increasing 
the debt on my 42 grandchildren. He 
didn’t agree to it. 

Well, every now and then somebody 
stands up in this Senate and says: I 
have had enough. I am not going to say 
yes this time. I respect him for the 
courage he showed. 

The Committee for a Responsible 
Federal Budget, which is a bipartisan 
group in DC, issued a report not long 
ago that said that freezing all nonwar-
related discretionary spending next 
year could save us $60 billion in 1 year, 
and it will set up a new baseline that 
would save us—as this chart which creates 
a new baseline mentality shows— 
$600 billion over 10 years. That is a lot. 
Even in Washington, $600 billion is real 
money. On the other hand, the committee 
stated that if we allow discretionary 
spending to grow at the projected 
rate of GDP growth instead of 
inflation, it would cost us $1.7 trillion 
more over the next 10 years. 

This is a nonbiased group. I don’t 
think anybody would fundamentally 
disagree with that. So it does make a 
difference how much money we spend 

on every single account, on every single 
funding in an appropriations bill 
that comes through this Senate. 

Can we get bipartisan support for 
having a tougher line and containing 
spending? I think the answer is absolutely 
we can. Why is there a conflict? 
The simple fact is the 5-year binding 
caps that were passed in 1990 had broad 
bipartisan support. In fact, a number of 
currently serving Republicans voted 
for them and 10 of our currently serving 
Democratic Senators did also, including 
Senator REID, our Democratic 
leader, and Senator INOUYE, the chairman 
of the Appropriations Committee. 
He voted for them in the 1990s. 

If we think this through, we have 
every reason to believe we can get 
there. The 5-year spending cap that 
passed in the 1990 budget deal had even 
stronger bipartisan support. It passed 
again in 1997. I know Senator BAUCUS 
was here then, and it passed 85 to 15, 
with 44 currently serving Senators supporting 
it, and 26 of them were Democrats. 
Senators REID, DURBIN, CONRAD, 
and INOUYE all voted for them. If we 
could do it in 1990, and again in 1997, 
there is no reason we cannot do it now. 
In fact, I and my staff have met with 
numerous groups across the political 
spectrum, including the Brookings Institute, 
the Committee for Responsible 
Federal Government, the Urban Institute, 
the Progressive Policy Institute, 
the Concord Coalition, and the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce—everybody we 
met with has said getting a handle on 
discretionary spending is essential. 

Although AARP, the Association of 
Retired Persons, initially expressed opposition 
to the amendment, I believe 
we have addressed their concerns. 
Their chief concern was that we would 
not separate defense and nondefense 
spending, which would let the defense 
spending raid nondefense accounts. 
However, we have separated them, so 
that is not a danger. 

Of course, one criticism some might 
give to the bill is that it raises the 
threshold for waiving—breaking the 
spending limits from 60 Senate votes to 
67 Senate votes, and they say that is 
just too restrictive. But we have to 
raise this threshold because we have a 
60-vote situation now and we have been 
able to muster 60 votes to pass every 
kind of possible emergency bill, and 
some of those clearly were not emergencies. 
It takes 67 votes in this Chamber 
to make a change to the Senate 
Journal, but we can max out the Senate’s 
credit card with 60 votes. Something 
doesn’t seem right about that. I 
think, with the seriousness of our situation, 
this would be a good step. 

Furthermore, the fiscal year 2010 
budget resolution already accounted 
for about $10 billion per year in emergency 
spending, which we have allowed 
to remain in this amendment. Any 
emergencies for which that is inadequate 
should be able to receive the 
support of 67 Senators—if we have an 
emergency. In fact, all the disaster relief 
emergencies, those kinds of emer


gencies since the emergency designation 
was created in 1990 to try to contain 
spending, have received support of 
more than 67 Senators. Isn’t that interesting? 
All of our emergency designations 
for hurricanes and earthquakes 
and fires and storms and the like have 
received more than 67 votes. So I think 
it is just not a good argument to say 
we can’t respond to a legitimate emergency. 


The prospect of massive Federal 
spending is hurting jobs and growth. In 
a recent editorial in the Wall Street 
Journal, Stanford University economics 
professor Michael Boskin stated: 

The explosion of spending, deficits and 
debt foreshadows even higher prospective 
taxes on work, saving, investment and employment. 
That not only will damage our 
economic future but is harming jobs and 
growth now. 

China and other countries may not 
be able to keep financing our debt in 
the future even if they would like to— 
which I really think they won’t. Professor 
Allan Meltzer, a well-known 
scholar on the Federal Reserve and 
monetary policy, noted in a column in 
the Wall Street Journal that our current 
and projected deficits are too 
large relative to current and prospective 
world savings to rely on other 
countries being able to finance them 
for the next 10 years. In other words, 
there may not be enough surplus 
money in the world to buy these debt 
instruments we are going to have to 
issue. In fact, a recent Washington 
Times editorial entitled ‘‘Spending to a 
Depression’’ notes that, since China 
and other countries are trying to reduce 
their holdings of dollars, we will 
have to rely more and more on U.S. 
banks to buy our bonds, which will decrease 
capital available for lending to 
businesses. 

On an airplane today, coming back 
from Alabama, I read an article that 
made reference to the fact that when 
the Federal Government puts out this 
much money and interest rates become 
higher than they have been. They are 
currently extraordinarily low, and 
banks are now buying Treasury securities 
at 3.6 or 3.7 percent interest for 10-
year Treasury notes. Instead of loaning 
to local businesses, banks can get the 
money from the Fed at less than 1 percent 
and they can buy a Federal Government 
debt instrument for 3.5 or 4 
percent and not have to loan it to some 
businessperson who might be a higher 
risk. We are crowding out resources 
necessary for economic growth. This is 
a reality. 

In a Budget Committee hearing on 
budget reform on November 10, former 
Comptroller of the Currency and GAO 
head David Walker testified that by 
2040, 30 years from now, we will have to 
double taxes just to keep up with current 
commitments. Can you imagine 
that? The way we are spending, we are 
going to have to double taxes in 30 
years. He stated that in 12 years, interest 
will be the single biggest line item 
in the entire budget, even assuming interest 
rates do not change from today’s 


S850 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

low rates. But they are going to go up. 
Everybody knows that. Some are predicting 
the kinds of interest rates we 
had in the late 1970s. I truly hope that 
does not occur, but many people believe 
we do not have any idea how high 
interest rates could surge when the 
whole world, including Europe and 
other places, is spending money it does 
not have and attempting to borrow in 
the marketplace to have that happen. 
Mr. Walker also said that deficits are 
the public’s largest concern by 20 
points, in opinion polls. 

In a Financial Times editorial in 
May of last year, Mr. Walker warned 
that the United States is in danger of 
losing its triple-A credit rating. 
Moody’s made that clear. Moody’s stated 
that the United States is in danger 
of losing its triple-A credit rating. 
Pierre Cailleteau, the chief economist 
at Moody’s, stated that, unlike several 
years ago, ‘‘Now the question of a potential 
downgrade of the U.S. is not inconceivable.’’ 
Under the most pessimistic 
scenario put forth by Moody’s, 
the United States could lose its top 
rating in 2013—3 years from now. 

I was very pleased we had strong bipartisan 
support for the amendment 
previously. By allowing us not to apply 
these budget limits we passed last year 
to the current year, it gives some relief 
to our Members of the Senate who 
complain that next year we will start 
cutting spending but we should not 
this year. We will give a little bit 
there, although it will mean we will 
not save as much money for sure. But 
I really believe we need to pass this 
legislation. I truly hope we can. We 
only need three or four more votes to 
make it a reality. I count now, with 
the ones who voted for it before and a 
new Senator in the body, we will have 
57 votes. We need 60. The situation has 
not gotten any better, and I am hoping 
my colleagues will look at it afresh and 
that we might be able to reach that 
number. It will make a difference. It 
made a difference in the 1990s and led 
to an actual surplus. I believe it could 
help us again this time. We have much 
more serious problems this time. We 
have more challenges this time. But it 
could make a very significant difference 
in our spending level. It would 
really be a statement to the entire financial 
world that we are beginning to 
take some steps and that next year we 
are not going to have 12 percent increases 
in spending for discretionary 
accounts but we are going to hold it to 
the 1- or 2-percent increase level. I 
think that might have some psychological 
improvement in our entire financial 
condition. 

I apologize to the fine chairman of 
the Finance Committee for taking this 
long, but I really believe it is an important 
issue. I am so hopeful we are getting 
close to getting the votes to take 
this positive step. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana is recognized. 

Mr. BAUCUS. I appreciate the comments 
of the Senator from Alabama. 

He is concerned, as we all are, with our 
current fiscal situation, our debts and 
our deficits. I might add—this is not an 
excuse; it is clear we Americans have a 
problem that has to be addressed— 
other countries are in the same fix. It 
is not just America. But again, that is 
no excuse. Our deficits are high primarily 
because of the financial crisis, 
working our way through all that. The 
real test is whether we as a country, 
when times get better and incomes increase, 
live much more within our 
means. I certainly hope so. I know 
every Senator in this body hopes so. 

More precisely, the Senator from 
Alabama seeks to place caps on the appropriated 
accounts. That is pretty 
much the same amendment the Senate 
rejected about a month ago; I think it 
was January 28. 

I believe the pending Sessions 
amendment addresses matters within 
the jurisdiction of the Budget Committee. 
It therefore violates section 306 
of the Congressional Budget Act. I will 
not raise that point of order at this 
time, but I believe the amendment does 
violate the Budget Act. 

Furthermore, this subject is really 
more within the purview of the Appropriations 
Committee. I defer to the 
chairman of the Budget Committee to 
address this amendment in due course. 

I also note that the Senator from 
Minnesota has been waiting very patiently 
to speak. We are all anxious to 
hear from the Senator from Minnesota, 
so I yield the floor. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, did 
the Senator make a budget point of 
order? 

Mr. BAUCUS. No, I did not. 

Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Minnesota is recognized. 

Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, I wish 
to speak as in morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(The remarks of Mr. FRANKEN are 
printed in today’s RECORD under 
‘‘Morning Business.’’) 

Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, I also 
would like to take a few minutes to 
speak on another topic, the extension 
of unemployment benefits and COBRA 
subsidies. I admire those in this body 
who take a principled stand. The Senate 
would get more done if all Members 
were guided by their basic core principles 
and put principles ahead of political 
posturing, ahead of party, ahead of 
polling. 

To block a legislative measure because 
it is not fully offset—sure, that 
could be based on principle. Believe 
me, I am concerned about our budget 
deficit. But principles are something 
you consistently stand behind. That is 
what makes it a principle, something 
you care about, something that guides 
you throughout your career. That is 
what makes it a principle. Principles 
cannot be ignored, even when it is expedient 
or advantageous to do so. Yet 
that is exactly what is happening now. 
A principle is being invoked only now 
that it is convenient. 

You might remember that when 
George W. Bush entered office, it was 
with a $200 billion budget surplus. He 
also entered office with projections of 
nearly $1 billion in future surpluses 
over the next decade, on a glide path to 
paying off the entire national debt. 

But instead of doing the sensible 
thing and paying down our debt when 
we had the means, the Bush administration 
racked up massive deficits at a 
record pace. Vice President Cheney 
even said ‘‘deficits do not matter.’’ Fed 
Chairman Alan Greenspan testified 
that we might pay off our debt just too 
quickly. We were told we might have 
too much money. Really. He did this. 
He testified to Congress saying that 
was a real worry. 

Then we paid for an unnecessary war 
in Iraq, without offsets. We passed 
Medicare Part D without offsets. We 
passed three different sets of tax cuts 
totaling trillions of dollars, most benefitting 
the wealthiest people in the Nation, 
without offsets. 

Yet last Thursday night the Senate 
repeatedly attempted to extend benefits 
for America’s unemployed workers, 
and these efforts were blocked supposedly 
because it was not fully offset. 
For some reason benefits to the 
wealthiest Americans did not need to 
be offset, but keeping unemployment 
benefits flowing to those families who 
have been hardest hit by this recession 
suddenly need an offset. 

If this is a matter of principle, it 
seems to me we have very bizarre principles. 
One principle we should all 
stand behind is supporting American 
families when economic times are 
tough. Last week, half a million Americans 
applied for unemployment benefits 
for the first time. 

Despite what some might suggest, 
our Nation’s unemployment crisis is 
not over. We know unemployment can 
persist long after recovery begins. This 
downturn will continue affecting 
American families for months and 
years to come. 

That is why we need to extend Federal 
unemployment benefits now. Without 
an extension, over 1 million Americans, 
including thousands of Minnesotans, 
will lose their benefits this 
month. Without those unemployment 
benefits, many families will have no 
other way to keep paying their mortgage 
and buying groceries. Even with 
some economic progress, there are still 
six applicants for every job opening, 
and in some industries there are simply 
no jobs to be found. 

Our obligation to America’s working 
families is a serious one. When there 
are jobs to be had, working and middle-
class families keep our economy running. 
After Wall Street’s indiscretions 
were the cause of an economic collapse 
and our government bailed them out, 
we are in no place to tell America’s 
families that there is not enough help 
to go around. Their interests should 
have been placed ahead of the big 
banks from the start. 

Further, the provisions that are currently 
being blocked will also provide 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S851 

for the vital COBRA subsidy. Right 
now, the COBRA subsidy is helping 
American families retain their health 
care coverage while they continue to 
look for work. Facing a medical crisis 
while being employed and uninsured is 
a burden most families simply cannot 
withstand. We should not be putting 
Americans in that position when it is 
due to no fault of their own. 

We should not be driving them to a 
place where they simply have run out 
of options. This procedural stalling is 
unacceptable. I have heard from Minnesota’s 
employment commissioner 
that the expiration and subsequent 
agreement on an extension will be an 
administrative burden on our State, 
not to mention an inefficient use of 
State resources. 

The delays are also stressful and disruptive 
for Minnesota’s families. This 
is the case in all 50 of our States. So I 
call on all of my colleagues to come together 
today and stand behind the 
principle, the principle of supporting 
American families when times are 
tough. This is the principle on which 
we should all be focused and all be 
judged. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
SHAHEEN.) The Senator from South Dakota 
is recognized. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3338 TO AMENDMENT NO. 3336 

(Purpose: To create additional tax relief 
for businesses, and for other purposes.) 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I call 
up amendment No. 3338 and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, is 
the Senator asking unanimous consent 
to set aside the pending amendment? 

Mr. THUNE. I would like to have my 
amendment be made pending. 

Mr. BAUCUS. You wish to set aside 
the pending amendment? 

Mr. THUNE. Yes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from South Dakota [Mr. 
THUNE] proposes an amendment numbered 
3338 to amendment No. 3336. 

Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous consent 
that the reading of the amendment 
be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(The amendment is printed in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’) 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, as we 
all know, our economy is suffering. We 
have an unemployment rate that is 
currently at 9.7 percent. Furthermore, 
we have large portions of the population 
that are either underemployed 
or have dropped out of the workforce 
because of limited job prospects. 

There are a variety of factors that 
have contributed to this recession. The 
government’s response so far has been 
largely ineffective, particularly with 
regard to employment, and I would 
argue that the best thing that we can 
do to address the issue of unemploy


ment and having to extend unemployment 
benefits and COBRA and other 
types of benefits, all of which are considered 
in this underlying bill, is to get 
people back to work. 

That is fundamentally the very best 
thing that we can be doing—focusing 
on how we create jobs, how we grow 
this economy, how we provide opportunities 
for those who have lost their 
jobs, who are underemployed, to get 
back into the workforce. That, to me, 
ought to be the focus of our efforts in 
the Senate. 

The bill that was passed about a year 
ago, the stimulus legislation which we 
now know is going to cost somewhere 
in the neighborhood of $862 billion 
without interest, with interest well 
over $1 trillion, was all borrowed 
money. It is going to add $1 trillion to 
the national debt. 

Despite that amount of spending, 
only $6.2 billion was spent on tax incentives 
for small businesses, and another 
$730 million was spent in funding 
for the Small Business Administration. 
So I want to think about for a moment 
what that means in terms of the dimensions 
of the bill that was passed 
last year. We had a $1 trillion bill. Together 
the incentives for small business 
in that bill represented less than 1 
percent of the total cost. 

We all know small businesses have a 
much greater impact on the economy 
and on employment than that number 
represents. Small businesses employ 
more than half of all of the Nation’s 
private sector employees. They create 
nearly two-thirds of all of the new jobs 
and create a disproportionate number 
of the patents that are issued in our 
Nation. 

At the time we voted last year on the 
stimulus bill, I believe now this was 
one example of the priorities in that 
legislation that were misplaced if we 
are intent on and focused as a laser on 
creating jobs and getting this economy 
growing again. 

I made the argument at the time, as 
did many of my colleagues—and we offered 
amendments in support of that 
belief—that the best way to get the 
economy growing again is not to focus 
on a lot of government spending on 
new government programs, but, in fact, 
to provide incentives for small businesses, 
the engines of our economy; to 
get out there and to start investing and 
to start creating jobs. 

So I offered an amendment that was 
an alternative to the stimulus bill a 
year ago, which, according to the economic 
model developed by the President’s 
economic adviser, would have 
created twice as many jobs, and it 
would have cost half of what this stimulus 
legislation is going to end up costing 
the taxpayers of this country— 
again, all of which is borrowed from future 
generations. 

While the Senate passed a smaller 
jobs bill last week, Senators in the 
Chamber were blocked from offering 
amendments. I wanted to offer this 
amendment a week ago when we con


sidered the other jobs bill that passed 
through here. That was a $15 billion 
jobs bill which I think is now pending 
action in the House of Representatives. 

But I am offering this amendment 
now because we have this underlying 
tax extenders bill, and I think it is important 
that we discuss and debate how 
best we can stimulate the economy, 
how best we can grow the economy, get 
it expanding again, and how best we 
can create jobs to get people back to 
work. It seems to me, again, that 
ought to be the first priority on which 
we as a Senate get focused. 

What my amendment would do is, it 
would, for the year 2010, extend depreciation. 
It would permanently increase 
the section 179 deductions that allow 
small business to expense more of the 
investment they make as opposed to 
having to depreciate those. 

By lowering the cost of new capital 
expenditures, these provisions would 
encourage companies to invest in new 
equipment, make capital purchases, 
capital investments; it would increase 
both growth and employment. It would 
also eliminate capital gains taxes on 
small business investment. 

This simple, permanent reduction in 
taxes was supported by the President 
in his State of the Union Address, and 
it would increase investment as well in 
small businesses. This amendment also 
would allow a 20-percent deduction for 
small business income. We currently 
have a lot of small business owners 
who pay their taxes at the individual 
level. It is called flowthrough income. 
They have a small business. The income 
flows through to their individual 
tax returns and so they pay at individual 
tax rates, and those tax rates 
are set to rise on small businesses beginning 
in 2011. In fact, a lot of our 
small businesses, about half, are going 
to be impacted by those increases in 
marginal income tax rates that will 
occur in 2011. This would help mitigate 
the impact of those increases on the 20 
million people working in small businesses, 
those small businesses which 
would be taxed at a higher rate under 
the President’s tax proposals. 

Finally, this bill would prevent 
Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements 
from raising the cost for 
projects funded under the stimulus bill. 
While I understand the importance of 
good wages, projects that comply with 
Davis-Bacon restrictions see labor 
costs on average 22 percent higher than 
market rates. This stimulus bill was 
the first time where that requirement 
was inserted into this sort of a stimulus 
bill designed to create jobs and 
grow the economy. Waiving these provisions 
will help eliminate the confusion 
and stretch taxpayer dollars so we 
get more bang for our buck in the 
amount of dollars currently out there, 
hopefully, trying to create jobs. 

My amendment would be paid for by 
redirecting unspent or unobligated 
stimulus funds from the bill passed last 
year. Out of that $862 billion in spending, 
according to what we hear from 


S852 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

the administration’s Web site, recovery.
org, about 37 percent of that money 
has been spent as of the end of this last 
year. Bear in mind, a lot of that money 
is obligated, but we understand that 
the unspent, unobligated amount on 
the spending portion, not on the tax 
portion, is about $160 billion. It would 
seem to me that if the purpose of all 
our efforts is to create jobs, we ought 
to begin to think about who creates 
those jobs. Two-thirds of the jobs in 
our economy are created by small businesses. 
Why then should we not be focusing 
our efforts on creating incentives 
for small businesses to invest? 
Frankly, that would have been the way 
I would have gone about the stimulus 
bill. 

Many of my colleagues offered 
amendments, and many of them supported 
my amendment. I think I had 37 
votes for my amendment that would 
have focused in the stimulus bill of a 
year ago more on small businesses, 
whereas the bill that ultimately passed 
only spent under 1 percent of that total 
amount, almost $1 trillion, on small 
businesses which are the economic engine, 
the job creators in the economy. 

If we can figure out ways to get small 
businesses some relief so they can start 
hiring again, we address all these other 
issues—9.7 percent unemployment 
which, incidentally, the promises made 
when the big stimulus bill passed last 
year was that if we didn’t pass this 
stimulus bill, unemployment would go 
up to 8 percent. We have blown way by. 
That is at 9.7 percent. We were told it 
would create millions of jobs. We know 
now that since its passage last year, we 
have actually lost 2.7 million jobs in 
the economy. Clearly, the prescription 
put in place is not working. I argue 
that is largely because it was misdirected. 
It was directed toward creating 
new bureaucracies in Washington, 
perhaps some government jobs, 
but the fact is, the good-paying, permanent 
jobs in our economy are created 
in the private economy. The biggest 
creator of those jobs is small businesses. 


Frankly, we ought to be looking at 
what types of policies can we put in 
place that will create an environment 
in which small businesses can go back 
out there, make investments, put people 
back to work and then we start, 
hopefully, bringing the unemployment 
rate down, get people back employed 
again, and a lot of these measures we 
are now having to take with regard to 
unemployment benefits hopefully 
would cost the taxpayers a lot less. The 
best thing we could do for people who 
are without a job is to get them back 
to work. The best way to do that is to 
get small businesses hiring again. 

One final point. One of the things I 
hear repeatedly from small businesses 
in South Dakota and across the country 
is there is a sort of paralysis about 
investors looking at investing in different 
areas and different projects. But 
looking at Washington, DC, and seeing 
all this policy uncertainty, they see 

this cloud over the economy. It is creating 
economic anxiety. What I hear 
from a lot of small businesses and people 
who create jobs is that they are 
worried about the policy uncertainty 
in Washington, DC. Is Washington 
going to pass this massive new health 
care bill which includes an employer 
mandate that would raise taxes on 
small businesses? Is Washington going 
to pass a climate change bill that has 
punishing energy taxes, particularly on 
areas in the Midwest? I have a couple 
of power plants in my State that are on 
ice right now because of uncertainty 
about what is going to happen with regard 
to coal-fired power. 

There is a lot of uncertainty out 
there swirling around about what Congress 
might do or, worse yet, what the 
EPA might do on their own. There is 
uncertainty about what is going to 
happen with taxes. Are we going to see 
taxes go up in 2011? In fact, for small 
businesses, about half who do allow 
their income from their small business 
to flow through to their individual income 
tax return are going to see those 
marginal rates increase when they go 
from 33 to 36 and 35 to 39.6 percent, significant 
tax increases, which is why I 
have a deduction for small business income 
as part of this amendment. We 
need to bring some certainty to small 
businesses in the area of taxes, certainty 
with regard to regulation, certainty 
with regard to the litigation environment. 
We have so much uncertainty 
swirling around Washington, it 
is creating a huge cloud. 

Now we have a situation where small 
businesses are making decisions based 
upon political factors rather than economic 
factors. We want them making 
decisions based upon economic factors, 
not worrying what has become the new 
center of gravity, and that is Washington, 
DC. Washington cannot create 
permanent, good-paying jobs in our 
economy. Those can only be recreated 
in the economy as we unleash small 
businesses and entrepreneurs and provide 
incentives for them to do what 
they do best. That is to grow their 
businesses and to make capital investments 
and to create jobs. 

I hope my colleagues will support 
this amendment. It is paid for. It is offset. 
This doesn’t add anything to the 
debt. We don’t have to borrow money. 
All we do is redirect unspent, unobligated 
stimulus moneys, moneys left 
over from last year’s stimulus bill toward 
small business tax incentives 
which, frankly, many of us argue—and 
I argued at the time and I hope more 
people agree now—should have been a 
greater focus of the stimulus in the 
first place. If we are serious about creating 
jobs, we have to go to where the 
job creators are. The economic engine 
is small business. My amendment creates 
tax incentives for them to go out 
and create jobs and does it in a way 
that doesn’t add to the deficit, doesn’t 
add more borrowing and allows the 
small businesses to do what they do 
best. 

I encourage my colleagues to support 
the amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from Oregon. 

Mr. MERKLEY. I ask unanimous 
consent to speak as in morning business. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I 
rise to address the Republican filibuster 
attacking the American worker 
and the Republican filibuster attacking 
America’s small businesses. 

I had the chance to go home this 
weekend. I started my trip home in 
Deschutes County where there is 14 
percent unemployment. Next door to 
Deschutes, Crook County has 16.8 percent 
unemployment. That is only 
counting workers officially unemployed 
as opposed to those who have 
given up on finding jobs. I went down 
to Klamath County to the south, with 

12.6 percent unemployment. I went to 
Hood River and Columbia Gorge, Washington 
County, the Portland metropolitan 
area. Everywhere I went in Oregon, 
whether it be eastern or western or 
north or south—because I was in every 
quarter this weekend—citizens wanted 
to know why are the Republicans attacking 
the American worker and 
American small business? 
Across this country, our working 
families are in trouble. They are looking 
to this body for help. They want to 
know when are we going to get it done. 
And by ‘‘it,’’ they mean extension of 
unemployment benefits. They want to 
know when are we going to get extended 
the COBRA health benefits. 
They want to know when we are going 
to fix the Medicare rates that changed 
today and dropped more than 20 percent 
so that it is that much harder to 
get into the door of a doctor if you are 
a senior. They want to know why 
transportation projects are grinding to 
a halt, even though we need those jobs. 

The answer lies in this Chamber. 
This attack on the American worker 
by the Republican filibuster is unacceptable. 
This attack on the American 
senior is unacceptable. This attack on 
American small business is unacceptable. 


Not only does this directly impact 
working Americans and retired Americans, 
it also affects the economy. Unemployment 
insurance, COBRA extensions 
are good for the economy. They 
help put food on the table. They help 
pay the rent. All of that money stays 
in our economy. All of it goes for most 
families, because they have bills to pay 
to businesses in the communities. 
Those businesses can then pay their 
workers and pay their contractors. One 
of the best bangs for the buck in terms 
of economic growth is right before us 
in unemployment insurance and a 
COBRA extension. 

I have puzzled over this challenge. 
Because what I have observed is this: 
When it comes to giving away money 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S853 

out of the Treasury to the wealthiest 
Americans, my colleagues across the 
aisle are delivering it on a silver platter 
to the wealthiest and best off. But 
when it comes to a plan to assist working 
Americans and seniors and small 
businesses, my colleagues across the 
aisle, through this Republican filibuster, 
are taking the hatchet to them. 
They are saying: Working Americans 
don’t count. We only want to have benefits 
on the silver platter for the 
wealthiest. 

It is working Americans who made 
this Nation great. It is the American 
middle class that created the strongest 
economy in the world. It is the American 
public school system and our 
working families that have come up 
with the industriousness and the ingenuity 
to take this Nation forward. 

When I am talking about the silver 
platter the Republicans have for the 
wealthiest in America, let’s examine 
the details. Unfunded Republican program, 
2001 tax cuts, a $1.35 trillion 
giveaway, borrowed from the next generation, 
from our children. That is 
quite a gift. That is quite a silver platter. 
The 2003 tax cuts, $350 billion delivered 
on a silver platter for the wealthiest 
Americans. Medicare Part D, an unfunded 
program, $400 billion on a silver 
platter; the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, 
almost $1 trillion—$944 billion— 
through June of 2009. The total this 
year will exceed $1 trillion, unpaid for, 
unfunded, borrowed from our children. 

There have been some colleagues rising 
to say how this is a matter of being 
consistent in paying for American programs. 
But when you check the record, 
they voted time and time again for unfunded 
giveaways to the wealthiest 
Americans—the 2001 tax cuts, the 2003 
tax cuts. And they voted for other programs 
I like but they were not funded, 
and I include in that Medicare Part D. 

When I hear a colleague talking 
about fiscal responsibility, it is a little 
like listening to Bernie Madoff talking 
about tough accounting rules; it is a 
little bit like hearing from Brett Favre 
about promising he will retire; it is a 
little bit like listening to Simon 
Cowell delivering a lecture that people 
should not utilize sarcasm. Because 
after these trillions of dollars of unfunded 
giveaways, my colleagues have 
put together a Republican filibuster to 
attack the American worker in a completely 
inconsistent manner. 

I have a different outlook. I think 
many of my colleagues here have a different 
outlook. We should be here to 
make America work for working Americans. 
That means when they are hurting, 
we are going to assist them with 
unemployment insurance, we are going 
to help with the COBRA extension, we 
are going to help with these loans to 
small businesses, and we are going to 
help our seniors by fixing that Medicare 
provision. We are not going to 
take the hammer to those programs. 
We are going to assist our working 
families. 

Because of this Republican filibuster, 
nearly 1.2 million Americans will lose 

their benefits, and by June this number 
will grow to 5 million unemployed 
workers who will be left without vital 
benefits if Congress does not act. 

Let’s talk about that small business 
provision. Small business owners have 
been hurt because the Small Business 
Administration’s general business loan 
program expired yesterday, making it 
more difficult for our small businesses 
to access loans in an already difficult 
business climate. 

My colleague from South Dakota was 
just on the floor speaking about the 
importance of helping small businesses. 
But I say to him and the Republican 
filibuster attacking small business 
in America: Come to this floor and 
say enough is enough; I am going to 
stand with our workers and our seniors 
and our small businesses. 

It is time to end the political posturing, 
take our eyes off November and 
put our eyes on the challenge of American 
families, and pass this legislation 
right away. 

I thank the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, 
first of all, I want to thank the Senator 
from Oregon for those very passionate 
comments. We have had the opportunity 
to join in a number of forums to 
speak out about the importance of creating 
jobs in America and of helping 
those who through no fault of their 
own have lost their job, and I thank 
the Senator for his eloquence and passion 
again this evening. 

I come to the floor to also add my 
voice to what I believe to be an outrageous 
situation. I say this with all 
due respect to my friend from Kentucky. 
We work together on a number 
of issues, and I look forward to continuing 
to do that. But on this I believe 
what is being done is absolutely wrong. 
It is outrageous. 

We are in a situation right now 
where nearly 135,000 Michigan residents 
will lose the unemployment assistance 
they need by the end of this month if 
we do not take action immediately. 
That is just in 1 month as to people 
who have been hit by nothing less than 
an economic tsunami. 

We have a sense of urgency when an 
earthquake happens, when storms 
come, and the floods come. Well, to 
families across this country, the 
storms have come. They have been 
here—in our case for years—and we 
need to have the same sense of urgency 
as any other disaster would call us, focusing 
not only on helping people who 
have lost their job but in creating jobs. 

I am proud to be a part of a caucus 
that has placed jobs at the forefront 
and a President who, last year, started 
at the beginning of the year with a jobs 
bill, a Recovery Act, and moving on, 
and this year with an entire jobs agenda. 
But the reality is that until jobs 
are created, we have millions of people 
in this country who have played by the 
rules all their lives, paid their taxes, 
cared about their families, gave back 

to their communities, and their only 
sin is the fact that they have lost their 
job through no fault of their own. 

They are trying to keep a roof over 
their head, keep food on the table, keep 
the heat on, trying to make sure their 
kids have what they need. Most of 
them are receiving $200 or $300 a week 
to try to hold it together while they go 
job training, while they look every day 
for work. People want to work. This is 
not about people who do not want to 
work. People want to work. But we 
have six people applying for every one 
job in America. 

So while we focus on job creation and 
partnering with the private sector to 
make that happen, we have millions of 
people in America who do not understand 
how something such as merely 
extending unemployment benefits 
could be held up. Last night, the unemployment 
benefits stopped that process 
now. This month, people are getting 
notices, afraid about what is going to 
happen to themselves and their families. 


What we have is a misuse of the 
rules, in my judgment. What we have is 
an objection, and it is one for which we 
have been down here many times. We 
have the charts now. We have had it 
happen over 116 times this session, 
where we have seen objections, bringing 
to a halt the will of the majority, 
blocking the democratic process of voting—
of simply voting—and being able 
to solve problems and move things forward. 


I received an e-mail from a woman in 
Livonia, MI, who lost her job last year. 
She took the opportunity to go back to 
school to get new job skills to become 
a registered dietitian. But now, as she 
is doing that, because of this obstruction, 
this woman is going to lose the 
help she needs to allow her to make it 
and keep a roof over her head while she 
is turning the corner and gaining new 
skills to get a new job. The rug is, 
frankly, being pulled out from under 
her, and I think that is outrageous. 

She is not alone. As I indicated before, 
we have nearly 135,000 people in 
Michigan who will lose the help they 
need under unemployment benefits by 
the end of this month if we do not act, 
and act immediately. 

I received another e-mail from a 
woman in Greenbush, MI. She and her 
husband both worked at the same manufacturing 
plant. It is a common story 
in Michigan. They both lost their job. 
She writes: 

We are both seeking work and schooling 
for new careers. We have both eceived a letter 
from the unemployment office that our 
benefits will end. We have no other source of 
income and we fear we will lose our home. 

This is real for millions of people 
across this country, millions of middle-
class families who assume that in a disaster, 
an economic disaster, their government, 
the people of the country, 
will step up to help. That is what unemployment 
benefits are all about. 

It is time to act, it is time to stop 
blocking democracy. If my friend from 


S854 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

Kentucky has an amendment to offer, 
offer it, debate it, and vote. But just 
blocking us from exercising our right 
to vote is not the American way. The 
American way is to vote, to act, to 
make decisions, not to block. We have 
seen way too much of blocking democracy 
from our Republican colleagues in 
these last months and months. 

I also want to speak to other provisions 
in this bill because I find it interesting 
that within hours of the health 
care summit last Thursday, the blocking 
of this bill showed us what the 
health care plan is by Republicans: cut 
people off from help with COBRA, cut 
doctors’ benefits. That came within 
hours of the health care summit. We 
are now getting calls from people who 
are concerned about whether their doctor 
is going to be available. 

Are senior citizens under Medicare 
going to be able to see their same doctor 
because of the cuts that will happen 
if we do not act immediately? People 
who one day lost their job, the next 
day lost their health care—we have 
been able to help them through the 
jobs bill we passed last February to be 
able to continue their health insurance 
through work. It is expensive to do 
under something called COBRA, but we 
have been able to help them do that by 
helping to pay on a short-term basis 
for part of that cost. 

So the health care summit happens 
on Thursday, and hours later there is 
an objection that will stop health care 
for hundreds of thousands if not millions 
of Americans, and stop the ability 
of doctors to be reimbursed at a fair 
rate to be able to care for their patients. 
This is, in my judgment, an absolutely 
outrageous situation, and it 
has to stop. 

I thank our chairman of the Finance 
Committee for his work and advocacy 
and being here on the floor calling for 
us to vote. I am hopeful people around 
the country will speak out loudly between 
tonight and tomorrow and that 
we will be able to come to the floor and 
stop what is effectively blocking the 
democratic process and blocking our 
ability to vote, to make decisions, and 
to move forward. 

We have millions of Americans who 
are counting on us to understand what 
is happening in real people’s lives 
every day—not political games, not all 
the partisanship, but real people’s 
lives—who are going to get up tomorrow 
morning and say: OK, what do I do 
now? How am I going to keep my roof 
over my head? And how am I going to 
continue to go to school to get that 
new skills I need? How am I going to 
put food on the table for my family? 
That is what is affecting people across 
this country. 

In addition to the millions of people 
who have lost their job and are on unemployment, 
we have millions of others 
who are one paycheck away from 
being in the very same situation—people 
who could be spending in the economy 
now to be able to help move 
things forward, who are afraid of what 

happens next. Part of that fear is not 
only will they have a job, but what 
happens if they do not? And what is the 
message that is sent if we do not make 
it clear we will be there for them if 
that happens? Will they be able to continue 
to have the basics to keep their 
family going? 

I strongly urge we do everything possible. 
I know we will stop this obstruction, 
to allow the democratic process 
to go forward, to allow us to vote, to 
solve problems, to move this bill forward, 
and send a very strong message 
that we understand what is happening 
to millions of families who have faced 
a disaster of epic proportions. It is 
truly as much a disaster as anything 
else any community has ever felt in 
terms of losing their jobs and fighting 
and working to get something. 

I thank the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, we 
are here to do the people’s business. 
The folks in our home States elected us 
to do what is right. Most folks don’t 
care too much about the process, as 
long as we get our job done and as long 
as it is reasonable, within the boundaries 
of reasonableness, and as long as 
they think we give the subject considerable 
thought. I think we agree that is 
true. I think it is largely true that 
most of the people would think: Well, 
gee, why don’t you go ahead and pass 
that extenders thing you are talking 
about back there because it is the right 
thing to do. 

People need to collect their unemployment 
checks. They need their 
health insurance. Some of these tax 
provisions need to be continued; otherwise, 
this is a job-killer action the 
other side is taking. It is a job destroyer. 
To not continue these provisions 
actually destroys jobs. That is 
not what we want to do. 

On another matter: The Senator from 
South Dakota proposes an amendment 
to make a series of tax cuts for small 
business. I might say that some of 
these tax cuts, the ones he proposes, 
actually have merit. We in the Finance 
Committee hope to address small business 
tax cuts in a markup perhaps as 
early as this month. This is a jobs 
agenda. It is additional legislation to 
help create jobs, preserve jobs, and help 
the recovery come along a little more 
quickly. 

The offset, however, that the Senator 
from South Dakota proposes is another 
matter. The Senator from South Dakota 
seeks to pay for his amendment 
by cutting funding from the Recovery 
Act, and that idea does not have much 
merit, at least not in this Senator’s 
judgment. Pretty much the last thing 
we should do is to be seeking to cut the 
Recovery Act. 

The nonpartisan Congressional Budget 
Office, the independent organization 
we rely upon around here—both sides 
of the aisle in both bodies—says the 
Recovery Act is working. The Congressional 
Budget Act says that in the 

third quarter of last year, for example, 
the Recovery Act caused between 
600,000 and 1.6 million people to have 
jobs. That sounds as though it is working 
to me. The CBO also said these people 
had jobs who would not otherwise 
have had jobs. I, therefore, think we 
should not be cutting back on the Recovery 
Act; rather, we should let it 
work its will. 

The investments the Senator from 
South Dakota seeks to cut in addition 
are largely within the jurisdiction of 
the Appropriations Committee and, 
thus, I will defer to the chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee who I 
think at the appropriate time will have 
quite a bit to say about this Thune 
amendment and will speak to it at 
greater length. I suggest that is an appropriate 
time to have a more lengthy 
discussion on this matter. 

Madam President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

CONGRATULATIONS TO 
MINNESOTA’S 2010 OLYMPIANS 

Mr. FRANKEN. Madam President, 50 
years ago this month, a group of athletes 
gathered in Squaw Valley, CA, for 
the Winter Olympics. A part of the U.S. 
contingent—the 1960 men’s ice hockey 
team—unexpectedly surprised the 
world and brought home the Olympic 
gold medal by defeating the Soviet 
Union, Czechoslovakia, and Canada. Of 
these 17 remarkable men, 8 were from 
my home State, the great State of Minnesota. 
As anyone could see from 
watching this year’s games, this out-
sized contribution from Minnesotans 
continues to this day. 

Twenty years after this ‘‘forgotten 
miracle,’’ Team USA again shocked the 
world by miraculously defeating Finland 
and the vaunted Soviet Union to 
again win the gold medal. Thirteen 
Minnesotans played for the 1980 ‘‘Miracle 
on Ice’’ team, and a 14th was their 
coach. 

This year’s Olympic men’s ice hockey 
team was considered by many not to 
have a chance for a medal. They were 
too young, too inexperienced; they had 
not played together before. And the 

U.S. men had not defeated Canada in 
Olympic play in 50 years. Yet a week 
ago, despite being the underdog, Team 
USA upset the favored Canadians in 
their own arena. 
After defeating Switzerland and 
soundly beating Finland in the semi-
finals, Team USA played Canada a second 
time last night for the gold medal. 
Although we fell behind early, Zach 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S855 

Parise—a Prior Lake, MN, native—tied 
the game with under a minute to play. 
Sadly for us, Canada would end up 
scoring in overtime to win the gold 
medal. But that cannot take away 
from what was truly a golden performance 
by the Americans. Jamie 
Langenbrunner, from Cloquet, did a 
stand-up job as captain, leading and 
pulling together a team that also included 
Minnesotans Erik Johnson, 
from Bloomington, and David Backes, 
from Blaine. 

The American women’s ice hockey 
team was expected to be great. And 
they were. Before falling to Canada, 
they had outscored their opponents 40– 

2. With Edina native Natalie Darwitz 
as captain, as well as Jenny Potter 
from Edina and Gigi Marvin from 
Warroad, they brought home a well-
earned silver medal. 
And of the 12 members of the U.S. 
Olympic curling team, 8 are from Minnesota. 
Natalie Nicholson of Bemidji 
and Allison Pottinger of Eden Prairie 
were on the women’s team. The men’s 
team was an all-Minnesota affair with 
John Shuster and Jason Smith of Chisholm, 
Chris Plys and Jeff Isaacson of 
Duluth and John Benton of St. Michael. 
Even their coach, Phil Drobnick 
is from Eveleth, MN. 

Tony Benshoof of White Bear Lake is 
an Olympic luger. Kaylin Richardson of 
Edina was in her second Olympics, 
competing in alpine skiing. Wynn Roberts 
of Battle Lake was a competitor in 
the biathlon. Rebekah Bradford of 
Apple Valley is an Olympic speedskater. 
And Caitlin Compton and Garrott 
Kuzzy, each of Minneapolis, competed 
in cross-country skiing. 

And there are many other Olympic 
athletes, like Lindsey Vonn, who have 
strong Minnesota ties but reside now in 
other States—which have mountains. 

Yesterday marked the end of the 2010 
Winter Olympic Games in Vancouver. I 
am so proud to see that there were 
more athletes in this year’s Olympics 
from Minnesota than from any other 
State. Twenty-one Minnesotans took 
part in these games. Most were in their 
first Olympics. A few others were in 
their second Games. Natalie Darwitz 
has been to three. Jenny Potter has 
now been to four, winning a medal 
every time. Isn’t that something—four-
time medal-winning Olympian and 
mother of two. 

Twenty-one athletes from all over 
Minnesota who now will be going back 
to tending a bar or being a teacher or 
being an engineer or a mom. Natalie 
Nicholson will return to Red Lake Indian 
Reservation as a nurse practitioner. 
The men’s ice hockey players 
will be going back to finish the National 
Hockey League season. John 
Shuster will be getting married. All 
will continue to inspire us. 

I congratulate every single one of 
these competitors. Each has shown tremendous 
grit and determination to 
earn a place representing our Nation at 
these Winter Olympics. Whether you 
won a medal, or simply gave it your all 

and competed, each of you is a champion. 


Olympians make the children of our 
State and Nation dream of what they 
might do, and grownups like me dream 
of what we wish we could do, all while 
fulfilling their dreams on the world’s 
stage and representing our Nation admirably. 
We owe them thanks for their 
hard work, their perseverance, and 
most of all their heart. And I hope I 
have the chance in the coming weeks 
to meet with each of these Minnesota 
athletes so I can congratulate them in 
person. 

f 

RECOGNIZING JESSE WHITE 
TUMBLERS 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I 
rise to congratulate a well-loved Chicago 
institution on a landmark anniversary. 


For 50 years, the Jesse White Tumblers 
troupe has delighted audiences in 
Illinois and beyond and opened doors of 
opportunity for thousands of young 
people. 

Jesse White, the man who gave the 
team its name, is probably best known 
today as Illinois’ secretary of state and 
the first African American ever elected 
to statewide office in the ‘‘Land of Lincoln.’’ 


As a child, Jesse White was studious 
and well behaved. He was also a phenomenal 
athlete. His passion for sports 
won him a scholarship to Alabama 
State University, where he was all-conference 
in baseball and basketball for 
all 4 years. 

After college, Jesse White served 2 
years in the U.S. Army as a paratrooper. 


Then sports opened another door for 
him. Jesse White was able to fulfill 
what for many of us is only a dream. 
He played professional baseball for the 
Chicago Cubs Triple-A farm team. 

Returning to Chicago after his baseball 
days, Jesse White decided to become 
a Chicago Public Schools teacher. 
He also worked nights as a physical 
education teacher for the Chicago Park 
District. 

In 1959, the park district asked him 
to create an acrobatic show. The result 
was so impressive that the troupe 
began performing on a regular basis. 
Its mission was—and remains—to keep 
children in school, off of drugs, and out 
of gangs in the Chicago area. And it 
has been a huge success. 

A half century later, more than 11,000 
young people have participated in the 
Jesse White Tumblers. Becoming a 
Jesse White Tumbler is no easy task. 
Thousands of young people apply every 
year but only a fraction are chosen. To 
make the team, members must stay in 
school and maintain at least a C average. 
They have to obey the law and 
stay out of gangs and away from drugs 
and alcohol. In exchange, the young 
athletes get to experience the excitement 
and glory of performing before 
appreciative fans. They also receive tutoring 
and college scholarship opportu


nities, performance fees, and a chance 
to travel and perform around the 
world. 

The power of the Jesse White Tumblers 
to transform young lives and 
open new doors may be best illustrated 
by the story of three brothers. They 
performed together with the Tumblers, 
but at some point they decided together 
to drop out and join a gang. One 
of the brothers was murdered by a rival 
gang. The second brother, seeking to 
avenge his brother’s death, killed an 
innocent man by mistake and ended up 
going to jail for murder. Instead of following 
in his brothers’ footsteps, the 
third brother decided to rejoin the 
Jesse White Tumblers. The direction 
and discipline he received helped him 
not only avoid the pitfalls of his siblings 
but helped him earn a college 
education and eventually a law degree 
from the University of Notre Dame. 

Multiply that story hundreds or even 
thousands of times and you begin to 
understand the importance of the Jesse 
White Tumblers. 

The Jesse White Tumblers have 
earned their reputation as an icon in 
the State of Illinois. The program has 
done wonders, and I wish it another 50 
years of continued success. 

f 

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS OFFICE IN 
JAKARTA, INDONESIA 

Mr. LUGAR. Madam President, as 
my colleagues are aware, the Library 
of Congress, LOC, diligently works to 
keep the Congress fully informed on a 
plethora of issues. Today I would like 
to highlight the important work of a 
component of the LOC that is less 
known to colleagues, and that is its operation 
in Southeast Asia. The work of 
this regional operation immensely contributes 
to U.S. understanding of 
Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, 
China and India, thereby facilitating 
our foreign policy objectives. 

The LOC office is one of six overseas 
offices operated by the Overseas Operations 
Division of the LOC. Staff to the 
overseas offices ‘‘acquire, catalog, preserve 
and distribute library and research 
materials . . . and provide assistance 
to the U.S. Congress.’’ 

For too many Americans, Southeast 
Asia is a distant unknown. In reality, 
the region is of significant economic 
importance to the American people. 
The approximately 580-million citizens—
and consumers—of the 10 nations 
comprising the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations, ASEAN, represent 
the fourth largest market for American 
exports. 

Based in Jakarta, the mission of the 
LOC regional operation is diverse. Primary 
among its responsibilities is to 
provide research and information services 
to the U.S. Congress and the Congressional 
Research Service. Jakarta 
LOC staff also manage the Cooperative 
Acquisitions Program, CAPSEA, 
whereby they acquire materials from 
countries in the region on behalf of the 
LOC and member institutions, which 


S856 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

include 30 U.S. research libraries and 10 
international research libraries. 

It is important to note the ongoing, 
extensive assistance the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee receives 
from the Jakarta LOC office. Research 
and preparation for committee projects 
on issues ranging from global food security, 
to international trade, nonproliferation, 
the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative, EITI, counter-
terrorism and human trafficking, have 
been augmented by the diligent efforts 
of LOC staff in Jakarta and elsewhere 
in the region. 

The Jakarta LOC office ensures that 
the U.S. Congress and the Congressional 
Research Service have up-to-
date legal and legislative regional information, 
and it assists other U.S. 
Government agencies in providing and 
sharing open source information as 
well as acquiring publications. 

The Jakarta LOC office has also 
worked with the House Democracy 
Partnership, HDP, and The Asia Foundation 
to create a legislative library 
for the National Parliament of Timor-
Leste and to train the library staff, and 
is cooperating with the HDP to develop 
a parliamentary research service and 
an improved information technology 
system there. 

Indonesia is a young democracy. Its 
Parliament is confronted with many 
challenges, including the development 
of its own operational and staff infrastructure. 
The LOC office in Jakarta 
serves as a bridge facilitating communications 
and meetings between the 
staff of the U.S. Congress and the Indonesian 
Parliament. Our counterparts in 
the Indonesian Parliament have expressed 
appreciation for this initiative. 

In conclusion, I am grateful for the 
assistance provided to the U.S. Senate 
by the Southeast Asia LOC office, and 
wanted to take this opportunity to 
openly convey my appreciation. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

REMEMBERING SAM HAMILTON 

S Mr. NELSON of Florida. Madam 
President, I speak today to commemorate 
the life of a true friend of Florida, 
Mr. Sam Hamilton, who passed away 
on Saturday. In September of last year, 
Mr. Hamilton became the Director of 
the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service. That was a fitting position for 
a man who had dedicated 30 years to 
protecting the Nation’s natural resources 
and wildlife. 

Long before he was Director of Fish 
and Wildlife, Mr. Hamilton was committed 
to this country’s wild spaces. 
Just last month, I was fortunate 
enough to attend the groundbreaking 
ceremony for an Everglades restoration 
project called the Picayune Strand, 
and Mr. Hamilton was there. It was a 
proud day for us all, but certainly for a 
man who had worked so long on Everglades 
issues and knew how much this 
project would benefit the endangered 

Florida panther. On that unusually 
cold morning, he spoke about his experience 
in the Youth Conservation Corps 
at 15 years old in Mississippi and how 
that molded his dedication to wildlife 
conservation. Mr. Hamilton started his 
career with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service in Texas. He moved up the 
ranks to become the southeast region’s 
director based in Atlanta. 

During his time in Atlanta, he 
oversaw the Service’s role in restoring 
the Everglades ecosystem. He took the 
Service’s role of advising Federal agencies 
with regard to the Endangered 
Species Act seriously. He knew the ins 
and outs of the Apalachicola-
Chatahoochee-Flint River Basin, and 
worked to protect the threatened and 
endangered species that call that system 
home, like the gulf sturgeon and 
the purple bankclimber mussel. 

Mr. Hamilton was an avid fisher and 
hunter, and this gave him perspective 
on how to work with people from different 
backgrounds towards a common 
goal of conserving America’s wildlife 
and the habitat that sustains it. I know 
that I echo my friends at the Department 
of the Interior like Secretary Ken 
Salazar and the Assistant Secretary for 
Fish and Wildlife and Parks Tom 
Strickland when I say that Mr. Hamilton 
will be sorely missed and his 
great contributions to my state and 
the country at large will not be forgotten. 
And to his family: wife Becky, 
sons Sam Jr. and Clay, and grandson 
Davis, you are in our thoughts during 
this difficult time. Thank you for helping 
your husband, father, and grandfather 
to serve this country.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO KATHERINE 

PATERSON 
S Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, I 
wish to acknowledge the lifetime work 
and recent achievements of Katherine 
Paterson of Barre, VT. Recently, Ms. 
Paterson was named National Ambassador 
for Young People’s Literature by 
the Librarian of Congress James H. 
Billington. 

Katherine Paterson’s accomplishments 
as an author surely merit her 
appointment. She has twice been 
awarded the prestigious Newbery 
Medal, once for ‘‘Bridge to Terabithia’’ 
and a second time for ‘‘Jacob Have I 
Loved.’’ In addition, she won the National 
Book Award, also twice, for 
‘‘The Great Gilly Hopkins’’ and ‘‘The 
Master Puppeteer.’’ Nor are these the 
only major recognitions of her importance 
as one of the major writers of our 
time. She has won 19 additional literary 
awards for other works, including 
the Hans Christian Andersen 
Medal, the Astrid Lindgren Memorial 
Award and the Governor’s Award for 
Excellence in the Arts, which was 
awarded to her by her home State of 
Vermont. 

Katherine Paterson was named a Living 
Legend by the Library of Congress 
in 2000. 

Her most recent book is ‘‘The Day of 
the Pelican,’’ a moving, dramatic story 

of a refugee family’s flight from war-
torn Kosovo to America. It is the 2010 
selection for Vermont Reads, a statewide 
reading program. 

Katherine Paterson has long been 
dedicated to promoting literacy among 
young people, which makes her appointment 
as National Ambassador for 
Young People’s Literature particularly 
appropriate. She has chosen ‘‘Read for 
Your Life’’ as the theme for her platform 
for the upcoming 2 years as National 
Ambassador. Throughout her 
tenure, she will be a most articulate 
advocate for the importance of literature 
in young people’s lives. 

We in Vermont are proud of Katherine 
Paterson’s accomplishments as a 
writer. We are proud of her dedication 
to literacy among young readers. And, 
at this moment, we are proud that our 
national library, the Library of Congress, 
has conferred upon her this new 
honor, and the enlarged task of being 
the Nation’s leading advocate for 
young people’s literature.S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 
Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Pate, one of his secretaries. 


f 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 
As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 
from the President of the United 
States submitting sundry nominations 
which were referred to the appropriate 
committees. 
(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 

PROPOSED CONSTITUTION FOR 
THE VIRGIN ISLANDS—PM 47 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United 
States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources: 


To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with the requirements 
of Public Law 94–584 (the ‘‘Act’’), I 
hereby transmit to the Congress a proposed 
constitution for the United 
States Virgin Islands (USVI). The constitution, 
drafted by the Fifth Constitutional 
Convention of the United 
States Virgin Islands, was submitted to 
me on December 31, 2009, by Governor 
John P. deJongh, United States Virgin 
Islands. In submitting the proposed 
constitution, Governor deJongh expressed 
his concerns about several provisions 
of the proposed constitution, 
but he also expressed his hope that the 
people of the United States Virgin Islands 
continue to ‘‘move ahead towards 
[their] goal of increased local governmental 
autonomy.’’ 

The Act requires that I submit this 
proposed constitution to the Congress, 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S857 

along with my comments. The Congress 
then has 60 days to amend, modify, 
or approve the proposed constitution. 
If approved, or approved with 
modification, the constitution will be 
submitted for a referendum in the Virgin 
Islands for acceptance or rejection 
by the people. 

In carrying out my responsibilities 
pursuant to the Act, I asked the Department 
of Justice, in consultation 
with the Department of the Interior, to 
provide its views of the proposed constitution. 
The Department of Justice 
concluded that several features of the 
proposed constitution warrant analysis 
and comment, including: (1) the absence 
of an express recognition of 
United States sovereignty and the supremacy 
of Federal law; (2) provisions 
for a special election on the USVI’s territorial 
status; (3) provisions conferring 
legal advantages on certain groups 
defined by place and timing of birth, 
timing of residency, or ancestry; (4) 
residence requirements for certain offices; 
(5) provisions guaranteeing legislative 
representation of certain geographic 
areas; (6) provisions addressing 
territorial waters and marine resources; 
(7) imprecise language in certain 
provisions of the proposed constitution’s 
bill of rights; (8) the possible 
need to repeal certain Federal 
laws if the proposed USVI constitution 
is adopted; and (9) the effect of congressional 
action or inaction on the proposed 
constitution. 

To assist the Congress in its deliberations 
about this important matter, I 
attach the analysis of the Department 
of Justice, with which the Department 
of the Interior concurs. I believe that 
the analysis provided by the Department 
of Justice warrants careful attention. 


I commend the electorate of the Virgin 
Islands and its governmental representatives 
in their continuing commitment 
to increasing self-government 
and the rule of law. 

BARACK OBAMA. 

THE WHITE HOUSE, February 26, 2010. 

f 

NOTICE RELATIVE TO THE CONTINUATION 
OF THE NATIONAL 
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO 
THE ACTIONS AND POLICIES OF 
CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT 
OF ZIMBABWE AND 
OTHER PERSONS TO UNDERMINE 
ZIMBABWE’S DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES 
OR INSTITUTIONS—PM 48 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United 
States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs: 

To the Congress of the United States: 

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies 
Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides 
for the automatic termination of a national 
emergency unless, prior to the 
anniversary date of its declaration, the 

President publishes in the Federal Register 
and transmits to the Congress a 
notice stating that the emergency is to 
continue in effect beyond the anniversary 
date. In accordance with this provision, 
I have sent to the Federal Register 
for publication the enclosed notice 
stating that the national emergency 
with respect to the actions and policies 
of certain members of the Government 
of Zimbabwe and other persons to undermine 
Zimbabwe’s democratic processes 
or institutions is to continue in 
effect beyond March 6, 2010. 

The crisis constituted by the actions 
and policies of certain members of the 
Government of Zimbabwe and other 
persons to undermine Zimbabwe’s 
democratic processes or institutions 
has not been resolved. These actions 
and policies continue to pose an unusual 
and extraordinary threat to the 
foreign policy of the United States. For 
these reasons, I have determined that 
it is necessary to continue this national 
emergency and to maintain in 
force the sanctions to respond to this 
threat. 

BARACK OBAMA. 

THE WHITE HOUSE, February 26, 2010. 

f 

MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE 
DURING ADJOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Under the authority of the order of 
the Senate of January 6, 2009, the following 
enrolled bill, previously signed 
by the Speaker of the House, was 
signed on February 26, 2010, during the 
adjournment of the Senate, by the 
President pro tempore (Mr. BYRD): 

H.R. 3961. An act to extend expiring provisions 
of the USA PATRIOT Improvement 
and Reauthorization Act of 2005 and Intelligence 
Reform and Terrorism Prevention 
Act of 2004 until February 28, 2011. 
f 

MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE 

At 2:04 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, 
announced that the House has agreed 
to the following concurrent resolutions, 
in which it requests the concurrence 
of the Senate: 

H. Con. Res. 227. Concurrent resolution 
supporting the goals and ideals of National 
Urban Crimes Awareness Week. 
H. Con. Res. 238. Concurrent resolution recognizing 
the difficult challenges Black veterans 
faced when returning home after serving 
in the Armed Forces, their heroic military 
sacrifices, and their patriotism in fighting 
for equal rights and for the dignity of a 
people and a Nation. 
f 

MEASURES REFERRED 

The following concurrent resolutions 
were read, and referred as indicated: 

H. Con. Res. 227. Concurrent resolution 
supporting the goals and ideals of National 
Urban Crimes Awareness Week; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
H. Con. Res. 238. Concurrent resolution recognizing 
the difficult challenges Black veterans 
faced when returning home after serving 
in the Armed Forces, their heroic military 
sacrifices, and their patriotism in fighting 
for equal rights and for the dignity of a 
people and a Nation; to the Committee on 
Veterans’ Affairs. 

f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR 
The following bills were read the second 
time, and placed on the calendar: 

H.R. 4626. An act to restore the application 
of the Federal antitrust laws to the business 
of health insurance to protect competition 
and consumers. 
H.R. 4691. An act to provide a temporary 
extension of certain programs, and for other 
purposes. 
f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. NELSON of Florida (for himself 
and Mr. LEMIEUX): 

S. 3050. A bill to direct the Secretary of 
Agriculture to convey to Miami-Dade County 
certain federally owned land in Florida, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 
By Mr. VITTER: 

S. 3051. A bill to suspend flood insurance 
rate map updates in geographic areas in 
which certain levees are being repaired; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 
By Mr. MENENDEZ: 

S. 3052. A bill to address the establishment 
and maintenance of the Systemic Resolution 
Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 
By Mr. SPECTER: 

S. 3053. A bill to amend the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to permit 
the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund 
to be used for transportation and use of 
dredged materials for abandoned mine reclamation, 
and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 
By Mr. MENENDEZ: 

S. 3054. A bill to amend the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act to establish efficiency 
standards for bottle-type water dispensers, 
commercial hot food holding cabinets, and 
portable electric spas; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 
By Mr. CASEY: 

S. 3055. A bill to require the Secretary of 
Commerce to award grants to municipalities 
to carry out community greening initiatives, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 
f 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. BAUCUS (for himself, Mr. 
TESTER, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. ISAKSON, 
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. REID, Mrs. BOXER, 
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr. LEAHY): 

S. Res. 427. A resolution designating the 
first week of April 2010 as ‘‘National Asbestos 
Awareness Week’’; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
By Mr. LEMIEUX (for himself and Mr. 
COBURN): 


S858 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

S. Res. 428. A resolution expressing concern 
about violations of civil liberties taking 
place in Venezuela and commending the people 
of Venezuela for their steadfast support 
of democracy; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 384 

At the request of Mr. LUGAR, the 
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 384, a bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal years 2010 through 2014 
to provide assistance to foreign countries 
to promote food security, to stimulate 
rural economies, and to improve 
emergency response to food crises, to 
amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, and for other purposes. 
S. 405 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 405, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
that a deduction equal to fair market 
value shall be allowed for charitable 
contributions of literary, musical, artistic, 
or scholarly compositions created 
by the donor. 

S. 428 

At the request of Mr. DORGAN, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 428, a bill to allow travel between 
the United States and Cuba. 

S. 535 

At the request of Mr. NELSON of Florida, 
the name of the Senator from 
North Carolina (Mrs. HAGAN) was added 
as a cosponsor of S. 535, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to repeal 
requirement for reduction of survivor 
annuities under the Survivor Benefit 
Plan by veterans’ dependency and indemnity 
compensation, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 621 

At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the 
name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 621, a bill to amend the 
Public Health Service Act to coordinate 
Federal congenital heart disease 
research efforts and to improve public 
education and awareness of congenital 
heart disease, and for other purposes. 

S. 738 

At the request of Ms. LANDRIEU, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
SNOWE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
738, a bill to amend the Consumer Credit 
Protection Act to assure meaningful 
disclosures of the terms of rental-purchase 
agreements, including disclosures 
of all costs to consumers under 
such agreements, to provide certain 
substantive rights to consumers under 
such agreements, and for other purposes. 


S. 749 

At the request of Mr. COCHRAN, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
SNOWE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
749, a bill to improve and expand geo


graphic literacy among kindergarten 
through grade 12 students in the United 
States by improving professional development 
programs for kindergarten 
through grade 12 teachers offered 
through institutions of higher education. 


S. 841 
At the request of Mr. KERRY, the 
names of the Senator from North Dakota 
(Mr. CONRAD) and the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mrs. LINCOLN) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 841, a bill to 
direct the Secretary of Transportation 
to study and establish a motor vehicle 
safety standard that provides for a 
means of alerting blind and other pedestrians 
of motor vehicle operation. 
S. 902 
At the request of Mr. KERRY, the 
name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SPECTER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 902, a bill to provide 
grants to establish veteran’s treatment 
courts. 
S. 941 
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the 
name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
MCCAIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
941, a bill to reform the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, 
modernize firearm laws and regulations, 
protect the community from 
criminals, and for other purposes. 
S. 1067 
At the request of Mr. FEINGOLD, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. BAUCUS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1067, a bill to support stabilization 
and lasting peace in northern Uganda 
and areas affected by the Lord’s Resistance 
Army through development of a 
regional strategy to support multilateral 
efforts to successfully protect civilians 
and eliminate the threat posed 
by the Lord’s Resistance Army and to 
authorize funds for humanitarian relief 
and reconstruction, reconciliation, and 
transitional justice, and for other purposes. 
S. 1204 
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1204, a bill to amend the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Health Care Programs 
Enhancement Act of 2001 to require 
the provision of chiropractic care 
and services to veterans at all Department 
of Veterans Affairs medical centers, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1643 

At the request of Ms. SNOWE, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
BEGICH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1643, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow a credit for 
the conversion of heating using oil fuel 
to using natural gas or biomass feed-
stocks, and for other purposes. 

S. 1744 
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the 
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1744, a bill to require the Administrator 
of the Federal Aviation Admin


istration to prescribe regulations to 
ensure that all crewmembers on air 
carriers have proper qualifications and 
experience, and for other purposes. 

S. 1966 

At the request of Mr. DODD, the name 
of the Senator from Maryland (Mr. 
CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1966, a bill to provide assistance to improve 
the health of newborns, children, 
and mothers in developing countries, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 2760 

At the request of Mr. UDALL of New 
Mexico, the name of the Senator from 
Louisiana (Ms. LANDRIEU) was added as 
a cosponsor of S. 2760, a bill to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to provide 
for an increase in the annual amount 
authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry 
out comprehensive service programs 
for homeless veterans. 

S. 2794 

At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the 
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2794, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives 
for the donation of wild game 
meat. 

S. 2796 

At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name 
of the Senator from Missouri (Mr. 
BOND) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2796, a bill to extend the authority of 
the Secretary of Education to purchase 
guaranteed student loans for an additional 
year, and for other purposes. 

S. 2919 

At the request of Mr. UDALL of Colorado, 
the name of the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. REID) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2919, a bill to amend the Federal 
Credit Union Act to advance the 
ability of credit unions to promote 
small business growth and economic 
development opportunities, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 2961 
At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
his name was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 2961, a bill to provide debt relief to 
Haiti, and for other purposes. 
S. 2998 
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND, 
the name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 2998, a bill to temporarily 
expand the V nonimmigrant visa 
category to include Haitians whose petition 
for a family-sponsored immigrant 
visa was approved on or before 
January 12, 2010. 

S. 3021 

At the request of Mr. FEINGOLD, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
BEGICH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
3021, a bill to amend the Public Utility 
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to authorize 
the Secretary of Energy to promulgate 
regulations to allow electric 
utilities to use renewable energy to 
comply with any Federal renewable 
electricity standard, and for other pur


poses. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S859 

S. 3036 Resources Development Act. The SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS 
At the request of Mr. BAYH, the 
names of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Ms. LANDRIEU) and the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. FEINGOLD) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 3036, a bill to establish 
the Office of the National Alzheimer’s 
Project. 

S. 3043 

At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND, 
the names of the Senator from Ohio 
(Mr. BROWN), the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. BURRIS) and the Senator from New 
York (Mr. SCHUMER) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 3043, a bill to award planning 
grants and implementation grants 
to State educational agencies to enable 
the State educational agencies to complete 
comprehensive planning to carry 
out activities designed to integrate engineering 
education into K–12 instruction 
and curriculum and to provide 
evaluation grants to measure efficacy 
of K–12 engineering education. 

S. RES. 372 

At the request of Mr. LEVIN, the 
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
HATCH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 372, a resolution designating 
March 2010 as ‘‘National Autoimmune 
Diseases Awareness Month’’ and supporting 
efforts to increase awareness of 
autoimmune diseases and increase 
funding for autoimmune disease research. 


S. RES. 409 

At the request of Mr. FEINGOLD, the 
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr. 
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 409, a resolution calling on members 
of the Parliament in Uganda to reject 
the proposed ‘‘Anti-Homosexuality 
Bill’’, and for other purposes. 

S. RES. 414 

At the request of Mr. KERRY, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. LAUTENBERG) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 414, a resolution expressing 
the sense of the Senate on the 
recovery, rehabilitation, and rebuilding 
of Haiti following the humanitarian 
crisis caused by the January 12, 
2010, earthquake in Haiti. 

f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. SPECTER: 

S. 3053. A bill to amend the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
1977 to permit the Abandoned Mine 
Reclamation Fund to be used for transportation 
and use of dredged materials 
for abandoned mine reclamation, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 
Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have 
sought recognition to introduce legislation 
concerning the beneficial use of 
materials derived from river dredging 
activities. This concept was the subject 
of a Committee Resolution passed by 
the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works on October 26, 2005. 

This legislation relates directly to 
the deepening of the Delaware River, 
which was authorized in the 1992 Water 

project deepens from 40 to 45 feet the 
main shipping channel of the Delaware 
River from Philadelphia and Camden, 
NJ, to the mouth of the Delaware Bay. 
Deepening the river will help sustain 
and grow the maritime economy of the 
Delaware Valley region, as the river’s 
current depth, which has remained 
stagnant since 1941, does not accommodate 
the size of most modern ships. 

Despite the tremendous benefit the 
deepening will have on the region, 
some concerns have been raised regarding 
the disposal of the dredge material 
that will be produced during the deepening 
process. Currently, the Army 
Corps of Engineers dredges the river 
every year to maintain the 40-foot 
depth and deposits materials in Corps-
owned sites along the river. While capacity 
remains at these sites, there are 
compelling questions about whether 
dredge material may have other useful 
purposes. 

On October 26, 2005, the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works 
passed a Resolution requesting the 
Army Corps of Engineers to study the 
beneficial uses of dredge material from 
the Delaware River, including the potential 
for use in coal and other mine 
restoration areas. The Corps has undertaken 
this study with funding I secured 
for the past several years and intend to 
request this year and in the future. The 
outcome of this study could yield tremendous 
benefits for the Nation, including 
in the Delaware Valley region 
and in Pennsylvania, where there are 
already proposals to use the dredge materials. 


One such proposal involves using 
dredge material from the Delaware 
River Deepening project to reclaim 
abandoned mine lands in northeast 
Pennsylvania. One likely benefit would 
be stream quality improvement in the 
Pocono Mountains due to a reduction 
in acid mine flows. This proposal would 
also help advance an economic development 
project in Hazleton, PA, which 
could potentially create thousands of 
jobs and contribute to the economic development 
of a region still impacted by 
the decline of the coal industry. The 
use of dredge material for these purposes 
has been endorsed by numerous 
local elected officials, state legislators 
and members of the community. 

The legislation I have introduced 
would authorize the use of funding 
under the Abandoned Mine Reclamation 
Fund for the transportation and 
use of dredge material in the reclamation 
of abandoned mines. Specifically, 
an eligible use of this funding would be 
for dredging material from the Delaware 
River for use in abandoned mines 
around the State of Pennsylvania. This 
use could significantly reduce the 
amount of additional dredge material 
deposited along the river as well as advance 
the mine cleanup effort which 
has been ongoing for decades in Pennsylvania. 


I urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation. 

SENATE RESOLUTION 427—DESIGNATING 
THE FIRST WEEK OF 
APRIL 2010 AS ‘‘NATIONAL ASBESTOS 
AWARENESS WEEK’’ 

Mr. BAUCUS (for himself, Mr. TESTER, 
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. ISAKSON, Mrs. 
MURRAY, Mr. REID, Mrs. BOXER, Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN, and Mr. LEAHY) submitted 
the following resolution; which was referred 
to the Committee on the Judiciary: 


S. RES. 427 
Whereas dangerous asbestos fibers are invisible 
and cannot be smelled or tasted; 
Whereas the inhalation of airborne asbestos 
fibers can cause significant damage; 
Whereas asbestos fibers can cause mesothelioma, 
asbestosis, and other health problems; 
Whereas asbestos-related diseases can take 
10 to 50 years to present themselves; 
Whereas the expected survival time for 
those diagnosed with mesothelioma is between 
6 and 24 months; 
Whereas generally, little is known about 
late-stage treatment of asbestos-related diseases, 
and there is no cure for such diseases; 
Whereas early detection of asbestos-related 
diseases may give some patients increased 
treatment options and might improve 
their prognoses; 
Whereas the World Health Organization, 
the Environmental Protection Agency, and 
the Surgeon General currently state that 
there is no safe level of exposure to asbestos; 
Whereas the United States has reduced its 
consumption of asbestos substantially, yet 
continues to consume almost 2,000 metric 
tons of the fibrous mineral for use in certain 
products throughout the Nation; 
Whereas asbestos-related diseases have 
killed thousands of people in the United 
States; 
Whereas exposure to asbestos continues, 
but safety and prevention of asbestos exposure 
already has significantly reduced the incidence 
of asbestos-related diseases and can 
further reduce the incidence of such diseases; 
Whereas asbestos has been a cause of occupational 
cancer; 
Whereas thousands of workers in the 
United States face significant asbestos exposure; 
Whereas thousands of people in the United 
States die from asbestos-related diseases 
every year; 
Whereas a significant percentage of all as-
bestos-related disease victims were exposed 
to asbestos on naval ships and in shipyards; 
Whereas asbestos was used in the construction 
of a significant number of office buildings 
and public facilities built before 1975; 
Whereas people in the small community of 
Libby, Montana have asbestos-related diseases 
at a significantly higher rate than the 
national average and suffer from mesothelioma 
at a significantly higher rate than the 
national average; and 
Whereas the establishment of a ‘‘National 
Asbestos Awareness Week’’ will raise public 
awareness about the prevalence of asbestos-
related diseases and the dangers of asbestos 
exposure: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) designates the first week of April 2010 
as ‘‘National Asbestos Awareness Week’’; 
(2) urges the Surgeon General to warn and 
educate people about the public health issue 
of asbestos exposure, which may be hazardous 
to their health; and 
(3) respectfully requests that the Secretary 
of the Senate transmit a copy of this resolution 
to the Office of the Surgeon General. 

S860 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

SENATE RESOLUTION 428—EXPRESSING 
CONCERN ABOUT VIOLATIONS 
OF CIVIL LIBERTIES 
TAKING PLACE IN VENEZUELA 
AND COMMENDING THE PEOPLE 
OF VENEZUELA FOR THEIR 
STEADFAST SUPPORT OF DEMOCRACY 


Mr. LEMIEUX (for himself and Mr. 
COBURN) submitted the following resolution; 
which was referred to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations: 

S. RES. 428 
Whereas since his election as the President 
of Venezuela in 1998, Hugo Cha´vez has systematically 
weakened democratic institutions 
in Venezuela by restricting individual 
rights and the activities of political parties, 
discouraging the free exchange of ideas, and 
centralizing and expanding the powers of the 
Executive over the other branches of government 
and the people of Venezuela; 
Whereas Article 57 of the Constitution of 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela guarantees 
the right of all citizens to freely express 
their thoughts and opinions; 
Whereas Article 68 of the Constitution of 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela guarantees 
the right of all citizens to peacefully 
demonstrate and prohibits the use of firearms 
or toxic substances to control peaceful 
demonstrations; 
Whereas on May 24, 2007, the Senate approved 
by unanimous consent Senate Resolution 
211, 110th Congress, expressing profound 
concern about the transgression against freedom 
of thought and expression that was 
being carried out in Venezuela by the refusal 
of President Cha´vez to renew the broadcasting 
license of ‘‘Radio Caracas 
Televisio´n’’, also known as RCTV; 
Whereas on May 24, 2007, the European Parliament 
adopted a Resolution criticizing the 
non-renewal of the RCTV license for undermining 
the right of the press to hold the authorities 
to account; 
Whereas Venezuela and Cuba are the only 
2 Western Hemisphere countries listed in the 
United States Commission for International 
Religious Freedom ‘‘Watch List’’ as countries 
requiring close monitoring due to the 
nature and extent of violation of religious 
freedom engaged in or tolerated by their governments; 
Whereas the 2009 Report of the United 
States Commission for International Religious 
Freedom states that in Venezuela, ‘‘religious 
communities and leaders viewed as 
political opponents are routinely targeted 
and harassed by government officials; 
Whereas several international human 
rights organizations have consistently expressed 
serious concerns regarding weakening 
of respect for human rights in Venezuela; 
Whereas on January 24, 2010, President 
Cha´vez ordered what amounted to a shutdown 
of ‘‘Radio Caracas Televisio´n 
Internacional’’ due to its failure to air one of 
his speeches; 
Whereas on the night of January 25, 2010, 2 
students were killed and 5 others were injured 
by gunfire during peaceful demonstrations 
against the order by President Cha´vez 
to shutdown RCTV Internacional; 
Whereas the Government of Venezuela has 
increasingly failed to address the legitimate 
needs of its people for greater economic, political, 
and social opportunities and has aggravated 
political divisions in Venezuela; 
and 
Whereas the Government of Venezuela has 
engaged in a military build-up that goes beyond 
the reasonable security concerns of the 
Venezuelan state and threatens to launch a 

destabilizing regional arms race: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) condemns the recurring and ongoing repression 
of peaceful demonstrators in Venezuela 
by security forces and government-affiliated 
groups; 
(2) mourns the loss of life resulting from 
actions taken by authorities in Venezuela to 
violently disband peaceful protestors, including 
the students killed on January 25, 2010, 
during demonstrations against President 
Cha´vez’s decision to shutdown ‘‘Radio Caracas 
Televisio´n Internacional’’; 
(3) urges both the people and the Government 
of Venezuela to choose a path towards 
democracy, transparency, and tolerance in 
order to begin the process of achieving national 
reconciliation and a rebuilding of 
democratic institutions in their country; 
(4) urges the people of Venezuela to remain 
vigilant against further encroachments on 
their constitutional and internationally-recognized 
civil and human rights; 
(5) urges President Barack Obama to clearly 
reject and call attention to the violent 
measures taken by authorities in Venezuela 
against citizens who are exercising their constitutionally 
guaranteed civil liberties; 
(6) urges the United States Ambassador to 
the Organization of American States to call 
on the member states of the Organization of 
American States to investigate events taking 
place in Venezuela and adopt the necessary 
measures to ensure the Government 
of Venezuela abides by its commitments 
under the Inter-American Democratic Charter; 
and 
(7) urges President Obama to provide robust 
support for peaceful civil society groups 
in Venezuela and to take measures that protect 
the flow of uncensored information 
among the people of Venezuela. 
f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND 
PROPOSED 

SA 3335. Ms. LANDRIEU (for herself, Mr. 
VITTER, Mr. WICKER, and Mr. COCHRAN) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend 
certain expiring provisions, and for other 
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the 
table. 

SA 3336. Mr. BAUCUS proposed an amendment 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra. 

SA 3337. Mr. SESSIONS (for himself and 
Mrs. MCCASKILL) proposed an amendment to 
amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. BAUCUS 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra. 

SA 3338. Mr. THUNE submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed to amendment 
SA 3336 proposed by Mr. BAUCUS to the bill 
H.R. 4213, supra. 

SA 3339. Mr. WARNER submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

SA 3340. Mr. WARNER submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

SA 3341. Mr. WARNER submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

SA 3342. Mr. WEBB (for himself and Mrs. 
BOXER) submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 4213, 
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table. 

SA 3343. Ms. LANDRIEU submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. BAUCUS 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

SA 3344. Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Mrs. 
SHAHEEN, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) submitted an 

amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. BAUCUS 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

SA 3345. Ms. LANDRIEU submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. BAUCUS 
to the bill H.R. 4213, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

f 

TEXT OF AMENDMENTS 

SA 3335. Ms. LANDRIEU (for herself, 
Mr. VITTER, and Mr. WICKER) submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed 
by her to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
extend certain expiring provisions, and 
for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows: 

After section 185, insert the following: 

SEC. 186. EXTENSION OF LOW-INCOME HOUSING 
CREDIT RULES FOR BUILDINGS IN 
GO ZONES. 

Section 1400N(c)(5) is amended by striking 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 
2013’’. 

SA 3336. Mr. BAUCUS proposed an 
amendment to the bill H.R. 4213, to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to extend certain expiring provisions, 
and for other purposes; as follows: 


Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT OF 1986 
CODE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘American Workers, State, and Business 
Relief Act of 2010’’. 
(b) AMENDMENT OF 1986 CODE.—Except as 
otherwise expressly provided, whenever in 
this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed 
in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference 
shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986. 
(c) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title; amendment of 1986 Code; 
table of contents. 
TITLE I—EXTENSION OF EXPIRING 
PROVISIONS 
Subtitle A—Energy 
Sec. 101. Alternative motor vehicle credit 
for new qualified hybrid motor 
vehicles other than passenger 
automobiles and light trucks. 

Sec. 102. Incentives for biodiesel and renewable 
diesel. 

Sec. 103. Credit for electricity produced at 
certain open-loop biomass facilities. 


Sec. 104. Credit for refined coal facilities. 
Sec. 105. Credit for production of low sulfur 
diesel fuel. 
Sec. 106. Credit for producing fuel from coke 

or coke gas. 
Sec. 107. New energy efficient home credit. 
Sec. 108. Excise tax credits and outlay pay


ments for alternative fuel and 
alternative fuel mixtures. 

Sec. 109. Special rule for sales or dispositions 
to implement FERC or 
State electric restructuring 
policy for qualified electric 
utilities. 

Sec. 110. Suspension of limitation on percentage 
depletion for oil and 
gas from marginal wells. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S861 

Subtitle B—Individual Tax Relief 
PART I—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
Sec. 111. Deduction for certain expenses of 

elementary and secondary 
school teachers. 

Sec. 112. Additional standard deduction for 
State and local real property 
taxes. 

Sec. 113. Deduction of State and local sales 
taxes. 

Sec. 114. Contributions of capital gain real 
property made for conservation 
purposes. 

Sec. 115. Above-the-line deduction for qualified 
tuition and related expenses. 


Sec. 116. Tax-free distributions from individual 
retirement plans for 
charitable purposes. 

Sec. 117. Look-thru of certain regulated investment 
company stock in determining 
gross estate of non


residents. 
PART II—LOW-INCOME HOUSING CREDITS 
Sec. 121. Election for refundable low-income 
housing credit for 2010. 
Subtitle C—Business Tax Relief 
Sec. 131. Research credit. 
Sec. 132. Indian employment tax credit. 
Sec. 133. New markets tax credit. 
Sec. 134. Railroad track maintenance credit. 
Sec. 135. Mine rescue team training credit. 
Sec. 136. Employer wage credit for employees 
who are active duty members 
of the uniformed services. 
Sec. 137. 5-year depreciation for farming 
business machinery and equipment. 
Sec. 138. 15-year straight-line cost recovery 
for qualified leasehold improvements, 
qualified restaurant 
buildings and improvements, 
and qualified retail improvements. 
Sec. 139. 7-year recovery period for motor-
sports entertainment complexes. 
Sec. 140. Accelerated depreciation for business 
property on an Indian reservation. 
Sec. 141. Enhanced charitable deduction for 
contributions of food inventory. 
Sec. 142. Enhanced charitable deduction for 
contributions of book inventories 
to public schools. 
Sec. 143. Enhanced charitable deduction for 
corporate contributions of computer 
inventory for educational 
purposes. 
Sec. 144. Election to expense mine safety 
equipment. 
Sec. 145. Special expensing rules for certain 
film and television productions. 
Sec. 146. Expensing of environmental remediation 
costs. 
Sec. 147. Deduction allowable with respect 
to income attributable to domestic 
production activities in 
Puerto Rico. 
Sec. 148. Modification of tax treatment of 
certain payments to controlling 
exempt organizations. 
Sec. 149. Exclusion of gain or loss on sale or 
exchange of certain brownfield 
sites from unrelated business 
income. 
Sec. 150. Timber REIT modernization. 
Sec. 151. Treatment of certain dividends and 
assets of regulated investment 
companies. 
Sec. 152. RIC qualified investment entity 
treatment under FIRPTA. 
Sec. 153. Exceptions for active financing income. 
Sec. 154. Look-thru treatment of payments 
between related controlled foreign 
corporations under foreign 
personal holding company 
rules. 

Sec. 155. Reduction in corporate rate for 
qualified timber gain. 

Sec. 156. Basis adjustment to stock of S 
corps making charitable contributions 
of property. 

Sec. 157. Empowerment zone tax incentives. 

Sec. 158. Tax incentives for investment in 
the District of Columbia. 

Sec. 159. Renewal community tax incentives. 


Sec. 160. Temporary increase in limit on 
cover over of rum excise taxes 
to Puerto Rico and the Virgin 
Islands. 

Sec. 161. American Samoa economic development 
credit. 
Subtitle D—Temporary Disaster Relief 
Provisions 
PART I—NATIONAL DISASTER RELIEF 
Sec. 171. Waiver of certain mortgage revenue 
bond requirements. 
Sec. 172. Losses attributable to federally declared 
disasters. 
Sec. 173. Special depreciation allowance for 
qualified disaster property. 
Sec. 174. Net operating losses attributable to 
federally declared disasters. 
Sec. 175. Expensing of qualified disaster expenses. 
PART II—REGIONAL PROVISIONS 
SUBPART A—NEW YORK LIBERTY ZONE 

Sec. 181. Special depreciation allowance for 
nonresidential and residential 
real property. 

Sec. 182. Tax-exempt bond financing. 
SUBPART B—GO ZONE 
Sec. 183. Special depreciation allowance. 
Sec. 184. Increase in rehabilitation credit. 
Sec. 185. Work opportunity tax credit with 
respect to certain individuals 
affected by Hurricane Katrina 
for employers inside disaster 
areas. 
SUBPART C—MIDWESTERN DISASTER AREAS 
Sec. 191. Special rules for use of retirement 
funds. 
Sec. 192. Exclusion of cancellation of mortgage 
indebtedness. 

TITLE II—UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE, 
HEALTH, AND OTHER PROVISIONS 
Subtitle A—Unemployment Insurance 

Sec. 201. Extension of unemployment insurance 
provisions. 
Subtitle B—Health Provisions 

Sec. 211. Extension and improvement of premium 
assistance for COBRA 
benefits. 

Sec. 212. Extension of therapy caps exceptions 
process. 

Sec. 213. Treatment of pharmacies under durable 
medical equipment accreditation 
requirements. 

Sec. 214. Enhanced payment for mental 
health services. 

Sec. 215. Extension of ambulance add-ons. 

Sec. 216. Extension of geographic floor for 
work. 

Sec. 217. Extension of payment for technical 
component of certain physician 
pathology services. 

Sec. 218. Extension of outpatient hold harmless 
provision. 

Sec. 219. EHR Clarification. 

Sec. 220. Extension of reimbursement for all 
Medicare part B services furnished 
by certain indian hospitals 
and clinics. 

Sec. 221. Extension of certain payment rules 
for long-term care hospital 
services and of moratorium on 
the establishment of certain 
hospitals and facilities. 

Sec. 222. Extension of the Medicare rural 
hospital flexibility program. 

Sec. 223. Extension of section 508 hospital 

reclassifications. 

Sec. 224. Technical correction related to 
critical access hospital services. 


Sec. 225. Extension for specialized MA plans 
for special needs individuals. 

Sec. 226. Extension of reasonable cost contracts. 


Sec. 227. Extension of particular waiver policy 
for employer group plans. 

Sec. 228. Extension of continuing care retirement 
community program. 

Sec. 229. Funding outreach and assistance 
for low-income programs. 

Sec. 230. Family-to-family health information 
centers. 

Sec. 231. Implementation funding. 

Sec. 232. Extension of ARRA increase in 

FMAP. 
Sec. 233. Extension of gainsharing demonstration. 
Subtitle C—Other Provisions 
Sec. 241. Extension of use of 2009 poverty 
guidelines. 

Sec. 242. Refunds disregarded in the administration 
of Federal programs 
and federally assisted programs. 


Sec. 243. State court improvement program. 

Sec. 244. Extension of national flood insurance 
program. 

Sec. 245. Emergency disaster assistance. 

Sec. 246. Small business loan guarantee enhancement 
extensions. 

TITLE III—PENSION FUNDING RELIEF 
Subtitle A—Single Employer Plans 
Sec. 301. Extended period for single-em


ployer defined benefit plans to 
amortize certain shortfall amortization 
bases. 
Sec. 302. Application of extended amortization 
period to plans subject to 
prior law funding rules. 
Sec. 303. Lookback for certain benefit restrictions. 
Subtitle B—Multiemployer Plans 
Sec. 311. Adjustments to funding standard 
account rules. 
TITLE IV—OFFSET PROVISIONS 
Subtitle A—Black Liquor 
Sec. 401. Exclusion of unprocessed fuels from 
the cellulosic biofuel producer 
credit. 
Sec. 402. Prohibition on alternative fuel 
credit and alternative fuel mixture 
credit for black liquor. 
Subtitle B—Homebuyer Credit 
Sec. 411. Technical modifications to home-
buyer credit. 

Subtitle C—Economic Substance 
Sec. 421. Codification of economic substance 
doctrine; penalties. 

Subtitle D—Additional Provisions 
Sec. 431. Revision to the Medicare Improvement 
Fund. 
TITLE V—SATELLITE TELEVISION 
EXTENSION 
Sec. 501. Short title. 
Subtitle A—Statutory Licenses 
Sec. 501. Reference. 
Sec. 502. Modifications to statutory license 
for satellite carriers. 
Sec. 503. Modifications to statutory license 
for satellite carriers in local 
markets. 
Sec. 504. Modifications to cable system secondary 
transmission rights 
under section 111. 
Sec. 505. Certain waivers granted to providers 
of local-into-local service 
for all DMAs. 
Sec. 506. Copyright Office fees. 


S862 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

Sec. 507. Termination of license. 
Sec. 508. Construction. 

Subtitle B—Communications Provisions 

Sec. 521. Reference. 

Sec. 522. Extension of authority. 

Sec. 523. Significantly viewed stations. 

Sec. 524. Digital television transition conforming 
amendments. 

Sec. 525. Application pending completion of 
rulemakings. 

Sec. 526. Process for issuing qualified carrier 
certification. 

Sec. 527. Nondiscrimination in carriage of 
high definition digital signals 
of noncommercial educational 
television stations. 

Sec. 528. Savings clause regarding definitions. 


Sec. 529. State public affairs broadcasts. 

Subtitle C—Reports and Savings Provision 

Sec. 531. Definition. 

Sec. 532. Report on market based alter


natives to statutory licensing. 

Sec. 533. Report on communications implications 
of statutory licensing 
modifications. 

Sec. 534. Report on in-state broadcast programming. 


Sec. 535. Local network channel broadcast 
reports. 

Sec. 536. Savings provision regarding use of 
negotiated licenses. 
Sec. 537. Effective date; noninfringement of 

copyright. 
Subtitle D—Severability 
Sec. 541. Severability. 
TITLE VI—OTHER PROVISIONS 
Sec. 601. Increase in the Medicare physician 
payment update. 

TITLE VII—DETERMINATION OF 
BUDGETARY EFFECTS 
Sec. 701. Determination of budgetary ef


fects. 

TITLE I—EXTENSION OF EXPIRING 
PROVISIONS 
Subtitle A—Energy 

SEC. 101. ALTERNATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE CREDIT 
FOR NEW QUALIFIED HYBRID 
MOTOR VEHICLES OTHER THAN PASSENGER 
AUTOMOBILES AND LIGHT 
TRUCKS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (3) of section 
30B(k) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
purchased after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 102. INCENTIVES FOR BIODIESEL AND RENEWABLE 
DIESEL. 

(a) CREDITS FOR BIODIESEL AND RENEWABLE 
DIESEL USED AS FUEL.—Subsection (g) of section 
40A is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EXCISE TAX CREDITS AND OUTLAY PAYMENTS 
FOR BIODIESEL AND RENEWABLE DIESEL 
FUEL MIXTURES.— 
(1) Paragraph (6) of section 6426(c) is 
amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and 
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(2) Subparagraph (B) of section 6427(e)(6) is 
amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and 
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to fuel sold 
or used after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 103. CREDIT FOR ELECTRICITY PRODUCED 
AT CERTAIN OPEN-LOOP BIOMASS 
FACILITIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (ii) of section 
45(b)(4)(B) is amended by striking ‘‘5-year period’’ 
and inserting ‘‘6-year period’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to electricity 
produced and sold after December 31, 
2009. 
SEC. 104. CREDIT FOR REFINED COAL FACILITIES. 


(a) IN GENERAL .—Subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) of section 45(d)(8) are each amended by 
striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to facilities 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 105. CREDIT FOR PRODUCTION OF LOW SULFUR 
DIESEL FUEL. 

(a) APPLICABLE PERIOD.—Paragraph (4) of 
section 45H(c) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall take effect as if 
included in section 339 of the American Jobs 
Creation Act of 2004. 
SEC. 106. CREDIT FOR PRODUCING FUEL FROM 
COKE OR COKE GAS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
45K(g) is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 
2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to facilities 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 107. NEW ENERGY EFFICIENT HOME CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (g) of section 
45L is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to homes 
acquired after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 108. EXCISE TAX CREDITS AND OUTLAY PAYMENTS 
FOR ALTERNATIVE FUEL 
AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL MIXTURES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Sections 6426(d)(5), 
6426(e)(3), and 6427(e)(6)(C) are each amended 
by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to fuel sold 
or used after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 109. SPECIAL RULE FOR SALES OR DISPOSITIONS 
TO IMPLEMENT FERC OR 
STATE ELECTRIC RESTRUCTURING 
POLICY FOR QUALIFIED ELECTRIC 
UTILITIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (3) of section 
451(i) is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 
2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to transactions 
after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 110. SUSPENSION OF LIMITATION ON PERCENTAGE 
DEPLETION FOR OIL AND 
GAS FROM MARGINAL WELLS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (ii) of section 
613A(c)(6)(H) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
Subtitle B—Individual Tax Relief 
PART I—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

SEC. 111. DEDUCTION FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES 
OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY 
SCHOOL TEACHERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (D) of section 
62(a)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘or 2009’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2009, or 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 112. ADDITIONAL STANDARD DEDUCTION 
FOR STATE AND LOCAL REAL PROPERTY 
TAXES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (C) of section 
63(c)(1) is amended by striking ‘‘or 2009’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2009, or 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 113. DEDUCTION OF STATE AND LOCAL 
SALES TAXES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (I) of section 
164(b)(5) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 114. CONTRIBUTIONS OF CAPITAL GAIN 
REAL PROPERTY MADE FOR CONSERVATION 
PURPOSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (vi) of section 
170(b)(1)(E) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) CONTRIBUTIONS BY CERTAIN CORPORATE 
FARMERS AND RANCHERS.—Clause (iii) of section 
170(b)(2)(B) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to contributions 
made in taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 115. ABOVE-THE-LINE DEDUCTION FOR 
QUALIFIED TUITION AND RELATED 
EXPENSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (e) of section 
222 is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 116. TAX-FREE DISTRIBUTIONS FROM INDIVIDUAL 
RETIREMENT PLANS FOR 
CHARITABLE PURPOSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (F) of section 
408(d)(8) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to distributions 
made in taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 117. LOOK-THRU OF CERTAIN REGULATED 
INVESTMENT COMPANY STOCK IN 
DETERMINING GROSS ESTATE OF 
NONRESIDENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (3) of section 
2105(d) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to estates of 
decedents dying after December 31, 2009. 
PART II—LOW-INCOME HOUSING CREDITS 

SEC. 121. ELECTION FOR REFUNDABLE LOW-INCOME 
HOUSING CREDIT FOR 2010. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 42 is amended by 
redesignating subsection (n) as subsection 
(o) and by inserting after subsection (m) the 
following new subsection: 
‘‘(n) ELECTION FOR REFUNDABLE CREDITS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The housing credit agen


cy of each State shall be allowed a credit in 
an amount equal to such State’s 2010 low-income 
housing refundable credit election 
amount, which shall be payable by the Secretary 
as provided in paragraph (5). 

‘‘(2) 2010 LOW-INCOME HOUSING REFUNDABLE 
CREDIT ELECTION AMOUNT.—For purposes of 
this subsection, the term ‘2010 low-income 
housing refundable credit election amount’ 
means, with respect to any State, such 
amount as the State may elect which does 
not exceed 85 percent of the product of— 

‘‘(A) the sum of— 

‘‘(i) 100 percent of the State housing credit 
ceiling for 2010 which is attributable to 
amounts described in clauses (i) and (iii) of 
subsection (h)(3)(C), and 

‘‘(ii) 40 percent of the State housing credit 
ceiling for 2010 which is attributable to 
amounts described in clauses (ii) and (iv) of 
such subsection, multiplied by 

‘‘(B) 10. 

‘‘(3) COORDINATION WITH NON-REFUNDABLE 
CREDIT.—For purposes of this section, the 
amounts described in clauses (i) through (iv) 
of subsection (h)(3)(C) with respect to any 
State for 2010 shall each be reduced by so 
much of such amount as is taken into account 
in determining the amount of the 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S863 

credit allowed with respect to such State 
under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(4) SPECIAL RULE FOR BASIS.—Basis of a 
qualified low-income building shall not be 
reduced by the amount of any payment made 
under this subsection. 

‘‘(5) PAYMENT OF CREDIT; USE TO FINANCE 
LOW-INCOME BUILDINGS.—The Secretary shall 
pay to the housing credit agency of each 
State an amount equal to the credit allowed 
under paragraph (1). Rules similar to the 
rules of subsections (c) and (d) of section 1602 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Tax Act of 2009 shall apply with respect to 
any payment made under this paragraph, except 
that such subsection (d) shall be applied 
by substituting ‘January 1, 2012’ for ‘January 
1, 2011’.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ‘‘42(n),’’ after ‘‘36A,’’. 
Subtitle C—Business Tax Relief 

SEC. 131. RESEARCH CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (B) of section 
41(h)(1) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subparagraph 
(D) of section 45C(b)(1) is amended by 
striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to amounts 
paid or incurred after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 132. INDIAN EMPLOYMENT TAX CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (f) of section 
45A is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 133. NEW MARKETS TAX CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (F) of section 
45D(f)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘and 
2010’’ after ‘‘2009’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph 
(3) of section 45D(f) is amended by striking 
‘‘2014’’ and inserting ‘‘2015’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to calendar 
years beginning after 2009. 
SEC. 134. RAILROAD TRACK MAINTENANCE CREDIT. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (f) of section 
45G is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ 
and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to expenditures 
paid or incurred in taxable years beginning 
after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 135. MINE RESCUE TEAM TRAINING CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (e) of section 
45N is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 136. EMPLOYER WAGE CREDIT FOR EMPLOYEES 
WHO ARE ACTIVE DUTY MEMBERS 
OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (f) of section 
45P is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to payments 
made after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 137. 5-YEAR DEPRECIATION FOR FARMING 

BUSINESS MACHINERY AND EQUIP


MENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (vii) of section 
168(e)(3)(B) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 138. 15-YEAR STRAIGHT-LINE COST RECOVERY 
FOR QUALIFIED LEASEHOLD 
IMPROVEMENTS, QUALIFIED RESTAURANT 
BUILDINGS AND IMPROVEMENTS, 
AND QUALIFIED RETAIL IMPROVEMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Clauses (iv), (v), and (ix) 
of section 168(e)(3)(E) are each amended by 
striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Clause (i) of section 168(e)(7)(A) is 
amended by striking ‘‘if such building is 
placed in service after December 31, 2008, and 
before January 1, 2010,’’. 
(2) Paragraph (8) of section 168(e) is amended 
by striking subparagraph (E). 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 139. 7-YEAR RECOVERY PERIOD FOR MOTORSPORTS 
ENTERTAINMENT COMPLEXES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (D) of section 
168(i)(15) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 140. ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION FOR 
BUSINESS PROPERTY ON AN INDIAN 
RESERVATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (8) of section 
168(j) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 141. ENHANCED CHARITABLE DEDUCTION 
FOR CONTRIBUTIONS OF FOOD INVENTORY. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (iv) of section 
170(e)(3)(C) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to contributions 
made after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 142. ENHANCED CHARITABLE DEDUCTION 
FOR CONTRIBUTIONS OF BOOK INVENTORIES 
TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (iv) of section 
170(e)(3)(D) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to contributions 
made after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 143. ENHANCED CHARITABLE DEDUCTION 
FOR CORPORATE CONTRIBUTIONS 
OF COMPUTER INVENTORY FOR 
EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (G) of section 
170(e)(6) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to contributions 
made in taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 144. ELECTION TO EXPENSE MINE SAFETY 
EQUIPMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (g) of section 
179E is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 145. SPECIAL EXPENSING RULES FOR CERTAIN 
FILM AND TELEVISION PRODUCTIONS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (f) of section 
181 is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to productions 
commencing after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 146. EXPENSING OF ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION 
COSTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (h) of section 
198 is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to expenditures 
paid or incurred after December 31, 
2009. 
SEC. 147. DEDUCTION ALLOWABLE WITH RESPECT 
TO INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE 
TO DOMESTIC PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES 
IN PUERTO RICO. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (C) of section 
199(d)(8) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘first 4 taxable years’’ and 
inserting ‘‘first 5 taxable years’’, and 
(2) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 148. MODIFICATION OF TAX TREATMENT OF 
CERTAIN PAYMENTS TO CONTROLLING 
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (iv) of section 
512(b)(13)(E) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to payments 
received or accrued after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 149. EXCLUSION OF GAIN OR LOSS ON SALE 
OR EXCHANGE OF CERTAIN 
BROWNFIELD SITES FROM UNRELATED 
BUSINESS INCOME. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (K) of section 
512(b)(19) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
acquired after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 150. TIMBER REIT MODERNIZATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (8) of section 
856(c) is amended by striking ‘‘means’’ and 
all that follows and inserting ‘‘means December 
31, 2010.’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Subparagraph (I) of section 856(c)(2) is 
amended by striking ‘‘the first taxable year 
beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this subparagraph’’ and inserting ‘‘in a taxable 
year beginning on or before the termination 
date’’. 
(2) Clause (iii) of section 856(c)(5)(H) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘in taxable years beginning’’ 
after ‘‘dispositions’’. 
(3) Clause (v) of section 857(b)(6)(D) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘in a taxable year beginning’’ 
after ‘‘sale’’. 
(4) Subparagraph (G) of section 857(b)(6) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘in a taxable year beginning’’ 
after ‘‘In the case of a sale’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years ending after May 22, 2009. 
SEC. 151. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DIVIDENDS 
AND ASSETS OF REGULATED INVESTMENT 
COMPANIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraphs (1)(C) and 
(2)(C) of section 871(k) are each amended by 
striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 152. RIC QUALIFIED INVESTMENT ENTITY 
TREATMENT UNDER FIRPTA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Clause (ii) of section 
897(h)(4)(A) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall take effect on January 1, 
2010. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, 
such amendment shall not apply with 

S864 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

respect to the withholding requirement 
under section 1445 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 for any payment made before 
the date of the enactment of this Act. 

(2) AMOUNTS WITHHELD ON OR BEFORE DATE 
OF ENACTMENT.—In the case of a regulated investment 
company— 
(A) which makes a distribution after December 
31, 2009, and before the date of the enactment 
of this Act, and 
(B) which would (but for the second sentence 
of paragraph (1)) have been required to 
withhold with respect to such distribution 
under section 1445 of such Code, 
such investment company shall not be liable 
to any person to whom such distribution was 
made for any amount so withheld and paid 
over to the Secretary of the Treasury. 

SEC. 153. EXCEPTIONS FOR ACTIVE FINANCING 
INCOME. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Sections 953(e)(10) and 
954(h)(9) are each amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
953(e)(10) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years of foreign corporations beginning after 
December 31, 2009, and to taxable years of 
United States shareholders with or within 
which any such taxable year of such foreign 
corporation ends. 
SEC. 154. LOOK-THRU TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS 
BETWEEN RELATED CONTROLLED 
FOREIGN CORPORATIONS UNDER 
FOREIGN PERSONAL HOLDING COMPANY 
RULES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (C) of section 
954(c)(6) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years of foreign corporations beginning after 
December 31, 2009, and to taxable years of 
United States shareholders with or within 
which any such taxable year of such foreign 
corporation ends. 
SEC. 155. REDUCTION IN CORPORATE RATE FOR 
QUALIFIED TIMBER GAIN. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
1201(b) is amended by striking ‘‘ending’’ and 
all that follows through ‘‘such date’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph 
(3) of section 1201(b) is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(3) APPLICATION OF SUBSECTION.—The 
qualified timber gain for any taxable year 
shall not exceed the qualified timber gain 
which would be determined by not taking 
into account any portion of such taxable 
year after December 31, 2010.’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years ending after May 22, 2009. 
SEC. 156. BASIS ADJUSTMENT TO STOCK OF S 
CORPS MAKING CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS 
OF PROPERTY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 
1367(a) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to contributions 
made in taxable years beginning after 
December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 157. EMPOWERMENT ZONE TAX INCENTIVES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1391 is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ in subsection 
(d)(1)(A)(i) and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’, and 
(2) by striking the last sentence of subsection 
(h)(2). 
(b) INCREASED EXCLUSION OF GAIN ON STOCK 
OF EMPOWERMENT ZONE BUSINESSES.—Subparagraph 
(C) of section 1202(a)(2) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2014’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2015’’, and 
(2) by striking ‘‘2014’’ in the heading and inserting 
‘‘2015’’. 
(c) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TERMINATION 
DATES SPECIFIED IN NOMINATIONS.—In the 
case of a designation of an empowerment 
zone the nomination for which included a 
termination date which is contemporaneous 
with the date specified in subparagraph 
(A)(i) of section 1391(d)(1) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect before the 
enactment of this Act), subparagraph (B) of 
such section shall not apply with respect to 
such designation unless, after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the entity which 
made such nomination reconfirms such termination 
date, or amends the nomination to 
provide for a new termination date, in such 
manner as the Secretary of the Treasury (or 
the Secretary’s designee) may provide. 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to periods 
after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 158. TAX INCENTIVES FOR INVESTMENT IN 
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (f) of section 
1400 is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) TAX-EXEMPT DC EMPOWERMENT ZONE 
BONDS.—Subsection (b) of section 1400A is 
amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and 
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(c) ZERO-PERCENT CAPITAL GAINS RATE.— 
(1) ACQUISITION DATE.—Paragraphs (2)(A)(i), 
(3)(A), (4)(A)(i), and (4)(B)(i)(I) of section 
1400B(b) are each amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(2) LIMITATION ON PERIOD OF GAINS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 
1400B(e) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2014’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2015’’, and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘2014’’ in the heading and 
inserting ‘‘2015’’. 
(B) PARTNERSHIPS AND S-CORPS.—Paragraph 
(2) of section 1400B(g) is amended by striking 
‘‘December 31, 2014’’ and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2015’’. 
(d) FIRST-TIME HOMEBUYER CREDIT.—Subsection 
(i) of section 1400C is amended by 
striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(e) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, the amendments 
made by this section shall apply to periods 
after December 31, 2009. 
(2) TAX-EXEMPT DC EMPOWERMENT ZONE 
BONDS.—The amendment made by subsection 
(b) shall apply to bonds issued after December 
31, 2009. 
(3) ACQUISITION DATES FOR ZERO-PERCENT 
CAPITAL GAINS RATE.—The amendments made 
by subsection (c) shall apply to property acquired 
or substantially improved after December 
31, 2009. 
(4) HOMEBUYER CREDIT.—The amendment 
made by subsection (d) shall apply to homes 
purchased after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 159. RENEWAL COMMUNITY TAX INCENTIVES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section 
1400E is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ in paragraphs 
(1)(A) and (3) and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’, and 
(2) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ in paragraph 
(3) and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) ZERO-PERCENT CAPITAL GAINS RATE.— 
(1) ACQUISITION DATE.—Paragraphs (2)(A)(i), 
(3)(A), (4)(A)(i), and (4)(B)(i) of section 
1400F(b) are each amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(2) LIMITATION ON PERIOD OF GAINS.—Paragraph 
(2) of section 1400F(c) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2014’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2015’’, and 
(B) by striking ‘‘2014’’ in the heading and inserting 
‘‘2015’’. 
(3) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Subsection (d) 
of section 1400F is amended by striking ‘‘and 
‘December 31, 2014’ for ‘December 31, 2014’ ’’. 
(c) COMMERCIAL REVITALIZATION DEDUCTION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (g) of section 
1400I is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subparagraph 
(A) of section 1400I(d)(2) is amended by 
striking ‘‘after 2001 and before 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘which begins after 2001 and before 
the date referred to in subsection (g)’’. 
(d) INCREASED EXPENSING UNDER SECTION 
179.—Subparagraph (A) of section 1400J(b)(1) 
is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and 
inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(e) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TERMINATION 
DATES SPECIFIED IN NOMINATIONS.—In the 
case of a designation of a renewal community 
the nomination for which included a 
termination date which is contemporaneous 
with the date specified in subparagraph (A) 
of section 1400E(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (as in effect before the enactment 
of this Act), subparagraph (B) of such 
section shall not apply with respect to such 
designation unless, after the date of the enactment 
of this section, the entity which 
made such nomination reconfirms such termination 
date, or amends the nomination to 
provide for a new termination date, in such 
manner as the Secretary of the Treasury (or 
the Secretary’s designee) may provide. 
(f) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, the amendments 
made by this section shall apply to periods 
after December 31, 2009. 
(2) ACQUISITIONS.—The amendments made 
by subsections (b)(1) and (d) shall apply to 
acquisitions after December 31, 2009. 
(3) COMMERCIAL REVITALIZATION DEDUCTION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by 
subsection (c)(1) shall apply to buildings 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The amendment 
made by subsection (c)(2) shall apply to 
calendar years beginning after December 31, 
2009. 
SEC. 160. TEMPORARY INCREASE IN LIMIT ON 
COVER OVER OF RUM EXCISE TAXES 
TO PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN 
ISLANDS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
7652(f) is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 
2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to distilled 
spirits brought into the United States after 
December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 161. AMERICAN SAMOA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (d) of section 
119 of division A of the Tax Relief and Health 
Care Act of 2006 is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘first 4 taxable years’’ and 
inserting ‘‘first 5 taxable years’’, and 
(2) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 
Subtitle D—Temporary Disaster Relief 
Provisions 
PART I—NATIONAL DISASTER RELIEF 
SEC. 171. WAIVER OF CERTAIN MORTGAGE REVENUE 
BOND REQUIREMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (11) of section 
143(k) is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 
2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR RESIDENCES DESTROYED 
IN FEDERALLY DECLARED DISASTERS.—
Paragraph (13) of section 143(k), as re-
designated by subsection (c), is amended by 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S865 

striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ in subparagraphs 
(A)(i) and (B)(i) and inserting ‘‘January 1, 
2011’’. 

(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Subsection (k) 
of section 143 is amended by redesignating 
the second paragraph (12) (relating to special 
rules for residences destroyed in federally 
declared disasters) as paragraph (13). 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, the amendment 
made by this section shall apply to bonds 
issued after December 31, 2009. 
(2) RESIDENCES DESTROYED IN FEDERALLY 
DECLARED DISASTERS.—The amendments 
made by subsection (b) shall apply with respect 
to disasters occurring after December 
31, 2009. 
(3) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—The amendment 
made by subsection (c) shall take effect 
as if included in section 709 of the Tax 
Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief 
Act of 2008. 
SEC. 172. LOSSES ATTRIBUTABLE TO FEDERALLY 
DECLARED DISASTERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subclause (I) of section 
165(h)(3)(B)(i) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) $500 LIMITATION.—Paragraph (1) of section 
165(h) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall apply to federally declared 
disasters occurring after December 31, 
2009. 
(2) $500 LIMITATION.—The amendment made 
by subsection (b) shall apply to taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 173. SPECIAL DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE 
FOR QUALIFIED DISASTER PROPERTY. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subclause (I) of section 
168(n)(2)(A)(ii) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to disasters 
occurring after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 174. NET OPERATING LOSSES ATTRIBUTABLE 
TO FEDERALLY DECLARED 
DISASTERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subclause (I) of section 
172(j)(1)(A)(i) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to losses attributable 
to disasters occurring after December 
31, 2009. 
SEC. 175. EXPENSING OF QUALIFIED DISASTER 
EXPENSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section 
198A(b)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to expenditures 
on account of disasters occurring after 
December 31, 2009. 
PART II—REGIONAL PROVISIONS 

Subpart A—New York Liberty Zone 

SEC. 181. SPECIAL DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE 
FOR NONRESIDENTIAL AND RESIDENTIAL 
REAL PROPERTY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section 
1400L(b)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 182. TAX-EXEMPT BOND FINANCING. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (D) of section 
1400L(d)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to bonds 
issued after December 31, 2009. 
Subpart B—GO Zone 

SEC. 183. SPECIAL DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (6) of section 
1400N(d)(6) is amended by striking subparagraph 
(D). 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 184. INCREASE IN REHABILITATION CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (h) of section 
1400N is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to amounts 
paid or incurred after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 185. WORK OPPORTUNITY TAX CREDIT WITH 
RESPECT TO CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS 
AFFECTED BY HURRICANE KATRINA 
FOR EMPLOYERS INSIDE DISASTER 
AREAS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
201(b) of the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief 
Act of 2005 is amended by striking ‘‘4-year’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5-year’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by subsection (a) shall apply to individuals 
hired after August 27, 2009. 
Subpart C—Midwestern Disaster Areas 

SEC. 191. SPECIAL RULES FOR USE OF RETIREMENT 
FUNDS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 702(d)(10) of the 
Heartland Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008 
(Public Law 110–343; 122 Stat. 3918) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ both 
places it appears and inserting ‘‘January 1, 
2011’’, and 
(2) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ both 
places it appears and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect as if 
included in section 702(d)(10) of the Heartland 
Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008. 
SEC. 192. EXCLUSION OF CANCELLATION OF 
MORTGAGE INDEBTEDNESS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 702(e)(4)(C) of the 
Heartland Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008 
(Public Law 110–343; 122 Stat. 3918) is amended 
by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to discharges 
of indebtedness after December 31, 
2009. 
TITLE II—UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE, 
HEALTH, AND OTHER PROVISIONS 
Subtitle A—Unemployment Insurance 

SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 
PROVISIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) Section 4007 of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public 
Law 110–252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘February 28, 2010’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’; 
(B) in the heading for subsection (b)(2), by 
striking ‘‘FEBRUARY 28, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘DECEMBER 31, 2010’’; and 
(C) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ‘‘July 
31, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘May 31, 2011’’. 
(2) Section 2002(e) of the Assistance for Unemployed 
Workers and Struggling Families 
Act, as contained in Public Law 111–5 (26 
U.S.C. 3304 note; 123 Stat. 438), is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘February 
28, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2010’’; 
(B) in the heading for paragraph (2), by 
striking ‘‘FEBRUARY 28, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘DECEMBER 31, 2010’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘August 
31, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘June 30, 2011’’. 
(3) Section 2005 of the Assistance for Unemployed 
Workers and Struggling Families 
Act, as contained in Public Law 111–5 (26 

U.S.C. 3304 note; 123 Stat. 444), is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘February 28, 2010’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘January 1, 
2011’’; and 
(B) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘July 31, 
2010’’ and inserting ‘‘June 1, 2011’’. 
(4) Section 5 of the Unemployment Compensation 
Extension Act of 2008 (Public Law 
110–449; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended by 
striking ‘‘July 31, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘May 
31, 2011’’. 
(b) FUNDING.—Section 4004(e)(1) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public 
Law 110–252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘1009’’ 
and inserting ‘‘1009(a)(1)’’; and 
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the 
following new subparagraph: 
‘‘(D) the amendments made by section 
201(a)(1) of the American Workers, State, and 
Business Relief Act of 2010; and’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect as if 
included in the enactment of the Department 
of Defense Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public 
Law 111–118). 
Subtitle B—Health Provisions 

SEC. 211. EXTENSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF 
PREMIUM ASSISTANCE FOR COBRA 
BENEFITS. 

(a) EXTENSION OF ELIGIBILITY PERIOD.— 
Subsection (a)(3)(A) of section 3001 of division 
B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5) is 
amended by striking ‘‘February 28, 2010’’ and 
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
(b) CLARIFICATIONS RELATING TO SECTION 
3001 OF ARRA.— 
(1) CLARIFICATION REGARDING COBRA CONTINUATION 
RESULTING FROM REDUCTIONS IN 
HOURS.—Subsection (a) of section 3001 of division 
B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5) is 
amended— 
(A) in paragraph (3)(C), by inserting before 
the period at the end the following: ‘‘or consists 
of a reduction of hours followed by such 
an involuntary termination of employment 
during such period’’; 
(B) in paragraph (16)— 
(i) by striking clause (ii) of subparagraph 
(A), and inserting the following: 
‘‘(ii) such individual pays, by the latest of 
60 days after the date of the enactment of 
this paragraph, 30 days after the date of provision 
of the notification required under subparagraph 
(D)(ii), or the period described in 
section 4980B(f)(2)(B)(iii) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, the amount of such premium, 
after the application of paragraph 
(1)(A).’’; and 

(ii) by striking subclause (I) of subparagraph 
(C)(i), and inserting the following: 
‘‘(I) such assistance eligible individual experienced 
an involuntary termination that 
was a qualifying event prior to the date of 
enactment of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2010; and’’; and 

(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(17) SPECIAL RULES IN CASE OF INDIVIDUALS 
LOSING COVERAGE BECAUSE OF A REDUCTION OF 
HOURS.— 

‘‘(A) NEW ELECTION PERIOD.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of the 
COBRA continuation provisions, in the case 
of an individual described in subparagraph 

(C) who did not make (or who made and discontinued) 
an election of COBRA continuation 
coverage on the basis of the reduction 
of hours of employment, the involuntary termination 
of employment of such individual 
after the date of the enactment of the American 
Workers, State, and Business Relief Act 
of 2010 shall be treated as a qualifying event. 

S866 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

‘‘(ii) COUNTING COBRA DURATION PERIOD 
FROM PREVIOUS QUALIFYING EVENT.—In any 
case of an individual referred to in clause (i), 
the period of such individual’s continuation 
coverage shall be determined as though the 
qualifying event were the reduction of hours 
of employment. 

‘‘(iii) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this paragraph 
shall be construed as requiring an individual 
referred to in clause (i) to make a 
payment for COBRA continuation coverage 
between the reduction of hours and the involuntary 
termination of employment. 

‘‘(iv) PREEXISTING CONDITIONS.—With respect 
to an individual referred to in clause 

(i) who elects COBRA continuation coverage 
pursuant to such clause, rules similar to the 
rules in paragraph (4)(C) shall apply. 
‘‘(B) NOTICES.—In the case of an individual 
described in subparagraph (C), the administrator 
of the group health plan (or other entity) 
involved shall provide, during the 60-
day period beginning on the date of such individual’s 
involuntary termination of employment, 
an additional notification described 
in paragraph (7)(A), including information 
on the provisions of this paragraph. 
Rules similar to the rules of paragraph (7) 
shall apply with respect to such notification. 

‘‘(C) INDIVIDUALS DESCRIBED.—Individuals 
described in this subparagraph are individuals 
who are assistance eligible individuals 
on the basis of a qualifying event consisting 
of a reduction of hours occurring during the 
period described in paragraph (3)(A) followed 
by an involuntary termination of employment 
insofar as such involuntary termination 
of employment occurred after the 
date of the enactment of the American 
Workers, State, and Business Relief Act of 
2010.’’. 

(2) CLARIFICATION OF PERIOD OF ASSISTANCE.—
Subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii)(I) of such section 
is amended by striking ‘‘of the first 
month’’. 
(3) ENFORCEMENT.—Subsection (a)(5) of 
such section is amended by adding at the end 
the following: ‘‘In addition to civil actions 
that may be brought to enforce applicable 
provisions of such Act or other laws, the appropriate 
Secretary or an affected individual 
may bring a civil action to enforce such determinations 
and for appropriate relief. In 
addition, such Secretary may assess a penalty 
against a plan sponsor or health insurance 
issuer of not more than $110 per day for 
each failure to comply with such determination 
of such Secretary after 10 days after the 
date of the plan sponsor’s or issuer’s receipt 
of the determination.’’. 
(4) AMENDMENTS RELATING TO SECTION 3001 
OF ARRA.— 
(A) Subsection (g) of section 35 is amended 
by striking ‘‘section 3002(a) of the Health Insurance 
Assistance for the Unemployed Act 
of 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘section 3001(a) of title 
III of division B of the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009’’. 
(B) Section 139C is amended by striking 
‘‘section 3002 of the Health Insurance Assistance 
for the Unemployed Act of 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 3001 of title III of division B 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009’’. 
(C) Section 6432 is amended— 
(i) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘section 
3002(a) of the Health Insurance Assistance 
for the Unemployed Act of 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 3001(a) of title III of division B 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009’’; 
(ii) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ‘‘section 
3002(a)(1)(A) of such Act’’ in subsection 
(c)(3) and inserting ‘‘section 3001(a)(1)(A) of 
title III of division B of the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009’’; and 
(iii) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) 
as subsections (f) and (g), respectively, and 
inserting after subsection (d) the following 
new subsection:. 

‘‘(e) EMPLOYER DETERMINATION OF QUALIFYING 
EVENT AS INVOLUNTARY TERMI-
NATION.—For purposes of this section, in any 
case in which— 

‘‘(1) based on a reasonable interpretation of 
section 3001(a)(3)(C) of division B of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009 and administrative guidance thereunder, 
an employer determines that the qualifying 
event with respect to COBRA continuation 
coverage for an individual was involuntary 
termination of a covered employee’s employment, 
and 

‘‘(2) the employer maintains supporting 
documentation of the determination, including 
an attestation by the employer of involuntary 
termination with respect to the covered 
employee, 

the qualifying event for the individual shall 
be deemed to be involuntary termination of 
the covered employee’s employment.’’. 

(D) Subsection (a) of section 6720C is 
amended by striking ‘‘section 3002(a)(2)(C) of 
the Health Insurance Assistance for the Unemployed 
Act of 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
3001(a)(2)(C) of title III of division B of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009’’. 
(c) RULES RELATING TO 2010 EXTENSION.— 
Subsection (a) of section 3001 of division B of 
the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5), as amended by 
subsection (b)(1)(C), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(18) RULES RELATED TO 2010 EXTENSION.— 

‘‘(A) ELECTION TO PAY PREMIUMS RETROACTIVELY 
AND MAINTAIN COBRA COVERAGE.—In 
the case of any premium for a period of coverage 
during an assistance eligible individual’s 
2010 transition period, such individual 
shall be treated for purposes of any COBRA 
continuation provision as having timely paid 
the amount of such premium if— 

‘‘(i) such individual’s qualifying event was 
on or after March 1, 2010 and prior to the 
date of enactment of this paragraph, and 

‘‘(ii) such individual pays, by the latest of 
60 days after the date of the enactment of 
this paragraph, 30 days after the date of provision 
of the notification required under 
paragraph (16)(D)(ii) (as applied by subparagraph 
(D) of this paragraph), or the period 
described in section 4980B(f)(2)(B)(iii) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the amount of 
such premium, after the application of paragraph 
(1)(A). 

‘‘(B) REFUNDS AND CREDITS FOR RETROACTIVE 
PREMIUM ASSISTANCE ELIGIBILITY.—In 
the case of an assistance eligible individual 
who pays, with respect to any period of 
COBRA continuation coverage during such 
individual’s 2010 transition period, the premium 
amount for such coverage without regard 
to paragraph (1)(A), rules similar to the 
rules of paragraph (12)(E) shall apply. 

‘‘(C) 2101 TRANSITION PERIOD.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this 
paragraph, the term ‘transition period’ 
means, with respect to any assistance eligible 
individual, any period of coverage if— 

‘‘(I) such assistance eligible individual experienced 
an involuntary termination that 
was a qualifying event prior to the date of 
enactment of the American Workers, State, 
and Business Relief Act of 2010, and 

‘‘(II) paragraph (1)(A) applies to such period 
by reason of the amendments made by 
section 211 of the American Workers, State, 
and Business Relief Act of 2010. 

‘‘(ii) CONSTRUCTION.—Any period during the 
period described in subclauses (I) and (II) of 
clause (i) for which the applicable premium 
has been paid pursuant to subparagraph (A) 
shall be treated as a period of coverage referred 
to in such paragraph, irrespective of 

any failure to timely pay the applicable premium 
(other than pursuant to subparagraph 
(A)) for such period. 

‘‘(D) NOTIFICATION.—Notification provisions 
similar to the provisions of paragraph 
(16)(E) shall apply for purposes of this paragraph.’’. 


(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect as if 
included in the provisions of section 3001 of 
division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 to which they relate, 
except that— 
(1) the amendments made by subsections 
(b)(1) shall apply to periods of coverage beginning 
after the date of the enactment of 
this Act; and 
(2) the amendments made by paragraphs (2) 
and (3) of subsection (b) shall take effect on 
the date of the enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 212. EXTENSION OF THERAPY CAPS EXCEPTIONS 
PROCESS. 

Section 1833(g)(5) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(g)(5)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
SEC. 213. TREATMENT OF PHARMACIES UNDER 

DURABLE MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AC


CREDITATION REQUIREMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834(a)(20) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(a)(20)) is 
amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (F)— 
(A) in clause (i)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘clause (ii)’’ and inserting 
‘‘clauses (ii) and (iii)’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’; and 
(iii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(B) in clause (ii)(II), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; 
(C) by inserting after clause (ii)(II) the following 
new clause: 
‘‘(iii)(I) subject to subclause (II), with respect 
to items and services furnished on or 
after January 1, 2011, the accreditation requirement 
of clause (i) shall not apply to a 
pharmacy described in subparagraph (G); and 

‘‘(II) effective with respect to items and 
services furnished on or after the date of the 
enactment of this subparagraph, the Secretary 
may apply to pharmacies quality 
standards and an accreditation requirement 
established by the Secretary that are an alternative 
to the quality standards and accreditation 
requirement otherwise applicable 
under this paragraph if the Secretary determines 
such alternative quality standards and 
accreditation requirement are appropriate 
for pharmacies.’’; and 

(D) by adding at the end the following 
flush sentence: 
‘‘If determined appropriate by the Secretary, 
any alternative quality standards and accreditation 
requirement established under 
clause (iii)(II) may differ for categories of 
pharmacies established by the Secretary 
(such as pharmacies described in subparagraph 
(G)).’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(G) PHARMACY DESCRIBED.—A pharmacy 
described in this subparagraph is a pharmacy 
that meets each of the following criteria: 

‘‘(i) The total billings by the pharmacy for 
such items and services under this title are 
less than 5 percent of total pharmacy sales 
for a previous period (of not less than 24 
months) specified by the Secretary. 

‘‘(ii) The pharmacy has been enrolled under 
section 1866(j) as a supplier of durable medical 
equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and 
supplies, has been issued (which may include 
the renewal of) a provider number for at 
least 2 years, and for which a final adverse 
action (as defined in section 424.57(a) of title 
42, Code of Federal Regulations) has not been 
imposed in the past 2 years. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S867 

‘‘(iii) The pharmacy submits to the Secretary 
an attestation, in a form and manner, 
and at a time, specified by the Secretary, 
that the pharmacy meets the criteria described 
in clauses (i) and (ii). 

‘‘(iv) The pharmacy agrees to submit materials 
as requested by the Secretary, or during 
the course of an audit conducted on a 
random sample of pharmacies selected annually, 
to verify that the pharmacy meets the 
criteria described in clauses (i) and (ii). Materials 
submitted under the preceding sentence 
shall include a certification by an 
independent accountant on behalf of the 
pharmacy or the submission of tax returns 
filed by the pharmacy during the relevant 
periods, as requested by the Secretary.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
1834(a)(20)(E) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395m(a)(20)(E)) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Except as provided in the 
third sentence, the’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
sentences: ‘‘Notwithstanding the preceding 
sentences, any alternative quality standards 
and accreditation requirement established 
under subparagraph (F)(iii)(II) shall be established 
through notice and comment rule-
making. The Secretary may implement by 
program instruction or otherwise subparagraph 
(G) after consultation with representatives 
of relevant parties. The specifications 
developed by the Secretary in order to implement 
subparagraph (G) shall be posted on 
the Internet website of the Centers for Medicare 
& Medicaid Services.’’. 
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—Chapter 35 of title 44, 
United States Code, shall not apply to this 
section. 
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in the 
provisions of, or amendments made by, this 
section shall be construed as affecting the 
application of an accreditation requirement 
for pharmacies to qualify for bidding in a 
competitive acquisition area under section 
1847 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395w–3). 
(e) WAIVER OF 1-YEAR REENROLLMENT 
BAR.—In the case of a pharmacy described in 
subparagraph (G) of section 1834(a)(20) of the 
Social Security Act, as added by subsection 
(a), whose billing privileges were revoked 
prior to January 1, 2011, by reason of noncompliance 
with subparagraph (F)(i) of such 
section, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall waive any reenrollment bar 
imposed pursuant to section 424.535(d) of 
title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (as in 
effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act) for such pharmacy to reapply for such 
privileges. 
SEC. 214. ENHANCED PAYMENT FOR MENTAL 
HEALTH SERVICES. 

Section 138(a)(1) of the Medicare Improvements 
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 
(Public Law 110–275) is amended by striking 
‘‘December 31, 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’. 
SEC. 215. EXTENSION OF AMBULANCE ADD-ONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1834(l)(13) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(l)(13)) is 
amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A)— 
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
striking ‘‘before January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘before January 1, 2011’’; and 
(B) in each of clauses (i) and (ii), by striking 
‘‘before January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘before January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) AIR AMBULANCE IMPROVEMENTS.—Section 
146(b)(1) of the Medicare Improvements 
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110–275) is amended by striking ‘‘ending 
on December 31, 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘ending on December 31, 2010’’. 
(c) SUPER RURAL AMBULANCE.—Section 
1834(l)(12)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395m(l)(12)(A)) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘2010’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2011’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ‘‘For purposes of applying this subparagraph 
for ground ambulance services 
furnished on or after January 1, 2010, and before 
January 1, 2011, the Secretary shall use 
the percent increase that was applicable 
under this subparagraph to ground ambulance 
services furnished during 2009.’’. 
SEC. 216. EXTENSION OF GEOGRAPHIC FLOOR 
FOR WORK. 

Section 1848(e)(1)(E) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–4(e)(1)(E)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘before January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘before January 1, 2011’’. 

SEC. 217. EXTENSION OF PAYMENT FOR TECH


NICAL COMPONENT OF CERTAIN 

PHYSICIAN PATHOLOGY SERVICES. 

Section 542(c) of the Medicare, Medicaid, 
and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection 
Act of 2000 (as enacted into law by 
section 1(a)(6) of Public Law 106–554), as 
amended by section 732 of the Medicare Prescription 
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization 
Act of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 1395w–4 
note), section 104 of division B of the Tax Relief 
and Health Care Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 
1395w–4 note), section 104 of the Medicare, 
Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110–173), and section 136 of the 
Medicare Improvements for Patients and 
Providers Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–275), is 
amended by striking ‘‘and 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘2009, and 2010’’. 

SEC. 218. EXTENSION OF OUTPATIENT HOLD 
HARMLESS PROVISION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1833(t)(7)(D)(i) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395l(t)(7)(D)(i)) is amended— 
(1) in subclause (II)— 
(A) in the first sentence, by striking 
‘‘2010’’and inserting ‘‘2011’’; and 
(B) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘or 
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘, 2009, or 2010’’; and 
(2) in subclause (III), by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) PERMITTING ALL SOLE COMMUNITY HOSPITALS 
TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR HOLD HARMLESS.—
Section 1833(t)(7)(D)(i)(III) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395l(t)(7)(D)(i)(III)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new sentence: ‘‘In the 
case of covered OPD services furnished on or 
after January 1, 2010, and before January 1, 
2011, the preceding sentence shall be applied 
without regard to the 100-bed limitation.’’. 
SEC. 219. EHR CLARIFICATION. 

(a) QUALIFICATION FOR CLINIC-BASED PHYSICIANS.— 
(1) MEDICARE.—Section 1848(o)(1)(C)(ii) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w– 
4(o)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended by striking ‘‘setting 
(whether inpatient or outpatient)’’ and inserting 
‘‘inpatient or emergency room setting’’. 
(2) MEDICAID.—Section 1903(t)(3)(D) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(t)(3)(D)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘setting (whether inpatient 
or outpatient)’’ and inserting ‘‘inpatient 
or emergency room setting’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by subsection (a) shall be effective as if 
included in the enactment of the HITECH 
Act (included in the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5)). 
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary 
may implement the amendments made by 
this section by program instruction or otherwise. 
SEC. 220. EXTENSION OF REIMBURSEMENT FOR 
ALL MEDICARE PART B SERVICES 
FURNISHED BY CERTAIN INDIAN 
HOSPITALS AND CLINICS. 

Section 1880(e)(1)(A) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395qq(e)(1)(A)) is amended by 

striking ‘‘5-year period’’ and inserting ‘‘6-
year period’’. 

SEC. 221. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PAYMENT 
RULES FOR LONG-TERM CARE HOSPITAL 
SERVICES AND OF MORATORIUM 
ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF 
CERTAIN HOSPITALS AND FACILITIES. 


(a) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PAYMENT 
RULES.—Section 114(c) of the Medicare, Medicaid, 
and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 1395ww note), as amended by section 
4302(a) of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act (Public Law 111–5), is amended 
by striking ‘‘3-year period’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘4-year period’’. 
(b) EXTENSION OF MORATORIUM.—Section 
114(d)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww note), 
as amended by section 4302(b) of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Public 
Law 111–5), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
(A), is amended by striking ‘‘3-year period’’ 
and inserting ‘‘4-year period’’. 
SEC. 222. EXTENSION OF THE MEDICARE RURAL 
HOSPITAL FLEXIBILITY PROGRAM. 

Section 1820(j) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395i–4(j)) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘2010, and for’’ and inserting 
‘‘2010, for’’; and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘and for making grants to 
all States under subsection (g), such sums as 
may be necessary in fiscal year 2011, to remain 
available until expended’’ before the 
period at the end. 
SEC. 223. EXTENSION OF SECTION 508 HOSPITAL 
RECLASSIFICATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 
106 of division B of the Tax Relief and Health 
Care Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 1395 note), as 
amended by section 117 of the Medicare, 
Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110–173) and section 124 of the 
Medicare Improvements for Patients and 
Providers Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–275), is 
amended by striking ‘‘September 30, 2009’’ 
and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2010’’. 
(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010.— 
For purposes of implementation of the 
amendment made by subsection (a), including 
(notwithstanding paragraph (3) of section 
117(a) of the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP 
Extension Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–173), as 
amended by section 124(b) of the Medicare 
Improvements for Patients and Providers 
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–275)) for purposes 
of the implementation of paragraph (2) of 
such section 117(a), during fiscal year 2010, 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(in this subsection referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) 
shall use the hospital wage index 
that was promulgated by the Secretary in 
the Federal Register on August 27, 2009 (74 
Fed. Reg. 43754), and any subsequent corrections. 
SEC. 224. TECHNICAL CORRECTION RELATED TO 
CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL SERVICES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsections (g)(2)(A) and 
(l)(8) of section 1834 of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m) are each amended by 
inserting ‘‘101 percent of’’ before ‘‘the reasonable 
costs’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if 
included in the enactment of section 405(a) of 
the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, 
and Modernization Act of 2003 (Public 
Law 108–173; 117 Stat. 2266). 
SEC. 225. EXTENSION FOR SPECIALIZED MA 
PLANS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS INDIVIDUALS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1859(f)(1) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–28(f)(1)) 
is amended by striking ‘‘2011’’ and inserting 
‘‘2012’’. 
(b) TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY 
TO OPERATE BUT NO SERVICE AREA EXPANSION 
FOR DUAL SPECIAL NEEDS PLANS THAT 

S868 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

DO NOT MEET CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.—Section 
164(c)(2) of the Medicare Improvements 
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110–275) is amended by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2011’’. 

SEC. 226. EXTENSION OF REASONABLE COST 
CONTRACTS. 

Section 1876(h)(5)(C)(ii) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395mm(h)(5)(C)(ii)) is 
amended, in the matter preceding subclause 
(I), by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
SEC. 227. EXTENSION OF PARTICULAR WAIVER 

POLICY FOR EMPLOYER GROUP 

PLANS. 

For plan year 2011 and subsequent plan 
years, to the extent that the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services is applying the 
2008 service area extension waiver policy (as 
modified in the April 11, 2008, Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services’ memorandum 
with the subject ‘‘2009 Employer Group Waiver-
Modification of the 2008 Service Area Extension 
Waiver Granted to Certain MA Local 
Coordinated Care Plans’’) to Medicare Advantage 
coordinated care plans, the Secretary 
shall extend the application of such 
waiver policy to employers who contract directly 
with the Secretary as a Medicare Advantage 
private fee-for-service plan under 
section 1857(i)(2) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395w–27(i)(2)) and that had enrollment 
as of January 1, 2010. 

SEC. 228. EXTENSION OF CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT 
COMMUNITY PROGRAM. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall continue to conduct the 
Erickson Advantage Continuing Care Retirement 
Community (CCRC) program under 
part C of title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act through December 31, 2011. 

SEC. 229. FUNDING OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE 
FOR LOW-INCOME PROGRAMS. 

(a) ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR STATE HEALTH 
INSURANCE PROGRAMS.—Subsection (a)(1)(B) 
of section 119 of the Medicare Improvements 
for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (42 
U.S.C. 1395b–3 note) is amended by striking 
‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f))’’ and all that follows 
through the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f)), to the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services Program Management 
Account— 
‘‘(i) for fiscal year 2009, of $7,500,000; and 

‘‘(ii) for fiscal year 2010, of $6,000,000. 
Amounts appropriated under this subparagraph 
shall remain available until expended.’’. 


(b) ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR AREA AGENCIES 
ON AGING.—Subsection (b)(1)(B) of such 
section 119 is amended by striking ‘‘(42 
U.S.C. 1395w–23(f))’’ and all that follows 
through the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f)), to the Administration 
on Aging— 
‘‘(i) for fiscal year 2009, of $7,500,000; and 

‘‘(ii) for fiscal year 2010, of $6,000,000. 
Amounts appropriated under this subparagraph 
shall remain available until expended.’’. 


(c) ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR AGING AND 
DISABILITY RESOURCE CENTERS.—Subsection 
(c)(1)(B) of such section 119 is amended by 
striking ‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f))’’ and all that 
follows through the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f)), to the Administration 
on Aging— 
‘‘(i) for fiscal year 2009, of $5,000,000; and 

‘‘(ii) for fiscal year 2010, of $6,000,000. 
Amounts appropriated under this subparagraph 
shall remain available until expended.’’. 


(d) ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR CONTRACT 
WITH THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR BENEFITS 
AND OUTREACH ENROLLMENT.—Subsection 
(d)(2) of such section 119 is amended by striking 
‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f))’’ and all that follows 
through the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘(42 U.S.C. 1395w–23(f)), to the Administration 
on Aging— 

‘‘(i) for fiscal year 2009, of $5,000,000; and 

‘‘(ii) for fiscal year 2010, of $2,000,000. 
Amounts appropriated under this subparagraph 
shall remain available until expended.’’. 


SEC. 230. FAMILY-TO-FAMILY HEALTH INFORMATION 
CENTERS. 

Section 501(c)(1)(A)(iii) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 701(c)(1)(A)(iii)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2009’’ and inserting 
‘‘each of fiscal years 2009 through 2011’’. 
SEC. 231. IMPLEMENTATION FUNDING. 

For purposes of carrying out the provisions 
of, and amendments made by, this title that 
relate to titles XVIII and XIX of the Social 
Security Act, there are appropriated to the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services for 
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
Program Management Account, from 
amounts in the general fund of the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $100,000,000. 
Amounts appropriated under the preceding 
sentence shall remain available until expended. 


SEC. 232. EXTENSION OF ARRA INCREASE IN 
FMAP. 

Section 5001 of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5) 
is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ‘‘first 
calendar quarter’’ and inserting ‘‘first 3 calendar 
quarters’’; 
(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ‘‘July 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’; 
(B) in paragraph (3)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘July 
1, 2010’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘January 1, 2011’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (4)(C)(ii), by striking ‘‘the 
3-consecutive-month period beginning with 
January 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘any 3-consecutive-
month period that begins after December 
2009 and ends before January 2011’’; 
(3) in subsection (g)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September 
30, 2011’’ and inserting ‘‘March 31, 
2012’’; 
(B) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) by inserting ‘‘of such Act’’ after ‘‘1923’’; 
and 
(ii) by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ‘‘Voluntary contributions by a political 
subdivision to the non-Federal share 
of expenditures under the State Medicaid 
plan or to the non-Federal share of payments 
under section 1923 of the Social Security Act 
shall not be considered to be required contributions 
for purposes of this section.’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(3) CERTIFICATION BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF-
FICER.—No additional Federal funds shall be 
paid to a State as a result of this section 
with respect to a calendar quarter occurring 
during the period beginning on January 1, 
2011, and ending on June 30, 2011, unless, not 
later than 45 days after the date of enactment 
of this paragraph, the chief executive 
officer of the State certifies that the State 
will request and use such additional Federal 
funds.’’; and 

(4) in subsection (h)(3), by striking ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘June 30, 
2011’’. 
SEC. 233. EXTENSION OF GAINSHARING DEMONSTRATION. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (d)(3) of section 
5007 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109–171) is amended by inserting 
‘‘(or 21 months after the date of the enactment 
of the American Workers, State, and 
Business Relief Act of 2010, in the case of a 
demonstration project in operation as of October 
1, 2008)’’ after ‘‘December 31, 2009’’. 
(b) FUNDING.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (f)(1) of such 
section is amended by inserting ‘‘and for fiscal 
year 2010, $1,600,000,’’ after ‘‘$6,000,000,’’. 
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Subsection (f)(2) of such 
section is amended by striking ‘‘2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘2014 or until expended’’. 
(c) REPORTS.— 
(1) QUALITY IMPROVEMENT AND SAVINGS.— 
Subsection (e)(3) of such section is amended 
by striking ‘‘December 1, 2008’’ and inserting 
‘‘18 months after the date of the enactment 
of the American Workers, State, and Business 
Relief Act of 2010’’. 
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Subsection (e)(4) of 
such section is amended by striking ‘‘May 1, 
2010’’ and inserting ‘‘42 months after the date 
of the enactment of the American Workers, 
State, and Business Relief Act of 2010’’. 
Subtitle C—Other Provisions 

SEC. 241. EXTENSION OF USE OF 2009 POVERTY 
GUIDELINES. 

Section 1012 of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111–118) 
is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘before March 1, 2010’’; and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘for 2011’’ after ‘‘until updated 
poverty guidelines’’. 
SEC. 242. REFUNDS DISREGARDED IN THE ADMINISTRATION 
OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS 
AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED 
PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter A of chapter 
65 is amended by adding at the end the following 
new section: 
‘‘SEC. 6409. REFUNDS DISREGARDED IN THE ADMINISTRATION 
OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS 
AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED 
PROGRAMS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, any refund (or advance 
payment with respect to a refundable 
credit) made to any individual under this 
title shall not be taken into account as income, 
and shall not be taken into account as 
resources for a period of 12 months from receipt, 
for purposes of determining the eligibility 
of such individual (or any other individual) 
for benefits or assistance (or the 
amount or extent of benefits or assistance) 
under any Federal program or under any 
State or local program financed in whole or 
in part with Federal funds. 

‘‘(b) TERMINATION.—Subsection (a) shall 
not apply to any amount received after December 
31, 2010.’’. 

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for such subchapter is amended by 
adding at the end the following new item: 
‘‘Sec. 6409. Refunds disregarded in the administration 
of Federal programs 
and federally assisted 
programs.’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to amounts 
received after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. 243. STATE COURT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. 


Section 438 of the Social Security Act (42 

U.S.C. 629h) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by striking 
‘‘2010’’ and inserting ‘‘2011’’; and 
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2010’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2011’’. 
SEC. 244. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE 
PROGRAM. 

Section 129 of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2010 (Public Law 111–68), as 
amended by section 1005 of Public Law 111– 
118, is further amended by striking ‘‘by substituting’’ 
and all that follows through the 
period at the end, and inserting ‘‘by substituting 
December 31, 2010, for the date 
specified in each such section.’’. 
SEC. 245. EMERGENCY DISASTER ASSISTANCE. 

(a) DEFINITIONS.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this section, in this section: 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S869 

(1) DISASTER COUNTY.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘disaster county’’ 
means a county included in the geographic 
area covered by a qualifying natural 
disaster declaration for the 2009 crop year. 
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘disaster county’’ 
does not include a contiguous county. 
(2) ELIGIBLE AQUACULTURE PRODUCER.—The 
term ‘‘eligible aquaculture producer’’ means 
an aquaculture producer that during the 2009 
calendar year, as determined by the Secretary— 
(A) produced an aquaculture species for 
which feed costs represented a substantial 
percentage of the input costs of the aquaculture 
operation; and 
(B) experienced a substantial price increase 
of feed costs above the previous 5-year 
average. 
(3) ELIGIBLE PRODUCER.—The term ‘‘eligible 
producer’’ means an agricultural producer in 
a disaster county. 
(4) ELIGIBLE SPECIALTY CROP PRODUCER.— 
The term ‘‘eligible specialty crop producer’’ 
means an agricultural producer that, for the 
2009 crop year, as determined by the Secretary— 
(A) produced, or was prevented from planting, 
a specialty crop; and 
(B) experienced crop losses in a disaster 
county due to excessive rainfall or related 
condition. 
(5) QUALIFYING NATURAL DISASTER DECLARATION.—
The term ‘‘qualifying natural disaster 
declaration’’ means a natural disaster declared 
by the Secretary for production losses 
under section 321(a) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1961(a)). 
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(7) SPECIALTY CROP.—The term ‘‘specialty 
crop’’ has the meaning given the term in section 
3 of the Specialty Crops Competitiveness 
Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–465; 7 U.S.C. 
1621 note). 
(b) SUPPLEMENTAL DIRECT PAYMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
shall use such sums as are necessary to make 
supplemental payments under sections 1103 
and 1303 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy 
Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8713, 8753) to eligible 
producers on farms located in disaster 
counties that had at least 1 crop of economic 
significance (other than crops intended for 
grazing) suffer at least a 5-percent crop loss 
due to a natural disaster, including quality 
losses, as determined by the Secretary, in an 
amount equal to 90 percent of the direct payment 
the eligible producers received for the 
2009 crop year on the farm. 
(2) ACRE PROGRAM.—Eligible producers 
that received payments under section 1105 of 
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 8715) for the 2009 crop year and 
that otherwise meet the requirements of 
paragraph (1) shall be eligible to receive supplemental 
payments under that paragraph in 
an amount equal to 90 percent of the reduced 
direct payment the eligible producers received 
for the 2009 crop year under section 
1103 or 1303 of the Food, Conservation, and 
Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8713, 8753). 
(3) INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.—As a condition 
of receiving assistance under this subsection, 
eligible producers on a farm that— 
(A) in the case of an insurable commodity, 
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance 
for the insurable commodity under the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) 
(other than for a crop insurance pilot program 
under that Act) for each crop of economic 
significance (other than crops intended 
for grazing), shall obtain such a policy 
or plan for those crops for the next available 
crop year, as determined by the Secretary; 
or 
(B) in the case of a noninsurable commodity, 
did not file the required paperwork, 
and pay the administrative fee by the applicable 
State filing deadline, for the noninsurable 
commodity under section 196 of the Federal 
Agriculture Improvement and Reform 
Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) for each crop of 
economic significance (other than crops intended 
for grazing), shall obtain such coverage 
for those crops for the next available 
crop year, as determined by the Secretary. 
(4) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAW.—Assistance 
received under this subsection shall be 
included in the calculation of farm revenue 
for the 2009 crop year under section 
531(b)(4)(A) of the Federal Crop Insurance 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1531(b)(4)(A)) and section 
901(b)(4)(A) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2497(b)(4)(A)). 
(c) SPECIALTY CROP ASSISTANCE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
shall use not more than $150,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011, to 
carry out a program of grants to States to 
assist eligible specialty crop producers for 
losses due to excessive rainfall and related 
conditions affecting the 2009 crops. 
(2) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall notify the State department 
of agriculture (or similar entity) in each 
State of the availability of funds to assist eligible 
specialty crop producers, including 
such terms as are determined by the Secretary 
to be necessary for the equitable 
treatment of eligible specialty crop producers. 
(3) PROVISION OF GRANTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to States for disaster counties with 
excessive rainfall and related conditions on a 
pro rata basis based on the value of specialty 
crop losses in those counties during the 2008 
calendar year, as determined by the Secretary. 
(B) TIMING.—Not later than 120 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall make grants to States to provide 
assistance under this subsection. 
(C) MAXIMUM GRANT.—The maximum 
amount of a grant made to a State under 
this subsection may not exceed $40,000,000. 
(4) REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall 
make grants under this subsection only to 
States that demonstrate to the satisfaction 
of the Secretary that the State will— 
(A) use grant funds to assist eligible specialty 
crop producers; 
(B) provide assistance to eligible specialty 
crop producers not later than 90 days after 
the date on which the State receives grant 
funds; and 
(C) not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the State provides assistance to eligible 
specialty crop producers, submit to the 
Secretary a report that describes— 
(i) the manner in which the State provided 
assistance; 
(ii) the amounts of assistance provided by 
type of specialty crop; and 
(iii) the process by which the State determined 
the levels of assistance to eligible specialty 
crop producers. 
(5) RELATION TO OTHER LAW.—Assistance received 
under this subsection shall be included 
in the calculation of farm revenue for 
the 2009 crop year under section 531(b)(4)(A) 
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1531(b)(4)(A)) and section 901(b)(4)(A) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2497(b)(4)(A)). 
(d) COTTONSEED ASSISTANCE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
shall use not more than $42,000,000 to provide 
supplemental assistance to eligible producers 
and first-handlers of the 2009 crop of 
cottonseed in a disaster county. 
(2) GENERAL TERMS.—Except as otherwise 
provided in this subsection, the Secretary 
shall provide disaster assistance under this 
subsection under the same terms and conditions 
as assistance provided under section 
3015 of the Emergency Agricultural Disaster 
Assistance Act of 2006 (title III of Public Law 
109–234; 120 Stat. 477). 
(3) DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary 
shall distribute assistance to first 
handlers for the benefit of eligible producers 
in a disaster county in an amount equal to 
the product obtained by multiplying— 
(A) the payment rate, as determined under 
paragraph (4); and 
(B) the county-eligible production, as determined 
under paragraph (5). 
(4) PAYMENT RATE.—The payment rate 
shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing— 
(A) the sum of the county-eligible production, 
as determined under paragraph (5); by 
(B) the total funds made available to carry 
out this subsection. 
(5) COUNTY-ELIGIBLE PRODUCTION.—The 
county-eligible production shall be equal to 
the product obtained by multiplying— 
(A) the number of acres planted to cotton 
in the disaster county, as reported to the 
Secretary by first-handlers; 
(B) the expected cotton lint yield for the 
disaster county, as determined by the Secretary 
based on the best available information; 
and 
(C) the national average seed-to-lint ratio, 
as determined by the Secretary based on the 
best available information for the 5 crop 
years immediately preceding the 2009 crop, 
excluding the year in which the average 
ratio was the highest and the year in which 
the average ratio was the lowest in such period. 
(e) AQUACULTURE ASSISTANCE.— 
(1) GRANT PROGRAM.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
shall use not more than $25,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2011, to carry 
out a program of grants to States to assist 
eligible aquaculture producers for losses associated 
with high feed input costs during 
the 2009 calendar year. 
(B) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall notify the State department 
of agriculture (or similar entity) in each 
State of the availability of funds to assist eligible 
aquaculture producers, including such 
terms as are determined by the Secretary to 
be necessary for the equitable treatment of 
eligible aquaculture producers. 
(C) PROVISION OF GRANTS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to States under this subsection on a 
pro rata basis based on the amount of aquaculture 
feed used in each State during the 
2008 calendar year, as determined by the Secretary. 
(ii) TIMING.—Not later than 120 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall make grants to States to provide 
assistance under this subsection. 
(D) REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall 
make grants under this subsection only to 
States that demonstrate to the satisfaction 
of the Secretary that the State will— 
(i) use grant funds to assist eligible aquaculture 
producers; 
(ii) provide assistance to eligible aquaculture 
producers not later than 60 days 
after the date on which the State receives 
grant funds; and 
(iii) not later than 30 days after the date 
on which the State provides assistance to eligible 
aquaculture producers, submit to the 
Secretary a report that describes— 
(I) the manner in which the State provided 
assistance; 

S870 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

(II) the amounts of assistance provided per 
species of aquaculture; and 
(III) the process by which the State determined 
the levels of assistance to eligible 
aquaculture producers. 
(2) REDUCTION IN PAYMENTS.—An eligible 
aquaculture producer that receives assistance 
under this subsection shall not be eligible 
to receive any other assistance under the 
supplemental agricultural disaster assistance 
program established under section 531 
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1531) and section 901 of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2497) for any losses in 2009 relating 
to the same species of aquaculture. 
(3) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 
240 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report 
that— 
(A) describes in detail the manner in which 
this subsection has been carried out; and 
(B) includes the information reported to 
the Secretary under paragraph (1)(D)(iii). 
(f) HAWAII TRANSPORTATION COOPERATIVE.— 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary shall use $21,000,000 of funds of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation to make 
a payment to an agricultural transportation 
cooperative in the State of Hawaii, the members 
of which are eligible to participate in 
the commodity loan program of the Farm 
Service Agency, for assistance to maintain 
and develop employment. 
(g) LIVESTOCK FORAGE DISASTER PROGRAM.— 
(1) DEFINITION OF DISASTER COUNTY.—In 
this subsection: 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘disaster county’’ 
means a county included in the geographic 
area covered by a qualifying natural 
disaster declaration announced by the Secretary 
in calendar year 2009. 
(B) INCLUSION.—The term ‘‘disaster county’’ 
includes a contiguous county. 
(2) PAYMENTS.—Of the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
shall use not more than $50,000,000 to carry 
out a program to make payments to eligible 
producers that had grazing losses in disaster 
counties in calendar year 2009. 
(3) CRITERIA.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), assistance under this subsection 
shall be determined under the same 
criteria as are used to carry out the programs 
under section 531(d) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1531(d)) and section 
901(d) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2497(d)). 
(B) DROUGHT INTENSITY.—For purposes of 
this subsection, an eligible producer shall 
not be required to meet the drought intensity 
requirements of section 531(d)(3)(D)(ii) of 
the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1531(d)(3)(D)(ii)) and section 901(d)(3)(D)(ii) of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2497(d)(3)(D)(ii)). 
(4) AMOUNT.—Assistance under this subsection 
shall be in an amount equal to 1 
monthly payment using the monthly payment 
rate under section 531(d)(3)(B) of the 
Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 
1531(d)(3)(B)) and section 901(d)(3)(B) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2497(d)(3)(B)). 
(5) RELATION TO OTHER LAW.—An eligible 
producer that receives assistance under this 
subsection shall be ineligible to receive assistance 
for 2009 grazing losses under the program 
carried out under section 531(d) of the 
Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1531(d)) 
and section 901(d) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2497(d)) . 
(h) EMERGENCY LOANS FOR POULTRY PRODUCERS.— 
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection: 
(A) ANNOUNCEMENT DATE.—The term ‘‘announcement 
date’’ means the date on which 
the Secretary announces the emergency loan 
program under this subsection. 

(B) POULTRY INTEGRATOR.—The term ‘‘poultry 
integrator’’ means a poultry integrator 
that filed proceedings under chapter 11 of 
title 11, United States Code, in United States 
Bankruptcy Court during the 30-day period 
beginning on December 1, 2008. 
(2) LOAN PROGRAM.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
shall use not more than $75,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the cost of 
making no-interest emergency loans available 
to poultry producers that meet the requirements 
of this subsection. 
(B) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Except as otherwise 
provided in this subsection, emergency 
loans under this subsection shall be 
subject to such terms and conditions as are 
determined by the Secretary. 
(3) LOANS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—An emergency loan made 
to a poultry producer under this subsection 
shall be for the purpose of providing financing 
to the poultry producer in response to financial 
losses associated with the termination 
or nonrenewal of any contract between 
the poultry producer and a poultry integrator. 
(B) ELIGIBILITY.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible for an emergency 
loan under this subsection, not later 
than 90 days after the announcement date, a 
poultry producer shall submit to the Secretary 
evidence that— 
(I) the contract of the poultry producer described 
in subparagraph (A) was not continued; 
and 
(II) no similar contract has been awarded 
subsequently to the poultry producer. 
(ii) REQUIREMENT TO OFFER LOANS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, if a 
poultry producer meets the eligibility requirements 
described in clause (i), subject to 
the availability of funds under paragraph 
(2)(A), the Secretary shall offer to make a 
loan under this subsection to the poultry 
producer with a minimum term of 2 years. 
(4) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—A poultry producer that 
receives an emergency loan under this subsection 
may use the emergency loan proceeds 
only to repay the amount that the 
poultry producer owes to any lender. 
(B) CONVERSION OF THE LOAN.—A poultry 
producer that receives an emergency loan 
under this subsection shall be eligible to 
have the balance of the emergency loan converted, 
but not refinanced, to a loan that has 
the same terms and conditions as an operating 
loan under subtitle B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.). 
(i) ADMINISTRATION.— 
(1) REGULATIONS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall promulgate such regulations 
as are necessary to implement this section. 
(B) PROCEDURE.—The promulgation of the 
regulations and administration of this section 
shall be made without regard to— 
(i) the notice and comment provisions of 
section 553 of title 5, United States Code; 
(ii) the Statement of Policy of the Secretary 
of Agriculture effective July 24, 1971 
(36 Fed. Reg. 13804), relating to notices of 
proposed rulemaking and public participation 
in rulemaking; and 
(iii) chapter 35 of title 44, United States 
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Paperwork 
Reduction Act’’). 
(C) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF AGENCY 
RULEMAKING.—In carrying out this paragraph, 
the Secretary shall use the authority 
provided under section 808 of title 5, United 
States Code. 
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Of the funds of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation, the Secretary 
may use up to $15,000,000 to pay administrative 
costs incurred by the Secretary 
that are directly related to carrying out this 
Act. 
(3) PROHIBITION.—None of the funds of the 
Agricultural Disaster Relief Trust Fund established 
under section 902 of the Trade Act 
of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2497a) may be used to carry 
out this Act. 
SEC. 246. SMALL BUSINESS LOAN GUARANTEE 
ENHANCEMENT EXTENSIONS. 

(a) APPROPRIATION.—There is appropriated, 
out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for an additional amount 
for ‘‘Small Business Administration – Business 
Loans Program Account’’, $354,000,000, 
to remain available through December 31, 
2010, for the cost of— 
(1) fee reductions and eliminations under 
section 501 of division A of the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public 
Law 111–5; 123 Stat. 151), as amended by this 
section, for loans guaranteed under section 
7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(a)), title V of the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695 et seq.), or 
section 502 of division A of the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public 
Law 111–5; 123 Stat. 152), as amended by this 
section; and 
(2) loan guarantees under section 502 of division 
A of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5; 123 
Stat. 152), as amended by this section, 
Provided, That such costs, including the cost 
of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974. 
(b) EXTENSION OF PROGRAMS.— 
(1) FEES.—Section 501 of division A of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111–5; 123 Stat. 151) is 
amended by striking ‘‘September 30, 2010’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2010’’. 
(2) LOAN GUARANTEES.—Section 502(f) of division 
A of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5; 123 
Stat. 153) is amended by striking ‘‘February 
28, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 
TITLE III—PENSION FUNDING RELIEF 
Subtitle A—Single Employer Plans 
SEC. 301. EXTENDED PERIOD FOR SINGLE-EM


PLOYER DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 

TO AMORTIZE CERTAIN SHORTFALL 

AMORTIZATION BASES. 

(a) AMENDMENTS TO ERISA.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 
303(c) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1083(c)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(D) SPECIAL ELECTION FOR ELIGIBLE PLAN 
YEARS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a plan sponsor elects 
to apply this subparagraph with respect to 
the shortfall amortization base of a plan for 
any eligible plan year (in this subparagraph 
and paragraph (7) referred to as an ‘election 
year’), then, notwithstanding subparagraphs 

(A) and (B)— 
‘‘(I) the shortfall amortization installments 
with respect to such base shall be determined 
under clause (ii) or (iii), whichever 
is specified in the election, and 

‘‘(II) the shortfall amortization installment 
for any plan year in the 9-plan-year period 
described in clause (ii) or the 15-plan-
year period described in clause (iii), respectively, 
with respect to such shortfall amortization 
base is the annual installment determined 
under the applicable clause for that 
year for that base. 

‘‘(ii) 2 PLUS 7 AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE.—The 
shortfall amortization installments determined 
under this clause are— 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S871 

‘‘(I) in the case of the first 2 plan years in 
the 9-plan-year period beginning with the 
election year, interest on the shortfall amortization 
base of the plan for the election year 
(determined using the effective interest rate 
for the plan for the election year), and 

‘‘(II) in the case of the last 7 plan years in 
such 9-plan-year period, the amounts necessary 
to amortize the remaining balance of 
the shortfall amortization base of the plan 
for the election year in level annual installments 
over such last 7 plan years (using the 
segment rates under subparagraph (C) for the 
election year). 

‘‘(iii) 15-YEAR AMORTIZATION.—The shortfall 
amortization installments determined under 
this subparagraph are the amounts necessary 
to amortize the shortfall amortization base 
of the plan for the election year in level annual 
installments over the 15-plan-year period 
beginning with the election year (using 
the segment rates under subparagraph (C) for 
the election year). 

‘‘(iv) ELECTION.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The plan sponsor of a 
plan may elect to have this subparagraph 
apply to not more than 2 eligible plan years 
with respect to the plan, except that in the 
case of a plan described in section 106 of the 
Pension Protection Act of 2006, the plan 
sponsor may only elect to have this subparagraph 
apply to a plan year beginning in 2011. 

‘‘(II) AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE.—Such election 
shall specify whether the amortization 
schedule under clause (ii) or (iii) shall apply 
to an election year, except that if a plan 
sponsor elects to have this subparagraph 
apply to 2 eligible plan years, the plan sponsor 
must elect the same schedule for both 
years. 

‘‘(III) OTHER RULES.—Such election shall be 
made at such time, and in such form and 
manner, as shall be prescribed by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, and may be revoked 
only with the consent of the Secretary of the 
Treasury. The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall, before granting a revocation request, 
provide the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
an opportunity to comment on the 
conditions applicable to the treatment of 
any portion of the election year shortfall 
amortization base that remains unamortized 
as of the revocation date. 

‘‘(v) ELIGIBLE PLAN YEAR.—For purposes of 
this subparagraph, the term ‘eligible plan 
year’ means any plan year beginning in 2008, 
2009, 2010, or 2011, except that a plan year 
shall only be treated as an eligible plan year 
if the due date under subsection (j)(1) for the 
payment of the minimum required contribution 
for such plan year occurs on or after the 
date of the enactment of this subparagraph. 

‘‘(vi) REPORTING.—A plan sponsor of a plan 
who makes an election under clause (i) shall 
inform the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
of such election in such form and 
manner as the Director of the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation may prescribe. 

‘‘(vii) INCREASES IN REQUIRED INSTALLMENTS 
IN CERTAIN CASES.—For increases in required 
contributions in cases of excess compensation 
or extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions, 
see paragraph (7).’’. 

(2) INCREASES IN REQUIRED INSTALLMENTS IN 
CERTAIN CASES.—Section 303(c) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1083(c)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following paragraph: 
‘‘(7) INCREASES IN ALTERNATE REQUIRED INSTALLMENTS 
IN CASES OF EXCESS COMPENSATION 
OR EXTRAORDINARY DIVIDENDS OR STOCK 
REDEMPTIONS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If there is an installment 
acceleration amount with respect to a 
plan for any plan year in the restriction period 
with respect to an election year under 
paragraph (2)(D), then the shortfall amortization 
installment otherwise determined and 

payable under such paragraph for such plan 
year shall, subject to the limitation under 
subparagraph (B), be increased by such 
amount. 

‘‘(B) TOTAL INSTALLMENTS LIMITED TO 
SHORTFALL BASE.—Subject to rules prescribed 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, if 
a shortfall amortization installment with respect 
to any shortfall amortization base for 
an election year is required to be increased 
for any plan year under subparagraph (A)— 

‘‘(i) such increase shall not result in the 
amount of such installment exceeding the 
present value of such installment and all 
succeeding installments with respect to such 
base (determined without regard to such increase 
but after application of clause (ii)), 
and 

‘‘(ii) subsequent shortfall amortization installments 
with respect to such base shall, in 
reverse order of the otherwise required installments, 
be reduced to the extent necessary 
to limit the present value of such subsequent 
shortfall amortization installments 
(after application of this paragraph) to the 
present value of the remaining unamortized 
shortfall amortization base. 

‘‘(C) INSTALLMENT ACCELERATION AMOUNT.— 
For purposes of this paragraph— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘installment 
acceleration amount’ means, with respect to 
any plan year in a restriction period with respect 
to an election year, the sum of— 

‘‘(I) the aggregate amount of excess employee 
compensation determined under subparagraph 
(D) with respect to all employees 
for the plan year, plus 

‘‘(II) the aggregate amount of extraordinary 
dividends and redemptions determined 
under subparagraph (E) for the plan 
year. 

‘‘(ii) LIMITATION TO AGGREGATE REDUCED 
REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS.—The installment 
acceleration amount for any plan year shall 
not exceed the excess (if any) of— 

‘‘(I) the sum of the shortfall amortization 
installments for the plan year and all preceding 
plan years in the amortization period 
elected under paragraph (2)(D) with respect 
to the shortfall amortization base with respect 
to an election year, determined without 
regard to paragraph (2)(D) and this paragraph, 
over 

‘‘(II) the sum of the shortfall amortization 
installments for such plan year and all such 
preceding plan years, determined after application 
of paragraph (2)(D) (and in the case of 
any preceding plan year, after application of 
this paragraph). 

‘‘(iii) CARRYOVER OF EXCESS INSTALLMENT 
ACCELERATION AMOUNTS.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—If the installment acceleration 
amount for any plan year (determined 
without regard to clause(ii)) exceeds 
the limitation under clause (ii), then, subject 
to subclause (II), such excess shall be treated 
as an installment acceleration amount with 
respect to the succeeding plan year (without 
regard to whether such succeeding plan year 
is in the restriction period). 

‘‘(II) CAP TO APPLY.—If any amount treated 
as an installment acceleration amount under 
subclause (I) or this subclause with respect 
any succeeding plan year, when added to 
other installment acceleration amounts (determined 
without regard to clause (ii)) with 
respect to the plan year, exceeds the limitation 
under clause (ii), the portion of such 
amount representing such excess shall be 
treated as an installment acceleration 
amount with respect to the next succeeding 
plan year (without regard to whether such 
succeeding plan year is in the restriction period). 


‘‘(III) ORDERING RULES.—For purposes of 
applying subclause (II), installment acceleration 
amounts for the plan year (determined 
without regard to any carryover under this 

clause) shall be applied first against the limitation 
under clause (ii) and then carryovers 
to such plan year shall be applied against 
such limitation on a first-in, first-out basis. 

‘‘(D) EXCESS EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION.—For 
purposes of this paragraph— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘excess employee 
compensation’ means, with respect to 
any employee for any plan year, the excess 
(if any) of— 

‘‘(I) the aggregate amount includible in income 
under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 for remuneration during 
the calendar year in which such plan year 
begins for services performed by the employee 
for the plan sponsor (whether or not 
performed during such calendar year), over 

‘‘(II) $1,000,000. 

‘‘(ii) AMOUNTS SET ASIDE FOR NONQUALIFIED 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION.—If during any calendar 
year assets are set aside or reserved 
(directly or indirectly) in a trust (or other 
arrangement as determined by the Secretary 
of the Treasury), or transferred to such a 
trust or other arrangement, by a plan sponsor 
for purposes of paying deferred compensation 
of an employee under a non-
qualified deferred compensation plan (as defined 
in section 409A of such Code) of the 
plan sponsor, then, for purposes of clause (i), 
the amount of such assets shall be treated as 
remuneration of the employee includible in 
income for the calendar year unless such 
amount is otherwise includible in income for 
such year. An amount to which the preceding 
sentence applies shall not be taken 
into account under this paragraph for any 
subsequent calendar year. 

‘‘(iii) ONLY REMUNERATION FOR CERTAIN 
POST-2009 SERVICES COUNTED.—Remuneration 
shall be taken into account under clause (i) 
only to the extent attributable to services 
performed by the employee for the plan sponsor 
after February 4, 2010. 

‘‘(iv) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN EQUITY PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—There shall not be taken 
into account under clause (i)(I) any amount 
includible in income with respect to the 
granting on or after February 4, 2010, of service 
recipient stock (within the meaning of 
section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986) that, upon such grant, is subject to a 
substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined 
under section 83(c)(1) of such Code) for at 
least 5 years from the date of such grant. 

‘‘(II) SECRETARIAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
of the Treasury may by regulation 
provide for the application of this clause in 
the case of a person other than a corporation. 


‘‘(v) OTHER EXCEPTIONS.—The following 
amounts includible in income shall not be 
taken into account under clause (i)(I): 

‘‘(I) COMMISSIONS.—Any remuneration payable 
on a commission basis solely on account 
of income directly generated by the individual 
performance of the individual to 
whom such remuneration is payable. 

‘‘(II) CERTAIN PAYMENTS UNDER EXISTING 
CONTRACTS.—Any remuneration consisting of 
nonqualified deferred compensation, restricted 
stock, stock options, or stock appreciation 
rights payable or granted under a 
written binding contract that was in effect 
on February 4, 2010, and which was not modified 
in any material respect before such remuneration 
is paid. 

‘‘(vi) SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUAL TREATED 
AS EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘employee’ includes, 
with respect to a calendar year, a 
self-employed individual who is treated as an 
employee under section 401(c) of such Code 
for the taxable year ending during such calendar 
year, and the term ‘compensation’ 
shall include earned income of such individual 
with respect to such self-employment. 


S872 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

‘‘(vii) INDEXING OF AMOUNT.—In the case of 
any calendar year beginning after 2010, the 
dollar amount under clause (i)(II) shall be increased 
by an amount equal to— 

‘‘(I) such dollar amount, multiplied by 

‘‘(II) the cost-of-living adjustment determined 
under section 1(f)(3) of such Code for 
the calendar year, determined by substituting 
‘calendar year 2009’ for ‘calendar 
year 1992’ in subparagraph (B) thereof. 
If the amount of any increase under clause 

(i) is not a multiple of $1,000, such increase 
shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple 
of $1,000. 
‘‘(E) EXTRAORDINARY DIVIDENDS AND REDEMPTIONS.— 


‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount determined 
under this subparagraph for any plan year is 
the excess (if any) of— 

‘‘(I) the sum of the dividends declared during 
the plan year by the plan sponsor plus 
the aggregate fair market value of the stock 
of the plan sponsor redeemed during the plan 
year, over 

‘‘(II) the adjusted net income (within the 
meaning of section 4043) of the plan sponsor 
for the preceding plan year. 

‘‘(ii) ONLY CERTAIN POST-2009 DIVIDENDS AND 
REDEMPTIONS COUNTED.—For purposes of 
clause (i), there shall only be taken into account 
dividends declared, and redemptions 
occurring, after February 4, 2010. 

‘‘(iii) EXCEPTION FOR INTRA-GROUP DIVIDENDS.—
Dividends paid by one member of a 
controlled group (as defined in section 
302(d)(3)) to another member of such group 
shall not be taken into account under clause 
(i). 

‘‘(F) OTHER DEFINITIONS AND RULES.—For 
purposes of this paragraph— 

‘‘(i) PLAN SPONSOR.—The term ‘ plan sponsor’ 
includes any member of the plan sponsor’s 
controlled group (as defined in section 
302(d)(3)). 

‘‘(ii) RESTRICTION PERIOD.—The term ‘restriction 
period’ means, with respect to any 
election year— 

‘‘(I) except as provided in subclause (II), 
the 4-year period beginning with the election 
year, and 

‘‘(II) if the plan sponsor elects 15-year amortization 
for the shortfall amortization base 
for the election year, the 7-year period beginning 
with the election year. 

‘‘(iii) ELECTIONS FOR MULTIPLE PLANS.—If a 
plan sponsor makes elections under paragraph 
(2)(D) with respect to 2 or more plans, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide 
rules for the application of this paragraph to 
such plans, including rules for the ratable allocation 
of any installment acceleration 
amount among such plans on the basis of 
each plan’s relative reduction in the plan’s 
shortfall amortization installment for the 
first plan year in the amortization period described 
in subparagraph (A) (determined 
without regard to this paragraph). 

‘‘(iv) MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS.—The Secretary 
of the Treasury shall prescribe rules 
for the application of paragraph (2)(D) and 
this paragraph in any case where there is a 
merger or acquisition involving a plan sponsor 
making the election under paragraph 
(2)(D).’’. 

(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 303 
of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1083) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘the 
shortfall amortization bases for such plan 
year and each of the 6 preceding plan years’’ 
and inserting ‘‘any shortfall amortization 
base which has not been fully amortized 
under this subsection’’, and 
(B) in subsection (j)(3), by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(F) QUARTERLY CONTRIBUTIONS NOT TO INCLUDE 
CERTAIN INCREASED CONTRIBUTIONS.— 
Subparagraph (D) shall be applied without 

regard to any increase under subsection 
(c)(7).’’. 

(b) AMENDMENTS TO INTERNAL REVENUE 
CODE OF 1986.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 
430(c) is amended by adding at the end the 
following subparagraph: 
‘‘(D) SPECIAL ELECTION FOR ELIGIBLE PLAN 
YEARS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a plan sponsor elects 
to apply this subparagraph with respect to 
the shortfall amortization base of a plan for 
any eligible plan year (in this subparagraph 
and paragraph (7) referred to as an ‘election 
year’), then, notwithstanding subparagraphs 

(A) and (B)— 
‘‘(I) the shortfall amortization installments 
with respect to such base shall be determined 
under clause (ii) or (iii), whichever 
is specified in the election, and 

‘‘(II) the shortfall amortization installment 
for any plan year in the 9-plan-year period 
described in clause (ii) or the 15-plan-
year period described in clause (iii), respectively, 
with respect to such shortfall amortization 
base is the annual installment determined 
under the applicable clause for that 
year for that base. 

‘‘(ii) 2 PLUS 7 AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE.—The 
shortfall amortization installments determined 
under this clause are— 

‘‘(I) in the case of the first 2 plan years in 
the 9-plan-year period beginning with the 
election year, interest on the shortfall amortization 
base of the plan for the election year 
(determined using the effective interest rate 
for the plan for the election year), and 

‘‘(II) in the case of the last 7 plan years in 
such 9-plan-year period, the amounts necessary 
to amortize the remaining balance of 
the shortfall amortization base of the plan 
for the election year in level annual installments 
over such last 7 plan years (using the 
segment rates under subparagraph (C) for the 
election year). 

‘‘(iii) 15-YEAR AMORTIZATION.—The shortfall 
amortization installments determined under 
this subparagraph are the amounts necessary 
to amortize the shortfall amortization base 
of the plan for the election year in level annual 
installments over the 15-plan-year period 
beginning with the election year (using 
the segment rates under subparagraph (C) for 
the election year). 

‘‘(iv) ELECTION.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The plan sponsor of a 
plan may elect to have this subparagraph 
apply to not more than 2 eligible plan years 
with respect to the plan, except that in the 
case of a plan described in section 106 of the 
Pension Protection Act of 2006, the plan 
sponsor may only elect to have this subparagraph 
apply to a plan year beginning in 2011. 

‘‘(II) AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE.—Such election 
shall specify whether the amortization 
schedule under clause (ii) or (iii) shall apply 
to an election year, except that if a plan 
sponsor elects to have this subparagraph 
apply to 2 eligible plan years, the plan sponsor 
must elect the same schedule for both 
years. 

‘‘(III) OTHER RULES.—Such election shall be 
made at such time, and in such form and 
manner, as shall be prescribed by the Secretary, 
and may be revoked only with the 
consent of the Secretary. The Secretary 
shall, before granting a revocation request, 
provide the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
an opportunity to comment on the 
conditions applicable to the treatment of 
any portion of the election year shortfall 
amortization base that remains unamortized 
as of the revocation date. 

‘‘(v) ELIGIBLE PLAN YEAR.—For purposes of 
this subparagraph, the term ‘eligible plan 
year’ means any plan year beginning in 2008, 
2009, 2010, or 2011, except that a plan year 
shall only be treated as an eligible plan year 

if the due date under subsection (j)(1) for the 
payment of the minimum required contribution 
for such plan year occurs on or after the 
date of the enactment of this subparagraph. 

‘‘(vi) REPORTING.—A plan sponsor of a plan 
who makes an election under clause (i) shall 
inform the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation 
of such election in such form and 
manner as the Director of the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation may prescribe. 

‘‘(vii) INCREASES IN REQUIRED INSTALLMENTS 
IN CERTAIN CASES.—For increases in required 
contributions in cases of excess compensation 
or extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions, 
see paragraph (7).’’. 

(2) INCREASES IN REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS IF 
EXCESS COMPENSATION PAID.—Section 430(c) is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
paragraph: 
‘‘(7) INCREASES IN ALTERNATE REQUIRED INSTALLMENTS 
IN CASES OF EXCESS COMPENSATION 
OR EXTRAORDINARY DIVIDENDS OR STOCK 
REDEMPTIONS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If there is an installment 
acceleration amount with respect to a 
plan for any plan year in the restriction period 
with respect to an election year under 
paragraph (2)(D), then the shortfall amortization 
installment otherwise determined and 
payable under such paragraph for such plan 
year shall, subject to the limitation under 
subparagraph (B), be increased by such 
amount. 

‘‘(B) TOTAL INSTALLMENTS LIMITED TO 
SHORTFALL BASE.—Subject to rules prescribed 
by the Secretary, if a shortfall amortization 
installment with respect to any 
shortfall amortization base for an election 
year is required to be increased for any plan 
year under subparagraph (A)— 

‘‘(i) such increase shall not result in the 
amount of such installment exceeding the 
present value of such installment and all 
succeeding installments with respect to such 
base (determined without regard to such increase 
but after application of clause (ii)), 
and 

‘‘(ii) subsequent shortfall amortization installments 
with respect to such base shall, in 
reverse order of the otherwise required installments, 
be reduced to the extent necessary 
to limit the present value of such subsequent 
shortfall amortization installments 
(after application of this paragraph) to the 
present value of the remaining unamortized 
shortfall amortization base. 

‘‘(C) INSTALLMENT ACCELERATION AMOUNT.— 
For purposes of this paragraph— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘installment 
acceleration amount’ means, with respect to 
any plan year in a restriction period with respect 
to an election year, the sum of— 

‘‘(I) the aggregate amount of excess employee 
compensation determined under subparagraph 
(D) with respect to all employees 
for the plan year, plus 

‘‘(II) the aggregate amount of extraordinary 
dividends and redemptions determined 
under subparagraph (E) for the plan 
year. 

‘‘(ii) LIMITATION TO AGGREGATE REDUCED 
REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS.—The installment 
acceleration amount for any plan year shall 
not exceed the excess (if any) of— 

‘‘(I) the sum of the shortfall amortization 
installments for the plan year and all preceding 
plan years in the amortization period 
elected under paragraph (2)(D) with respect 
to the shortfall amortization base with respect 
to an election year, determined without 
regard to paragraph (2)(D) and this paragraph, 
over 

‘‘(II) the sum of the shortfall amortization 
installments for such plan year and all such 
preceding plan years, determined after application 
of paragraph (2)(D) (and in the case of 
any preceding plan year, after application of 
this paragraph). 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S873 

‘‘(iii) CARRYOVER OF EXCESS INSTALLMENT 
ACCELERATION AMOUNTS.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—If the installment acceleration 
amount for any plan year (determined 
without regard to clause(ii)) exceeds 
the limitation under clause (ii), then, subject 
to subclause (II), such excess shall be treated 
as an installment acceleration amount with 
respect to the succeeding plan year (without 
regard to whether such succeeding plan year 
is in the restriction period). 

‘‘(II) CAP TO APPLY.—If any amount treated 
as an installment acceleration amount under 
subclause (I) or this subclause with respect 
any succeeding plan year, when added to 
other installment acceleration amounts (determined 
without regard to clause (ii)) with 
respect to the plan year, exceeds the limitation 
under clause (ii), the portion of such 
amount representing such excess shall be 
treated as an installment acceleration 
amount with respect to the next succeeding 
plan year (without regard to whether such 
succeeding plan year is in the restriction period). 


‘‘(III) ORDERING RULES.—For purposes of 
applying subclause (II), installment acceleration 
amounts for the plan year (determined 
without regard to any carryover under this 
clause) shall be applied first against the limitation 
under clause (ii) and then carryovers 
to such plan year shall be applied against 
such limitation on a first-in, first-out basis. 

‘‘(D) EXCESS EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION.—For 
purposes of this paragraph— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘excess employee 
compensation’ means, with respect to 
any employee for any plan year, the excess 
(if any) of— 

‘‘(I) the aggregate amount includible in income 
under this chapter for remuneration 
during the calendar year in which such plan 
year begins for services performed by the 
employee for the plan sponsor (whether or 
not performed during such calendar year), 
over 

‘‘(II) $1,000,000. 

‘‘(ii) AMOUNTS SET ASIDE FOR NONQUALIFIED 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION.—If during any calendar 
year assets are set aside or reserved 
(directly or indirectly) in a trust (or other 
arrangement as determined by the Secretary), 
or transferred to such a trust or 
other arrangement, by a plan sponsor for 
purposes of paying deferred compensation of 
an employee under a nonqualified deferred 
compensation plan (as defined in section 
409A) of the plan sponsor, then, for purposes 
of clause (i), the amount of such assets shall 
be treated as remuneration of the employee 
includible in income for the calendar year 
unless such amount is otherwise includible 
in income for such year. An amount to which 
the preceding sentence applies shall not be 
taken into account under this paragraph for 
any subsequent calendar year. 

‘‘(iii) ONLY REMUNERATION FOR CERTAIN 
POST-2009 SERVICES COUNTED.—Remuneration 
shall be taken into account under clause (i) 
only to the extent attributable to services 
performed by the employee for the plan sponsor 
after February 4, 2010. 

‘‘(iv) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN EQUITY PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—There shall not be taken 
into account under clause (i)(I) any amount 
includible in income with respect to the 
granting on or after February 4, 2010, of service 
recipient stock (within the meaning of 
section 409A) that, upon such grant, is subject 
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined 
under section 83(c)(1)) for at least 5 
years from the date of such grant. 

‘‘(II) SECRETARIAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
may by regulation provide for the application 
of this clause in the case of a person 
other than a corporation. 

‘‘(v) OTHER EXCEPTIONS.—The following 
amounts includible in income shall not be 
taken into account under clause (i)(I): 

‘‘(I) COMMISSIONS.—Any remuneration payable 
on a commission basis solely on account 
of income directly generated by the individual 
performance of the individual to 
whom such remuneration is payable. 

‘‘(II) CERTAIN PAYMENTS UNDER EXISTING 
CONTRACTS.—Any remuneration consisting of 
nonqualified deferred compensation, restricted 
stock, stock options, or stock appreciation 
rights payable or granted under a 
written binding contract that was in effect 
on February 4, 2010, and which was not modified 
in any material respect before such remuneration 
is paid. 

‘‘(vi) SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUAL TREATED 
AS EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘employee’ includes, 
with respect to a calendar year, a 
self-employed individual who is treated as an 
employee under section 401(c) for the taxable 
year ending during such calendar year, and 
the term ‘compensation’ shall include earned 
income of such individual with respect to 
such self-employment. 

‘‘(vii) INDEXING OF AMOUNT.—In the case of 
any calendar year beginning after 2010, the 
dollar amount under clause (i)(II) shall be increased 
by an amount equal to— 

‘‘(I) such dollar amount, multiplied by 

‘‘(II) the cost-of-living adjustment determined 
under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar 
year, determined by substituting ‘calendar 
year 2009’ for ‘calendar year 1992’ in subparagraph 
(B) thereof. 
If the amount of any increase under clause 

(i) is not a multiple of $1,000, such increase 
shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple 
of $1,000. 
‘‘(E) EXTRAORDINARY DIVIDENDS AND REDEMPTIONS.— 


‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount determined 
under this subparagraph for any plan year is 
the excess (if any) of— 

‘‘(I) the sum of the dividends declared during 
the plan year by the plan sponsor plus 
the aggregate fair market value of the stock 
of the plan sponsor redeemed during the plan 
year, over 

‘‘(II) the adjusted net income (within the 
meaning of section 4043 of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974) of the 
plan sponsor for the preceding plan year. 

‘‘(ii) ONLY CERTAIN POST-2009 DIVIDENDS AND 
REDEMPTIONS COUNTED.—For purposes of 
clause (i), there shall only be taken into account 
dividends declared, and redemptions 
occurring, after February 4, 2010. 

‘‘(iii) EXCEPTION FOR INTRA-GROUP DIVIDENDS.—
Dividends paid by one member of a 
controlled group (as defined in section 
412(d)(3)) to another member of such group 
shall not be taken into account under clause 
(i). 

‘‘(F) OTHER DEFINITIONS AND RULES.—For 
purposes of this paragraph— 

‘‘(i) PLAN SPONSOR.—The term ‘ plan sponsor’ 
includes any member of the plan sponsor’s 
controlled group (as defined in section 
412(d)(3)). 

‘‘(ii) RESTRICTION PERIOD.—The term ‘restriction 
period’ means, with respect to any 
election year— 

‘‘(I) except as provided in subclause (II), 
the 4-year period beginning with the election 
year, and 

‘‘(II) if the plan sponsor elects 15-year amortization 
for the shortfall amortization base 
for the election year, the 7-year period beginning 
with the election year. 

‘‘(iii) ELECTIONS FOR MULTIPLE PLANS.—If a 
plan sponsor makes elections under paragraph 
(2)(D) with respect to 2 or more plans, 
the Secretary shall provide rules for the application 
of this paragraph to such plans, including 
rules for the ratable allocation of 
any installment acceleration amount among 

such plans on the basis of each plan’s relative 
reduction in the plan’s shortfall amortization 
installment for the first plan year in 
the amortization period described in subparagraph 
(A) (determined without regard to 
this paragraph). 

‘‘(iv) MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS.—The Secretary 
shall prescribe rules for the application 
of paragraph (2)(D) and this paragraph 
in any case where there is a merger or acquisition 
involving a plan sponsor making the 
election under paragraph (2)(D).’’. 

(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 430 
is amended— 
(A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘the 
shortfall amortization bases for such plan 
year and each of the 6 preceding plan years’’ 
and inserting ‘‘any shortfall amortization 
base which has not been fully amortized 
under this subsection’’, and 
(B) in subsection (j)(3), by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(F) QUARTERLY CONTRIBUTIONS NOT TO INCLUDE 
CERTAIN INCREASED CONTRIBUTIONS.— 
Subparagraph (D) shall be applied without 
regard to any increase under subsection 
(c)(7).’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to plan 
years beginning after December 31, 2007. 
SEC. 302. APPLICATION OF EXTENDED AMORTI


ZATION PERIOD TO PLANS SUBJECT 

TO PRIOR LAW FUNDING RULES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the Pension 
Protection Act of 2006 is amended by redesignating 
section 107 as section 108 and by inserting 
the following after section 106: 
‘‘SEC. 107. APPLICATION OF EXTENDED AMORTI


ZATION PERIODS TO PLANS WITH 

DELAYED EFFECTIVE DATE. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If the plan sponsor of a 
plan to which section 104, 105, or 106 of this 
Act applies elects to have this section apply 
for any eligible plan year (in this section referred 
to as an ‘election year’), section 302 of 
the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 and section 412 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect before the 
amendments made by this subtitle and subtitle 
B) shall apply to such year in the manner 
described in subsection (b) or (c), whichever 
is specified in the election. All references 
in this section to ‘such Act’ or ‘such 
Code’ shall be to such Act or such Code as in 
effect before the amendments made by this 
subtitle and subtitle B. 

‘‘(b) APPLICATION OF 2 AND 7 RULE.—In the 
case of an election year to which this subsection 
applies— 

‘‘(1) 2-YEAR LOOKBACK FOR DETERMINING 
DEFICIT REDUCTION CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CERTAIN 
PLANS.—For purposes of applying section 
302(d)(9) of such Act and section 412(l)(9) 
of such Code, the funded current liability 
percentage (as defined in subparagraph (C) 
thereof) for such plan for such plan year 
shall be such funded current liability percentage 
of such plan for the second plan year 
preceding the first election year of such 
plan. 

‘‘(2) CALCULATION OF DEFICIT REDUCTION 
CONTRIBUTION.—For purposes of applying section 
302(d) of such Act and section 412(l) of 
such Code to a plan to which such sections 
apply (after taking into account paragraph 
(1))— 

‘‘(A) in the case of the increased unfunded 
new liability of the plan, the applicable percentage 
described in section 302(d)(4)(C) of 
such Act and section 412(l)(4)(C) of such Code 
shall be the third segment rate described in 
sections 104(b), 105(b), and 106(b) of this Act, 
and 

‘‘(B) in the case of the excess of the unfunded 
new liability over the increased unfunded 
new liability, such applicable percentage 
shall be determined without regard 
to this section. 


S874 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

‘‘(c) APPLICATION OF 15-YEAR AMORTIZATION.—
In the case of an election year to 
which this subsection applies, for purposes of 
applying section 302(d) of such Act and section 
412(l) of such Code— 

‘‘(1) in the case of the increased unfunded 
new liability of the plan, the applicable percentage 
described in section 302(d)(4)(C) of 
such Act and section 412(l)(4)(C) of such Code 
for any pre-effective date plan year beginning 
with or after the first election year 
shall be the ratio of— 

‘‘(A) the annual installments payable in 
each year if the increased unfunded new liability 
for such plan year were amortized 
over 15 years, using an interest rate equal to 
the third segment rate described in sections 
104(b), 105(b), and 106(b) of this Act, to 

‘‘(B) the increased unfunded new liability 
for such plan year, and 

‘‘(2) in the case of the excess of the unfunded 
new liability over the increased unfunded 
new liability, such applicable percentage 
shall be determined without regard 
to this section. 

‘‘(d) ELECTION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The plan sponsor of a 
plan may elect to have this section apply to 
not more than 2 eligible plan years with respect 
to the plan, except that in the case of 
a plan to which section 106 of this Act applies, 
the plan sponsor may only elect to 
have this section apply to 1 eligible plan 
year. 

‘‘(2) AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE.—Such election 
shall specify whether the rules under 
subsection (b) or (c) shall apply to an election 
year, except that if a plan sponsor elects 
to have this section apply to 2 eligible plan 
years, the plan sponsor must elect the same 
rule for both years. 

‘‘(3) OTHER RULES.—Such election shall be 
made at such time, and in such form and 
manner, as shall be prescribed by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, and may be revoked 
only with the consent of the Secretary of the 
Treasury. 

‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section— 


‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE PLAN YEAR.—For purposes of 
this subparagraph, the term ‘eligible plan 
year’ means any plan year beginning in 2008, 
2009, 2010, or 2011, except that a plan year beginning 
in 2008 shall only be treated as an eligible 
plan year if the due date for the payment 
of the minimum required contribution 
for such plan year occurs on or after the date 
of the enactment of this clause. 

‘‘(2) PRE-EFFECTIVE DATE PLAN YEAR.—The 
term ‘pre-effective date plan year’ means, 
with respect to a plan, any plan year prior to 
the first year in which the amendments 
made by this subtitle and subtitle B apply to 
the plan. 

‘‘(3) INCREASED UNFUNDED NEW LIABILITY.— 
The term ‘increased unfunded new liability’ 
means, with respect to a year, the excess (if 
any) of the unfunded new liability over the 
amount of unfunded new liability determined 
as if the value of the plan’s assets determined 
under subsection 302(c)(2) of such 
Act and section 412(c)(2) of such Code equaled 
the product of the current liability of the 
plan for the year multiplied by the funded 
current liability percentage (as defined in 
section 302(d)(8)(B) of such Act and 
412(l)(8)(B) of such Code) of the plan for the 
second plan year preceding the first election 
year of such plan. 

‘‘(4) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—The terms ‘unfunded 
new liability’ and ‘current liability’ 
shall have the meanings set forth in section 
302(d) of such Act and section 412(l) of such 
Code.’’. 

(b) ELIGIBLE CHARITY PLANS.—Section 104 
of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘eligible cooperative plan’’ 
wherever it appears in subsections (a) and (b) 
and inserting ‘‘eligible cooperative plan or 
an eligible charity plan’’, and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
subsection: 
‘‘(d) ELIGIBLE CHARITY PLAN DEFINED.—For 
purposes of this section, a plan shall be 
treated as an eligible charity plan for a plan 
year if the plan is maintained by more than 
one employer and 100 percent of the employers 
are described in section 501(c)(3) of such 
Code.’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall take effect as if included 
in the Pension Protection Act of 2006. 
(2) ELIGIBLE CHARITY PLAN.—The amendments 
made by subsection (b) shall apply to 
plan years beginning after December 31, 2007, 
except that a plan sponsor may elect to 
apply such amendments to plan years beginning 
after December 31, 2008. Any such election 
shall be made at such time, and in such 
form and manner, as shall be prescribed by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, and may be 
revoked only with the consent of the Secretary 
of the Treasury. 
SEC. 303. LOOKBACK FOR CERTAIN BENEFIT RESTRICTIONS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) AMENDMENT TO ERISA.—Section 206(g)(9) 
of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(D) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN YEARS.— 
Solely for purposes of any applicable provision— 


‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For plan years beginning 
on or after October 1, 2008, and before October 
1, 2010, the adjusted funding target attainment 
percentage of a plan shall be the 
greater of— 

‘‘(I) such percentage, as determined without 
regard to this subparagraph, or 

‘‘(II) the adjusted funding target attainment 
percentage for such plan for the plan 
year beginning after October 1, 2007, and before 
October 1, 2008, as determined under 
rules prescribed by the Secretary of the 
Treasury. 

‘‘(ii) SPECIAL RULE.—In the case of a plan 
for which the valuation date is not the first 
day of the plan year— 

‘‘(I) clause (i) shall apply to plan years beginning 
after December 31, 2007, and before 
January 1, 2010, and 

‘‘(II) clause (i)(II) shall apply based on the 
last plan year beginning before November 1, 
2007, as determined under rules prescribed by 
the Secretary of the Treasury. 

‘‘(iii) APPLICABLE PROVISION.—For purposes 
of this subparagraph, the term ‘applicable 
provision’ means— 

‘‘(I) paragraph (3), but only for purposes of 
applying such paragraph to a payment 
which, as determined under rules prescribed 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, is a payment 
under a social security leveling option 
which accelerates payments under the plan 
before, and reduces payments after, a participant 
starts receiving social security benefits 
in order to provide substantially similar 
aggregate payments both before and after 
such benefits are received, and 

‘‘(II) paragraph (4).’’. 

(2) AMENDMENT TO INTERNAL REVENUE CODE 
OF 1986.—Section 436(j) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN YEARS.— 
Solely for purposes of any applicable provision— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For plan years beginning 
on or after October 1, 2008, and before 
October 1, 2010, the adjusted funding target 
attainment percentage of a plan shall be the 
greater of— 

‘‘(i) such percentage, as determined without 
regard to this paragraph, or 

‘‘(ii) the adjusted funding target attainment 
percentage for such plan for the plan 
year beginning after October 1, 2007, and before 
October 1, 2008, as determined under 
rules prescribed by the Secretary. 

‘‘(B) SPECIAL RULE.—In the case of a plan 
for which the valuation date is not the first 
day of the plan year— 

‘‘(i) subparagraph (A) shall apply to plan 
years beginning after December 31, 2007, and 
before January 1, 2010, and 

‘‘(ii) subparagraph (A)(ii) shall apply based 
on the last plan year beginning before November 
1, 2007, as determined under rules 
prescribed by the Secretary. 

‘‘(C) APPLICABLE PROVISION.—For purposes 
of this paragraph, the term ‘applicable provision’ 
means— 

‘‘(i) subsection (d), but only for purposes of 
applying such paragraph to a payment 
which, as determined under rules prescribed 
by the Secretary, is a payment under a social 
security leveling option which accelerates 
payments under the plan before, and reduces 
payments after, a participant starts 
receiving social security benefits in order to 
provide substantially similar aggregate payments 
both before and after such benefits are 
received, and 

‘‘(ii) subsection (e).’’. 

(b) INTERACTION WITH WRERA RULE.—Section 
203 of the Worker, Retiree, and Employer 
Recovery Act of 2008 shall apply to a 
plan for any plan year in lieu of the amendments 
made by this section applying to sections 
206(g)(4) of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 and 436(e) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 only to the extent 
that such section produces a higher adjusted 
funding target attainment percentage 
for such plan for such year. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), the amendments made by this 
section shall apply to plan years beginning 
on or after October 1, 2008. 
(2) SPECIAL RULE.—In the case of a plan for 
which the valuation date is not the first day 
of the plan year, the amendments made by 
this section shall apply to plan years beginning 
after December 31, 2007. 
Subtitle B—Multiemployer Plans 

SEC. 311. ADJUSTMENTS TO FUNDING STANDARD 
ACCOUNT RULES. 

(a) ADJUSTMENTS.— 
(1) AMENDMENT TO ERISA.—Section 304(b) of 
the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1084(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(8) SPECIAL RELIEF RULES.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this subsection— 


‘‘(A) AMORTIZATION OF NET INVESTMENT 
LOSSES.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A multiemployer plan 
with respect to which the solvency test 
under subparagraph (C) is met may treat the 
portion of its experience loss attributable to 
the net investment losses (if any) incurred in 
either or both of the first two plan years 
ending after August 31, 2008, as an item separate 
from other experience losses, to be amortized 
in equal annual installments (until 
fully amortized) over a period of 30 plan 
years. 

‘‘(ii) COORDINATION WITH EXTENSIONS.—If 
this subparagraph applies for any plan year— 

‘‘(I) no extension of the amortization period 
under clause (i) shall be allowed under 
subsection (d), and 

‘‘(II) if an extension was granted under 
subsection (d) for any plan year before the 
election to have this subparagraph apply to 
the plan year, such extension shall not result 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S875 

in such amortization period exceeding 30 
years. 

‘‘(iii) NET INVESTMENT LOSSES.—For purposes 
of this subparagraph— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Net investment losses 
shall be determined in the manner prescribed 
by the Secretary of the Treasury on the basis 
of the difference between actual and expected 
returns (including any difference attributable 
to any criminally fraudulent investment 
arrangement). 

‘‘(II) CRIMINALLY FRAUDULENT INVESTMENT 
ARRANGEMENTS.—The determination as to 
whether an arrangement is a criminally 
fraudulent investment arrangement shall be 
made under rules substantially similar to 
the rules prescribed by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for purposes of section 165 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

‘‘(B) EXPANDED SMOOTHING PERIOD.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A multiemployer plan 
with respect to which the solvency test 
under subparagraph (C) is met may change 
its asset valuation method in a manner 
which— 

‘‘(I) spreads the difference between expected 
and actual returns for either or both 
of the first 2 plan years ending after August 
31, 2008, over a period of not more than 10 
years, 

‘‘(II) provides that for either or both of 
such 2 plan years the value of plan assets at 
any time shall not be less than 80 percent or 
greater than 130 percent of the fair market 
value of such assets at such time, or 

‘‘(III) makes both changes described in subclauses 
(I) and (II) to such method. 

‘‘(ii) ASSET VALUATION METHODS.—If this 
subparagraph applies for any plan year— 

‘‘(I) the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
not treat the asset valuation method of the 
plan as unreasonable solely because of the 
changes in such method described in clause 
(i), and 

‘‘(II) such changes shall be deemed approved 
by such Secretary under section 
302(d)(1) and section 412(d)(1) of such Code. 

‘‘(iii) AMORTIZATION OF REDUCTION IN UNFUNDED 
ACCRUED LIABILITY.—If this subparagraph 
and subparagraph (A) both apply for 
any plan year, the plan shall treat any reduction 
in unfunded accrued liability resulting 
from the application of this subparagraph 
as a separate experience amortization 
base, to be amortized in equal annual installments 
(until fully amortized) over a period 
of 30 plan years rather than the period such 
liability would otherwise be amortized over. 

‘‘(C) SOLVENCY TEST.—The solvency test 
under this paragraph is met only if the plan 
actuary certifies that the plan is projected 
to have sufficient assets to timely pay expected 
benefits and anticipated expenditures 
over the amortization period, taking into account 
the changes in the funding standard 
account under this paragraph. 

‘‘(D) RESTRICTION ON BENEFIT INCREASES.— 
If subparagraph (A) or (B) apply to a multi-
employer plan for any plan year, then, in addition 
to any other applicable restrictions on 
benefit increases, a plan amendment increasing 
benefits may not go into effect during either 
of the 2 plan years immediately following 
such plan year unless— 

‘‘(i) the plan actuary certifies that— 

‘‘(I) any such increase is paid for out of additional 
contributions not allocated to the 
plan immediately before the application of 
this paragraph to the plan, and 

‘‘(II) the plan’s funded percentage and projected 
credit balances for such 2 plan years 
are reasonably expected to be at least as 
high as such percentage and balances would 
have been if the benefit increase had not 
been adopted, or 

‘‘(ii) the amendment is required as a condition 
of qualification under part I of sub-
chapter D of chapter 1 of the Internal Rev


enue Code of 1986 or to comply with other applicable 
law. 

‘‘(E) REPORTING.—A plan sponsor of a plan 
to which this paragraph applies shall inform 
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation of 
such application in such form and manner as 
the Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty 
Corporation may prescribe.’’. 

(2) AMENDMENT TO INTERNAL REVENUE CODE 
OF 1986.—Section 431(b) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(8) SPECIAL RELIEF RULES.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this subsection— 


‘‘(A) AMORTIZATION OF NET INVESTMENT 
LOSSES.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A multiemployer plan 
with respect to which the solvency test 
under subparagraph (C) is met may treat the 
portion of its experience loss attributable to 
the net investment losses (if any) incurred in 
either or both of the first two plan years 
ending after August 31, 2008, as an item separate 
from other experience losses, to be amortized 
in equal annual installments (until 
fully amortized) over a period of 30 plan 
years. 

‘‘(ii) COORDINATION WITH EXTENSIONS.—If 
this subparagraph applies for any plan year— 

‘‘(I) no extension of the amortization period 
under clause (i) shall be allowed under 
subsection (d), and 

‘‘(II) if an extension was granted under 
subsection (d) for any plan year before the 
election to have this subparagraph apply to 
the plan year, such extension shall not result 
in such amortization period exceeding 30 
years. 

‘‘(iii) NET INVESTMENT LOSSES.—For purposes 
of this subparagraph— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Net investment losses 
shall be determined in the manner prescribed 
by the Secretary on the basis of the difference 
between actual and expected returns 
(including any difference attributable to any 
criminally fraudulent investment arrangement). 


‘‘(II) CRIMINALLY FRAUDULENT INVESTMENT 
ARRANGEMENTS.—The determination as to 
whether an arrangement is a criminally 
fraudulent investment arrangement shall be 
made under rules substantially similar to 
the rules prescribed by the Secretary for purposes 
of section 165. 

‘‘(B) EXPANDED SMOOTHING PERIOD.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A multiemployer plan 
with respect to which the solvency test 
under subparagraph (C) is met may change 
its asset valuation method in a manner 
which— 

‘‘(I) spreads the difference between expected 
and actual returns for either or both 
of the first 2 plan years ending after August 
31, 2008, over a period of not more than 10 
years, 

‘‘(II) provides that for either or both of 
such 2 plan years the value of plan assets at 
any time shall not be less than 80 percent or 
greater than 130 percent of the fair market 
value of such assets at such time, or 

‘‘(III) makes both changes described in subclauses 
(I) and (II) to such method. 

‘‘(ii) ASSET VALUATION METHODS.—If this 
subparagraph applies for any plan year— 

‘‘(I) the Secretary shall not treat the asset 
valuation method of the plan as unreasonable 
solely because of the changes in such 
method described in clause (i), and 

‘‘(II) such changes shall be deemed approved 
by the Secretary under section 
302(d)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 and section 412(d)(1). 

‘‘(iii) AMORTIZATION OF REDUCTION IN UNFUNDED 
ACCRUED LIABILITY.—If this subparagraph 
and subparagraph (A) both apply for 
any plan year, the plan shall treat any reduction 
in unfunded accrued liability resulting 
from the application of this subpara


graph as a separate experience amortization 
base, to be amortized in equal annual installments 
(until fully amortized) over a period 
of 30 plan years rather than the period such 
liability would otherwise be amortized over. 

‘‘(C) SOLVENCY TEST.—The solvency test 
under this paragraph is met only if the plan 
actuary certifies that the plan is projected 
to have sufficient assets to timely pay expected 
benefits and anticipated expenditures 
over the amortization period, taking into account 
the changes in the funding standard 
account under this paragraph. 

‘‘(D) RESTRICTION ON BENEFIT INCREASES.— 
If subparagraph (A) or (B) apply to a multi-
employer plan for any plan year, then, in addition 
to any other applicable restrictions on 
benefit increases, a plan amendment increasing 
benefits may not go into effect during either 
of the 2 plan years immediately following 
such plan year unless— 

‘‘(i) the plan actuary certifies that— 

‘‘(I) any such increase is paid for out of additional 
contributions not allocated to the 
plan immediately before the application of 
this paragraph to the plan, and 

‘‘(II) the plan’s funded percentage and projected 
credit balances for such 2 plan years 
are reasonably expected to be at least as 
high as such percentage and balances would 
have been if the benefit increase had not 
been adopted, or 

‘‘(ii) the amendment is required as a condition 
of qualification under part I of sub-
chapter D or to comply with other applicable 
law. 

‘‘(E) REPORTING.—A plan sponsor of a plan 
to which this paragraph applies shall inform 
the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation of 
such application in such form and manner as 
the Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty 
Corporation may prescribe.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by 
this section shall take effect as of the first 
day of the first plan year ending after August 
31, 2008, except that any election a plan 
makes pursuant to this section that affects 
the plan’s funding standard account for the 
first plan year ending after August 31, 2008, 
shall be disregarded for purposes of applying 
the provisions of section 305 of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and 
section 432 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to such plan year. 
(2) RESTRICTIONS ON BENEFIT INCREASES.— 
Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the restrictions 
on plan amendments increasing benefits 
in sections 304(b)(8)(D) of such Act and 
431(b)(8)(D) of such Code, as added by this 
section, shall take effect on the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
TITLE IV—OFFSET PROVISIONS 
Subtitle A—Black Liquor 
SEC. 401. EXCLUSION OF UNPROCESSED FUELS 

FROM THE CELLULOSIC BIOFUEL 

PRODUCER CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (E) of section 
40(b)(6) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new clause: 
‘‘(iii) EXCLUSION OF UNPROCESSED FUELS.— 
The term ‘cellulosic biofuel’ shall not include 
any fuel if— 

‘‘(I) more than 4 percent of such fuel (determined 
by weight) is any combination of 
water and sediment, or 

‘‘(II) the ash content of such fuel is more 
than 1 percent (determined by weight).’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to fuels sold 
or used after the date of the enactment of 
this Act. 
SEC. 402. PROHIBITION ON ALTERNATIVE FUEL 
CREDIT AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL 
MIXTURE CREDIT FOR BLACK LIQUOR. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The last sentence of section 
6426(d)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘or 

S876 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

biodiesel’’ and inserting ‘‘biodiesel, or any 
fuel (including lignin, wood residues, or 
spent pulping liquors) derived from the production 
of paper or pulp’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to fuel sold 
or used after December 31, 2009. 
Subtitle B—Homebuyer Credit 
SEC. 411. TECHNICAL MODIFICATIONS TO HOMEBUYER 
CREDIT. 

(a) EXPANDED DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENT.—
Subsection (d) of section 36, as 
amended by the Worker, Homeownership, 
and Business Assistance Act of 2009, is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of paragraph 
(3), 
(2) by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (4) and inserting a comma, and 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs: 
‘‘(5) in the case of a taxpayer to whom such 
a credit would be allowed (but for this paragraph) 
by reason of subsection (c)(6), the taxpayer 
fails to attach to the return of tax for 
such taxable year a copy of such property 
tax bills or other documentation as are required 
by the Secretary to demonstrate compliance 
with the requirements of subsection 
(c)(6), or 

‘‘(6) in the case of a taxpayer to whom such 
a credit would be allowed (but for this paragraph) 
by reason of subsection (h)(2), the taxpayer 
fails to attach to the return of tax for 
such taxable year a copy of the binding contract 
which meets the requirements of subsection 
(h)(2).’’. 

(b) MODIFICATION OF EFFECTIVE DATE OF 
DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.—Paragraph 
(2) of section 12(e) of the Worker, Homeownership, 
and Business Assistance Act of 2009 is 
amended by striking ‘‘returns for taxable 
years ending after the date of the enactment 
of this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘returns filed 
after the date of the enactment of this Act’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.—The 
amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to purchases on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act. 
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE OF WORKER, HOMEOWNERSHIP, 
AND BUSINESS ASSISTANCE ACT.—The 
amendment made by subsection (b) shall 
apply to purchases of a principal residence 
on or after the date of the enactment of the 
Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance 
Act of 2009. 
Subtitle C—Economic Substance 

SEC. 421. CODIFICATION OF ECONOMIC SUBSTANCE 
DOCTRINE; PENALTIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 7701 is amended 
by redesignating subsection (o) as subsection 
(p) and by inserting after subsection (n) the 
following new subsection: 
‘‘(o) CLARIFICATION OF ECONOMIC SUBSTANCE 
DOCTRINE.— 
‘‘(1) APPLICATION OF DOCTRINE.—In the case 
of any transaction to which the economic 
substance doctrine is relevant, such transaction 
shall be treated as having economic 
substance only if— 

‘‘(A) the transaction changes in a meaningful 
way (apart from Federal income tax effects) 
the taxpayer’s economic position, and 

‘‘(B) the taxpayer has a substantial purpose 
(apart from Federal income tax effects) 
for entering into such transaction. 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE WHERE TAXPAYER RELIES 
ON PROFIT POTENTIAL.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The potential for profit 
of a transaction shall be taken into account 
in determining whether the requirements of 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) 
are met with respect to the transaction only 
if the present value of the reasonably expected 
pre-tax profit from the transaction is 
substantial in relation to the present value 

of the expected net tax benefits that would 
be allowed if the transaction were respected. 

‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF FEES AND FOREIGN 
TAXES.—Fees and other transaction expenses 
shall be taken into account as expenses in 
determining pre-tax profit under subparagraph 
(A). The Secretary may issue regulations 
requiring foreign taxes to be treated as 
expenses in determining pre-tax profit in appropriate 
cases. 

‘‘(3) STATE AND LOCAL TAX BENEFITS.—For 
purposes of paragraph (1), any State or local 
income tax effect which is related to a Federal 
income tax effect shall be treated in the 
same manner as a Federal income tax effect. 

‘‘(4) FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BENEFITS.—For 
purposes of paragraph (1)(B), achieving a financial 
accounting benefit shall not be 
taken into account as a purpose for entering 
into a transaction if the origin of such financial 
accounting benefit is a reduction of Federal 
income tax. 

‘‘(5) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—For 
purposes of this subsection— 

‘‘(A) ECONOMIC SUBSTANCE DOCTRINE.—The 
term ‘economic substance doctrine’ means 
the common law doctrine under which tax 
benefits under subtitle A with respect to a 
transaction are not allowable if the transaction 
does not have economic substance or 
lacks a business purpose. 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR PERSONAL TRANSACTIONS 
OF INDIVIDUALS.—In the case of an 
individual, paragraph (1) shall apply only to 
transactions entered into in connection with 
a trade or business or an activity engaged in 
for the production of income. 

‘‘(C) OTHER COMMON LAW DOCTRINES NOT AF-
FECTED.—Except as specifically provided in 
this subsection, the provisions of this subsection 
shall not be construed as altering or 
supplanting any other rule of law, and the 
requirements of this subsection shall be construed 
as being in addition to any such other 
rule of law. 

‘‘(D) DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION OF 
DOCTRINE NOT AFFECTED.—The determination 
of whether the economic substance doctrine 
is relevant to a transaction shall be made in 
the same manner as if this subsection had 
never been enacted. 

‘‘(E) TRANSACTION.—The term ‘transaction’ 
includes a series of transactions. 

‘‘(6) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall 
prescribe such regulations as may be necessary 
or appropriate to carry out the purposes 
of this subsection.’’. 

(b) PENALTY FOR UNDERPAYMENTS ATTRIBUTABLE 
TO TRANSACTIONS LACKING ECONOMIC 
SUBSTANCE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section 
6662 is amended by inserting after paragraph 
(5) the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(6) Any disallowance of claimed tax benefits 
by reason of a transaction lacking economic 
substance (within the meaning of section 
7701(o)) or failing to meet the requirements 
of any similar rule of law.’’. 

(2) INCREASED PENALTY FOR NONDISCLOSED 
TRANSACTIONS.—Section 6662 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(i) INCREASE IN PENALTY IN CASE OF NONDISCLOSED 
NONECONOMIC SUBSTANCE TRANSACTIONS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any portion 
of an underpayment which is attributable 
to one or more nondisclosed noneconomic 
substance transactions, subsection 

(a) shall be applied with respect to such portion 
by substituting ‘40 percent’ for ‘20 percent’. 
‘‘(2) NONDISCLOSED NONECONOMIC SUBSTANCE 
TRANSACTIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, 
the term ‘nondisclosed noneconomic 
substance transaction’ means any portion of 
a transaction described in subsection (b)(6) 
with respect to which the relevant facts af


fecting the tax treatment are not adequately 
disclosed in the return nor in a statement attached 
to the return. 

‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR AMENDED RETURNS.— 
Except as provided in regulations, in no 
event shall any amendment or supplement to 
a return of tax be taken into account for 
purposes of this subsection if the amendment 
or supplement is filed after the earlier of the 
date the taxpayer is first contacted by the 
Secretary regarding the examination of the 
return or such other date as is specified by 
the Secretary.’’. 

(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subparagraph 
(B) of section 6662A(e)(2) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘section 6662(h)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsections (h) or (i) of section 
6662’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘GROSS VALUATION 
MISSTATEMENT PENALTY’’ in the heading and 
inserting ‘‘CERTAIN INCREASED UNDERPAYMENT 
PENALTIES’’. 
(c) REASONABLE CAUSE EXCEPTION NOT APPLICABLE 
TO NONECONOMIC SUBSTANCE TRANSACTIONS.— 
(1) REASONABLE CAUSE EXCEPTION FOR UNDERPAYMENTS.—
Subsection (c) of section 6664 
is amended— 
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) 
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; 
(B) by striking ‘‘paragraph (2)’’ in paragraph 
(4)(A), as so redesignated, and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (3)’’; and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
apply to any portion of an underpayment 
which is attributable to one or more transactions 
described in section 6662(b)(6).’’. 

(2) REASONABLE CAUSE EXCEPTION FOR REPORTABLE 
TRANSACTION UNDERSTATEMENTS.— 
Subsection (d) of section 6664 is amended— 
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) 
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; 
(B) by striking ‘‘paragraph (2)(C)’’ in paragraph 
(4), as so redesignated, and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (3)(C)’’; and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
apply to any portion of a reportable transaction 
understatement which is attributable 
to one or more transactions described in section 
6662(b)(6).’’. 

(d) APPLICATION OF PENALTY FOR ERRONEOUS 
CLAIM FOR REFUND OR CREDIT TO NONECONOMIC 
SUBSTANCE TRANSACTIONS.—Section 
6676 is amended by redesignating subsection 
(c) as subsection (d) and inserting 
after subsection (b) the following new subsection: 
‘‘(c) NONECONOMIC SUBSTANCE TRANSACTIONS 
TREATED AS LACKING REASONABLE 
BASIS.—For purposes of this section, any excessive 
amount which is attributable to any 
transaction described in section 6662(b)(6) 
shall not be treated as having a reasonable 
basis.’’. 

(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, the amendments 
made by this section shall apply to transactions 
entered into after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(2) UNDERPAYMENTS.—The amendments 
made by subsections (b) and (c)(1) shall apply 
to underpayments attributable to transactions 
entered into after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(3) UNDERSTATEMENTS.—The amendments 
made by subsection (c)(2) shall apply to understatements 
attributable to transactions 
entered into after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(4) REFUNDS AND CREDITS.—The amendment 
made by subsection (d) shall apply to refunds 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S877 

and credits attributable to transactions entered 
into after the date of the enactment of 
this Act. 

Subtitle D—Additional Provisions 
SEC. 431. REVISION TO THE MEDICARE IMPROVEMENT 
FUND. 

Section 1898(b)(1)(A) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395iii(b)(1)(A)), as amended by 
section 1011(b) of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111– 
118), is amended by striking ‘‘$20,740,000,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$12,740,000,000’’. 

TITLE V—SATELLITE TELEVISION 
EXTENSION 
SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Satellite 
Television Extension and Localism Act of 
2010’’. 

Subtitle A—Statutory Licenses 
SEC. 501. REFERENCE. 

Except as otherwise provided, whenever in 
this subtitle an amendment is made to a section 
or other provision, the reference shall 
be considered to be made to such section or 
provision of title 17, United States Code. 

SEC. 502. MODIFICATIONS TO STATUTORY LICENSE 
FOR SATELLITE CARRIERS. 

(a) HEADING RENAMED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The heading of section 119 
is amended by striking ‘‘superstations and 
network stations for private home viewing’’ 
and inserting ‘‘distant television programming 
by satellite’’. 
(2) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for chapter 1 is amended by striking 
the item relating to section 119 and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘119. Limitations on exclusive rights: Secondary 
transmissions of distant 
television programming by satellite.’’. 


(b) UNSERVED HOUSEHOLD DEFINED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 119(d)(10) is 
amended— 
(A) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(A) cannot receive, through the use of an 
antenna, an over-the-air signal containing 
the primary stream, or, on or after the qualifying 
date, the multicast stream, originating 
in that household’s local market and affiliated 
with that network of— 

‘‘(i) if the signal originates as an analog 
signal, Grade B intensity as defined by the 
Federal Communications Commission in section 
73.683(a) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, 
as in effect on January 1, 1999; or 

‘‘(ii) if the signal originates as a digital 
signal, intensity defined in the values for the 
digital television noise-limited service contour, 
as defined in regulations issued by the 
Federal Communications Commission (section 
73.622(e) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations), 
as such regulations may be amended 
from time to time;’’; 

(B) in subparagraph (B)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘subsection (a)(14)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (a)(13),’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘Satellite Home Viewer Extension 
and Reauthorization Act of 2004’’ and 
inserting ‘‘Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010’’; and 
(C) in subparagraph (D), by striking 
‘‘(a)(12)’’ and inserting ‘‘(a)(11)’’. 
(2) QUALIFYING DATE DEFINED.—Section 
119(d) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: 
‘‘(14) QUALIFYING DATE.—The term ‘qualifying 
date’, for purposes of paragraph (10)(A), 
means— 

‘‘(A) July 1, 2010, for multicast streams 
that exist on December 31, 2009; and 
‘‘(B) January 1, 2011, for all other multicast 
streams.’’. 

(c) FILING FEE.—Section 119(b)(1) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
after the semicolon at the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) a filing fee, as determined by the Register 
of Copyrights pursuant to section 
708(a).’’. 

(d) DEPOSIT OF STATEMENTS AND FEES; 
VERIFICATION PROCEDURES.—Section 119(b) is 
amended— 
(1) by amending the subsection heading to 
read as follows: ‘‘(b) DEPOSIT OF STATEMENTS 
AND FEES; VERIFICATION PROCEDURES.—’’; 
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph 
(B) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) a royalty fee payable to copyright 
owners pursuant to paragraph (4) for that 6-
month period, computed by multiplying the 
total number of subscribers receiving each 
secondary transmission of a primary stream 
or multicast stream of each non-network 
station or network station during each calendar 
year month by the appropriate rate in 
effect under this subsection; and’’; 

(3) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and 
(4) as paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively; 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) VERIFICATION OF ACCOUNTS AND FEE 
PAYMENTS.—The Register of Copyrights shall 
issue regulations to permit interested parties 
to verify and audit the statements of account 
and royalty fees submitted by satellite 
carriers under this subsection.’’; 

(5) in paragraph (3), as redesignated, in the 
first sentence— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘(including the filing fee 
specified in paragraph (1)(C))’’ after ‘‘shall 
receive all fees’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘paragraph (4)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (5)’’; 
(6) in paragraph (4), as redesignated— 
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (3)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘paragraph (4)’’ each place 
it appears and inserting ‘‘paragraph (5)’’; and 
(7) in paragraph (5), as redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘paragraph (2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (3)’’. 
(e) ADJUSTMENT OF ROYALTY FEES.—Section 
119(c) is amended as follows: 
(1) Paragraph (1) is amended— 
(A) in the heading for such paragraph, by 
striking ‘‘ANALOG’’; 
(B) in subparagraph (A)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘primary analog transmissions’’ 
and inserting ‘‘primary transmissions’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘July 1, 2004’’ and inserting 
‘‘July 1, 2009’’; 
(C) in subparagraph (B)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘January 2, 2005, the Librarian 
of Congress’’ and inserting ‘‘March 1, 
2010, the Copyright Royalty Judges’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘primary analog transmission’’ 
and inserting ‘‘primary transmissions’’; 
(D) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘Librarian 
of Congress’’ and inserting ‘‘Copyright 
Royalty Judges’’; 
(E) in subparagraph (D)— 
(i) in clause (i)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘(i) Voluntary agreements’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(i) VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS; FILING.—Voluntary 
agreements’’; and 

(II) by striking ‘‘that a parties’’ and inserting 
‘‘that are parties’’; and 
(ii) in clause (ii)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘(ii)(I) Within’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(ii) PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTION OF FEES.— 
‘‘(I) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.—Within’’; 

(II) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘an arbitration 
proceeding pursuant to subparagraph 
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘a proceeding under subparagraph 
(F)’’; 

(III) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘(II) 
Upon receiving a request under subclause (I), 
the Librarian of Congress’’ and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(II) PUBLIC NOTICE OF FEES.—Upon receiving 
a request under subclause (I), the Copyright 
Royalty Judges’’; and 

(IV) in subclause (III)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘(III) The Librarian’’ and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(III) ADOPTION OF FEES.—The Copyright 
Royalty Judges’’; 
(bb) by striking ‘‘an arbitration proceeding’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the proceeding 
under subparagraph (F)’’; and 

(cc) by striking ‘‘the arbitration proceeding’’ 
and inserting ‘‘that proceeding’’; 
(F) in subparagraph (E)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘Copyright Office’’ and inserting 
‘‘Copyright Royalty Judges’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘February 28, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘December 31, 2014’’; and 
(G) in subparagraph (F)— 
(i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘COMPULSORY 
ARBITRATION’’ and inserting ‘‘COPYRIGHT 
ROYALTY JUDGES PROCEEDING’’; 
(ii) in clause (i)— 
(I) in the heading, by striking ‘‘PROCEEDINGS’’ 
and inserting ‘‘THE PROCEEDING’’; 
(II) in the matter preceding subclause (I)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘May 1, 2005, the Librarian 
of Congress’’ and inserting ‘‘May 3, 2010, the 
Copyright Royalty Judges’’; 

(bb) by striking ‘‘arbitration proceedings’’ 
and inserting ‘‘a proceeding’’; 

(cc) by striking ‘‘fee to be paid’’ and inserting 
‘‘fees to be paid’’; 
(dd) by striking ‘‘primary analog transmission’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the primary transmissions’’; 
and 

(ee) by striking ‘‘distributors’’ and inserting 
‘‘distributors—’’; 

(III) in subclause (II)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘Librarian of Congress’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Copyright Royalty Judges’’; 
and 

(bb) by striking ‘‘arbitration’’; and 

(IV) by amending the last sentence to read 
as follows: ‘‘Such proceeding shall be conducted 
under chapter 8.’’; 
(iii) in clause (ii), by amending the matter 
preceding subclause (I) to read as follows: 
‘‘(ii) ESTABLISHMENT OF ROYALTY FEES.—In 
determining royalty fees under this subparagraph, 
the Copyright Royalty Judges shall 
establish fees for the secondary transmissions 
of the primary transmissions of 
network stations and non-network stations 
that most clearly represent the fair market 
value of secondary transmissions, except 
that the Copyright Royalty Judges shall adjust 
royalty fees to account for the obligations 
of the parties under any applicable voluntary 
agreement filed with the Copyright 
Royalty Judges in accordance with subparagraph 
(D). In determining the fair market 
value, the Judges shall base their decision on 
economic, competitive, and programming information 
presented by the parties, including—’’; 


(iv) by amending clause (iii) to read as follows: 
‘‘(iii) EFFECTIVE DATE FOR DECISION OF 
COPYRIGHT ROYALTY JUDGES.—The obligation 
to pay the royalty fees established under a 
determination that is made by the Copyright 
Royalty Judges in a proceeding under this 
paragraph shall be effective as of January 1, 
2010.’’; and 

(v) in clause (iv)— 
(I) in the heading, by striking ‘‘FEE’’ and 
inserting ‘‘FEES’’; and 
(II) by striking ‘‘fee referred to in (iii)’’ and 
inserting ‘‘fees referred to in clause (iii)’’. 
(2) Paragraph (2) is amended to read as follows: 

S878 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

‘‘(2) ANNUAL ROYALTY FEE ADJUSTMENT.— 
Effective January 1 of each year, the royalty 
fee payable under subsection (b)(1)(B) for the 
secondary transmission of the primary 
transmissions of network stations and non-
network stations shall be adjusted by the 
Copyright Royalty Judges to reflect any 
changes occurring in the cost of living as determined 
by the most recent Consumer Price 
Index (for all consumers and for all items) 
published by the Secretary of Labor before 
December 1 of the preceding year. Notification 
of the adjusted fees shall be published in 
the Federal Register at least 25 days before 
January 1.’’. 

(f) DEFINITIONS.— 
(1) SUBSCRIBER.—Section 119(d)(8) is 
amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(8) SUBSCRIBER; SUBSCRIBE.— 

‘‘(A) SUBSCRIBER.—The term ‘subscriber’ 
means a person or entity that receives a secondary 
transmission service from a satellite 
carrier and pays a fee for the service, directly 
or indirectly, to the satellite carrier 
or to a distributor. 

‘‘(B) SUBSCRIBE.—The term ‘subscribe’ 
means to elect to become a subscriber.’’. 

(2) LOCAL MARKET.—Section 119(d)(11) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(11) LOCAL MARKET.—The term ‘local market’ 
has the meaning given such term under 
section 122(j).’’. 

(3) LOW POWER TELEVISION STATION.—Section 
119(d) is amended by striking paragraph 
(12) and redesignating paragraphs (13) and 
(14) as paragraphs (12) and (13), respectively. 
(4) MULTICAST STREAM.—Section 119(d), as 
amended by paragraph (3), is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(14) MULTICAST STREAM.—The term 
‘multicast stream’ means a digital stream 
containing programming and program-related 
material affiliated with a television 
network, other than the primary stream.’’. 

(5) PRIMARY STREAM.—Section 119(d), as 
amended by paragraph (4), is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(15) PRIMARY STREAM.—The term ‘primary 
stream’ means— 

‘‘(A) the single digital stream of programming 
as to which a television broadcast station 
has the right to mandatory carriage 
with a satellite carrier under the rules of the 
Federal Communications Commission in effect 
on July 1, 2009; or 

‘‘(B) if there is no stream described in subparagraph 
(A), then either— 

‘‘(i) the single digital stream of programming 
associated with the network last transmitted 
by the station as an analog signal; or 

‘‘(ii) if there is no stream described in 
clause (i), then the single digital stream of 
programming affiliated with the network 
that, as of July 1, 2009, had been offered by 
the television broadcast station for the longest 
period of time.’’. 

(6) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 119(d) is 
amended in paragraphs (1), (2), and (5) by 
striking ‘‘which’’ each place it appears and 
inserting ‘‘that’’. 
(g) SUPERSTATION REDESIGNATED AS NON-
NETWORK STATION.—Section 119 is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘superstation’’ each place it 
appears in a heading and each place it appears 
in text and inserting ‘‘non-network 
station’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘superstations’’ each place 
it appears in a heading and each place it appears 
in text and inserting ‘‘non-network 
stations’’. 
(h) REMOVAL OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.— 
(1) REMOVAL OF PROVISIONS.—Section 119(a) 
is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph 
(C) and redesignating subparagraph 
(D) as subparagraph (C); 
(B) by striking paragraph (3) and redesignating 
paragraphs (4) through (14) as paragraphs 
(3) through (13), respectively; and 
(C) by striking paragraph (15) and redesignating 
paragraph (16) as paragraph (14). 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 119 
is amended— 
(A) in subsection (a)— 
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(5), (6), 
and (8)’’ and inserting ‘‘(4), (5), and (7)’’; 
(ii) in paragraph (2)— 
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘subparagraphs 
(B) and (C) of this paragraph and 
paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subparagraph (B) of this paragraph and 
paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7)’’; 
(II) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking the 
second sentence; and 
(III) in subparagraph (C) (as redesignated), 
by striking clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(i) INITIAL LISTS.—A satellite carrier that 
makes secondary transmissions of a primary 
transmission made by a network station pursuant 
to subparagraph (A) shall, not later 
than 90 days after commencing such secondary 
transmissions, submit to the network 
that owns or is affiliated with the network 
station a list identifying (by name and address, 
including street or rural route number, 
city, State, and 9-digit zip code) all subscribers 
to which the satellite carrier makes 
secondary transmissions of that primary 
transmission to subscribers in unserved 
households. 

‘‘(ii) MONTHLY LISTS.—After the submission 
of the initial lists under clause (i), the satellite 
carrier shall, not later than the 15th of 
each month, submit to the network a list, 
aggregated by designated market area, identifying 
(by name and address, including 
street or rural route number, city, State, 
and 9-digit zip code) any persons who have 
been added or dropped as subscribers under 
clause (i) since the last submission under 
this subparagraph.’’; and 

(iii) in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (3) 
(as redesignated)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘under paragraph (3) or’’; 
and 
(II) by striking ‘‘paragraph (12)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (11)’’; and 
(B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking the 
final sentence. 
(i) MODIFICATIONS TO PROVISIONS FOR SECONDARY 
TRANSMISSIONS BY SATELLITE CARRIERS.— 
(1) PREDICTIVE MODEL.—Section 
119(a)(2)(B)(ii) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(III) ACCURATE PREDICTIVE MODEL WITH RESPECT 
TO DIGITAL SIGNALS.—Notwithstanding 
subclause (I), in determining presumptively 
whether a person resides in an unserved 
household under subsection (d)(10)(A) with 
respect to digital signals, a court shall rely 
on a predictive model set forth by the Federal 
Communications Commission pursuant 
to a rulemaking as provided in section 
339(c)(3) of the Communications Act of 1934 
(47 U.S.C. 339(c)(3)), as that model may be 
amended by the Commission over time under 
such section to increase the accuracy of that 
model. Until such time as the Commission 
sets forth such model, a court shall rely on 
the predictive model as recommended by the 
Commission with respect to digital signals 
in its Report to Congress in ET Docket No. 
05–182, FCC 05–199 (released December 9, 
2005).’’. 

(2) MODIFICATIONS TO STATUTORY LICENSE 
WHERE RETRANSMISSIONS INTO LOCAL MARKET 
AVAILABLE.—Section 119(a)(3) (as redesignated) 
is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘analog’’ each place it appears 
in a heading and text; 
(B) by striking subparagraphs (B), (C), and 
(D), and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) RULES FOR LAWFUL SUBSCRIBERS AS OF 
DATE OF ENACTMENT OF 2010 ACT.—In the case 
of a subscriber of a satellite carrier who, on 
the day before the date of the enactment of 
the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010, was lawfully receiving the 
secondary transmission of the primary 
transmission of a network station under the 
statutory license under paragraph (2) (in this 
subparagraph referred to as the ‘distant signal’), 
other than subscribers to whom subparagraph 
(A) applies, the statutory license 
under paragraph (2) shall apply to secondary 
transmissions by that satellite carrier to 
that subscriber of the distant signal of a station 
affiliated with the same television network, 
and the subscriber’s household shall 
continue to be considered to be an unserved 
household with respect to such network, 
until such time as the subscriber elects to 
terminate such secondary transmissions, 
whether or not the subscriber elects to subscribe 
to receive the secondary transmission 
of the primary transmission of a local network 
station affiliated with the same network 
pursuant to the statutory license under 
section 122. 

‘‘(C) FUTURE APPLICABILITY.— 

‘‘(i) WHEN LOCAL SIGNAL AVAILABLE AT TIME 
OF SUBSCRIPTION.—The statutory license 
under paragraph (2) shall not apply to the 
secondary transmission by a satellite carrier 
of the primary transmission of a network 
station to a person who is not a subscriber 
lawfully receiving such secondary transmission 
as of the date of the enactment of 
the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010 and, at the time such person 
seeks to subscribe to receive such secondary 
transmission, resides in a local market 
where the satellite carrier makes available 
to that person the secondary transmission 
of the primary transmission of a 
local network station affiliated with the 
same network pursuant to the statutory license 
under section 122. 

‘‘(ii) WHEN LOCAL SIGNAL AVAILABLE AFTER 
SUBSCRIPTION.—In the case of a subscriber 
who lawfully subscribes to and receives the 
secondary transmission by a satellite carrier 
of the primary transmission of a network 
station under the statutory license under 
paragraph (2) (in this clause referred to as 
the ‘distant signal’) on or after the date of 
the enactment of the Satellite Television 
Extension and Localism Act of 2010, the statutory 
license under paragraph (2) shall apply 
to secondary transmissions by that satellite 
carrier to that subscriber of the distant signal 
of a station affiliated with the same television 
network, and the subscriber’s household 
shall continue to be considered to be an 
unserved household with respect to such network, 
until such time as the subscriber 
elects to terminate such secondary transmissions, 
but only if such subscriber subscribes 
to the secondary transmission of the 
primary transmission of a local network station 
affiliated with the same network within 
60 days after the satellite carrier makes 
available to the subscriber such secondary 
transmission of the primary transmission of 
such local network station.’’; 

(C) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), 
(F), and (G) as subparagraphs (D), (E), and 
(F), respectively; 
(D) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated), 
by striking ‘‘(C) or (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘(B) or 
(C)’’; and 
(E) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated), 
by inserting ‘‘9-digit’’ before ‘‘zip code’’. 
(3) STATUTORY DAMAGES FOR TERRITORIAL 
RESTRICTIONS.—Section 119(a)(6) (as redesignated) 
is amended— 
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking 
‘‘$5’’ and inserting ‘‘$250’’; 
(B) in subparagraph (B)—— 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S879 

(i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘$250,000 for 
each 6-month period’’ and inserting 
‘‘$2,500,000 for each 3-month period’’; and 
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘$250,000’’ and 
inserting ‘‘$2,500,000’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following flush 
sentences: 
‘‘The court shall direct one half of any statutory 
damages ordered under clause (i) to be 
deposited with the Register of Copyrights for 
distribution to copyright owners pursuant to 
subsection (b). The Copyright Royalty 
Judges shall issue regulations establishing 
procedures for distributing such funds, on a 
proportional basis, to copyright owners 
whose works were included in the secondary 
transmissions that were the subject of the 
statutory damages.’’. 

(4) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 
119(a)(4) (as redesignated) is amended by 
striking ‘‘and 509’’. 
(5) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 
119(a)(2)(B)(iii)(II) is amended by striking ‘‘In 
this clause’’ and inserting ‘‘In this clause,’’. 
(j) MORATORIUM EXTENSION.—Section 119(e) 
is amended by striking ‘‘February 28, 2010’’ 
and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2014’’. 
(k) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 119 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘of the Code of Federal Regulations’’ 
each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘, Code of Federal Regulations’’; and 
(2) in subsection (d)(6), by striking ‘‘or the 
Direct’’ and inserting ‘‘, or the Direct’’. 
SEC. 503. MODIFICATIONS TO STATUTORY LI


CENSE FOR SATELLITE CARRIERS IN 

LOCAL MARKETS. 

(a) HEADING RENAMED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The heading of section 122 
is amended by striking ‘‘by satellite carriers 
within local markets’’ and inserting ‘‘of local 
television programming by satellite’’. 
(2) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for chapter 1 is amended by striking 
the item relating to section 122 and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘122. Limitations on exclusive rights: Secondary 
transmissions of local 
television programming by satellite.’’. 


(b) STATUTORY LICENSE.—Section 122(a) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) SECONDARY TRANSMISSIONS INTO LOCAL 
MARKETS.— 
‘‘(1) SECONDARY TRANSMISSIONS OF TELEVISION 
BROADCAST STATIONS WITHIN A LOCAL 
MARKET.—A secondary transmission of a performance 
or display of a work embodied in a 
primary transmission of a television broadcast 
station into the station’s local market 
shall be subject to statutory licensing under 
this section if— 

‘‘(A) the secondary transmission is made 
by a satellite carrier to the public; 

‘‘(B) with regard to secondary transmissions, 
the satellite carrier is in compliance 
with the rules, regulations, or authorizations 
of the Federal Communications 
Commission governing the carriage of television 
broadcast station signals; and 

‘‘(C) the satellite carrier makes a direct or 
indirect charge for the secondary transmission 
to— 

‘‘(i) each subscriber receiving the secondary 
transmission; or 

‘‘(ii) a distributor that has contracted with 
the satellite carrier for direct or indirect delivery 
of the secondary transmission to the 
public. 

‘‘(2) SIGNIFICANTLY VIEWED STATIONS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A secondary transmission 
of a performance or display of a 
work embodied in a primary transmission of 
a television broadcast station to subscribers 
who receive secondary transmissions of primary 
transmissions under paragraph (1) 
shall be subject to statutory licensing under 

this paragraph if the secondary transmission 
is of the primary transmission of a network 
station or a non-network station to a subscriber 
who resides outside the station’s 
local market but within a community in 
which the signal has been determined by the 
Federal Communications Commission to be 
significantly viewed in such community, 
pursuant to the rules, regulations, and authorizations 
of the Federal Communications 
Commission in effect on April 15, 1976, applicable 
to determining with respect to a cable 
system whether signals are significantly 
viewed in a community. 

‘‘(B) WAIVER.—A subscriber who is denied 
the secondary transmission of the primary 
transmission of a network station or a non-
network station under subparagraph (A) may 
request a waiver from such denial by submitting 
a request, through the subscriber’s satellite 
carrier, to the network station or non-
network station in the local market affiliated 
with the same network or non-network 
where the subscriber is located. The network 
station or non-network station shall accept 
or reject the subscriber’s request for a waiver 
within 30 days after receipt of the request. 
If the network station or non-network station 
fails to accept or reject the subscriber’s 
request for a waiver within that 30-day period, 
that network station or non-network 
station shall be deemed to agree to the waiver 
request. 

‘‘(3) SECONDARY TRANSMISSION OF LOW 
POWER PROGRAMMING.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs 
(B) and (C), a secondary transmission 
of a performance or display of a work embodied 
in a primary transmission of a television 
broadcast station to subscribers who 
receive secondary transmissions of primary 
transmissions under paragraph (1) shall be 
subject to statutory licensing under this 
paragraph if the secondary transmission is of 
the primary transmission of a television 
broadcast station that is licensed as a low 
power television station, to a subscriber who 
resides within the same designated market 
area as the station that originates the transmission. 


‘‘(B) NO APPLICABILITY TO REPEATERS AND 
TRANSLATORS.—Secondary transmissions 
provided for in subparagraph (A) shall not 
apply to any low power television station 
that retransmits the programs and signals of 
another television station for more than 2 
hours each day. 

‘‘(C) NO IMPACT ON OTHER SECONDARY 
TRANSMISSIONS OBLIGATIONS.—A satellite carrier 
that makes secondary transmissions of a 
primary transmission of a low power television 
station under a statutory license provided 
under this section is not required, by 
reason of such secondary transmissions, to 
make any other secondary transmissions. 

‘‘(4) SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.—A secondary 
transmission of a performance or display of a 
work embodied in a primary transmission of 
a television broadcast station to subscribers 
who receive secondary transmissions of primary 
transmissions under paragraph (1) 
shall, if the secondary transmission is made 
by a satellite carrier that complies with the 
requirements of paragraph (1), be subject to 
statutory licensing under this paragraph as 
follows: 

‘‘(A) STATES WITH SINGLE FULL-POWER NETWORK 
STATION.—In a State in which there is 
licensed by the Federal Communications 
Commission a single full-power station that 
was a network station on January 1, 1995, the 
statutory license provided for in this paragraph 
shall apply to the secondary transmission 
by a satellite carrier of the primary 
transmission of that station to any subscriber 
in a community that is located within 
that State and that is not within the first 
50 television markets as listed in the regula


tions of the Commission as in effect on such 
date (47 C.F.R. 76.51). 

‘‘(B) STATES WITH ALL NETWORK STATIONS 
AND NON-NETWORK STATIONS IN SAME LOCAL 
MARKET.—In a State in which all network 
stations and non-network stations licensed 
by the Federal Communications Commission 
within that State as of January 1, 1995, are 
assigned to the same local market and that 
local market does not encompass all counties 
of that State, the statutory license provided 
under this paragraph shall apply to the 
secondary transmission by a satellite carrier 
of the primary transmissions of such station 
to all subscribers in the State who reside in 
a local market that is within the first 50 
major television markets as listed in the 
regulations of the Commission as in effect on 
such date (section 76.51 of title 47, Code of 
Federal Regulations). 

‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL STATIONS.—In the case of 
that State in which are located 4 counties 
that— 

‘‘(i) on January 1, 2004, were in local markets 
principally comprised of counties in another 
State, and 

‘‘(ii) had a combined total of 41,340 television 
households, according to the U.S. Television 
Household Estimates by Nielsen 
Media Research for 2004, 

the statutory license provided under this 
paragraph shall apply to secondary transmissions 
by a satellite carrier to subscribers 
in any such county of the primary transmissions 
of any network station located in 
that State, if the satellite carrier was making 
such secondary transmissions to any subscribers 
in that county on January 1, 2004. 

‘‘(D) CERTAIN ADDITIONAL STATIONS.—If 2 
adjacent counties in a single State are in a 
local market comprised principally of counties 
located in another State, the statutory 
license provided for in this paragraph shall 
apply to the secondary transmission by a 
satellite carrier to subscribers in those 2 
counties of the primary transmissions of any 
network station located in the capital of the 
State in which such 2 counties are located, 
if— 

‘‘(i) the 2 counties are located in a local 
market that is in the top 100 markets for the 
year 2003 according to Nielsen Media Research; 
and 

‘‘(ii) the total number of television households 
in the 2 counties combined did not exceed 
10,000 for the year 2003 according to 
Nielsen Media Research. 

‘‘(E) NETWORKS OF NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL 
BROADCAST STATIONS.—In the case 
of a system of three or more noncommercial 
educational broadcast stations licensed to a 
single State, public agency, or political, educational, 
or special purpose subdivision of a 
State, the statutory license provided for in 
this paragraph shall apply to the secondary 
transmission of the primary transmission of 
such system to any subscriber in any county 
or county equivalent within such State, if 
such subscriber is located in a designated 
market area that is not otherwise eligible to 
receive the secondary transmission of the 
primary transmission of a noncommercial 
educational broadcast station located within 
the State pursuant to paragraph (1). 

‘‘(5) APPLICABILITY OF ROYALTY RATES AND 
PROCEDURES.—The royalty rates and procedures 
under section 119(b) shall apply to the 
secondary transmissions to which the statutory 
license under paragraph (4) applies.’’. 

(c) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Section 
122(b) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘station a 
list’’ and all that follows through the end 
and inserting the following: ‘‘station— 
‘‘(A) a list identifying (by name in alphabetical 
order and street address, including 
county and 9-digit zip code) all subscribers to 


S880 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

which the satellite carrier makes secondary 
transmissions of that primary transmission 
under subsection (a); and 

‘‘(B) a separate list, aggregated by designated 
market area (by name and address, 
including street or rural route number, city, 
State, and 9-digit zip code), which shall indicate 
those subscribers being served pursuant 
to paragraph (2) of subsection (a).’’; and 

(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘network a 
list’’ and all that follows through the end 
and inserting the following: ‘‘network— 
‘‘(A) a list identifying (by name in alphabetical 
order and street address, including 
county and 9-digit zip code) any subscribers 
who have been added or dropped as subscribers 
since the last submission under this 
subsection; and 

‘‘(B) a separate list, aggregated by designated 
market area (by name and street address, 
including street or rural route number, 
city, State, and 9-digit zip code), identifying 
those subscribers whose service pursuant 
to paragraph (2) of subsection (a) has 
been added or dropped since the last submission 
under this subsection.’’. 

(d) NO ROYALTY FEE FOR CERTAIN SECONDARY 
TRANSMISSIONS.—Section 122(c) is 
amended— 
(1) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘FOR CERTAIN 
SECONDARY TRANSMISSIONS’’ after ‘‘REQUIRED’’; 
and 
(2) by striking ‘‘subsection (a)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection 
(a)’’. 
(e) VIOLATIONS FOR TERRITORIAL RESTRICTIONS.— 
(1) MODIFICATION TO STATUTORY DAMAGES.— 
Section 122(f) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘$5’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$250’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘$250,000’’ 
each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘$2,500,000’’. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL 
STATIONS.—Section 122 is amended— 
(A) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘section 
119 or’’ each place it appears and inserting 
the following: ‘‘section 119, subject to statutory 
licensing by reason of paragraph (2)(A), 
(3), or (4) of subsection (a), or subject to’’; 
and 
(B) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘section 
119 or’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘section 
119, paragraph (2)(A), (3), or (4) of subsection 
(a), or’’. 
(f) DEFINITIONS.—Section 122(j) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘which 
contracts’’ and inserting ‘‘that contracts’’; 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) 
as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; 
(3) in paragraph (3)— 
(A) by redesignating such paragraph as 
paragraph (4); 
(B) in the heading of such paragraph, by inserting 
‘‘NON-NETWORK STATION;’’ after ‘‘NETWORK 
STATION;’’; and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘ ‘non-network station’,’’ 
after ‘‘ ‘network station’,’’; 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: 
‘‘(3) LOW POWER TELEVISION STATION.—The 
term ‘low power television station’ means a 
low power TV station as defined in section 
74.701(f) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, 
as in effect on June 1, 2004. For purposes 
of this paragraph, the term ‘low power 
television station’ includes a low power television 
station that has been accorded primary 
status as a Class A television licensee 
under section 73.6001(a) of title 47, Code of 
Federal Regulations.’’; 

(5) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as re-
designated) the following: 
‘‘(5) NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL BROADCAST 
STATION.—The term ‘noncommercial 
educational broadcast station’ means a tele


vision broadcast station that is a noncommercial 
educational broadcast station as 
defined in section 397 of the Communications 
Act of 1934, as in effect on the date of the enactment 
of the Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010.’’; and 

(6) by amending paragraph (6) (as redesignated) 
to read as follows: 
‘‘(6) SUBSCRIBER.—The term ‘subscriber’ 
means a person or entity that receives a secondary 
transmission service from a satellite 
carrier and pays a fee for the service, directly 
or indirectly, to the satellite carrier 
or to a distributor.’’. 

SEC. 504. MODIFICATIONS TO CABLE SYSTEM 

SECONDARY TRANSMISSION RIGHTS 

UNDER SECTION 111. 

(a) HEADING RENAMED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The heading of section 111 
is amended by inserting at the end the following: 
‘‘of broadcast programming by 
cable’’. 
(2) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for chapter 1 is amended by striking 
the item relating to section 111 and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘111. Limitations on exclusive rights: Secondary 
transmissions of broadcast 
programming by cable.’’. 

(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 
111(a)(4) is amended by striking ‘‘; or’’ and 
inserting ‘‘or section 122;’’. 
(c) STATUTORY LICENSE FOR SECONDARY 
TRANSMISSIONS BY CABLE SYSTEMS.—Section 
111(d) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
(A)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘A cable system whose secondary’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT AND ROYALTY 
FEES.—Subject to paragraph (5), a cable system 
whose secondary’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘by regulation—’’ and inserting 
‘‘by regulation the following:’’; 
(B) in subparagraph (A)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘a statement of account’’ 
and inserting ‘‘A statement of account’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a period; 
and 
(C) by striking subparagraphs (B), (C), and 
(D) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) Except in the case of a cable system 
whose royalty fee is specified in subparagraph 
(E) or (F), a total royalty fee payable 
to copyright owners pursuant to paragraph 

(3) for the period covered by the statement, 
computed on the basis of specified percentages 
of the gross receipts from subscribers to 
the cable service during such period for the 
basic service of providing secondary transmissions 
of primary broadcast transmitters, 
as follows: 
‘‘(i) 1.064 percent of such gross receipts for 
the privilege of further transmitting, beyond 
the local service area of such primary transmitter, 
any non-network programming of a 
primary transmitter in whole or in part, 
such amount to be applied against the fee, if 
any, payable pursuant to clauses (ii) through 
(iv); 

‘‘(ii) 1.064 percent of such gross receipts for 
the first distant signal equivalent; 

‘‘(iii) 0.701 percent of such gross receipts 
for each of the second, third, and fourth distant 
signal equivalents; and 

‘‘(iv) 0.330 percent of such gross receipts for 
the fifth distant signal equivalent and each 
distant signal equivalent thereafter. 

‘‘(C) In computing amounts under clauses 

(ii) through (iv) of subparagraph (B)— 
‘‘(i) any fraction of a distant signal equivalent 
shall be computed at its fractional 
value; 

‘‘(ii) in the case of any cable system located 
partly within and partly outside of the 
local service area of a primary transmitter, 

gross receipts shall be limited to those gross 
receipts derived from subscribers located 
outside of the local service area of such primary 
transmitter; and 

‘‘(iii) if a cable system provides a secondary 
transmission of a primary transmitter 
to some but not all communities 
served by that cable system— 

‘‘(I) the gross receipts and the distant signal 
equivalent values for such secondary 
transmission shall be derived solely on the 
basis of the subscribers in those communities 
where the cable system provides such 
secondary transmission; and 

‘‘(II) the total royalty fee for the period 
paid by such system shall not be less than 
the royalty fee calculated under subparagraph 
(B)(i) multiplied by the gross receipts 
from all subscribers to the system. 

‘‘(D) A cable system that, on a statement 
submitted before the date of the enactment 
of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010, computed its royalty fee 
consistent with the methodology under subparagraph 
(C)(iii), or that amends a statement 
filed before such date of enactment to 
compute the royalty fee due using such 
methodology, shall not be subject to an action 
for infringement, or eligible for any royalty 
refund or offset, arising out of its use of 
such methodology on such statement. 

‘‘(E) If the actual gross receipts paid by 
subscribers to a cable system for the period 
covered by the statement for the basic service 
of providing secondary transmissions of 
primary broadcast transmitters are $263,800 
or less— 

‘‘(i) gross receipts of the cable system for 
the purpose of this paragraph shall be computed 
by subtracting from such actual gross 
receipts the amount by which $263,800 exceeds 
such actual gross receipts, except that 
in no case shall a cable system’s gross receipts 
be reduced to less than $10,400; and 

‘‘(ii) the royalty fee payable under this 
paragraph to copyright owners pursuant to 
paragraph (3) shall be 0.5 percent, regardless 
of the number of distant signal equivalents, 
if any. 

‘‘(F) If the actual gross receipts paid by 
subscribers to a cable system for the period 
covered by the statement for the basic service 
of providing secondary transmissions of 
primary broadcast transmitters are more 
than $263,800 but less than $527,600, the royalty 
fee payable under this paragraph to 
copyright owners pursuant to paragraph (3) 
shall be— 

‘‘(i) 0.5 percent of any gross receipts up to 
$263,800, regardless of the number of distant 
signal equivalents, if any; and 

‘‘(ii) 1 percent of any gross receipts in excess 
of $263,800, but less than $527,600, regardless 
of the number of distant signal equivalents, 
if any. 

‘‘(G) A filing fee, as determined by the Register 
of Copyrights pursuant to section 
708(a).’’; 

(2) in paragraph (2), in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘The Register of Copyrights’’ 
and inserting the following ‘‘HANDLING 
OF FEES.—The Register of Copyrights’’; 
and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘(including the filing fee 
specified in paragraph (1)(G))’’ after ‘‘shall 
receive all fees’’; 
(3) in paragraph (3)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘The royalty fees’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘DISTRIBUTION OF ROYALTY 
FEES TO COPYRIGHT OWNERS.—The royalty 
fees’’; 
(B) in subparagraph (A)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘any such’’ and inserting 
‘‘Any such’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a period; 
(C) in subparagraph (B)— 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S881 

(i) by striking ‘‘any such’’ and inserting 
‘‘Any such’’; and 
(ii) by striking the semicolon and inserting 
a period; and 
(D) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘any 
such’’ and inserting ‘‘Any such’’; 
(4) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘The royalty 
fees’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘PROCEDURES 
FOR ROYALTY FEE DISTRIBUTION.— 
The royalty fees’’; and 
(5) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs: 
‘‘(5) 3.75 PERCENT RATE AND SYNDICATED EXCLUSIVITY 
SURCHARGE NOT APPLICABLE TO 
MULTICAST STREAMS.—The royalty rates 
specified in sections 256.2(c) and 256.2(d) of 
title 37, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly 
referred to as the ‘3.75 percent rate’ 
and the ‘syndicated exclusivity surcharge’, 
respectively), as in effect on the date of the 
enactment of the Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010, as such rates 
may be adjusted, or such sections redesignated, 
thereafter by the Copyright Royalty 
Judges, shall not apply to the secondary 
transmission of a multicast stream. 

‘‘(6) VERIFICATION OF ACCOUNTS AND FEE 
PAYMENTS.—The Register of Copyrights shall 
issue regulations to provide for the confidential 
verification by copyright owners whose 
works were embodied in the secondary transmissions 
of primary transmissions pursuant 
to this section of the information reported 
on the semiannual statements of account 
filed under this subsection on or after January 
1, 2010, in order that the auditor designated 
under subparagraph (A) is able to 
confirm the correctness of the calculations 
and royalty payments reported therein. The 
regulations shall— 

‘‘(A) establish procedures for the designation 
of a qualified independent auditor— 

‘‘(i) with exclusive authority to request 
verification of such a statement of account 
on behalf of all copyright owners whose 
works were the subject of secondary transmissions 
of primary transmissions by the 
cable system (that deposited the statement) 
during the accounting period covered by the 
statement; and 

‘‘(ii) who is not an officer, employee, or 
agent of any such copyright owner for any 
purpose other than such audit; 

‘‘(B) establish procedures for safeguarding 
all non-public financial and business information 
provided under this paragraph; 

‘‘(C)(i) require a consultation period for 
the independent auditor to review its conclusions 
with a designee of the cable system; 

‘‘(ii) establish a mechanism for the cable 
system to remedy any errors identified in 
the auditor’s report and to cure any underpayment 
identified; and 

‘‘(iii) provide an opportunity to remedy 
any disputed facts or conclusions; 

‘‘(D) limit the frequency of requests for 
verification for a particular cable system 
and the number of audits that a multiple 
system operator can be required to undergo 
in a single year; and 

‘‘(E) permit requests for verification of a 
statement of account to be made only within 
3 years after the last day of the year in 
which the statement of account is filed. 

‘‘(7) ACCEPTANCE OF ADDITIONAL DEPOSITS.— 
Any royalty fee payments received by the 
Copyright Office from cable systems for the 
secondary transmission of primary transmissions 
that are in addition to the payments 
calculated and deposited in accordance 
with this subsection shall be deemed to 
have been deposited for the particular accounting 
period for which they are received 
and shall be distributed as specified under 
this subsection.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE OF NEW ROYALTY FEE 
RATES.—The royalty fee rates established in 
section 111(d)(1)(B) of title 17, United States 
Code, as amended by subsection (c)(1)(C) of 
this section, shall take effect commencing 
with the first accounting period occurring in 
2010. 

(e) DEFINITIONS.—Section 111(f) is amended— 
(1) by striking the first undesignated paragraph 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) PRIMARY TRANSMISSION.—A ‘primary 
transmission’ is a transmission made to the 
public by a transmitting facility whose signals 
are being received and further transmitted 
by a secondary transmission service, 
regardless of where or when the performance 
or display was first transmitted. In the case 
of a television broadcast station, the primary 
stream and any multicast streams 
transmitted by the station constitute primary 
transmissions.’’; 

(2) in the second undesignated paragraph— 
(A) by striking ‘‘A ‘secondary transmission’’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(2) SECONDARY TRANSMISSION.—A ‘secondary 
transmission’’’; and 

(B) by striking ‘‘‘cable system’’’ and inserting 
‘‘cable system’’; 
(3) in the third undesignated paragraph— 
(A) by striking ‘‘A ‘cable system’’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) CABLE SYSTEM.—A ‘cable system’ ’’; 
and 

(B) by striking ‘‘Territory, Trust Territory, 
or Possession’’ and inserting ‘‘territory, 
trust territory, or possession of the 
United States’’; 
(4) in the fourth undesignated paragraph, 
in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘The ‘local service area of 
a primary transmitter’, in the case of a television 
broadcast station, comprises the area 
in which such station is entitled to insist’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(4) LOCAL SERVICE AREA OF A PRIMARY 
TRANSMITTER.—The ‘local service area of a 
primary transmitter’, in the case of both the 
primary stream and any multicast streams 
transmitted by a primary transmitter that is 
a television broadcast station, comprises the 
area where such primary transmitter could 
have insisted’’; 

(B) by striking ‘‘76.59 of title 47 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations’’ and inserting the 
following: ‘‘76.59 of title 47, Code of Federal 
Regulations, or within the noise-limited contour 
as defined in 73.622(e)(1) of title 47, Code 
of Federal Regulations’’; and 
(C) by striking ‘‘as defined by the rules and 
regulations of the Federal Communications 
Commission,’’; 
(5) by amending the fifth undesignated 
paragraph to read as follows: 

‘‘(5) DISTANT SIGNAL EQUIVALENT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided 
under subparagraph (B), a ‘distant signal 
equivalent’— 

‘‘(i) is the value assigned to the secondary 
transmission of any non-network television 
programming carried by a cable system in 
whole or in part beyond the local service 
area of the primary transmitter of such programming; 
and 

‘‘(ii) is computed by assigning a value of 
one to each primary stream and to each 
multicast stream (other than a simulcast) 
that is an independent station, and by assigning 
a value of one-quarter to each primary 
stream and to each multicast stream 
(other than a simulcast) that is a network 
station or a noncommercial educational station. 


‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—The values for independent, 
network, and noncommercial educational 
stations specified in subparagraph 

(A) are subject to the following: 
‘‘(i) Where the rules and regulations of the 
Federal Communications Commission require 
a cable system to omit the further 
transmission of a particular program and 

such rules and regulations also permit the 
substitution of another program embodying 
a performance or display of a work in place 
of the omitted transmission, or where such 
rules and regulations in effect on the date of 
the enactment of the Copyright Act of 1976 
permit a cable system, at its election, to effect 
such omission and substitution of a 
nonlive program or to carry additional programs 
not transmitted by primary transmitters 
within whose local service area the 
cable system is located, no value shall be assigned 
for the substituted or additional program. 


‘‘(ii) Where the rules, regulations, or authorizations 
of the Federal Communications 
Commission in effect on the date of the enactment 
of the Copyright Act of 1976 permit 
a cable system, at its election, to omit the 
further transmission of a particular program 
and such rules, regulations, or authorizations 
also permit the substitution of another 
program embodying a performance or display 
of a work in place of the omitted transmission, 
the value assigned for the substituted 
or additional program shall be, in 
the case of a live program, the value of one 
full distant signal equivalent multiplied by a 
fraction that has as its numerator the number 
of days in the year in which such substitution 
occurs and as its denominator the 
number of days in the year. 

‘‘(iii) In the case of the secondary transmission 
of a primary transmitter that is a 
television broadcast station pursuant to the 
late-night or specialty programming rules of 
the Federal Communications Commission, or 
the secondary transmission of a primary 
transmitter that is a television broadcast 
station on a part-time basis where full-time 
carriage is not possible because the cable 
system lacks the activated channel capacity 
to retransmit on a full-time basis all signals 
that it is authorized to carry, the values for 
independent, network, and noncommercial 
educational stations set forth in subparagraph 
(A), as the case may be, shall be multiplied 
by a fraction that is equal to the ratio 
of the broadcast hours of such primary 
transmitter retransmitted by the cable system 
to the total broadcast hours of the primary 
transmitter. 

‘‘(iv) No value shall be assigned for the secondary 
transmission of the primary stream 
or any multicast streams of a primary transmitter 
that is a television broadcast station 
in any community that is within the local 
service area of the primary transmitter.’’; 

(6) by striking the sixth undesignated paragraph 
and inserting the following: 

‘‘(6) NETWORK STATION.— 

‘‘(A) TREATMENT OF PRIMARY STREAM.—The 
term ‘network station’ shall be applied to a 
primary stream of a television broadcast station 
that is owned or operated by, or affiliated 
with, one or more of the television networks 
in the United States providing nationwide 
transmissions, and that transmits a 
substantial part of the programming supplied 
by such networks for a substantial part 
of the primary stream’s typical broadcast 
day. 

‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF MULTICAST STREAMS.— 
The term ‘network station’ shall be applied 
to a multicast stream on which a television 
broadcast station transmits all or substantially 
all of the programming of an interconnected 
program service that— 

‘‘(i) is owned or operated by, or affiliated 
with, one or more of the television networks 
described in subparagraph (A); and 

‘‘(ii) offers programming on a regular basis 
for 15 or more hours per week to at least 25 
of the affiliated television licensees of the 
interconnected program service in 10 or more 
States.’’; 

(7) by striking the seventh undesignated 
paragraph and inserting the following: 

S882 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

‘‘(7) INDEPENDENT STATION.—The term 
‘independent station’ shall be applied to the 
primary stream or a multicast stream of a 
television broadcast station that is not a 
network station or a noncommercial educational 
station.’’; 

(8) by striking the eighth undesignated 
paragraph and inserting the following: 
‘‘(8) NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL STATION.—
The term ‘noncommercial educational 
station’ shall be applied to the primary 
stream or a multicast stream of a television 
broadcast station that is a noncommercial 
educational broadcast station as defined in 
section 397 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as in effect on the date of the enactment 
of the Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010.’’; and 

(9) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(9) PRIMARY STREAM.—A ‘primary stream’ 
is— 
‘‘(A) the single digital stream of programming 
that, before June 12, 2009, was substantially 
duplicating the programming transmitted 
by the television broadcast station as 
an analog signal; or 

‘‘(B) if there is no stream described in subparagraph 
(A), then the single digital stream 
of programming transmitted by the television 
broadcast station for the longest period 
of time. 

‘‘(10) PRIMARY TRANSMITTER.—A ‘primary 
transmitter’ is a television or radio broadcast 
station licensed by the Federal Communications 
Commission, or by an appropriate 
governmental authority of Canada or Mexico, 
that makes primary transmissions to 
the public. 

‘‘(11) MULTICAST STREAM.—A ‘multicast 
stream’ is a digital stream of programming 
that is transmitted by a television broadcast 
station and is not the station’s primary 
stream. 

‘‘(12) SIMULCAST.—A ‘simulcast’ is a 
multicast stream of a television broadcast 
station that duplicates the programming 
transmitted by the primary stream or another 
multicast stream of such station. 

‘‘(13) SUBSCRIBER; SUBSCRIBE.— 

‘‘(A) SUBSCRIBER.—The term ‘subscriber’ 
means a person or entity that receives a secondary 
transmission service from a cable 
system and pays a fee for the service, directly 
or indirectly, to the cable system. 

‘‘(B) SUBSCRIBE.—The term ‘subscribe’ 
means to elect to become a subscriber.’’. 

(f) TIMING OF SECTION 111 PROCEEDINGS.— 
Section 804(b)(1) is amended by striking 
‘‘2005’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘2015’’. 
(g) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) CORRECTIONS TO FIX LEVEL DESIGNATIONS.—
Section 111 is amended— 
(A) in subsections (a), (c), and (e), by striking 
‘‘clause’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘paragraph’’; 
(B) in subsection (c)(1), by striking 
‘‘clauses’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs’’; and 
(C) in subsection (e)(1)(F), by striking 
‘‘subclause’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph’’. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO HYPHENATE 
NONNETWORK.—Section 111 is amended by 
striking ‘‘nonnetwork’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘non-network’’. 
(3) PREVIOUSLY UNDESIGNATED PARAGRAPH.—
Section 111(e)(1) is amended by 
striking ‘‘second paragraph of subsection (f)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘subsection (f)(2)’’. 
(4) REMOVAL OF SUPERFLUOUS ANDS.—Section 
111(e) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(B) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(C) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(D) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; and 
(E) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end. 
(5) REMOVAL OF VARIANT FORMS REF-
ERENCES.—Section 111 is amended— 
(A) in subsection (e)(4), by striking ‘‘, and 
each of its variant forms,’’; and 
(B) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘and their 
variant forms’’. 
(6) CORRECTION TO TERRITORY REFERENCE.— 
Section 111(e)(2) is amended in the matter 
preceding subparagraph (A) by striking 
‘‘three territories’’ and inserting ‘‘five entities’’. 
(h) EFFECTIVE DATE WITH RESPECT TO 
MULTICAST STREAMS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraphs (2) 
and (3), the amendments made by this section, 
to the extent such amendments assign 
a distant signal equivalent value to the secondary 
transmission of the multicast stream 
of a primary transmitter, shall take effect 
on the date of the enactment of this Act. 
(2) DELAYED APPLICABILITY.— 
(A) SECONDARY TRANSMISSIONS OF A 
MULTICAST STREAM BEYOND THE LOCAL SERVICE 
AREA OF ITS PRIMARY TRANSMITTER BEFORE 
2010 ACT.—In any case in which a cable 
system was making secondary transmissions 
of a multicast stream beyond the local service 
area of its primary transmitter before 
the date of the enactment of this Act, a distant 
signal equivalent value (referred to in 
paragraph (1)) shall not be assigned to secondary 
transmissions of such multicast 
stream that are made on or before June 30, 
2010. 
(B) MULTICAST STREAMS SUBJECT TO PREEXISTING 
WRITTEN AGREEMENTS FOR THE SECONDARY 
TRANSMISSION OF SUCH STREAMS.—In 
any case in which the secondary transmission 
of a multicast stream of a primary 
transmitter is the subject of a written agreement 
entered into on or before June 30, 2009, 
between a cable system or an association 
representing the cable system and a primary 
transmitter or an association representing 
the primary transmitter, a distant signal 
equivalent value (referred to in paragraph 
(1)) shall not be assigned to secondary transmissions 
of such multicast stream beyond 
the local service area of its primary transmitter 
that are made on or before the date 
on which such written agreement expires. 
(C) NO REFUNDS OR OFFSETS FOR PRIOR 
STATEMENTS OF ACCOUNT.—A cable system 
that has reported secondary transmissions of 
a multicast stream beyond the local service 
area of its primary transmitter on a statement 
of account deposited under section 111 
of title 17, United States Code, before the 
date of the enactment of this Act shall not 
be entitled to any refund, or offset, of royalty 
fees paid on account of such secondary 
transmissions of such multicast stream. 
(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the 
terms ‘‘cable system’’, ‘‘secondary transmission’’, 
‘‘multicast stream’’, and ‘‘local 
service area of a primary transmitter’’ have 
the meanings given those terms in section 
111(f) of title 17, United States Code, as 
amended by this section. 
SEC. 505. CERTAIN WAIVERS GRANTED TO PRO


VIDERS OF LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL 

SERVICE FOR ALL DMAS. 

Section 119 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection: 

‘‘(g) CERTAIN WAIVERS GRANTED TO PROVIDERS 
OF LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL SERVICE TO ALL 
DMAS.— 

‘‘(1) INJUNCTION WAIVER.—A court that 
issued an injunction pursuant to subsection 
(a)(7)(B) before the date of the enactment of 
this subsection shall waive such injunction if 
the court recognizes the entity against 
which the injunction was issued as a qualified 
carrier. 

‘‘(2) LIMITED TEMPORARY WAIVER.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Upon a request made by 
a satellite carrier, a court that issued an injunction 
against such carrier under subsection 
(a)(7)(B) before the date of the enactment 
of this subsection shall waive such injunction 
with respect to the statutory license 
provided under subsection (a)(2) to the 
extent necessary to allow such carrier to 
make secondary transmissions of primary 
transmissions made by a network station to 
unserved households located in short markets 
in which such carrier was not providing 
local service pursuant to the license under 
section 122 as of December 31, 2009. 

‘‘(B) EXPIRATION OF TEMPORARY WAIVER.—A 
temporary waiver of an injunction under 
subparagraph (A) shall expire after the end 
of the 120-day period beginning on the date 
such temporary waiver is issued unless extended 
for good cause by the court making 
the temporary waiver. 

‘‘(C) FAILURE TO PROVIDE LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL 
SERVICE TO ALL DMAS.— 

‘‘(i) FAILURE TO ACT REASONABLY AND IN 
GOOD FAITH.—If the court issuing a temporary 
waiver under subparagraph (A) determines 
that the satellite carrier that made 
the request for such waiver has failed to act 
reasonably or has failed to make a good faith 
effort to provide local-into-local service to 
all DMAs, such failure— 

‘‘(I) is actionable as an act of infringement 
under section 501 and the court may in its 
discretion impose the remedies provided for 
in sections 502 through 506 and subsection 
(a)(6)(B) of this section; and 

‘‘(II) shall result in the termination of the 
waiver issued under subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(ii) FAILURE TO PROVIDE LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL 
SERVICE.—If the court issuing a temporary 
waiver under subparagraph (A) determines 
that the satellite carrier that made the request 
for such waiver has failed to provide 
local-into-local service to all DMAs, but determines 
that the carrier acted reasonably 
and in good faith, the court may in its discretion 
impose financial penalties that reflect— 


‘‘(I) the degree of control the carrier had 
over the circumstances that resulted in the 
failure; 

‘‘(II) the quality of the carrier’s efforts to 
remedy the failure; and 

‘‘(III) the severity and duration of any 
service interruption. 

‘‘(D) SINGLE TEMPORARY WAIVER AVAILABLE.—
An entity may only receive one temporary 
waiver under this paragraph. 

‘‘(E) SHORT MARKET DEFINED.—For purposes 
of this paragraph, the term ‘short market’ 
means a local market in which programming 
of one or more of the four most widely 
viewed television networks nationwide as 
measured on the date of the enactment of 
this subsection is not offered on the primary 
stream transmitted by any local television 
broadcast station. 

‘‘(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF QUALIFIED CARRIER 
RECOGNITION.— 

‘‘(A) STATEMENT OF ELIGIBILITY.—An entity 
seeking to be recognized as a qualified carrier 
under this subsection shall file a statement 
of eligibility with the court that imposed 
the injunction. A statement of eligibility 
must include— 

‘‘(i) an affidavit that the entity is providing 
local-into-local service to all DMAs; 

‘‘(ii) a request for a waiver of the injunction; 
and 

‘‘(iii) a certification issued pursuant to 
section 342(a) of Communications Act of 1934. 

‘‘(B) GRANT OF RECOGNITION AS A QUALIFIED 
CARRIER.—Upon receipt of a statement of eligibility, 
the court shall recognize the entity 
as a qualified carrier and issue the waiver 
under paragraph (1). 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S883 

‘‘(C) VOLUNTARY TERMINATION.—At any 
time, an entity recognized as a qualified carrier 
may file a statement of voluntary termination 
with the court certifying that it no 
longer wishes to be recognized as a qualified 
carrier. Upon receipt of such statement, the 
court shall reinstate the injunction waived 
under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(D) LOSS OF RECOGNITION PREVENTS FUTURE 
RECOGNITION.—No entity may be recognized 
as a qualified carrier if such entity had 
previously been recognized as a qualified carrier 
and subsequently lost such recognition 
or voluntarily terminated such recognition 
under subparagraph (C). 

‘‘(4) QUALIFIED CARRIER OBLIGATIONS AND 
COMPLIANCE.— 

‘‘(A) CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—An entity recognized as a 
qualified carrier shall continue to provide 
local-into-local service to all DMAs. 

‘‘(ii) COOPERATION WITH GAO EXAMINATION.— 
An entity recognized as a qualified carrier 
shall fully cooperate with the Comptroller 
General in the examination required by subparagraph 
(B). 

‘‘(B) QUALIFIED CARRIER COMPLIANCE EXAMINATION.— 


‘‘(i) EXAMINATION AND REPORT.—The Comptroller 
General shall conduct an examination 
and publish a report concerning the qualified 
carrier’s compliance with the royalty payment 
and household eligibility requirements 
of the license under this section. The report 
shall address the qualified carrier’s conduct 
during the period beginning on the date on 
which the qualified carrier is recognized as 
such under paragraph (3)(B) and ending on 
December 31, 2011. 

‘‘(ii) RECORDS OF QUALIFIED CARRIER.—Beginning 
on the date that is one year after the 
date on which the qualified carrier is recognized 
as such under paragraph (3)(B), but not 
later than October 1, 2011, the qualified carrier 
shall provide the Comptroller General 
with all records that the Comptroller General, 
in consultation with the Register of 
Copyrights, considers to be directly pertinent 
to the following requirements under 
this section: 

‘‘(I) Proper calculation and payment of 
royalties under the statutory license under 
this section. 

‘‘(II) Provision of service under this license 
to eligible subscribers only. 

‘‘(iii) SUBMISSION OF REPORT.—The Comptroller 
General shall file the report required 
by clause (i) not later than March 1, 2012, 
with the court referred to in paragraph (1) 
that issued the injunction, the Register of 
Copyrights, the Committees on the Judiciary 
and on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committees on the 
Judiciary and on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate. 

‘‘(iv) EVIDENCE OF INFRINGEMENT.—The 
Comptroller General shall include in the report 
a statement of whether the examination 
by the Comptroller General indicated that 
there is substantial evidence that a copyright 
holder could bring a successful action 
under this section against the qualified carrier 
for infringement. The Comptroller General 
shall consult with the Register of Copyrights 
in preparing such statement. 

‘‘(v) SUBSEQUENT EXAMINATION.—If the report 
includes the Comptroller General’s 
statement that there is substantial evidence 
that a copyright holder could bring a successful 
action under this section against the 
qualified carrier for infringement, the Comptroller 
General shall, not later than 6 
months after the report under clause (i) is 
published, initiate another examination of 
the qualified carrier’s compliance with the 
royalty payment and household eligibility 
requirements of the license under this section 
since the last report was filed under 

clause (iii). The Comptroller General shall 
file a report on such examination with the 
court referred to in paragraph (1) that issued 
the injunction, the Register of Copyrights, 
the Committees on the Judiciary and on Energy 
and Commerce of the House of Representatives, 
and the Committees on the Judiciary 
and on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate. The report 
shall include a statement described in clause 
(iv), prepared in consultation with the Register 
of Copyrights. 

‘‘(vi) COMPLIANCE.—Upon motion filed by 
an aggrieved copyright owner, the court recognizing 
an entity as a qualified carrier shall 
terminate such designation upon finding 
that the entity has failed to cooperate with 
the examinations required by this subparagraph. 


‘‘(C) AFFIRMATION.—A qualified carrier 
shall file an affidavit with the district court 
and the Register of Copyrights 30 months 
after such status was granted stating that, 
to the best of the affiant’s knowledge, it is in 
compliance with the requirements for a 
qualified carrier. 

‘‘(D) COMPLIANCE DETERMINATION.—Upon 
the motion of an aggrieved television broadcast 
station, the court recognizing an entity 
as a qualified carrier may make a determination 
of whether the entity is providing local-
into-local service to all DMAs. 

‘‘(E) PLEADING REQUIREMENT.—In any motion 
brought under subparagraph (D), the 
party making such motion shall specify one 
or more designated market areas (as such 
term is defined in section 122(j)(2)(C)) for 
which the failure to provide service is being 
alleged, and, for each such designated market 
area, shall plead with particularity the 
circumstances of the alleged failure. 

‘‘(F) BURDEN OF PROOF.—In any proceeding 
to make a determination under subparagraph 
(D), and with respect to a designated 
market area for which failure to provide 
service is alleged, the entity recognized as a 
qualified carrier shall have the burden of 
proving that the entity provided local-into-
local service with a good quality satellite 
signal to at least 90 percent of the households 
in such designated market area (based 
on the most recent census data released by 
the United States Census Bureau) at the 
time and place alleged. 

‘‘(5) FAILURE TO PROVIDE SERVICE.— 

‘‘(A) PENALTIES.—If the court recognizing 
an entity as a qualified carrier finds that 
such entity has willfully failed to provide 
local-into-local service to all DMAs, such 
finding shall result in the loss of recognition 
of the entity as a qualified carrier and the 
termination of the waiver provided under 
paragraph (1), and the court may, in its discretion— 


‘‘(i) treat such failure as an act of infringement 
under section 501, and subject such infringement 
to the remedies provided for in 
sections 502 through 506 and subsection 
(a)(6)(B) of this section; and 

‘‘(ii) impose a fine of not less than $250,000 
and not more than $5,000,000. 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR NONWILLFUL VIOLATION.—
If the court determines that the failure 
to provide local-into-local service to all 
DMAs is nonwillful, the court may in its discretion 
impose financial penalties for noncompliance 
that reflect— 

‘‘(i) the degree of control the entity had 
over the circumstances that resulted in the 
failure; 

‘‘(ii) the quality of the entity’s efforts to 
remedy the failure and restore service; and 

‘‘(iii) the severity and duration of any service 
interruption. 

‘‘(6) PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF LICENSE.—
A court that finds, under subsection 
(a)(6)(A), that an entity recognized as a 
qualified carrier has willfully made a sec


ondary transmission of a primary transmission 
made by a network station and embodying 
a performance or display of a work 
to a subscriber who is not eligible to receive 
the transmission under this section shall reinstate 
the injunction waived under paragraph 
(1), and the court may order statutory 
damages of not more than $2,500,000. 

‘‘(7) LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL SERVICE TO ALL 
DMAS DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection: 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An entity provides 
‘local-into-local service to all DMAs’ if the 
entity provides local service in all designated 
market areas (as such term is defined 
in section 122(j)(2)(C)) pursuant to the 
license under section 122. 

‘‘(B) HOUSEHOLD COVERAGE.—For purposes 
of subparagraph (A), an entity that makes 
available local-into-local service with a good 
quality satellite signal to at least 90 percent 
of the households in a designated market 
area based on the most recent census data 
released by the United States Census Bureau 
shall be considered to be providing local 
service to such designated market area. 

‘‘(C) GOOD QUALITY SATELLITE SIGNAL DEFINED.—
The term ‘good quality signal’ has 
the meaning given such term under section 
342(e)(2) of Communications Act of 1934.’’. 

SEC. 506. COPYRIGHT OFFICE FEES. 

Section 708(a) is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
after the semicolon; 
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking the period 
and inserting a semicolon; 
(3) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following: 
‘‘(10) on filing a statement of account 
based on secondary transmissions of primary 
transmissions pursuant to section 119 or 122; 
and 

‘‘(11) on filing a statement of account 
based on secondary transmissions of primary 
transmissions pursuant to section 111.’’; and 

(4) by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ‘‘Fees established under paragraphs 
(10) and (11) shall be reasonable and 
may not exceed one-half of the cost necessary 
to cover reasonable expenses incurred 
by the Copyright Office for the collection 
and administration of the statements of account 
and any royalty fees deposited with 
such statements.’’. 
SEC. 507. TERMINATION OF LICENSE. 

Section 1003(a)(2)(A) of Public Law 111-118 
is amended by striking ‘‘February 28, 2010’’ 
and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2014’’. 
SEC. 508. CONSTRUCTION. 

Nothing in section 111, 119, or 122 of title 
17, United States Code, including the amendments 
made to such sections by this subtitle, 
shall be construed to affect the meaning of 
any terms under the Communications Act of 
1934, except to the extent that such sections 
are specifically cross-referenced in such Act 
or the regulations issued thereunder. 

Subtitle B—Communications Provisions 
SEC. 521. REFERENCE. 

Except as otherwise provided, whenever in 
this subtitle an amendment is made to a section 
or other provision, the reference shall 
be considered to be made to such section or 
provision of the Communications Act of 1934 
(47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.). 
SEC. 522. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY. 

Section 325(b) is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ‘‘February 
28, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 
2014’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ‘‘March 
1, 2010’’ each place it appears in clauses (ii) 
and (iii) and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2015’’. 
SEC. 523. SIGNIFICANTLY VIEWED STATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
section 340(b) are amended to read as follows: 

S884 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

‘‘(1) SERVICE LIMITED TO SUBSCRIBERS TAKING 
LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL SERVICE.—This section 
shall apply only to retransmissions to subscribers 
of a satellite carrier who receive retransmissions 
of a signal from that satellite 
carrier pursuant to section 338. 

‘‘(2) SERVICE LIMITATIONS.—A satellite carrier 
may retransmit to a subscriber in high 
definition format the signal of a station determined 
by the Commission to be significantly 
viewed under subsection (a) only if 
such carrier also retransmits in high definition 
format the signal of a station located in 
the local market of such subscriber and affiliated 
with the same network whenever 
such format is available from such station.’’. 

(b) RULEMAKING REQUIRED.—Within 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Federal Communications Commission 
shall take all actions necessary to promulgate 
a rule to implement the amendments 
made by subsection (a). 
SEC. 524. DIGITAL TELEVISION TRANSITION CONFORMING 
AMENDMENTS. 

(a) SECTION 338.—Section 338 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(3) EFFECTIVE 
DATE.—No satellite’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘until January 1, 2002.’’; and 
(2) by amending subsection (g) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(g) CARRIAGE OF LOCAL STATIONS ON A SINGLE 
RECEPTION ANTENNA.— 
‘‘(1) SINGLE RECEPTION ANTENNA.—Each satellite 
carrier that retransmits the signals of 
local television broadcast stations in a local 
market shall retransmit such stations in 
such market so that a subscriber may receive 
such stations by means of a single reception 
antenna and associated equipment. 

‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL RECEPTION ANTENNA.—If 
the carrier retransmits the signals of local 
television broadcast stations in a local market 
in high definition format, the carrier 
shall retransmit such signals in such market 
so that a subscriber may receive such signals 
by means of a single reception antenna and 
associated equipment, but such antenna and 
associated equipment may be separate from 
the single reception antenna and associated 
equipment used to comply with paragraph 
(1).’’. 

(b) SECTION 339.—Section 339 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘Such 
two network stations’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘more than two network stations.’’; 
and 
(B) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) in the heading for subparagraph (A), by 
striking ‘‘TO ANALOG SIGNALS’’; 
(ii) in subparagraph (A)— 
(I) in the heading for clause (i), by striking 
‘‘ANALOG’’; 
(II) in clause (i)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘analog’’ each place it appears; 
and 
(bb) by striking ‘‘October 1, 2004’’ and inserting 
‘‘October 1, 2009’’; 

(III) in the heading for clause (ii), by striking 
‘‘ANALOG’’; and 
(IV) in clause (ii)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘analog’’ each place it appears; 
and 
(bb) by striking ‘‘2004’’ and inserting 
‘‘2009’’; 

(iii) by amending subparagraph (B) to read 
as follows: 

‘‘(B) RULES FOR OTHER SUBSCRIBERS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a subscriber 
of a satellite carrier who is eligible 
to receive the signal of a network station 
under this section (in this subparagraph referred 
to as a ‘distant signal’), other than 
subscribers to whom subparagraph (A) applies, 
the following shall apply: 

‘‘(I) In a case in which the satellite carrier 
makes available to that subscriber, on January 
1, 2005, the signal of a local network sta


tion affiliated with the same television network 
pursuant to section 338, the carrier 
may only provide the secondary transmissions 
of the distant signal of a station affiliated 
with the same network to that subscriber 
if the subscriber’s satellite carrier, 
not later than March 1, 2005, submits to that 
television network the list and statement required 
by subparagraph (F)(i). 

‘‘(II) In a case in which the satellite carrier 
does not make available to that subscriber, 
on January 1, 2005, the signal of a local network 
station pursuant to section 338, the 
carrier may only provide the secondary 
transmissions of the distant signal of a station 
affiliated with the same network to that 
subscriber if— 

‘‘(aa) that subscriber seeks to subscribe to 
such distant signal before the date on which 
such carrier commences to carry pursuant to 
section 338 the signals of stations from the 
local market of such local network station; 
and 

‘‘(bb) the satellite carrier, within 60 days 
after such date, submits to each television 
network the list and statement required by 
subparagraph (F)(ii). 

‘‘(ii) SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.—A subscriber 
of a satellite carrier who was lawfully 
receiving the distant signal of a network 
station on the day before the date of 
enactment of the Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010 may receive 
both such distant signal and the local signal 
of a network station affiliated with the same 
network until such subscriber chooses to no 
longer receive such distant signal from such 
carrier, whether or not such subscriber 
elects to subscribe to such local signal.’’; 

(iv) in subparagraph (C)— 
(I) by striking ‘‘analog’’; 
(II) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘the Satellite 
Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization 
Act of 2004; and’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010 and, at the time such person 
seeks to subscribe to receive such secondary 
transmission, resides in a local market 
where the satellite carrier makes available 
to that person the signal of a local network 
station affiliated with the same television 
network pursuant to section 338 (and 
the retransmission of such signal by such 
carrier can reach such subscriber); or’’; and 

(III) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows: 
‘‘(ii) lawfully subscribes to and receives a 
distant signal on or after the date of enactment 
of the Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010, and, subsequent to 
such subscription, the satellite carrier 
makes available to that subscriber the signal 
of a local network station affiliated with the 
same network as the distant signal (and the 
retransmission of such signal by such carrier 
can reach such subscriber), unless such person 
subscribes to the signal of the local network 
station within 60 days after such signal 
is made available.’’; 

(v) in subparagraph (D)— 
(I) in the heading, by striking ‘‘DIGITAL’’; 
(II) by striking clauses (i), (iii) through (v), 
(vii) through (ix), and (xi); 
(III) by redesignating clause (vi) as clause 
(i) and transferring such clause to appear before 
clause (ii); 
(IV) by amending such clause (i) (as so re-
designated) to read as follows: 
‘‘(i) ELIGIBILITY AND SIGNAL TESTING.—A 
subscriber of a satellite carrier shall be eligible 
to receive a distant signal of a network 
station affiliated with the same network 
under this section if, with respect to a local 
network station, such subscriber— 

‘‘(I) is a subscriber whose household is not 
predicted by the model specified in subsection 
(c)(3) to receive the signal intensity 

required under section 73.622(e)(1) or, in the 
case of a low-power station or translator station 
transmitting an analog signal, section 
73.683(a) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, 
or a successor regulation; 

‘‘(II) is determined, based on a test conducted 
in accordance with section 73.686(d) of 
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
successor regulation, not to be able to receive 
a signal that exceeds the signal intensity 
standard in section 73.622(e)(1) or, in the 
case of a low-power station or translator station 
transmitting an analog signal, section 
73.683(a) of such title, or a successor regulation; 
or 

‘‘(III) is in an unserved household, as determined 
under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17, 
United States Code.’’; 

(V) in clause (ii)— 
(aa) by striking ‘‘DIGITAL’’ in the heading; 
(bb) by striking ‘‘digital’’ the first two 
places such term appears; 

(cc) by striking ‘‘Satellite Home Viewer 
Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Satellite Television Extension 
and Localism Act of 2010’’; and 
(dd) by striking ‘‘, whether or not such subscriber 
elects to subscribe to local digital 
signals’’; 

(VI) by inserting after clause (ii) the following 
new clause: 
‘‘(iii) TIME-SHIFTING PROHIBITED.—In a case 
in which the satellite carrier makes available 
to an eligible subscriber under this subparagraph 
the signal of a local network station 
pursuant to section 338, the carrier may 
only provide the distant signal of a station 
affiliated with the same network to that subscriber 
if, in the case of any local market in 
the 48 contiguous States of the United 
States, the distant signal is the secondary 
transmission of a station whose prime time 
network programming is generally broadcast 
simultaneously with, or later than, the 
prime time network programming of the affiliate 
of the same network in the local market.’’; 
and 

(VII) by redesignating clause (x) as clause 
(iv); and 
(vi) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘distant 
analog signal or’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘(B), or (D))’’ and inserting ‘‘distant 
signal’’; 
(2) in subsection (c)— 
(A) by amending paragraph (3) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPROVED PREDICTIVE 
MODEL AND ON-LOCATION TESTING REQUIRED.— 


‘‘(A) PREDICTIVE MODEL.—Within 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of the Satellite 
Television Extension and Localism Act 
of 2010, the Commission shall develop and 
prescribe by rule a point-to-point predictive 
model for reliably and presumptively determining 
the ability of individual locations, 
through the use of an antenna, to receive 
signals in accordance with the signal intensity 
standard in section 73.622(e)(1) of title 
47, Code of Federal Regulations, or a successor 
regulation, including to account for 
the continuing operation of translator stations 
and low power television stations. In 
prescribing such model, the Commission 
shall rely on the Individual Location 
Longley-Rice model set forth by the Commission 
in CS Docket No. 98–201, as previously 
revised with respect to analog signals, 
and as recommended by the Commission 
with respect to digital signals in its Report 
to Congress in ET Docket No. 05–182, 
FCC 05–199 (released December 9, 2005). The 
Commission shall establish procedures for 
the continued refinement in the application 
of the model by the use of additional data as 
it becomes available. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S885 

‘‘(B) ON-LOCATION TESTING.—The Commission 
shall issue an order completing its rule-
making proceeding in ET Docket No. 06–94 
within 180 days after the date of enactment 
of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010. In conducting such rule-
making, the Commission shall seek ways to 
minimize consumer burdens associated with 
on-location testing.’’; 

(B) by amending paragraph (4)(A) to read 
as follows: 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If a subscriber’s request 
for a waiver under paragraph (2) is rejected 
and the subscriber submits to the subscriber’s 
satellite carrier a request for a test 
verifying the subscriber’s inability to receive 
a signal of the signal intensity referenced in 
clause (i) of subsection (a)(2)(D), the satellite 
carrier and the network station or stations 
asserting that the retransmission is prohibited 
with respect to that subscriber shall select 
a qualified and independent person to 
conduct the test referenced in such clause. 
Such test shall be conducted within 30 days 
after the date the subscriber submits a request 
for the test. If the written findings and 
conclusions of a test conducted in accordance 
with such clause demonstrate that the 
subscriber does not receive a signal that 
meets or exceeds the requisite signal intensity 
standard in such clause, the subscriber 
shall not be denied the retransmission of a 
signal of a network station under section 
119(d)(10)(A) of title 17, United States Code.’’; 

(C) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking ‘‘the 
signal intensity’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘United States Code’’ and inserting 
‘‘such requisite signal intensity standard’’; 
and 
(D) in paragraph (4)(E), by striking ‘‘Grade 
B intensity’’. 
(c) SECTION 340.—Section 340(i) is amended 
by striking paragraph (4). 
SEC. 525. APPLICATION PENDING COMPLETION 
OF RULEMAKINGS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—During the period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and ending on the date on which the Federal 
Communications Commission adopts rules 
pursuant to the amendments to the Communications 
Act of 1934 made by section 523 and 
section 524 of this title, the Federal Communications 
Commission shall follow its rules 
and regulations promulgated pursuant to 
sections 338, 339, and 340 of the Communications 
Act of 1934 as in effect on the day before 
the date of the enactment of this Act. 
(b) TRANSLATOR STATIONS AND LOW POWER 
TELEVISION STATIONS.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(a), for purposes of determining 
whether a subscriber within the local market 
served by a translator station or a low power 
television station affiliated with a television 
network is eligible to receive distant signals 
under section 339 of the Communications Act 
of 1934, the rules and regulations of the Federal 
Communications Commission for determining 
such subscriber’s eligibility as in effect 
on the day before the date of the enactment 
of this Act shall apply until the date 
on which the translator station or low power 
television station is licensed to broadcast a 
digital signal. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this subtitle: 
(1) LOCAL MARKET; LOW POWER TELEVISION 
STATION; SATELLITE CARRIER; SUBSCRIBER; 
TELEVISION BROADCAST STATION.—The terms 
‘‘local market’’, ‘‘low power television station’’, 
‘‘satellite carrier’’, ‘‘subscriber’’, and 
‘‘television broadcast station’’ have the 
meanings given such terms in section 338(k) 
of the Communications Act of 1934. 
(2) NETWORK STATION; TELEVISION NETWORK.—
The terms ‘‘network station’’ and 
‘‘television network’’ have the meanings 
given such terms in section 339(d) of such 
Act. 
SEC. 526. PROCESS FOR ISSUING QUALIFIED CAR


RIER CERTIFICATION. 

Part I of title III is amended by adding at 
the end the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. 342. PROCESS FOR ISSUING QUALIFIED 
CARRIER CERTIFICATION. 

‘‘(a) CERTIFICATION.—The Commission shall 
issue a certification for the purposes of section 
119(g)(3)(A)(iii) of title 17, United States 
Code, if the Commission determines that— 

‘‘(1) a satellite carrier is providing local 
service pursuant to the statutory license 
under section 122 of such title in each designated 
market area; and 

‘‘(2) with respect to each designated market 
area in which such satellite carrier was 
not providing such local service as of the 
date of enactment of the Satellite Television 
Extension and Localism Act of 2010— 

‘‘(A) the satellite carrier’s satellite beams 
are designed, and predicted by the satellite 
manufacturer’s pre-launch test data, to provide 
a good quality satellite signal to at 
least 90 percent of the households in each 
such designated market area based on the 
most recent census data released by the 
United States Census Bureau; and 

‘‘(B) there is no material evidence that 
there has been a satellite or sub-system failure 
subsequent to the satellite’s launch that 
precludes the ability of the satellite carrier 
to satisfy the requirements of subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(b) INFORMATION REQUIRED.—Any entity 
seeking the certification provided for in subsection 
(a) shall submit to the Commission 
the following information: 

‘‘(1) An affidavit stating that, to the best 
of the affiant’s knowledge, the satellite carrier 
provides local service in all designated 
market areas pursuant to the statutory license 
provided for in section 122 of title 17, 
United States Code, and listing those designated 
market areas in which local service 
was provided as of the date of enactment of 
the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010. 

‘‘(2) For each designated market area not 
listed in paragraph (1): 

‘‘(A) Identification of each such designated 
market area and the location of its local receive 
facility. 

‘‘(B) Data showing the number of households, 
and maps showing the geographic distribution 
thereof, in each such designated 
market area based on the most recent census 
data released by the United States Census 
Bureau. 

‘‘(C) Maps, with superimposed effective 
isotropically radiated power predictions obtained 
in the satellite manufacturer’s pre-
launch tests, showing that the contours of 
the carrier’s satellite beams as designed and 
the geographic area that the carrier’s satellite 
beams are designed to cover are predicted 
to provide a good quality satellite signal 
to at least 90 percent of the households 
in such designated market area based on the 
most recent census data released by the 
United States Census Bureau. 

‘‘(D) For any satellite relied upon for certification 
under this section, an affidavit 
stating that, to the best of the affiant’s 
knowledge, there have been no satellite or 
sub-system failures subsequent to the satellite’s 
launch that would degrade the design 
performance to such a degree that a satellite 
transponder used to provide local service to 
any such designated market area is precluded 
from delivering a good quality satellite 
signal to at least 90 percent of the 
households in such designated market area 
based on the most recent census data released 
by the United States Census Bureau. 

‘‘(E) Any additional engineering, designated 
market area, or other information 
the Commission considers necessary to de


termine whether the Commission shall grant 

a certification under this section. 

‘‘(c) CERTIFICATION ISSUANCE.— 

‘‘(1) PUBLIC COMMENT.—The Commission 
shall provide 30 days for public comment on 
a request for certification under this section. 

‘‘(2) DEADLINE FOR DECISION.—The Commission 
shall grant or deny a request for certification 
within 90 days after the date on which 
such request is filed. 

‘‘(d) SUBSEQUENT AFFIRMATION.—An entity 
granted qualified carrier status pursuant to 
section 119(g) of title 17, United States Code, 
shall file an affidavit with the Commission 
30 months after such status was granted 
stating that, to the best of the affiant’s 
knowledge, it is in compliance with the requirements 
for a qualified carrier. 

‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this 
section: 

‘‘(1) DESIGNATED MARKET AREA.—The term 
‘designated market area’ has the meaning 
given such term in section 122(j)(2)(C) of title 
17, United States Code. 

‘‘(2) GOOD QUALITY SATELLITE SIGNAL.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘good quality 
satellite signal’’ means— 

‘‘(i) a satellite signal whose power level as 
designed shall achieve reception and demodulation 
of the signal at an availability 
level of at least 99.7 percent using— 

‘‘(I) models of satellite antennas normally 
used by the satellite carrier’s subscribers; 
and 

‘‘(II) the same calculation methodology 
used by the satellite carrier to determine 
predicted signal availability in the top 100 
designated market areas; and 

‘‘(ii) taking into account whether a signal 
is in standard definition format or high definition 
format, compression methodology, 
modulation, error correction, power level, 
and utilization of advances in technology 
that do not circumvent the intent of this 
section to provide for non-discriminatory 
treatment with respect to any comparable 
television broadcast station signal, a video 
signal transmitted by a satellite carrier such 
that— 

‘‘(I) the satellite carrier treats all television 
broadcast stations’ signals the same 
with respect to statistical multiplexer 
prioritization; and 

‘‘(II) the number of video signals in the relevant 
satellite transponder is not more than 
the then current greatest number of video 
signals carried on any equivalent transponder 
serving the top 100 designated market 
areas. 

‘‘(B) DETERMINATION.—For the purposes of 
subparagraph (A), the top 100 designated 
market areas shall be as determined by 
Nielsen Media Research and published in the 
Nielsen Station Index Directory and Nielsen 
Station Index United States Television 
Household Estimates or any successor publication 
as of the date of a satellite carrier’s 
application for certification under this section.’’. 


SEC. 527. NONDISCRIMINATION IN CARRIAGE OF 
HIGH DEFINITION DIGITAL SIGNALS 
OF NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL 
TELEVISION STATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 338(a) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(5) NONDISCRIMINATION IN CARRIAGE OF 
HIGH DEFINITION SIGNALS OF NONCOMMERCIAL 
EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION STATIONS.— 

‘‘(A) EXISTING CARRIAGE OF HIGH DEFINITION 
SIGNALS.—If, before the date of enactment of 
the Satellite Television Extension and Localism 
Act of 2010, an eligible satellite carrier 
is providing, under section 122 of title 17, 
United States Code, any secondary transmissions 
in high definition format to subscribers 
located within the local market of a 
television broadcast station of a primary 


S886 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

transmission made by that station, then 
such satellite carrier shall carry the signals 
in high-definition format of qualified noncommercial 
educational television stations 
located within that local market in accordance 
with the following schedule: 

‘‘(i) By December 31, 2010, in at least 50 percent 
of the markets in which such satellite 
carrier provides such secondary transmissions 
in high definition format. 

‘‘(ii) By December 31, 2011, in every market 
in which such satellite carrier provides such 
secondary transmissions in high definition 
format. 

‘‘(B) NEW INITIATION OF SERVICE.—If, on or 
after the date of enactment of the Satellite 
Television Extension and Localism Act of 
2010, an eligible satellite carrier initiates the 
provision, under section 122 of title 17, 
United States Code, of any secondary transmissions 
in high definition format to subscribers 
located within the local market of a 
television broadcast station of a primary 
transmission made by that station, then 
such satellite carrier shall carry the signals 
in high-definition format of all qualified 
noncommercial educational television stations 
located within that local market.’’. 

(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 338(k) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through 
(8) as paragraphs (3) through (9), respectively; 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE SATELLITE CARRIER.—The 
term ‘eligible satellite carrier’ means any 
satellite carrier that is not a party to a carriage 
contract that— 

‘‘(A) governs carriage of at least 30 qualified 
noncommercial educational television 
stations; and 

‘‘(B) is in force and effect within 60 days 
after the date of enactment of the Satellite 
Television Extension and Localism Act of 
2010.’’; 

(3) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through 
(9) (as previously redesignated) as paragraphs 
(7) through (10), respectively; and 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (5) (as so 
redesignated) the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(6) QUALIFIED NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL 
TELEVISION STATION.—The term 
‘qualified noncommercial educational television 
station’ means any full-power television 
broadcast station that— 

‘‘(A) under the rules and regulations of the 
Commission in effect on March 29, 1990, is licensed 
by the Commission as a noncommercial 
educational broadcast station and is 
owned and operated by a public agency, nonprofit 
foundation, nonprofit corporation, or 
nonprofit association; and 

‘‘(B) has as its licensee an entity that is eligible 
to receive a community service grant, 
or any successor grant thereto, from the Corporation 
for Public Broadcasting, or any successor 
organization thereto, on the basis of 
the formula set forth in section 396(k)(6)(B) 
of this title.’’. 

SEC. 528. SAVINGS CLAUSE REGARDING DEFINITIONS. 


Nothing in this subtitle or the amendments 
made by this subtitle shall be construed 
to affect— 

(1) the meaning of the terms ‘‘program related’’ 
and ‘‘primary video’’ under the Communications 
Act of 1934; or 
(2) the meaning of the term ‘‘multicast’’ in 
any regulations issued by the Federal Communications 
Commission. 
SEC. 529. STATE PUBLIC AFFAIRS BROADCASTS. 

Section 335(b) is amended— 

(1) by inserting ‘‘STATE PUBLIC AFFAIRS,’’ 
after ‘‘EDUCATIONAL,’’ in the 
heading; 
(2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) CHANNEL CAPACITY REQUIRED.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), the Commission shall require, 
as a condition of any provision, initial 
authorization, or authorization renewal for a 
provider of direct broadcast satellite service 
providing video programming, that the provider 
of such service reserve a portion of its 
channel capacity, equal to not less than 4 
percent nor more than 7 percent, exclusively 
for noncommercial programming of an educational 
or informational nature. 

‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT FOR QUALIFIED SATELLITE 
PROVIDER.—The Commission shall require, 
as a condition of any provision, initial 
authorization, or authorization renewal for a 
qualified satellite provider of direct broadcast 
satellite service providing video programming, 
that such provider reserve a portion 
of its channel capacity, equal to not less 
than 3.5 percent nor more than 7 percent, exclusively 
for noncommercial programming of 
an educational or informational nature.’’; 

(3) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘For purposes 
of the subsection—’’ and inserting 
‘‘For purposes of this subsection:’’; and 
(4) by adding at the end of paragraph (5) 
the following: 
‘‘(C) The term ‘qualified satellite provider’ 
means any provider of direct broadcast satellite 
service that— 

‘‘(i) provides the retransmission of the 
State public affairs networks of at least 15 
different States; 

‘‘(ii) offers the programming of State public 
affairs networks upon reasonable prices, 
terms, and conditions as determined by the 
Commission under paragraph (4); and 

‘‘(iii) does not delete any noncommercial 
programming of an educational or informational 
nature in connection with the carriage 
of a State public affairs network. 

‘‘(D) The term ‘State public affairs network’ 
means a non-commercial non-broadcast 
network or a noncommercial educational 
television station— 

‘‘(i) whose programming consists of information 
about State government deliberations 
and public policy events; and 

‘‘(ii) that is operated by— 

‘‘(I) a State government or subdivision 
thereof; 

‘‘(II) an organization described in section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
that is exempt from taxation under section 
501(a) of such Code and that is governed by 
an independent board of directors; or 

‘‘(III) a cable system.’’. 

Subtitle C—Reports and Savings Provision 
SEC. 531. DEFINITION. 

In this subtitle, the term ‘‘appropriate 
Congressional committees’’ means the Committees 
on the Judiciary and on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
and the Committees on the Judiciary and on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives. 


SEC. 532. REPORT ON MARKET BASED ALTERNATIVES 
TO STATUTORY LICENSING. 

Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and after consultation 
with the Federal Communications Commission, 
the Register of Copyrights shall 
submit to the appropriate Congressional 
committees a report containing— 

(1) proposed mechanisms, methods, and 
recommendations on how to implement a 
phase-out of the statutory licensing requirements 
set forth in sections 111, 119, and 122 of 
title 17, United States Code, by making such 
sections inapplicable to the secondary transmission 
of a performance or display of a 
work embodied in a primary transmission of 
a broadcast station that is authorized to license 
the same secondary transmission directly 
with respect to all of the performances 
and displays embodied in such primary 
transmission; 
(2) any recommendations for alternative 
means to implement a timely and effective 
phase-out of the statutory licensing requirements 
set forth in sections 111, 119, and 122 of 
title 17, United States Code; and 
(3) any recommendations for legislative or 
administrative actions as may be appropriate 
to achieve such a phase-out. 
SEC. 533. REPORT ON COMMUNICATIONS IMPLI


CATIONS OF STATUTORY LICENSING 

MODIFICATIONS. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study that analyzes and evaluates 
the changes to the carriage requirements 
currently imposed on multichannel video 
programming distributors under the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) 
and the regulations promulgated by the Federal 
Communications Commission that 
would be required or beneficial to consumers, 
and such other matters as the Comptroller 
General deems appropriate, if Congress 
implemented a phase-out of the current 
statutory licensing requirements set forth 
under sections 111, 119, and 122 of title 17, 
United States Code. Among other things, the 
study shall consider the impact such a 
phase-out and related changes to carriage requirements 
would have on consumer prices 
and access to programming. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General shall report to the appropriate 
Congressional committees the results 
of the study, including any recommendations 
for legislative or administrative 
actions. 
SEC. 534. REPORT ON IN-STATE BROADCAST PROGRAMMING. 


Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications 
Commission shall submit to the 
appropriate Congressional committees a report 
containing an analysis of— 

(1) the number of households in a State 
that receive the signals of local broadcast 
stations assigned to a community of license 
that is located in a different State; 
(2) the extent to which consumers in each 
local market have access to in-state broadcast 
programming over the air or from a 
multichannel video programming distributor; 
and 
(3) whether there are alternatives to the 
use of designated market areas, as defined in 
section 122 of title 17, United States Code, to 
define local markets that would provide 
more consumers with in-state broadcast programming. 
SEC. 535. LOCAL NETWORK CHANNEL BROADCAST 
REPORTS. 

(a) REQUIREMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—On the 180th day after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, and on 
each succeeding anniversary of such 180th 
day, each satellite carrier shall submit an 
annual report to the Federal Communications 
Commission setting forth— 
(A) each local market in which it— 
(i) retransmits signals of 1 or more television 
broadcast stations with a community 
of license in that market; 
(ii) has commenced providing such signals 
in the preceding 1-year period; and 
(iii) has ceased to provide such signals in 
the preceding 1-year period; and 
(B) detailed information regarding the use 
and potential use of satellite capacity for the 
retransmission of local signals in each local 
market. 
(2) TERMINATION.—The requirement under 
paragraph (1) shall cease after each satellite 
carrier has submitted 5 reports under such 
paragraph. 
(b) FCC STUDY; REPORT.— 
(1) STUDY.—If no satellite carrier files a request 
for a certification under section 342 of 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S887 

the Communications Act of 1934 (as added by 
section 526 of this title) within 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Federal Communications Commission shall 
initiate a study of— 

(A) incentives that would induce a satellite 
carrier to provide the signals of 1 or more 
television broadcast stations licensed to provide 
signals in local markets in which the 
satellite carrier does not provide such signals; 
and 
(B) the economic and satellite capacity 
conditions affecting delivery of local signals 
by satellite carriers to these markets. 
(2) REPORT.—Within 1 year after the date of 
the initiation of the study under paragraph 
(1), the Federal Communications Commission 
shall submit a report to the appropriate 
Congressional committees containing its 
findings, conclusions, and recommendations. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section— 
(1) the terms ‘‘local market’’ and ‘‘satellite 
carrier’’ have the meaning given such terms 
in section 339(d) of the Communications Act 
of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 339(d)); and 
(2) the term ‘‘television broadcast station’’ 
has the meaning given such term in section 
325(b)(7) of such Act (47 U.S.C. 325(b)(7)). 
SEC. 536. SAVINGS PROVISION REGARDING USE 
OF NEGOTIATED LICENSES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this title, title 
17, United States Code, the Communications 
Act of 1934, regulations promulgated by the 
Register of Copyrights under this title or 
title 17, United States Code, or regulations 
promulgated by the Federal Communications 
Commission under this title or the 
Communications Act of 1934 shall be construed 
to prevent a multichannel video programming 
distributor from retransmitting a 
performance or display of a work pursuant to 
an authorization granted by the copyright 
owner or, if within the scope of its authorization, 
its licensee. 
(b) LIMITATION.—Nothing in subsection (a) 
shall be construed to affect any obligation of 
a multichannel video programming distributor 
under section 325(b) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 to obtain the authority 
of a television broadcast station before retransmitting 
that station’s signal. 
SEC. 537. EFFECTIVE DATE; NONINFRINGEMENT 
OF COPYRIGHT. 

Unless specifically provided otherwise, this 
title, and the amendments made by this 
title, shall take effect on February 27, 2010, 
and all references to enactment of this Act 
shall be deemed to refer to such date unless 
otherwise specified. The secondary transmission 
of a performance or display of a 
work embodied in a primary transmission is 
not an infringement of copyright if it was 
made by a satellite carrier on or after February 
27, 2010 and prior to enactment of this 
Act, and was in compliance with the law as 
in existence on February 27, 2010. 

Subtitle D—Severability 
SEC. 541. SEVERABILITY. 

If any provision of this title, an amendment 
made by this title, or the application 
of such provision or amendment to any person 
or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, 
the remainder of this title, the 
amendments made by this title, and the application 
of such provision or amendment to 
any person or circumstance shall not be affected 
thereby. 

TITLE VI—OTHER PROVISIONS 
SEC. 601. INCREASE IN THE MEDICARE PHYSICIAN 
PAYMENT UPDATE. 

Paragraph (10) of section 1848(d) of the Social 
Security Act, as added by section 1011(a) 
of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111–118), is amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘February 
28, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 
2010’’; and 
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘March 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘October 1, 2010’’. 
TITLE VII—DETERMINATION OF 
BUDGETARY EFFECTS 
SEC. 701. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The budgetary effects of 
this Act, for the purpose of complying with 
the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010, 
shall be determined by reference to the latest 
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of 
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this Act, submitted 
for printing in the Congressional Record by 
the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, 
provided that such statement has 
been submitted prior to the vote on passage. 
(b) EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.—Sections 201, 
211, and 232 of this Act are designated as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 
4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 
2010 (Public Law 111-139; 2 U.S.C. 933(g)) and 
section 403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), 
the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 2010. In the House of 
Representatives, sections 201, 211, and 232 of 
this Act are designated as an emergency for 
purposes of pay-as-you-go principles. 
SA 3337. Mr. SESSIONS (for himself 
and Mrs. MCCASKILL) proposed an 
amendment to amendment SA 3336 proposed 
by Mr. BAUCUS to the bill H.R. 
4213, to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring 
provisions, and for other purposes; as 
follows: 

In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert the following: 
SEC. l01. DISCRETIONARY SPENDING LIMITS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 is amended by inserting 
at the end the following: 
‘‘DISCRETIONARY SPENDING LIMITS 
‘‘SEC. 316. (a) DISCRETIONARY SPENDING 
LIMITS.—It shall not be in order in the House 
of Representatives or the Senate to consider 
any bill, joint resolution, amendment, or 
conference report that includes any provision 
that would cause the discretionary 
spending limits as set forth in this section to 
be exceeded. 
‘‘(b) LIMITS.—In this section, the term ‘discretionary 
spending limits’ has the following 
meaning subject to adjustments in subsection 
(c): 
‘‘(1) For fiscal year 2011— 
‘‘(A) for the defense category (budget function 
050), $564,293,000,000 in budget authority; 
and 
‘‘(B) for the nondefense category, 
$529,662,000,000 in budget authority. 
‘‘(2) For fiscal year 2012— 
‘‘(A) for the defense category (budget function 
050), $573,612,000,000 in budget authority; 
and 
‘‘(B) for the nondefense category, 
$533,232,000,000 in budget authority. 
‘‘(3) For fiscal year 2013— 
‘‘(A) for the defense category (budget function 
050), $584,421,000,000 in budget authority; 
and 
‘‘(B) for the nondefense category, 
$540,834,000,000 in budget authority. 
‘‘(4) For fiscal year 2014— 
‘‘(A) for the defense category (budget function 
050), $598,249,000,000 in budget authority; 
and 
‘‘(B) for the nondefense category, 
$550,509,000,000 in budget authority. 
‘‘(5) With respect to fiscal years following 
2014, the President shall recommend and the 
Congress shall consider legislation setting 
limits for those fiscal years. 
‘‘(c) ADJUSTMENTS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—After the reporting of a 
bill or joint resolution relating to any mat


ter described in paragraph (2), or the offering 
of an amendment thereto or the submission 
of a conference report thereon— 

‘‘(A) the Chairman of the Senate Committee 
on the Budget may adjust the discretionary 
spending limits, the budgetary aggregates 
in the concurrent resolution on the 
budget most recently adopted by the Senate 
and the House of Representatives, and allocations 
pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, by the amount 
of new budget authority in that measure for 
that purpose and the outlays flowing there 
from; and 

‘‘(B) following any adjustment under subparagraph 
(A), the Senate Committee on Appropriations 
may report appropriately revised 
suballocations pursuant to section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 
to carry out this subsection. 

‘‘(2) MATTERS DESCRIBED.—Matters referred 
to in paragraph (1) are as follows: 

‘‘(A) OVERSEAS DEPLOYMENTS AND OTHER 
ACTIVITIES.—If a bill or joint resolution is reported 
making appropriations for fiscal year 
2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014, that provides funding 
for overseas deployments and other activities, 
the adjustment for purposes paragraph 

(1) shall be the amount of budget authority 
in that measure for that purpose but not to 
exceed— 
‘‘(i) with respect to fiscal year 2011, 
$50,000,000,000 in new budget authority; 

‘‘(ii) with respect to fiscal year 2012, 
$50,000,000,000 in new budget authority; 

‘‘(iii) with respect to fiscal year 2013, 
$50,000,000,000 in new budget authority: and 

‘‘(iv) with respect to fiscal year 2014, 
$50,000,000,000 in new budget authority. 

‘‘(B) EMERGENCY SPENDING.—For fiscal year 
2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014 for appropriations for 
discretionary accounts designated as emergency 
requirements, the adjustment for purposes 
of paragraph (1) shall be the total of 
such appropriations in discretionary accounts 
designated as emergency requirements, 
but not to exceed $10,454,000,000 for 
2011, $10,558,000,000 for 2012, $10,664,000,000 for 
2013, and $10,877,000,000 for 2014. Appropriations 
designated as emergencies in excess of 
these limitations shall be treated as new 
budget authority. 

‘‘(C) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE TAX ENFORCEMENT.— 


‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a bill or joint resolution 
is reported making appropriations for 
fiscal year 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014 that includes 
the amount described in clause (ii)(I), 
plus an additional amount for enhanced tax 
enforcement to address the Federal tax gap 
(taxes owed but not paid) described in clause 
(ii)(II), the adjustment for purposes of paragraph 
(1) shall be the amount of budget authority 
in that measure for that initiative 
not exceeding the amount specified in clause 
(ii)(II) for that fiscal year. 

‘‘(ii) AMOUNTS.—The amounts referred to in 
clause (i) are as follows: 

‘‘(I) For fiscal year 2011, $7,171,000,000, for 
fiscal year 2012, $7,243,000,000, for fiscal year 
2013, $7,315,000,000, and for fiscal year 2014, 
$7,461,000,000. 

‘‘(II) For fiscal year 2011, $899,000,000, for 
fiscal year 2012, $908,000,000, for fiscal year 
2013, $917,000,000, and for fiscal year 2014, 
$935,000,000. 

‘‘(D) CONTINUING DISABILITY REVIEWS AND 
SSI REDETERMINATIONS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a bill or joint resolution 
is reported making appropriations for 
fiscal year 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014 that includes 
the amount described in clause (ii)(I), 
plus an additional amount for Continuing 
Disability Reviews and Supplemental Security 
Income Redeterminations for the Social 
Security Administration described in clause 


S888 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

(ii)(II), the adjustment for purposes of paragraph 
(1) shall be the amount of budget authority 
in that measure for that initiative 
not exceeding the amount specified in clause 
(ii)(II) for that fiscal year. 

‘‘(ii) AMOUNTS.—The amounts referred to in 
clause (i) are as follows: 

‘‘(I) For fiscal year 2011, $276,000,000; for fiscal 
year 2012, $278,000,000; for fiscal year 2013, 
$281,000,000; for fiscal year 2014, $287,000,000. 

‘‘(II) For fiscal year 2011, $490,000,000; for 
fiscal year 2012, $495,000,000; for fiscal year 
2013, $500,000,000; for fiscal year 2014, 
$510,000,000. 

‘‘(iii) ASSET VERIFICATION.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The additional appropriation 
permitted under clause (ii)(II) may 
also provide that a portion of that amount, 
not to exceed the amount specified in sub-
clause (II) for that fiscal year instead may be 
used for asset verification for Supplemental 
Security Income recipients, but only if, and 
to the extent that the Office of the Chief Actuary 
estimates that the initiative would be 
at least as cost effective as the redeterminations 
of eligibility described in this subparagraph. 


‘‘(II) AMOUNTS.—For fiscal year 2011, 
$34,340,000, for fiscal year 2012, $34,683,000, for 
fiscal year 2013, $35,030,000 and for fiscal year 
2014, $35,731,000. 

‘‘(E) HEALTH CARE FRAUD AND ABUSE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a bill or joint resolution 
is reported making appropriations for 
fiscal year 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014 that includes 
the amount described in clause (ii) for 
the Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control 
program at the Department of Health & 
Human Services for that fiscal year, the adjustment 
for purposes of paragraph (1) shall 
be the amount of budget authority in that 
measure for that initiative but not to exceed 
the amount described in clause (ii). 

‘‘(ii) AMOUNT.—The amount referred to in 
clause (i) is for fiscal year 2011, $314,000,000, 
for fiscal year 2012, $317,000,000, for fiscal 
year 2013, $320,000,000, and for fiscal year 2014, 
$327,000,000. 

‘‘(F) UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE IMPROPER 
PAYMENT REVIEWS.—If a bill or joint resolution 
is reported making appropriations for 
fiscal year 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014 that includes 
$10,000,000, plus an additional amount 
for in-person reemployment and eligibility 
assessments and unemployment improper 
payment reviews for the Department of 
Labor, the adjustment for purposes paragraph 
(1) shall be the amount of budget authority 
in that measure for that initiative 
but not to exceed— 

‘‘(i) with respect to fiscal year 2011, 
$51,000,000 in new budget authority; and 

‘‘(ii) with respect to fiscal year 2012, 
$51,000,000 in new budget authority. 

‘‘(iii) with respect to fiscal year 2013, 
$52,000,000 in new budget authority; and 

‘‘(iv) with respect to fiscal year 2014, 
$53,000,000 in new budget authority. 

‘‘(G) LOW-INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAM (LIHEAP).—If a bill or joint resolution 
is reported making appropriations for 
fiscal year 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014 that includes 
$3,200,000,000 in funding for the Low-
Income Home Energy Assistance Program 
and provides an additional amount up to 
$1,900,000,000 for that program, the adjustment 
for purposes of paragraph (1) shall be 
the amount of budget authority in that 
measure for that initiative but not to exceed 
$1,900,000,000. 

‘‘(d) EMERGENCY SPENDING.— 

‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE.—In the Senate, 
with respect to a provision of direct 
spending or receipts legislation or appropriations 
for discretionary accounts that Congress 
designates as an emergency requirement 
in such measure, the amounts of new 
budget authority, outlays, and receipts in all 

fiscal years resulting from that provision 
shall be treated as an emergency requirement 
for the purpose of this subsection. 

‘‘(2) EXEMPTION OF EMERGENCY PROVISIONS.—
Subject to the limitations provided 
in subsection (c)(2)(B), any new budget authority, 
outlays, and receipts resulting from 
any provision designated as an emergency 
requirement, pursuant to this subsection, in 
any bill, joint resolution, amendment, or 
conference report shall not count for purposes 
of sections 302 and 311 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, section 201 of S. 
Con. Res. 21 (110th Congress) (relating to 
pay-as-you-go), and section 311 of S. Con. 
Res. 70 (110th Congress) (relating to long-
term deficits). 

‘‘(3) DESIGNATIONS.—If a provision of legislation 
is designated as an emergency requirement 
under this subsection, the committee 
report and any statement of managers 
accompanying that legislation shall 
include an explanation of the manner in 
which the provision meets the criteria in 
paragraph (6). 

‘‘(4) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the 
terms ‘direct spending’, ‘receipts’, and ‘appropriations 
for discretionary accounts’ 
mean any provision of a bill, joint resolution, 
amendment, motion, or conference report 
that affects direct spending, receipts, or 
appropriations as those terms have been defined 
and interpreted for purposes of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985. 

‘‘(5) POINT OF ORDER.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—When the Senate is considering 
a bill, resolution, amendment, motion, 
or conference report, if a point of order 
is made by a Senator against an emergency 
designation in that measure, that provision 
making such a designation shall be stricken 
from the measure and may not be offered as 
an amendment from the floor. 

‘‘(B) SUPERMAJORITY WAIVER AND APPEALS.— 


‘‘(i) WAIVER.—Subparagraph (A) may be 
waived or suspended in the Senate only by 
an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
Members, duly chosen and sworn. 

‘‘(ii) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from 
the decisions of the Chair relating to any 
provision of this paragraph shall be limited 
to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and 
controlled by, the appellant and the manager 
of the bill or joint resolution, as the case 
may be. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of 
the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and 
sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal 
of the ruling of the Chair on a point of order 
raised under this paragraph. 

‘‘(C) DEFINITION OF AN EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.—
For purposes of subparagraph (A), a 
provision shall be considered an emergency 
designation if it designates any item as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to this 
paragraph. 

‘‘(D) FORM OF THE POINT OF ORDER.—A point 
of order under subparagraph (A) may be 
raised by a Senator as provided in section 
313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974. 

‘‘(E) CONFERENCE REPORTS.—When the Senate 
is considering a conference report on, or 
an amendment between the Houses in relation 
to, a bill, upon a point of order being 
made by any Senator pursuant to this paragraph, 
and such point of order being sustained, 
such material contained in such conference 
report shall be deemed stricken, and 
the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
question of whether the Senate shall recede 
from its amendment and concur with a further 
amendment, or concur in the House 
amendment with a further amendment, as 
the case may be, which further amendment 
shall consist of only that portion of the conference 
report or House amendment, as the 

case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion 
in the Senate shall be debatable. In any 
case in which such point of order is sustained 
against a conference report (or Senate 
amendment derived from such conference report 
by operation of this subsection), no further 
amendment shall be in order. 

‘‘(6) CRITERIA.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this subsection, 
any provision is an emergency requirement 
if the situation addressed by such 
provision is— 

‘‘(i) necessary, essential, or vital (not 
merely useful or beneficial); 

‘‘(ii) sudden, quickly coming into being, 
and not building up over time; 

‘‘(iii) an urgent, pressing, and compelling 
need requiring immediate action; 

‘‘(iv) subject to clause (ii), unforeseen, unpredictable, 
and unanticipated; and 

‘‘(v) not permanent, temporary in nature. 

‘‘(7) UNFORESEEN.—An emergency that is 
part of an aggregate level of anticipated 
emergencies, particularly when normally estimated 
in advance, is not unforeseen. 

‘‘(e) LIMITATIONS ON CHANGES TO EXEMP-
TIONS.—It shall not be in order in the Senate 
or the House of Representatives to consider 
any bill, resolution, amendment, or conference 
report that would exempt any new 
budget authority, outlays, and receipts from 
being counted for purposes of this section. 

‘‘(f) POINT OF ORDER IN THE SENATE.— 

‘‘(1) WAIVER.—The provisions of this section 
shall be waived or suspended in the Senate 
only— 

‘‘(A) by the affirmative vote of two-thirds 
of the Members, duly chosen and sworn; or 

‘‘(B) in the case of the defense budget authority, 
if Congress declares war or authorizes 
the use of force. 

‘‘(2) APPEAL.—Appeals in the Senate from 
the decisions of the Chair relating to any 
provision of this section shall be limited to 1 
hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
by, the appellant and the manager of 
the measure. An affirmative vote of two-
thirds of the Members of the Senate, duly 
chosen and sworn, shall be required to sustain 
an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on 
a point of order raised under this section. 

‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS ON CHANGES TO THIS SUB-
SECTION.—It shall not be in order in the Senate 
or the House of Representatives to consider 
any bill, resolution, amendment, or 
conference report that would repeal or otherwise 
change this subsection.’’. 

(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
set forth in section 1(b) of the Congressional 
Budget and Impoundment Control Act 
of 1974 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 315 the following 
new item: 
‘‘Sec. 316. Discretionary spending limits.’’. 

SA 3338. Mr. THUNE submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed to 
amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. 
BAUCUS) to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
extend certain expiring provisions, and 
for other purposes; as follows: 

At the end, insert the following: 

TITLE ——ADDITIONAL BUSINESS TAX 
RELIEF 
Subtitle A—General Provisions 
SEC. —01. PERMANENT INCREASE IN LIMITATIONS 
ON EXPENSING OF CERTAIN 
DEPRECIABLE BUSINESS ASSETS. 

(a) PERMANENT INCREASE.—Subsection (b) 
of section 179 is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘$25,000’’ and all that follows 
in paragraph (1) and inserting 
‘‘$500,000.’’, 
(2) by striking ‘‘$200,000’’ and all that follows 
in paragraph (2) and inserting 
‘‘$2,000,000’’, 

March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S889 

(3) by striking ‘‘after 2007 and before 2011, 
the $120,000 and $500,000’’ in paragraph (5)(A) 
and inserting ‘‘after 2009, the $500,000 and the 
$2,000,000’’, 
(4) by striking ‘‘2006’’ in paragraph 
(5)(A)(ii) and inserting ‘‘2008’’, and 
(5) by striking paragraph (7). 
(b) PERMANENT EXPENSING OF COMPUTER 
SOFTWARE.—Section 179(d)(1)(A)(ii) is amended 
by striking ‘‘and before 2011’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by subsections (b) and (c) shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2008. 
SEC. —02. EXTENSION OF ADDITIONAL FIRST-
YEAR DEPRECIATION FOR 50 PERCENT 
OF THE BASIS OF CERTAIN 
QUALIFIED PROPERTY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 
168(k), as amended by the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2011’’ in subparagraph 
(A)(iv) and inserting ‘‘January 1, 
2012’’, and 
(2) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ each place 
it appears and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) The heading for subsection (k) of section 
168, as amended by the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009, is 
amended by striking ‘‘JANUARY 1, 2010’’ and 
inserting ‘‘JANUARY 1, 2011’’. 
(2) The heading for clause (ii) of section 
168(k)(2)(B), as so amended, is amended by 
striking ‘‘PRE-JANUARY 1, 2010’’ and inserting 
‘‘PRE-JANUARY 1, 2011’’. 
(3) Subparagraph (D) of section 168(k)(4) is 
amended by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of 
clause (ii), by striking the period at the end 
of clause (iii) and inserting a comma, and by 
adding at the end the following new clauses: 
‘‘(iv) ‘January 1, 2011’ shall be substituted 
for ‘January 1, 2012’ in subparagraph (A)(iv) 
thereof, and 

‘‘(v) ‘January 1, 2010’ shall be substituted 
for ‘January 1, 2011’ each place it appears in 
subparagraph (A) thereof.’’. 

(4) Subparagraph (B) of section 168(l)(5), as 
so amended, is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(5) Subparagraph (C) of section 168(n)(2), as 
so amended, is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(6) Subparagraph (D) of section 1400L(b)(2) 
is amended by striking ‘‘January 1, 2010’’ and 
inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(7) Subparagraph (B) of section 1400N(d)(3), 
as so amended, is amended by striking ‘‘January 
1, 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2011’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to property 
placed in service after December 31, 2009. 
SEC. —03. INCREASED EXCLUSION AND OTHER 

MODIFICATIONS APPLICABLE TO 

QUALIFIED SMALL BUSINESS STOCK. 

(a) INCREASED EXCLUSION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 
1202 is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(a) EXCLUSION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a taxpayer 
other than a corporation, gross income shall 
not include the applicable percentage of any 
gain from the sale or exchange of qualified 
small business stock held for more than 5 
years. 

‘‘(2) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE.—For purposes 
of paragraph (1), the applicable percentage 
is— 

‘‘(A) 50 percent, in the case of stock issued 
after August 10, 1993, and on or before February 
18, 2009, 

‘‘(B) 75 percent, in the case of stock issued 
after February 18, 2009, and on or before the 
date of the enactment of the American 
Workers, State, and Business Relief Act of 
2010, and 

‘‘(C) 100 percent, in the case of stock issued 
after the date of the enactment of the Amer


ican Workers, State, and Business Relief Act 

of 2010. 

‘‘(3) EMPOWERMENT ZONE BUSINESSES.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of qualified 
small business stock acquired after December 
21, 2000, and on or before February 18, 
2009, in a corporation which is a qualified 
business entity (as defined in section 
1397C(b)) during substantially all of the taxpayer’s 
holding period for such stock, paragraph 
(2)(A) shall be applied by substituting 
‘60 percent’ for ‘50 percent’. 

‘‘(B) CERTAIN RULES TO APPLY.—Rules similar 
to the rules of paragraphs (5) and (7) of 
section 1400B(b) shall apply for purposes of 
this paragraph. 

‘‘(C) GAIN AFTER 2014 NOT QUALIFIED.—Subparagraph 
(A) shall not apply to gain attributable 
to periods after December 31, 2014. 

‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF DC ZONE.—The District 
of Columbia Enterprise Zone shall not be 
treated as an empowerment zone for purposes 
of this paragraph.’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(A) The heading for section 1202 is amended 
by striking ‘‘PARTIAL’’. 
(B) The item relating to section 1202 in the 
table of sections for part I of subchapter P of 
chapter 1 is amended by striking ‘‘Partial exclusion’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Exclusion’’. 
(C) Section 1223(13) is amended by striking 
‘‘1202(a)(2),’’. 
(b) REPEAL OF MINIMUM TAX PREFERENCE.— 
Paragraph (7) of section 57(a) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ‘‘The preceding 
sentence shall not apply to stock 
issued after the date of the enactment of the 
American Workers, State, and Business Relief 
Act of 2010.’’. 
(c) INCREASE IN LIMITATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section 
1202(b)(1) is amended by striking 
‘‘$10,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$15,000,000’’. 
(2) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS.—Subparagraph 
(A) of section 1202(b)(3) is amended by striking 
‘‘paragraph (1)(A) shall be applied by substituting 
‘$5,000,000’ for ‘$10,000,000’ ’’ and inserting 
‘‘the amount under paragraph (1)(A) 
shall be half of the amount otherwise in effect’’. 
(d) MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED 
SMALL BUSINESS.—Section 1202(d)(1) is 
amended by striking ‘‘$50,000,000’’ each place 
it appears and inserting ‘‘$75,000,000’’. 
(e) INFLATION ADJUSTMENTS.—Section 1202 
is amended by redesignating subsection (k) 
as subsection (l) and by inserting after subsection 
(j) the following new subsection: 
‘‘(k) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any taxable 
year beginning after 2010, the $15,000,000 
amount in subsection (b)(1)(A), the $75,000,000 
amount in subsection (d)(1)(A), and the 
$75,000,000 amount in subsection (d)(1)(B) 
shall each be increased by an amount equal 
to— 

‘‘(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by 

‘‘(B) the cost of living adjustment determined 
under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar 
year in which the taxable year begins, determined 
by substituting ‘calendar year 2009’ 
for ‘calendar year 1992’ in subparagraph (B) 
thereof. 

‘‘(2) ROUNDING.—If any amount as adjusted 
under paragraph (1) is not a multiple of 
$1,000,000 such amount shall be rounded to 
the next lowest multiple of $1,000,000.’’. 

(f) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by 
subsections (a), (b), and (d) shall apply to 
stock acquired after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(2) LIMITATION; INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.— 
The amendments made by subsections (c) 
and (e) shall apply to taxable years ending 
after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
SEC. —04. DEDUCTION FOR ELIGIBLE SMALL 
BUSINESS INCOME. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
199(a) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be allowed as 
a deduction an amount equal to the sum of— 

‘‘(A) 9 percent of the lesser of— 

‘‘(i) the qualified production activities income 
of the taxpayer for the taxable year, or 

‘‘(ii) taxable income (determined without 
regard to this section) for the taxable year, 
and 

‘‘(B) in the case of an eligible small business 
for any taxable year beginning after 
2009, 20 percent of the lesser of— 

‘‘(i) the eligible small business income of 
the taxpayer for the taxable year, or 
‘‘(ii) taxable income (determined without 
regard to this section) for the taxable year.’’. 

(b) ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESS; ELIGIBLE 
SMALL BUSINESS INCOME.—Section 199 is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection: 
‘‘(e) ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESS; ELIGIBLE 
SMALL BUSINESS INCOME.— 

‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESS.—For purposes 
of this section, the term ‘eligible small 
business’ means, with respect to any taxable 
year— 

‘‘(A) a corporation the stock of which is 
not publicly traded, or 

‘‘(B) a partnership, 
which meets the gross receipts test of section 
448(c) (determined by substituting 
‘$50,000,000’ for ‘$5,000,000’ each place it appears 
in such section) for the taxable year 
(or, in the case of a sole proprietorship, 
which would meet such test if such proprietorship 
were a corporation). 

‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESS INCOME.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, 
the term ‘eligible small business income’ 
means the excess of— 

‘‘(i) the income of the eligible small business 
which— 

‘‘(I) is attributable to the actual conduct of 
a trade or business, 

‘‘(II) is income from sources within the 
United States (within the meaning of section 
861), and 

‘‘(III) is not passive income (as defined in 
section 904(d)(2)(B)), over 

‘‘(ii) the sum of— 

‘‘(I) the cost of goods sold that are allocable 
to such income, and 

‘‘(II) other expenses, losses, or deductions 
(other than the deduction allowed under this 
section), which are properly allocable to 
such income. 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—The following shall not 
be treated as income of an eligible small 
business for purposes of subparagraph (A): 

‘‘(i) Any income which is attributable to 
any property described in section 1400N(p)(3). 

‘‘(ii) Any income which is attributable to 
the ownership or management of any professional 
sports team. 

‘‘(iii) Any income which is attributable to 
a trade or business described in subparagraph 
(B) of section 1202(e)(3). 

‘‘(iv) Any income which is attributable to 
any property with respect to which records 
are required to be maintained under section 
2257 of title 18, United States Code. 

‘‘(C) ALLOCATION RULES, ETC.—Rules similar 
to the rules of paragraphs (2), (3), (4)(D), 
and (7) of subsection (c) shall apply for purposes 
of this paragraph. 

‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULES.—Except as otherwise 
provided by the Secretary, rules similar to 
the rules of subsection (d) shall apply for 
purposes of this subsection.’’. 

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
199(a)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘paragraph 
(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (1)(A)’’. 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2009. 

S890 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

SEC. —05. NONAPPLICATION OF CERTAIN LABOR 
STANDARDS. 

Section 1601 of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 is hereby repealed. 


Subtitle B—Transfer of Stimulus Funds 
SEC. —11. TRANSFER OF STIMULUS FUNDS. 

Notwithstanding section 5 of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. 
Law 111-5), from the amounts appropriated 
or made available and remaining unobligated 
under such Act, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall transfer from 
time to time to the general fund of the 
Treasury an amount equal to the sum of the 
amount of any net reduction in revenues and 
the amount of any net increase in spending 
resulting from the enactment of this Act. 

SA 3339. Mr. WARNER submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend 
certain expiring provisions, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to 
lie on the table; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 
SEC. ll. ARRA REPORTING. 

Section 1512 of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5; 
123 Stat. 287) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (f)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Within 180 days’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Within 180 days’’; and 

(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) PENALTIES.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs 
(B), (C), and (D), the head of an agency 
distributing recovery funds may impose a 
civil penalty in an amount not more than 
$250,000 on a recipient of recovery funds from 
the agency that does not provide the information 
required under subsection (c) or 
knowingly provides information under subsection 
(c) that contains a material omission 
or misstatement. Any amounts received 
from a civil penalty under this paragraph 
shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury. 

‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The head of an agency 
shall provide a written notification to a recipient 
of recovery funds from the agency 
that fails to provide the information required 
under subsection (c). A notification 
under this subparagraph shall provide the recipient 
with information on how to comply 
with the necessary reporting requirements 
and notice of the penalties for failing to do 
so. 

‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The head of an agency 
may not impose a civil penalty under subparagraph 
(A) relating to the failure to provide 
information required under subsection 

(c) if, not later than 31 days after the date of 
the notification under clause (i), the recipient 
of the recovery funds provides the information. 
‘‘(C) GUIDELINES.—In determining the 
amount of a penalty under this paragraph for 
a recipient of recovery funds, the head of an 
agency shall consider— 

‘‘(i) the number of times the recipient has 
failed to provide the information required 
under subsection (c); 

‘‘(ii) the amount of recovery funds provided 
to the recipient; 

‘‘(iii) whether the recipient is a government, 
nonprofit entity, or educational institution; 
and 

‘‘(iv) whether the recipient is a small business 
concern (as defined under section 3 of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)), with 
particular consideration given to businesses 
with not more than 50 employees. 

‘‘(D) APPLICABILITY.—This paragraph shall 
apply to any grant, contract, task order, or 
other type of funding mechanism— 

‘‘(i) made or entered into after the date of 
enactment of this paragraph (including any 
renewal of a grant, contract, task order, or 
other type of funding mechanism after the 
date of enactment of this paragraph); or 

‘‘(ii) that includes terms allowing the 
terms of the grant, contract, task order, or 
other type of funding mechanism to be modified 
by Act of Congress. 

‘‘(E) NONEXCLUSIVITY.—The imposition of a 
civil penalty under this subsection shall not 
preclude any other criminal, civil, or administrative 
remedy available to the United 
States or any other person under Federal or 
State law. 

‘‘(3) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—Each agency 
distributing recovery funds shall provide 
technical assistance, as necessary, to assist 
recipients of recovery funds in complying 
with the requirements to provide information 
under subsection (c), which shall include 
providing recipients with a reminder regarding 
each reporting requirement. 

‘‘(4) PUBLIC LISTING.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, and 
subject to the notification requirements 
under paragraph (2)(B), each agency distributing 
recovery funds shall make available on 
a website of the agency a list of all recipients 
of recovery funds from the agency that 
did not provide the information required 
under subsection (c) for the calendar quarter. 

‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—A list made available 
under subparagraph (A) shall, for each recipient 
of recovery funds on the list, include the 
name and address of the recipient, the identification 
number for the award, the amount 
of recovery funds awarded to the recipient, a 
description of the activity for which the recovery 
funds were provided, and, to the extent 
known by the head of the agency, the 
reason for noncompliance. 

‘‘(5) OMB GUIDANCE AND REPORTING.— 

‘‘(A) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 30 days 
after the date of enactment of this paragraph, 
the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the 
Chairperson, shall promulgate regulations 
regarding implementation of this section by 
agencies. 

‘‘(B) REPORTING.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1, 
2010, and every 3 months thereafter, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in consultation with the Chairperson, 
shall submit to Congress a report on 
the extent of noncompliance by recipients of 
recovery funds with the reporting requirements 
under this section. 

‘‘(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted 
under clause (i) shall include— 

‘‘(I) information, for the quarter and in 
total, regarding the number and amount of 
civil penalties imposed and collected under 
this subsection, sorted by agency and program; 


‘‘(II) information on the steps taken by the 
Federal Government to reduce the level of 
noncompliance; and 

‘‘(III) any other information determined 
appropriate by the Director.’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(i) TERMINATION.—The reporting requirements 
under this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2013.’’. 

SA 3340. Mr. WARNER submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend 
certain expiring provisions, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to 
lie on the table; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. ARRA PLANNING. 

Section 1512(d) of the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 
111–5; 123 Stat. 288) is amended— 

(1) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
‘‘PLANS AND’’ after ‘‘AGENCY’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘Not later than’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the 
term ‘covered program’ means a program for 
which funds are appropriated under this division— 


‘‘(A) in an amount that is— 

‘‘(i) more than $2,000,000,000; and 

‘‘(ii) more than 150 percent of the funds appropriated 
for the program for fiscal year 
2008; or 

‘‘(B) that did not exist before the date of 
enactment of this Act. 

‘‘(2) PLANS.—Not later than July 1, 2010, 
the head of each agency that distributes recovery 
funds shall submit to Congress and 
make available on the website of the agency 
a plan for each covered program, which shall, 
at a minimum, contain— 

‘‘(A) a description of the goals for the covered 
program using recovery funds; 

‘‘(B) a discussion of how the goals described 
in subparagraph (A) relate to the 
goals for ongoing activities of the covered 
program, if applicable; 

‘‘(C) a description of the activities that the 
agency will undertake to achieve the goals 
described in subparagraph (A); 

‘‘(D) a description of the total recovery 
funding for the covered program and the recovery 
funding for each activity under the 
covered program, including identifying 
whether the activity will be carried out 
using grants, contracts, or other types of 
funding mechanisms; 

‘‘(E) a schedule of milestones for major 
phases of the activities under the covered 
program, with planned delivery dates; 

‘‘(F) performance measures the agency will 
use to track the progress of each of the activities 
under the covered program in meeting 
the goals described in subparagraph (A), 
including performance targets, the frequency 
of measurement, and a description of the 
methodology for each measure; 

‘‘(G) a description of the process of the 
agency for the periodic review of the 
progress of the covered program towards 
meeting the goals described in subparagraph 
(A); and 

‘‘(H) a description of how the agency will 
hold program managers accountable for 
achieving the goals described in subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(3) REPORTS.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than’’; and 

(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) REPORTS ON PLANS.—Not later than 30 
days after the end of the calendar quarter 
ending September 30, 2010, and every calendar 
quarter thereafter during which the 
agency obligates or expends recovery funds, 
the head of each agency that developed a 
plan for a covered program under paragraph 

(2) shall submit to Congress and make available 
on a website of the agency a report for 
each covered program that— 
‘‘(i) discusses the progress of the agency in 
implementing the plan; 

‘‘(ii) describes the progress towards achieving 
the goals described in paragraph (2)(A) 
for the covered program; 

‘‘(iii) discusses the status of each activity 
carried out under the covered program, including 
whether the activity is completed; 

‘‘(iv) details the unobligated and unexpired 
balances and total obligations and outlays 
under the covered program; 

‘‘(v) discusses— 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S891 

‘‘(I) whether the covered program has met 
the milestones for the covered program described 
in paragraph (2)(E); 

‘‘(II) if the covered program has failed to 
meet the milestones, the reasons why; and 

‘‘(III) any changes in the milestones for the 
covered program, including the reasons for 
the change; 

‘‘(vi) discusses the performance of the covered 
program, including— 

‘‘(I) whether the covered program has met 
the performance measures for the covered 
program described in paragraph (2)(F); 

‘‘(II) if the covered program has failed to 
meet the performance measures, the reasons 
why; and 

‘‘(III) any trends in information relating to 
the performance of the covered program; and 

‘‘(vii) evaluates the ability of the covered 
program to meet the goals of the covered 
program given the performance of the covered 
program.’’. 

SA 3341. Mr. WARNER submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend the 
Internal Revenue code of 1986 to extend 
certain expiring provisions, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to 
lie on the table; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. ARRA PLANNING AND REPORTING. 

Section 1512 of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–5; 
123 Stat. 287) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (d)— 
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
‘‘PLANS AND’’ after ‘‘AGENCY’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘Not later than’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the 
term ‘covered program’ means a program for 
which funds are appropriated under this division— 


‘‘(A) in an amount that is— 

‘‘(i) more than $2,000,000,000; and 

‘‘(ii) more than 150 percent of the funds appropriated 
for the program for fiscal year 
2008; or 

‘‘(B) that did not exist before the date of 
enactment of this Act. 

‘‘(2) PLANS.—Not later than July 1, 2010, 
the head of each agency that distributes recovery 
funds shall submit to Congress and 
make available on the website of the agency 
a plan for each covered program, which shall, 
at a minimum, contain— 

‘‘(A) a description of the goals for the covered 
program using recovery funds; 

‘‘(B) a discussion of how the goals described 
in subparagraph (A) relate to the 
goals for ongoing activities of the covered 
program, if applicable; 

‘‘(C) a description of the activities that the 
agency will undertake to achieve the goals 
described in subparagraph (A); 

‘‘(D) a description of the total recovery 
funding for the covered program and the recovery 
funding for each activity under the 
covered program, including identifying 
whether the activity will be carried out 
using grants, contracts, or other types of 
funding mechanisms; 

‘‘(E) a schedule of milestones for major 
phases of the activities under the covered 
program, with planned delivery dates; 

‘‘(F) performance measures the agency will 
use to track the progress of each of the activities 
under the covered program in meeting 
the goals described in subparagraph (A), 
including performance targets, the frequency 
of measurement, and a description of the 
methodology for each measure; 

‘‘(G) a description of the process of the 
agency for the periodic review of the 

progress of the covered program towards 
meeting the goals described in subparagraph 
(A); and 

‘‘(H) a description of how the agency will 
hold program managers accountable for 
achieving the goals described in subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(3) REPORTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than’’; and 

(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) REPORTS ON PLANS.—Not later than 30 
days after the end of the calendar quarter 
ending September 30, 2010, and every calendar 
quarter thereafter during which the 
agency obligates or expends recovery funds, 
the head of each agency that developed a 
plan for a covered program under paragraph 

(2) shall submit to Congress and make available 
on a website of the agency a report for 
each covered program that— 
‘‘(i) discusses the progress of the agency in 
implementing the plan; 

‘‘(ii) describes the progress towards achieving 
the goals described in paragraph (2)(A) 
for the covered program; 

‘‘(iii) discusses the status of each activity 
carried out under the covered program, including 
whether the activity is completed; 

‘‘(iv) details the unobligated and unexpired 
balances and total obligations and outlays 
under the covered program; 

‘‘(v) discusses— 

‘‘(I) whether the covered program has met 
the milestones for the covered program described 
in paragraph (2)(E); 

‘‘(II) if the covered program has failed to 
meet the milestones, the reasons why; and 

‘‘(III) any changes in the milestones for the 
covered program, including the reasons for 
the change; 

‘‘(vi) discusses the performance of the covered 
program, including— 

‘‘(I) whether the covered program has met 
the performance measures for the covered 
program described in paragraph (2)(F); 

‘‘(II) if the covered program has failed to 
meet the performance measures, the reasons 
why; and 

‘‘(III) any trends in information relating to 
the performance of the covered program; and 

‘‘(vii) evaluates the ability of the covered 
program to meet the goals of the covered 
program given the performance of the covered 
program.’’; 

(2) in subsection (f)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Within 180 days’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Within 180 days’’; and 

(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) PENALTIES.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs 
(B), (C), and (D), the head of an agency 
distributing recovery funds may impose a 
civil penalty in an amount not more than 
$250,000 on a recipient of recovery funds from 
the agency that does not provide the information 
required under subsection (c) or 
knowingly provides information under subsection 
(c) that contains a material omission 
or misstatement. Any amounts received 
from a civil penalty under this paragraph 
shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
Treasury. 

‘‘(B) NOTIFICATION.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The head of an agency 
shall provide a written notification to a recipient 
of recovery funds from the agency 
that fails to provide the information required 
under subsection (c). A notification 
under this subparagraph shall provide the recipient 
with information on how to comply 
with the necessary reporting requirements 
and notice of the penalties for failing to do 
so. 

‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The head of an agency 
may not impose a civil penalty under subparagraph 
(A) relating to the failure to provide 
information required under subsection 

(c) if, not later than 31 days after the date of 
the notification under clause (i), the recipient 
of the recovery funds provides the information. 
‘‘(C) GUIDELINES.—In determining the 
amount of a penalty under this paragraph for 
a recipient of recovery funds, the head of an 
agency shall consider— 

‘‘(i) the number of times the recipient has 
failed to provide the information required 
under subsection (c); 

‘‘(ii) the amount of recovery funds provided 
to the recipient; 

‘‘(iii) whether the recipient is a government, 
nonprofit entity, or educational institution; 
and 

‘‘(iv) whether the recipient is a small business 
concern (as defined under section 3 of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)), with 
particular consideration given to businesses 
with not more than 50 employees. 

‘‘(D) APPLICABILITY.—This paragraph shall 
apply to any grant, contract, task order, or 
other type of funding mechanism— 

‘‘(i) made or entered into after the date of 
enactment of this paragraph (including any 
renewal of a grant, contract, task order, or 
other type of funding mechanism after the 
date of enactment of this paragraph); or 

‘‘(ii) that includes terms allowing the 
terms of the grant, contract, task order, or 
other type of funding mechanism to be modified 
by Act of Congress. 

‘‘(E) NONEXCLUSIVITY.—The imposition of a 
civil penalty under this subsection shall not 
preclude any other criminal, civil, or administrative 
remedy available to the United 
States or any other person under Federal or 
State law. 

‘‘(3) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—Each agency 
distributing recovery funds shall provide 
technical assistance, as necessary, to assist 
recipients of recovery funds in complying 
with the requirements to provide information 
under subsection (c), which shall include 
providing recipients with a reminder regarding 
each reporting requirement. 

‘‘(4) PUBLIC LISTING.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, and 
subject to the notification requirements 
under paragraph (2)(B), each agency distributing 
recovery funds shall make available on 
a website of the agency a list of all recipients 
of recovery funds from the agency that 
did not provide the information required 
under subsection (c) for the calendar quarter. 

‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—A list made available 
under subparagraph (A) shall, for each recipient 
of recovery funds on the list, include the 
name and address of the recipient, the identification 
number for the award, the amount 
of recovery funds awarded to the recipient, a 
description of the activity for which the recovery 
funds were provided, and, to the extent 
known by the head of the agency, the 
reason for noncompliance. 

‘‘(5) OMB GUIDANCE AND REPORTING.— 

‘‘(A) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 30 days 
after the date of enactment of this paragraph, 
the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the 
Chairperson, shall promulgate regulations 
regarding implementation of this section by 
agencies. 

‘‘(B) REPORTING.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1, 
2010, and every 3 months thereafter, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in consultation with the Chairperson, 
shall submit to Congress a report on 
the extent of noncompliance by recipients of 
recovery funds with the reporting requirements 
under this section. 

‘‘(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted 
under clause (i) shall include— 
‘‘(I) information, for the quarter and in 
total, regarding the number and amount of 


S892 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

civil penalties imposed and collected under 
this subsection, sorted by agency and program; 


‘‘(II) information on the steps taken by the 
Federal Government to reduce the level of 
noncompliance; and 

‘‘(III) any other information determined 
appropriate by the Director.’’; and 

(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(i) TERMINATION.—The reporting requirements 
under this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2013.’’. 

SA 3342. Mr. WEBB (for himself and 
Mrs. BOXER) submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill H.R. 4213, to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend certain 
expiring provisions, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the 
table; as follows: 

At the end, insert the following: 
TITLE ll—TAXPAYER FAIRNESS ACT 
SEC. l01. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Taxpayer 
Fairness Act’’. 

SEC. l02. FINDINGS. 

Congress finds the following: 

(1) During the years 2008 and 2009, the Nation’s 
largest financial firms received extraordinary 
and unprecedented assistance 
from the public. 
(2) Such assistance was critical to the success 
and in many cases the survival of these 
firms during the year 2009. 
(3) High earners at such firms should contribute 
a portion of any excessive bonuses 
obtained for the year 2009 to help the Nation 
reduce the public debt and recover from the 
recession. 
SEC. l03. EXCISE TAXES ON EXCESSIVE 2009 BONUSES 
RECEIVED FROM MAJOR RECIPIENTS 
OF FEDERAL EMERGENCY 
ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE. 

(a) IMPOSITION OF TAX.—Chapter 46 is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new section: 
‘‘SEC. 4999A. EXCESSIVE 2009 BONUSES RECEIVED 
FROM MAJOR RECIPIENTS OF FEDERAL 
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE. 


‘‘(a) IMPOSITION OF TAX.—There is hereby 
imposed on any person who receives a covered 
excessive 2009 bonus a tax equal to 50 
percent of the amount of such bonus. 

‘‘(b) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, 
the term ‘covered excessive 2009 bonus’ 
has the meaning given such term by section 
280I(b). 

‘‘(c) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS AND SPECIAL 
RULES.— 

‘‘(1) WITHHOLDING.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any covered 
excessive 2009 bonus which is treated as 
wages for purposes of section 3402, the 
amount otherwise required to be deducted 
and withheld under such section shall be increased 
by the amount of the tax imposed by 
this section on such bonus. 

‘‘(B) BONUSES PAID BEFORE ENACTMENT.—In 
the case of any covered excessive 2009 bonus 
to which subparagraph (A) applies which is 
paid before the date of the enactment of this 
section, no penalty, addition to tax, or interest 
shall be imposed with respect to any failure 
to deduct and withhold the tax imposed 
by this section on such bonus. 

‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF TAX.—For purposes of 
subtitle F, any tax imposed by this section 
shall be treated as a tax imposed by subtitle 
A. 

‘‘(3) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall require each major Federal emergency 
economic assistance recipient (as defined in 
section 280I(d)(1)) to notify, as soon as practicable 
after the date of the enactment of 

this section and at such other times as the 
Secretary determines appropriate, the Secretary 
and each covered employee (as defined 
in section 280I(e)) of the amount of covered 
excessive 2009 bonuses to which this section 
applies and the amount of tax deducted and 
withheld on such bonuses. 

‘‘(4) SECRETARIAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
may prescribe such regulations, rules, 
and guidance of general applicability as may 
be necessary to carry out the provisions of 
this section, including— 

‘‘(A) to prescribe the due date and manner 
of payment of the tax imposed by this section 
with respect to any covered excessive 
2009 bonus paid before the date of the enactment 
of this section, and 

‘‘(B) to prevent— 

‘‘(i) the recharacterization of a bonus payment 
as a payment which is not a bonus payment 
in order to avoid the purposes of this 
section, 

‘‘(ii) the treatment as other than an additional 
2009 bonus payment of any payment of 
increased wages or other payments to a covered 
employee who receives a bonus payment 
subject to this section in order to reimburse 
such covered employee for the tax imposed 
by this section with regard to such bonus, or 

‘‘(iii) the avoidance of the purposes of this 
section through the use of partnerships or 
other pass-thru entities.’’. 

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) The heading and table of sections for 
chapter 46 are amended to read as follows: 
‘‘CHAPTER 46—TAXES ON CERTAIN EXCESSIVE 
REMUNERATION 
‘‘Sec. 4999. Golden parachute payments. 
‘‘Sec. 4999A. Excessive 2009 bonuses received 

from major recipients of Federal 
emergency economic assistance.’’. 


(2) The item relating to chapter 46 in the 
table of chapters for subtitle D is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘Chapter 46. Taxes on certain excessive remuneration.’’. 


(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to payments 
of covered excessive 2009 bonuses after December 
31, 2008, in taxable years ending after 
such date. 
SEC. l04. LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION OF 
AMOUNTS PAID AS EXCESSIVE 2009 
BONUSES BY MAJOR RECIPIENTS OF 
FEDERAL EMERGENCY ECONOMIC 
ASSISTANCE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Part IX of subchapter B 
of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 280I. EXCESSIVE 2009 BONUSES PAID BY 
MAJOR RECIPIENTS OF FEDERAL 
EMERGENCY ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE. 


‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—The deduction allowed 
under this chapter with respect to the 
amount of any covered excessive 2009 bonus 
shall not exceed 50 percent of the amount of 
such bonus. 

‘‘(b) COVERED EXCESSIVE 2009 BONUS.—For 
purposes of this section, the term ‘covered 
excessive 2009 bonus’ means any 2009 bonus 
payment paid during any calendar year to a 
covered employee by any major Federal 
emergency economic assistance recipient, to 
the extent that the aggregate of such 2009 
bonus payments (without regard to the date 
on which such payments are paid) with respect 
to such employee exceeds the dollar 
amount of the compensation received by the 
President under section 102 of title 3, United 
States Code, for calendar year 2009. 

‘‘(c) 2009 BONUS PAYMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘2009 bonus 
payment’ means any payment which— 

‘‘(A) is a payment for services rendered, 

‘‘(B) is in addition to any amount payable 
to a covered employee for services performed 

by such covered employee at a regular hourly, 
daily, weekly, monthly, or similar periodic 
rate, 

‘‘(C) in the case of a retention bonus, is 
paid for continued service during calendar 
year 2009 or 2010, and 

‘‘(D) in the case of a payment not described 
in subparagraph (C), is attributable to services 
performed by a covered employee during 
calendar year 2009 (without regard to the 
year in which such payment is paid). 

Such term does not include payments to an 
employee as commissions, contributions to 
any qualified retirement plan (as defined in 
section 4974(c)), welfare and fringe benefits, 
overtime pay, or expense reimbursements. In 
the case of a payment which is attributable 
to services performed during multiple calendar 
years, such payment shall be treated 
as a 2009 bonus payment to the extent it is 
attributable to services performed during 
calendar year 2009. 

‘‘(2) DEFERRED DEDUCTION BONUS PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘2009 bonus 
payment’ includes payments attributable to 
services performed in 2009 which are paid in 
the form of remuneration (within the meaning 
of section 162(m)(4)(E)) for which the deduction 
under this chapter (determined without 
regard to this section) for such payment 
is allowable in a subsequent taxable year. 

‘‘(B) TIMING OF DEFERRED DEDUCTION BONUS 
PAYMENTS.—For purposes of this section and 
section 4999A, the amount of any payment 
described in subparagraph (A) (as determined 
in the year in which the deduction under this 
chapter, determined without regard to this 
section, for such payment would be allowable) 
shall be treated as having been made in 
the calendar year in which any interest in 
such amount is granted to a covered employee 
(without regard to the date on which 
any portion of such interest vests). 

‘‘(3) RETENTION BONUS.—The term ‘retention 
bonus’ means any bonus payment (without 
regard to the date such payment is paid) 
to a covered employee which— 

‘‘(A) is contingent on the completion of a 
period of service with a major Federal emergency 
economic assistance recipient, the 
completion of a specific project or other activity 
for the major Federal emergency economic 
assistance recipient, or such other circumstances 
as the Secretary may prescribe, 
and 

‘‘(B) is not based on the performance of the 
covered employee (other than a requirement 
that the employee not be separated from employment 
for cause). 

A bonus payment shall not be treated as 
based on performance for purposes of subparagraph 
(B) solely because the amount of 
the payment is determined by reference to a 
previous bonus payment which was based on 
performance. 

‘‘(d) MAJOR FEDERAL EMERGENCY ECONOMIC 
ASSISTANCE RECIPIENT.—For purposes of this 
section— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘major Federal 
emergency economic assistance recipient’ 
means— 

‘‘(A) any financial institution (within the 
meaning of section 3 of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008) if at any 
time after December 31, 2007, the Federal 
Government acquires— 

‘‘(i) an equity interest in such person pursuant 
to a program authorized by the Emergency 
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 or 
the third undesignated paragraph of section 
13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 343), 
or 

‘‘(ii) any warrant (or other right) to acquire 
any equity interest with respect to 
such person pursuant to any such program, 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S893 

but only if the total value of the equity interest 
described in clauses (i) and (ii) in such 
person is not less than $5,000,000,000, 

‘‘(B) the Federal National Mortgage Association 
and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, and 

‘‘(C) any person which is a member of the 
same affiliated group (as defined in section 
1504, determined without regard to subsection 
(b) thereof) as a person described in 
subparagraph (A) or (B). 

‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF CONTROLLED GROUPS.— 
All persons treated as a single employer 
under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52 or 
subsection (m) or (o) of section 414 shall be 
treated as a single employer with respect to 
any covered employee. 

‘‘(e) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—For purposes of 
this section, the term ‘covered employee’ 
means, with respect to any major Federal 
emergency economic assistance recipient— 

‘‘(1) any employee of such recipient, and 

‘‘(2) any director of such recipient who is 
not an employee. 
In the case of any major Federal emergency 
economic assistance recipient which is a 
partnership or other unincorporated trade or 
business, the term ‘employee’ shall include 
employees of such recipient within the 
meaning of section 401(c)(1). 

‘‘(f) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may 
prescribe such regulations, rules, and guidance 
of general applicability as may be necessary 
to carry out the provisions of this section, 
including— 

‘‘(1) to prescribe the due date and manner 
of reporting and payment of any increase in 
the tax imposed by this chapter due to the 
application of this section to any covered excessive 
2009 bonus paid before the date of the 
enactment of this section, and 

‘‘(2) to prevent— 

‘‘(A) the recharacterization of a bonus payment 
as a payment which is not a bonus payment 
in order to avoid the purposes of this 
section, or 

‘‘(B) the avoidance of the purposes of this 
section through the use of partnerships or 
other pass-thru entities.’’. 

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for part IX of subchapter B of chapter 
1 is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item: 
‘‘Sec. 280I. Excessive 2009 bonuses paid by 
major recipients of Federal 
emergency economic assistance.’’. 


(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Subparagraph (F) of section 162(m)(4) is 
amended— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘AND EXCESSIVE 2009 BONUSES’’ 
after ‘‘PAYMENTS’’ in the heading, 
(B) by striking ‘‘the amount’’ and inserting 
‘‘the total amounts’’, and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘or 280I’’ before the period. 
(2) Subparagraph (A) of section 3121(v)(2) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘, to any covered excessive 
2009 bonus (as defined in section 
280I(b)),’’ after ‘‘section 280G(b))’’. 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to payments 
of covered excessive 2009 bonuses after December 
31, 2008, in taxable years ending after 
such date. 
SA 3343. Ms. LANDRIEU submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. 
BAUCUS) to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
extend certain expiring provisions, and 
for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. SMALL BUSINESS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. 


(a) MICROLOAN PROGRAM.—Section 
7(m)(4)(B) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 636(m)(4)(B)) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘As a condition’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘the Administration 
shall require’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), 
as a condition of a grant made under subparagraph 
(A), the Administrator shall require’’; 
and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(ii) WAIVER OF NON-FEDERAL SHARE.— 
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Upon request by an 
intermediary, and in accordance with this 
clause, the Administrator may waive, in 
whole or in part, the requirement to obtain 
non-Federal funds under clause (i). 

‘‘(II) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining 
whether to waive the requirement to obtain 
non-Federal funds under this clause, the Administrator 
shall consider— 

‘‘(aa) the economic conditions affecting 
the intermediary; 

‘‘(bb) the impact a waiver under this 
clause would have on the credibility of the 
microloan program under this subsection; 

‘‘(cc) the demonstrated ability of the 
intermediary to raise non-Federal funds; and 

‘‘(dd) the performance of the intermediary. 


‘‘(III) LIMITATION.—The Administrator 
may not waive the requirement to obtain 
non-Federal funds under this clause if granting 
the waiver would undermine the credibility 
of the microloan program under this 
subsection.’’. 

(b) WOMEN’S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM.—
Section 29(c) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 656(c)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘As a 
condition’’ and inserting ‘‘Subject to paragraph 
(5), as a condition’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(5) WAIVER OF NON-FEDERAL SHARE RELATING 
TO TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND COUNSELING.— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Upon request by a recipient 
organization, and in accordance with 
this paragraph, the Administrator may 
waive, in whole or in part, the requirement 
to obtain non-Federal funds under this subsection 
for the technical assistance and 
counseling activities of the recipient organization 
carried out using financial assistance 
under this section. 

‘‘(B) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining 
whether to waive the requirement to obtain 
non-Federal funds under this paragraph, the 
Administrator shall consider— 

‘‘(i) the economic conditions affecting 
the recipient organization; 

‘‘(ii) the impact a waiver under this 
clause would have on the credibility of the 
women’s business center program under this 
section; 

‘‘(iii) the demonstrated ability of the recipient 
organization to raise non-Federal 
funds; and 

‘‘(iv) the performance of the recipient organization. 


‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—The Administrator 
may not waive the requirement to obtain 
non-Federal funds under this paragraph if 
granting the waiver would undermine the 
credibility of the women’s business center 
program under this section.’’. 

SA 3344. Mr. LEVIN (for himself, 
Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) 
submitted an amendment intended to 
be proposed to amendment SA 3336 proposed 
by Mr. BAUCUS to the bill H.R. 
4213, to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring 
provisions, and for other purposes; 

which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows: 

At the end add the following: 

TITLE VIII—STOP TAX HAVEN ABUSE 

SEC. 801. AUTHORIZING SPECIAL MEASURES 
AGAINST FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS, 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, AND OTHERS 
THAT IMPEDE UNITED STATES 
TAX ENFORCEMENT. 

Section 5318A of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended— 

(1) by striking the section heading and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘§ 5318A. Special measures for jurisdictions, 
financial institutions, or international 
transactions that are of primary money 
laundering concern or impede United 
States tax enforcement’’; 

(2) in subsection (a), by striking the subsection 
heading and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) SPECIAL MEASURES TO COUNTER MONEY 
LAUNDERING AND EFFORTS TO IMPEDE UNITED 
STATES TAX ENFORCEMENT.—’’; 

(3) in subsection (c), by striking the subsection 
heading and inserting the following: 
‘‘(c) CONSULTATIONS AND INFORMATION TO 
BE CONSIDERED IN FINDING JURISDICTIONS, INSTITUTIONS, 
TYPES OF ACCOUNTS, OR TRANSACTIONS 
TO BEOF PRIMARY MONEY LAUNDERING 
CONCERN OR TO BE IMPEDING UNITED 
STATES TAX ENFORCEMENT.—’’; 

(4) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ‘‘or is 
impeding United States tax enforcement’’ 
after ‘‘primary money laundering concern’’; 
(5) in subsection (a)(4)— 
(A) in subparagraph (A)— 
(i) by inserting ‘‘in matters involving 
money laundering,’’ before ‘‘shall consult’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
subparagraph (C); and 
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
following: 
‘‘(B) in matters involving United States 
tax enforcement, shall consult with the Commissioner 
of the Internal Revenue, the Secretary 
of State, the Attorney General of the 
United States, and in the sole discretion of 
the Secretary, such other agencies and interested 
parties as the Secretary may find to be 
appropriate; and’’; 

(6) in each of paragraphs (1)(A), (2), (3), and 
(4) of subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or to be 
impeding United States tax enforcement’’ 
after ‘‘primary money laundering concern’’ 
each place that term appears; 
(7) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph 
(5) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(5) PROHIBITIONS OR CONDITIONS ON OPENING 
OR MAINTAINING CERTAIN CORRESPONDENT 
OR PAYABLE-THROUGH ACCOUNTS OR AUTHORIZING 
CERTAIN PAYMENT CARDS.—If the Secretary 
finds a jurisdiction outside of the 
United States, 1 or more financial institutions 
operating outside of the United States, 
or 1 or more classes of transactions within or 
involving a jurisdiction outside of the United 
States to be of primary money laundering 
concern or to be impeding United States tax 
enforcement, the Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, the Attorney 
General of the United States, and the Chairman 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, may prohibit, or impose 
conditions upon— 

‘‘(A) the opening or maintaining in the 
United States of a correspondent account or 
payable-through account; or 

‘‘(B) the authorization, approval, or use in 
the United States of a credit card, charge 
card, debit card, or similar credit or debit financial 
instrument by any domestic financial 
institution, financial agency, or credit 
card company or association, for or on behalf 


S894 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE March 1, 2010 

of a foreign banking institution, if such correspondent 
account, payable-through account, 
credit card, charge card, debit card, or 
similar credit or debit financial instrument, 
involves any such jurisdiction or institution, 
or if any such transaction may be conducted 
through such correspondent account, payable-
through account, credit card, charge 
card, debit card, or similar credit or debit financial 
instrument.’’; and 

(8) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ‘‘or is 
impeding United States tax enforcement’’ 
after ‘‘primary money laundering concern’’; 
(9) in subsection (c)(2)(A)— 
(A) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘bank secrecy 
or special regulatory advantages’’ and inserting 
‘‘bank, tax, corporate, trust, or financial 
secrecy or regulatory advantages’’; 
(B) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘supervisory 
and counter-money’’ and inserting ‘‘supervisory, 
international tax enforcement, and 
counter-money’’; 
(C) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘banking or 
secrecy’’ and inserting ‘‘banking, tax, or secrecy’’; 
and 
(D) in clause (vi), by inserting ‘‘, tax treaty, 
or tax information exchange agreement’’ 
after ‘‘treaty’’; 
(10) in subsection (c)(2)(B)— 
(A) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘or tax evasion’’ 
after ‘‘money laundering’’; and 
(B) in clause (iii), by inserting ‘‘, tax evasion,’’ 
after ‘‘money laundering’’; and 
(11) in subsection (d), by inserting ‘‘involving 
money laundering, and shall notify, in 
writing, the Committee on Finance of the 
Senate and the Committee on Ways and 
Means of the House of Representatives of 
any such action involving United States tax 
enforcement’’ after ‘‘such action’’. 
SA 3345. Ms. LANDRIEU submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed 
to amendment SA 3336 proposed by Mr. 
BAUCUS to the bill H.R. 4213, to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
extend certain expiring provisions, and 
for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows: 

At the end, add the following: 

TITLE VIII—SMALL BUSINESS LOANS 

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Small Business 
Job Creation and Access to Capital Act 
of 2010’’. 

Subtitle A—Next Steps for Main Street Credit 
Availability 

SEC. 821. SECTION 7(a) BUSINESS LOANS. 

(a) AMENDMENT.—Section 7(a) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (2)(A)— 
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘75 percent’’ 
and inserting ‘‘90 percent’’; and 
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘85 percent’’ 
and inserting ‘‘90 percent’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking 
‘‘$1,500,000 (or if the gross loan amount would 
exceed $2,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$4,500,000 (or 
if the gross loan amount would exceed 
$5,000,000’’. 
(b) PROSPECTIVE REPEAL.—Effective January 
1, 2011, section 7(a) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (2)(A)— 
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘90 percent’’ 
and inserting ‘‘75 percent’’; and 
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘90 percent’’ 
and inserting ‘‘85 percent’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking 
‘‘$4,500,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$3,750,000’’. 
SEC. 822. MAXIMUM LOAN AMOUNTS UNDER 504 
PROGRAM. 

Section 502(2)(A) of the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(2)(A)) is 
amended— 

(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘$1,500,000’’ and 
inserting ‘‘$5,000,000’’; 
(2) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘$2,000,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$5,000,000’’; 
(3) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘$4,000,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$5,500,000’’; 
(4) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘$4,000,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$5,500,000’’; and 
(5) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘$4,000,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$5,500,000’’. 
SEC. 823. MAXIMUM LOAN LIMITS UNDER 
MICROLOAN PROGRAM. 

Section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 

U.S.C. 636(m)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)(B)(iii), by striking 
‘‘$35,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$50,000’’; 
(2) in paragraph (3)— 
(A) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
‘‘$3,500,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$5,000,000’’; and 
(B) in subparagraph (E), by striking 
‘‘$35,000’’ each place that term appears and 
inserting ‘‘$50,000’’; and 
(3) in paragraph (11)(B), by striking 
‘‘$35,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$50,000’’. 
SEC. 824. NEW MARKETS VENTURE CAPITAL COMPANY 
INVESTMENT LIMITATIONS. 

Section 355 of the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 689d) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(e) INVESTMENT LIMITATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the 
term ‘covered New Markets Venture Capital 
company’ means a New Markets Venture 
Capital company— 

‘‘(A) granted final approval by the Administrator 
under section 354(e) on or after 
March 1, 2002; and 

‘‘(B) that has obtained a financing from 
the Administrator. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—Except to the extent approved 
by the Administrator, a covered New 
Markets Venture Capital company may not 
acquire or issue commitments for securities 
under this title for any single enterprise in 
an aggregate amount equal to more than 10 
percent of the sum of— 

‘‘(A) the regulatory capital of the covered 
New Markets Venture Capital company; and 

‘‘(B) the total amount of leverage projected 
in the participation agreement of the covered 
New Markets Venture Capital.’’. 
SEC. 825. ALTERNATIVE SIZE STANDARDS. 

Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 

U.S.C. 632(a)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 

‘‘(5) ALTERNATIVE SIZE STANDARD.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall 
establish an alternative size standard for applicants 
for business loans under section 7(a) 
and applicants for development company 
loans under title V of the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695 et seq.), 
that uses maximum tangible net worth and 
average net income as an alternative to the 
use of industry standards. 

‘‘(B) INTERIM RULE.—Until the date on 
which the alternative size standard established 
under subparagraph (A) is in effect, an 
applicant for a business loan under section 
7(a) or an applicant for a development company 
loan under title V of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 may be eligible 
for such a loan if— 

‘‘(i) the maximum tangible net worth of 
the applicant is not more than $15,000,000; 
and 

‘‘(ii) the average net income after Federal 
income taxes (excluding any carry-over 
losses) of the applicant for the 2 full fiscal 
years before the date of the application is 
not more than $5,000,000.’’. 

SEC. 826. SALE OF 7(a) LOANS IN SECONDARY 
MARKET. 

Section 5(g) of the Small Business Act (15 

U.S.C. 634(g)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(6) If the amount of the guaranteed portion 
of any loan under section 7(a) is more 

than $500,000, the Administrator shall, upon 
request of a pool assembler, divide the loan 
guarantee into increments of $500,000 and 1 
increment of any remaining amount less 
than $500,000, in order to permit the maximum 
amount of any loan in a pool to be not 
more than $500,000. Only 1 increment of any 
loan guarantee divided under this paragraph 
may be included in the same pool. Increments 
of loan guarantees to different borrowers 
that are divided under this paragraph 
may be included in the same pool.’’. 

SEC. 827. ONLINE LENDING PLATFORM. 

It is the sense of Congress that the Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration 
should establish a website that— 

(1) lists each lender that makes loans guaranteed 
by the Small Business Administration 
and provides information about the loan 
rates of each such lender; and 
(2) allows prospective borrowers to compare 
rates on loans guaranteed by the Small 
Business Administration. 
Subtitle B—Small Business Access to Capital 

SEC. 841. LOW-INTEREST REFINANCING UNDER 

THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT BUSI


NESS LOAN PROGRAM. 

(a) REFINANCING.—Section 502(7) of the 
Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 
U.S.C. 696(7)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(C) REFINANCING NOT INVOLVING EXPANSIONS.— 


‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this subparagraph— 

‘‘(I) the term ‘borrower’ means a small 
business concern that submits an application 
to a development company for financing 
under this subparagraph; 

‘‘(II) the term ‘eligible fixed asset’ means 
tangible property relating to which the Administrator 
may provide financing under 
this section; and 

‘‘(III) the term ‘qualified debt’ means indebtedness— 


‘‘(aa) that— 

‘‘(AA) was incurred not less than 2 years 
before the date of the application for assistance 
under this subparagraph; 

‘‘(BB) is a commercial loan; 

‘‘(CC) is not subject to a guarantee by a 
Federal agency; 

‘‘(DD) the proceeds of which were used to 
acquire an eligible fixed asset; 

‘‘(EE) was incurred for the benefit of the 
small business concern; and 

‘‘(FF) is collateralized by eligible fixed assets; 
and 

‘‘(bb) for which the borrower has been current 
on all payments for not less than 1 year 
before the date of the application. 

‘‘(ii) AUTHORITY.—A project that does not 
involve the expansion of a small business 
concern may include the refinancing of 
qualified debt if— 

‘‘(I) the amount of the financing is not 
more than 80 percent of the value of the collateral 
for the financing, except that, if the 
appraised value of the eligible fixed assets 
serving as collateral for the financing is less 
than the amount equal to 125 percent of the 
amount of the financing, the borrower may 
provide additional cash or other collateral to 
eliminate any deficiency; 

‘‘(II) the borrower has been in operation for 
all of the 2-year period ending on the date of 
the loan; and 

‘‘(III) for a financing for which the Administrator 
determines there will be an additional 
cost attributable to the refinancing of 
the qualified debt, the borrower agrees to 
pay a fee in an amount equal to the anticipated 
additional cost. 

‘‘(iii) FINANCING FOR BUSINESS EXPENSES.— 

‘‘(I) FINANCING FOR BUSINESS EXPENSES.— 
The Administrator may provide financing to 
a borrower that receives financing that includes 
a refinancing of qualified debt under 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S895 

clause (ii), in addition to the refinancing 
under clause (ii), to be used solely for the 
payment of business expenses. 

‘‘(II) APPLICATION FOR FINANCING.—An application 
for financing under subclause (I) 
shall include— 

‘‘(aa) a specific description of the expenses 
for which the additional financing is requested; 
and 

‘‘(bb) an itemization of the amount of each 
expense. 

‘‘(III) CONDITION ON ADDITIONAL FINANCING.—
A borrower may not use any part of the 
financing under this clause for non-business 
purposes. 

‘‘(iv) LOANS BASED ON JOBS.— 

‘‘(I) JOB CREATION AND RETENTION GOALS.— 

‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may 
provide financing under this subparagraph 
for a borrower that meets the job creation 
goals under subsection (d) or (e) of section 
501. 

‘‘(bb) ALTERNATE JOB RETENTION GOAL.— 
The Administrator may provide financing 
under this subparagraph to a borrower that 
does not meet the goals described in item 
(aa) in an amount that is not more than the 
product obtained by multiplying the number 
of employees of the borrower by $65,000. 

‘‘(II) NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES.—For purposes 
of subclause (I), the number of employees of 
a borrower is equal to the sum of— 

‘‘(aa) the number of full-time employees of 
the borrower on the date on which the borrower 
applies for a loan under this subparagraph; 
and 

‘‘(bb) the product obtained by multiplying— 


‘‘(AA) the number of part-time employees 
of the borrower on the date on which the borrower 
applies for a loan under this subparagraph; 
by 

‘‘(BB) the quotient obtained by dividing 
the average number of hours each part time 
employee of the borrower works each week 
by 40. 

‘‘(v) NONDELEGATION.—Notwithstanding 
section 508(e), the Administrator may not 
permit a premier certified lender to approve 
or disapprove an application for assistance 
under this subparagraph. 

‘‘(vi) TOTAL AMOUNT OF LOANS.—The Administrator 
may provide not more than a 
total of $4,000,000,000 of financing under this 
subparagraph for each fiscal year.’’. 

(b) PROSPECTIVE REPEAL.—Effective 2 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, section 
502(7) of the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) is amended by 
striking subparagraph (C). 
(c) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Section 
502(2)(A)(i) of the Small Business Investment 
Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(2)(A)(i)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘subparagraph (B) or (C)’’ and inserting 
‘‘clause (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v)’’. 
f 

NOTICES OF HEARINGS 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for the information 
of the Senate and the public 
that the hearing scheduled before the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, 
previously announced for February 
9th, has been rescheduled and 
will now be held on Tuesday, March 16, 
2010, at 10 a.m., in room SD–366 of the 
Dirksen Senate Office Building. 

The purpose of this oversight hearing 
is to receive testimony on the Bureau 
of Reclamation’s implementation of 
the SECURE Water Act, (Title 9501 of 

P.L. 111–11) and the Bureau of Reclamation’s 
Water Conservation Initiative 
which includes the Challenge 
Grant Program, the Basin Study Program 
and the Title XVI Program. 

Because of the limited time available 
for the hearing, witnesses may testify 
by invitation only. However, those 
wishing to submit written testimony 
for the hearing record should send it to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources, United States Senate, 
Washington, DC 20510–6150, or by email 
to Gina_Weinstock@energy.senate 
.gov. 

For further information, please contact 
Tanya Trujillo at (202) 224–5479 or 
Gina Weinstock at (202) 224–5684. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATIONAL PARKS 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for the information 
of the Senate and the public 
that a hearing has been scheduled before 
the Subcommittee on National 
Parks. 

The hearing will be held on Wednesday, 
March 17, 2010, at 2:30 p.m., in 
room SD–366 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building. 

The purpose of the hearing is to receive 
testimony on the following bills: 

S. 553, to revise the authorized route of the 
North Country National Scenic Trail in 
northeastern Minnesota to include existing 
hiking trails along Lake Superior’s north 
shore and in Superior National Forest and 
Chippewa National Forest, and for other purposes; 
S. 1017, to reauthorize the Cane River National 
Heritage Area Commission and expand 
the boundaries of the Cane River National 
Heritage Area in the State of Louisiana; 
S. 1018, to authorize the Secretary of the 
Interior to enter into an agreement with 
Northwestern State University in 
Natchitoches, Louisiana, to construct a curatorial 
center for the use of Cane River Creole 
National Historical Park, the National 
Center for Preservation Technology and 
Training, and the University, and for other 
purposes; 
S. 1537, to authorize the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Director of the 
National Park Service, to designate the Dr. 
Norman E. Borlaug Birthplace and Childhood 
Home in Cresco, Iowa, as a National Historic 
Site and as a unit of the National Park System, 
and for other purposes; 
S. 1629, to authorize the Secretary of the 
Interior to conduct a special resource study 
of the archeological site and surrounding 
land of the New Philadelphia town site in the 
state of Illinois, and for other purposes; 
S. 2892, to establish the Alabama Black 
Belt National Heritage Area, and for other 
purposes; 
S. 2933, to authorize the Secretary of the 
Interior to conduct a special resource study 
to determine the suitability and feasibility 
of designating the Colonel Charles Young 
Home in Xenia, Ohio, as a unit of the National 
Park System, and for other purposes; 
S. 2951, to authorize funding to protect and 
conserve lands contiguous with the Blue 
Ridge Parkway to serve the public, and for 
other purposes; and 
H.R. 3804, to make technical corrections to 
various Acts affecting the National Park 
Service, to extend, amend, or establish certain 
National Park Service authorities, and 
for other purposes. 
Because of the limited time available 
for the hearing, witnesses may testify 
by invitation only. However, those 

wishing to submit written testimony 
for the hearing record should send it to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources, United States Senate, 
Washington, DC 20510–6150, or by email 
to allison_seyferth@energy.senate 
.gov. 

For further information, please contact 
David Brooks at (202) 224–9863 or 
Allison Seyferth at (202) 224–4905. 

f 

ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 
2010 

Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it 
adjourn until 10 a.m. Tuesday, March 2; 
that following the prayer and the 
pledge, the Journal of proceedings be 
approved to date, the morning hour be 
deemed expired, the time for the two 
leaders be reserved for their use later 
in the day, and the Senate proceed to a 
period of morning business for 1 hour, 
with the time equally divided and controlled 
between the two leaders or 
their designees, with Republicans controlling 
the first half and the majority 
controlling the final half; that following 
morning business, the Senate 
proceed to executive session to consider 
the nomination of Barbara Keenan, 
as provided for under the previous 
order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PROGRAM 
Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, 
under a previous order, the time following 
morning business until 12:15 

p.m. will be equally divided and controlled 
between Senators LEAHY and 
SESSIONS or their designees. At 12:15 
p.m., the Senate will proceed to a roll-
call vote on the motion to invoke cloture 
on the nomination of Barbara 
Keenan to be a U.S. circuit judge for 
the Fourth Circuit. 
f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. BAUCUS. Madam President, if 
there is no further business to come before 
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent 
that it adjourn under the previous 
order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 6:37 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, 
March 2, 2010, at 10 a.m. 

f 

NOMINATIONS 
Executive nominations received by 
the Senate: 

OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION 

KATHERINE M. GEHL, OF WISCONSIN, TO BE A MEMBER 
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE OVERSEAS PRIVATE 
INVESTMENT CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING 
DECEMBER 17, 2010, VICE COLLISTER JOHNSON, JR., 
TERM EXPIRED. 

MICHAEL JAMES WARREN, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 
TO BE A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OF THE OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION 
FOR A TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 17, 2011, VICE DIANE M. 
RUEBLING, TERM EXPIRED. 

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 

MICHAEL J. MCCORD, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE PRINCIPAL 
DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (COMPTROLLER). 
(NEW POSITION) 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E271 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate on February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules committee—
of the time, place, and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled, and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 
As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, 
March 2, 2010 may be found in the Daily 
Digest of today’s RECORD. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULEDI40MARCH 3 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine the Army 
budget overview for fiscal year 2011. 
SD–192 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 


To hold hearings to examine chemical security, 
focusing on assessing progress 
and charting a path forward. 

SD–342 
Appropriations 
Interior, Environment, and Related Agen


cies Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine proposed 
budget estimates for fiscal year 2011 for 
the Environmental Protection Agency. 

SD–124 
Veterans’ Affairs 

To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
mental health care and suicide prevention 
for veterans. 

SR–418 
10 a.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 

Business meeting to consider any pending 
nominations; to be immediately 
followed by a hearing to examine the 
President’s proposed budget request for 
fiscal year 2011 for the Department of 
the Interior. 

SD–366 
Environment and Public Works 

To hold hearings to examine transportation 
investments relative to the national 
economy and jobs. 

SD–406 
Finance 
To hold hearings to examine the 2010 
trade agenda. 

SD–215 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast 

Guard Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine the President’s 
proposed budget request for fis


cal year 2011 for the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration and 
Fisheries Enforcement Programs and 
Operations. 

SR–253 

2:15 p.m. 
Judiciary 
To hold hearings to examine encouraging 
innovative and cost-effective crime reduction 
strategies. 

SD–226 

2:30 p.m. 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
Federal Financial Management, Government 
Information, Federal Services, 
and International Security Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine oversight 
challenges in the Medicare prescription 
drug program. 

SD–342 

3:30 p.m. 
Armed Services 
Strategic Forces Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine the protective 
forces at the Department of Energy. 


SR–232A 

MARCH 4 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine the President’s 
proposed budget request for fiscal 
year 2011 for the Air Force in review 
of the Defense Authorization and 
the Future Years Defense Program; 
with the possibility of a closed session 
in SVC–217 following the open session. 
SH–216 
Appropriations 
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, 
and Related Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine proposed 
budget estimates for fiscal year 2011 for 
the Department of Transportation. 
SD–124 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine legislative 
presentations from the Paralyzed Veterans 
of America, Jewish War Veterans, 
Military Order of the Purple 
Heart, Ex-Prisoners of War, Blinded 
Veterans Association, Military Officers 
Association of America, Air Force Sergeants 
Association, and the Wounded 
Warrior Project. 
345, Cannon Building 

10 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related 
Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine funding and 
oversight of the Department of Commerce. 
SD–138 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To hold hearings to examine the Department 
of Energy’s implementation of 
programs authorized and funded under 
the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009. 

SD–366 

Appropriations 

Energy and Water Development Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine proposed 
budget estimates for fiscal year 2011 for 
the Department of Energy. 
SD–192 

Environment and Public Works 

Clean Air and Nuclear Safety Subcommittee 
To hold joint hearings to examine S. 
2995, to amend the Clean Air Act to establish 
a national uniform multiple air 
pollutant regulatory program for the 
electric generating sector. 
SD–406 

Foreign Relations 
To hold hearings to examine Middle East 
peace, focusing on ground truths, challenges 
ahead. 
SD–419 

Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
To hold hearings to examine childhood 
obesity, focusing on reversing the epidemic. 
SD–430 

Judiciary 
Business meeting to consider S. 1132, to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to 
improve the provisions relating to the 
carrying of concealed weapons by law 
enforcement officers, S. 1789, to restore 
fairness to Federal cocaine sentencing, 

S. 2772, to establish a criminal justice 
reinvestment grant program to help 
States and local jurisdictions reduce 
spending on corrections, control 
growth in the prison and jail populations, 
and increase public safety, S. 
1624, to amend title 11 of the United 
States Code, to provide protection for 
medical debt homeowners, to restore 
bankruptcy protections for individuals 
experiencing economic distress as caregivers 
to ill, injured, or disabled family 
members, and to exempt from means 
testing debtors whose financial problems 
were caused by serious medical 
problems, S. 1765, to amend the Hate 
Crime Statistics Act to include crimes 
against the homeless, S. 148, to restore 
the rule that agreements between manufacturers 
and retailers, distributors, 
or wholesalers to set the minimum 
price below which the manufacturer’s 
product or service cannot be sold violates 
the Sherman Act, and the nominations 
of Dawn Elizabeth Johnsen, of 
Indiana, to be an Assistant Attorney 
General, Department of Justice, and 
Gloria M. Navarro, to be United States 
District Judge for the District of Nevada, 
Audrey Goldstein Fleissig, to be 
United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of Missouri, Lucy 
Haeran Koh, to be United States District 
Judge for the Northern District of 
California, Jon E. DeGuilio, to be 
United States District Judge for the 
Northern District of Indiana, and Jane 
E. Magnus-Stinson and Tanya Walton 
Pratt, both to be United States District 
Judge for the Southern District of 
Indiana. 
SD–226 
Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
Business meeting to consider S. 2989, to 
improve the Small Business Act. 
SR–485 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E272 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks March 1, 2010 

1 p.m. 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
State, Local, and Private Sector Preparedness 
and Integration Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine disaster preparedness 
in the private sector. 
SD–342 
2 p.m. 
Budget 

To hold hearings to examine the President’s 
proposed budget request for fiscal 
year 2011 for the Department of De


fense. 
SD–608 

2:30 p.m. 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
To hold hearings to examine the President’s 
proposed budget request for fiscal 
year 2011 for the Department of 
Transportation. 
SR–253 
Appropriations 
Legislative Branch Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine proposed 
budget estimates for fiscal year 2011 for 
the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
the Office of the Senate Sergeant 
at Arms, and the Office of the U.S. Capitol 
Police. 

SD–138 
Intelligence 
To hold closed hearings to consider certain 
intelligence matters. 
SH–219 

MARCH 5 

9:30 a.m. 
Joint Economic Committee 
To hold hearings to examine the employment 
situation for February 2010. 
SD–106 

MARCH 9 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine U.S. European 
Command, U.S. Africa Command, 
and U.S. Joint Forces Command in re


view of the Defense Authorization request 
for fiscal year 2011 and the Future 
Years Defense Program; with the 
possibility of a closed session in SR–222 
following the open session. 

SH–216 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine a legislative 
presentation from Veterans of Foreign 
Wars. 
SD–G50 

MARCH 10 

10 a.m. 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine the lessons 
and implications of the Christmas day 
attack, focusing on watchlisting and 
pre-screening. 
SD–342 

2:30 p.m. 
Foreign Relations 
International Operations and Organizations, 
Human Rights, Democracy and 
Global Women’s Issues Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine the future 
of U.S. public diplomacy. 
SD–419 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Public Lands and Forests Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine S. 2895, to 
restore forest landscapes, protect old 
growth forests, and manage national 
forests in the eastside forests of the 
State of Oregon, S. 2907, to establish a 
coordinated avalanche protection pro


gram, S. 2966 and H.R. 4474, bills to authorize 
the continued use of certain 
water diversions located on National 
Forest System land in the Frank 
Church-River of No Return Wilderness 
and the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness 
in the State of Idaho, and S. 2791 and 

H.R. 3759, bills to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to grant market-
related contract extensions of certain 
timber contracts between the Secretary 
of the Interior and timber purchasers. 
SD–366 

MARCH 11 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine U.S. Northern 
Command and U.S. Southern Command 
in review of the Defense Authorization 
request for fiscal year 2011 and 
the Future Years Defense Program; 
with the possibility of a closed session 
in SR–222 following the open session. 
SD–G50 
10 a.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To hold hearings to examine S. 1696, to 
require the Secretary of Energy to conduct 
a study of video game console energy 
efficiency, and S. 2908, to amend 
the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act to require the Secretary of Energy 
to publish a final rule that establishes 
a uniform efficiency descriptor and accompanying 
test methods for covered 
water heaters. 
SD–366 

MARCH 16 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine U.S. Special 
Operations Command and U.S. Central 
Command in review of the Defense Authorization 
request for fiscal year 2011 
and the Future Years Defense Program; 
with the possibility of a closed 
session in SVC–217 following the open 
session. 
SH–216 
10 a.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Water and Power Subcommittee 
To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
the Bureau of Reclamation’s implementation 
of the SECURE Water Act, 
(Title 9501 of Public Law 111–11) and 
the Bureau of Reclamation’s Water 
Conservation Initiative which includes 
the Challenge Grant Program, the 
Basin Study Program and the Title 
XVI Program. 

SD–366 
2 p.m. 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 


Oversight of Government Management, the 
Federal Workforce, and the District of 
Columbia Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine assessing 
foster care and family services in the 
District of Columbia, focusing on challenges 
and solutions. 

SD–342 

MARCH 17 

2:30 p.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
National Parks Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine S. 553, to revise 
the authorized route of the North 
Country National Scenic Trail in 
northeastern Minnesota to include existing 
hiking trails along Lake Superior’s 
north shore and in Superior National 
Forest and Chippewa National 

Forest, S. 1017, to reauthorize the Cane 
River National Heritage Area Commission 
and expand the boundaries of the 
Cane River National Heritage Area in 
the State of Louisiana, S. 1018, to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior to 
enter into an agreement with Northwestern 
State University in 
Natchitoches, Louisiana, to construct 
a curatorial center for the use of Cane 
River Creole National Historical Park, 
the National Center for Preservation 
Technology and Training, and the University, 
S. 1537, to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior, acting through 
the Director of the National Park Service, 
to designate the Dr. Norman E. 
Borlaug Birthplace and Childhood 
Home in Cresco, Iowa, as a National 
Historic Site and as a unit of the National 
Park System, S. 1629, to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior to conduct 
a special resource study of the archeological 
site and surrounding land 
of the New Philadelphia town site in 
the state of Illinois, S. 2892, to establish 
the Alabama Black Belt National 
Heritage Area, S. 2933, to authorize the 
Secretary of the Interior to conduct a 
special resource study to determine the 
suitability and feasibility of designating 
the Colonel Charles Young 
Home in Xenia, Ohio, as a unit of the 
National Park System, S. 2951, to authorize 
funding to protect and conserve 
lands contiguous with the Blue Ridge 
Parkway to serve the public, and H.R. 
3804, to make technical corrections to 
various Acts affecting the National 
Park Service, to extend, amend, or establish 
certain National Park Service 
authorities. 

SD–366 

MARCH 18 

9:30 a.m. 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine legislative 
presentations from AMVETS, National 
Association of State Directors of Veterans 
Affairs, Non Commissioned Officers 
Association, Gold Star Wives, The 
Retired Enlisted Association, Fleet Reserve 
Association, Vietnam Veterans of 
America, and Iraq and Afghanistan 
Veterans of America. 
SD–G50 

MARCH 23 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine U.S. Pacific 
Command, U.S. Strategic Command, 
and U.S. Forces Korea in review of the 
Defense Authorization request for fiscal 
year 2011 and the Future Years Defense 
Program; with the possibility of a 
closed session in SVC–217 following the 
open session. 

SH–216 

MARCH 24 

9:30 a.m. 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
Veterans’ Affairs plan for ending homelessness 
among veterans. 

SR–418 

POSTPONEMENTS 

MARCH 3 

2:30 p.m. 
Armed Services 
To receive a closed briefing on policies, 
procedures, and practices relating to 
the transfer of detainees held at the 

Guantanamo Detention Facility. 
SVC–217 


Monday, March 1, 2010 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S825–S895 

Measures Introduced: Six bills and two resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 3050–3055, and S. 
Res. 427–428. Pages S857–58 

Measures Considered: 

Tax Extenders Act: Senate began consideration of 

H.R. 4213, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to extend certain expiring provisions, taking 
action on the following amendments proposed thereto: 
Pages S836–54 
Pending: 

Baucus Amendment No. 3336, in the nature of a 
substitute. Pages S836–47 

Sessions Amendment No. 3337 (to Amendment 
No. 3336), to reduce the deficit by establishing discretionary 
spending caps. Pages S847–51 

Thune Amendment No. 3338 (to Amendment 
No. 3336), to create additional tax relief for businesses. 
Pages S851–52 

Messages from the President: Senate received the 
following messages from the President of the United 
States: 

Transmitting, pursuant to law, a proposed constitution 
for the Virgin Islands; which was referred 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 
(PM–47) Pages S856–57 

Transmitting, pursuant to law, a notice relative to 
the continuation of the national emergency with respect 
to the actions and policies of certain members 
of the Government of Zimbabwe and other persons 
to undermine Zimbabwe’s democratic processes or 
institutions; which was referred to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–48) 

Page S857 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Katherine M. Gehl, of Wisconsin, to be a Member 
of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation for a term expiring December 
17, 2010. 

Michael James Warren, of the District of Columbia, 
to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the 
Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term 
expiring December 17, 2011. 

Michael J. McCord, of Virginia, to be Principal 
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller). 

Page S895 

Messages from the House: Page S857 

Measures Referred: Page S857 

Measures Placed on the Calendar: Pages S825, S857 

Additional Cosponsors: Pages S858–59 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Pages S859–60 
Additional Statements: Page S856 
Amendments Submitted: Pages S860–95 
Notices of Hearings/Meetings: Page S895 
Privileges of the Floor: Page S836 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 2 p.m. and adjourned 
at 6:37 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, 
March 2, 2010. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S895.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

No committee meetings were held. 

D163 


D164 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST March 1, 2010 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

The House was not in session today. The House 
is scheduled to meet at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, 
March 2, 2010. 

Committee Meetings

No committee meetings were held. 

Joint Meetings

No joint committee meetings were held. 

f 

NEW PUBLIC LAWS 

(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D118) 

H.R. 3961, to extend expiring provisions of the 
USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization 
Act of 2005 and Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004 until February 28, 2011. 
Signed on February 27, 2010. (Public Law 111–141) 
H.R. 4532, to provide for permanent extension of 
the attorney fee withholding procedures under title 
II of the Social Security Act to title XVI of such 
Act, and to provide for permanent extension of such 
procedures under titles II and XVI of such Act to 
qualified non-attorney representatives. Signed on 
February 27, 2010. (Public Law 111–142) 
f 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY, 
MARCH 2, 2010 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administra


tion, and Related Agencies, to hold hearings to examine 
proposed budget estimates for fiscal year 2011 for the 
Department of Agriculture, 10 a.m., SD–192. 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Subcommittee 
on Economic Policy, to hold hearings to examine 
restoring credit, focusing on proposals to fix small 
business borrowing and lending problems, 9:30 a.m., 
SD–538. 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to 
hold hearings to examine Toyota’s recalls and the government’s 
response, 10 a.m., SR–253. 

Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the 
nominations of Jeffrey Alan Goldstein, of New York, to 
be Under Secretary of the Treasury, Francisco J. Sanchez, 
of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International 
Trade, and Sherry Glied, of New York, to be Assistant 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, 11:15 
a.m., SD–215. 

Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Human 
Rights and the Law, to hold hearings to examine global 
internet freedom and the rule of law, part II, 10 a.m., 
SD–226. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold hearings to examine 
a legislative presentation from Disabled Veterans of 
America, 2 p.m., 345 Cannon Building. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to 
consider certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219. 

House 

Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Homeland 
Security, hearing on Major Systems Acquisition at 
DHS, 2 p.m., 2359 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Select Intelligence Oversight Panel, 
executive, on National Intelligence Program Budget, 5 
p.m., H–140 Capitol. 

Committee on Education and Labor, hearing on Improving 
Children’s Health: Strengthening Federal Child Nutrition 
Programs, 2:30 p.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on Rules, to consider H.R. 4247, Preventing 
Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act, 5 p.m., 
H–313 Capitol. 


March 1, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D165 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED ELEVENTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 5 through February 28, 2010 

Senate House Total 
Days in session .................................... 21 21 . . 
Time in session ................................... 119 hrs., 9' 112 hrs., 11' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 824 972 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 269 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 2 13 . . 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 33 92 125 
Senate bills .................................. 6 3 . . 
House bills .................................. 4 27 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . . 
Senate concurrent ........................ . . . . . . 
House concurrent ........................ 3 5 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 18 57 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... * 20 * 33 53 
Senate bills .................................. 15 . . . . 
House bills .................................. 1 18 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . . . . . 
Senate concurrent ........................ . . . . . . 
House concurrent ........................ . . . . . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 4 15 . . 
Special reports ..................................... . . 3 . . 
Conference reports ............................... . . . . . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 165 68 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 164 457 621 
Bills ............................................. 119 301 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 3 10 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 3 18 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 39 128 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... . . 1 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 28 53 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 20 . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . 1 . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 15 written reports have been filed in the Senate, 
21 reports have been filed in the House. 
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 5 through February 28, 2010 
Civilian nominations, totaling 294 (including 209 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
37 
252 
5 
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 499 (including 112 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 499 
Air Force nominations, totaling 943 (including 759 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
924 
19 
Army nominations, totaling 601 (including 76 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
112 
489 
Navy nominations, totaling 62 (including 8 nominations carried over 
from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
55 
7 
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,131 (including 714 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
7 
1,124 

Summary 

Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 1,878 
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 1,652 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 1,135 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 2,390 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 5 
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0 


D166 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST March 1, 2010 

Next Meeting of the SENATE Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
10 a.m., Tuesday, March 2 12:30 p.m., Tuesday, March 2 
Senate Chamber House Chamber 
Program for Tuesday: After the transaction of any Program for Tuesday: To be announced. 
morning business (not to extend beyond one hour), Senate 
will resume consideration of the nomination of Barbara 
Milano Keenan, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit 
Judge for the Fourth Circuit, and after a period of debate, 
vote on the motion to invoke cloture thereon at 12:15 
p.m. 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. The online database is updated each day the 
Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 
1994) forward. It is available through GPO Access at www.gpo.gov/gpoaccess. Customers can also access this information with WAIS client 
software, via telnet at swais.access.gpo.gov, or dial-in using communications software and a modem at 202–512–1661. Questions or comments 
regarding this database or GPO Access can be directed to the GPO Access User Support Team at: E-Mail: gpoaccess@gpo.gov; Phone 
1–888–293–6498 (toll-free), 202–512–1530 (D.C. area); Fax: 202–512–1262. The Team’s hours of availability are Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, except Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 24x microfiche edition will be furnished by 
mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $252.00 for six months, $503.00 per year, or purchased as follows: 
less than 200 pages, $10.50; between 200 and 400 pages, $21.00; greater than 400 pages, $31.50, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $146.00 per 
year, or purchased for $3.00 per issue payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per 
issue prices. To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: 
Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250–7954, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), 
or fax to 202–512–2250. Remit check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, 
American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, 
permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, 
there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


