UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.16 16:13:19 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 105th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 144 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1998 No. 40 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. HEFLEY). 

f 


DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

April 1, 1998. 

I hereby designate the Honorable JOEL 
HEFLEY to act as Speaker pro tempore on 
this day. 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 


PRAYER 

Reverend Douglas Tanner, Faith and 
Politics Institute, Washington, DC, offered 
the following prayer: 

Almighty God, who created, sustains 
and redeems us: 

On this first day of April, we are 
aware that however confused this 
year’s seasons may have been, surely 
spring has arrived, as it always does. 
Signs of growth and new life surround 
us. Sunshine warms our faces. Fresh 
breezes beckon us to leave the walls 
within which we have lived and worked 
all winter and come outside. 

We pray that Your creative and renewing 
spirit might come upon us in a 
similar way. Grant those in this body 
an openness to new perspectives and 
possibilities, even as they appropriately 
adhere to values and traditions 
that have survived the tests of 
time. Warm them to the genuine humanity 
in each other, even as they vehemently 
disagree in debate and fiercely 
compete for the public trust. And 
even as our worst appears evident in 
children killing children, guide them 
to call forth the best in us as a Nation. 

Amen. 

THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair has examined the Journal of the 
last day’s proceedings and announces 
to the House his approval thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

f 


PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. BOSWELL) 
come forward and lead the House in the 
Pledge of Allegiance. 

Mr. BOSWELL led the Pledge of Allegiance 
as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one Nation under 
God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for 
all. 

f 


MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE 

A message from the Senate by Mr. 
Lundregan, one of its clerks, announced 
that the Senate had passed 
with an amendment in which the concurrence 
of the House is requested, a 
bill of the House of the following title: 

H.R. 3579. An act making emergency supplemental 
appropriations for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1998, and for other purposes. 
The message also announced that the 
Senate insists upon its amendment to 
the bill (H.R. 3579) ‘‘An Act making 
emergency supplemental appropriations 
for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 1998, and for other purposes,’’ 
requests a conference with the 
House on the disagreeing votes of the 
two Houses thereon, and appoints 

Mr. STEVENS, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. SPECTER, 
Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. BOND, Mr. GORTON, 
Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. BURNS, Mr. 
SHELBY, Mr. GREGG, Mr. BENNETT, Mr. 
CAMPBELL, Mr. CRAIG, Mr. FAIRCLOTH, 
Mrs. HUTCHISON, Mr. BYRD, Mr. INOUYE, 
Mr. HOLLINGS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BUMPERS, 
Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. HARKIN, Ms. 

MIKULSKI, Mr. REID, Mr. KOHL, Mrs. 
MURRAY, Mr. DORGAN, and Mrs. BOXER, 
to be the conferees on the part of the 
Senate. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will entertain 8 one-minutes per 
side. 

f 


STOP WASTING TAXPAYER MONEY 

(Mr. DELAY Asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. DELAY. Mr. Speaker, since the 
election, the administration has 
amassed a team of 84 taxpayer-paid 
White House attorneys on the Federal 
payroll. That is 31 more lawyers than 
the entire squad on the Dallas Cowboy 
football team. 

Now, are these lawyers working on 
issues that affect the public good? 
Well, don’t bet the farm on that. Since 
the newest rounds of scandals, the 
White House Counsel’s Office has 
grown by 43 employees. The nonpartisan 
Congressional Research Service 
recently reminded us that a Federal 
employee hired as an attorney is compensated 
from United States Treasury 
funds to provide legal advice and assistance 
or to litigate matters concerning 
the official business of the United 
States, its agencies, officers and employees, 
rather than concerning matters 
which are purely personal to the 
employee or to another Federal official. 


That is the law. 

The time has come for the administration 
to spend more time on the people’s 
business and less time wasting 
taxpayer’s money stonewalling and invoking 
executive privilege. 

bb

This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


H1855 


H1856 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

BESTEA IS A GOOD BILL 

(Mr. LIPINSKI asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, today 
the House of Representatives will consider 
H.R. 2400, the surface transportation 
bill known as BESTEA. I rise 
today to simply say that BESTEA is a 
good, bipartisan bill. It will provide 
better, safer roads. It will provide new 
and improved public transit systems. It 
will improve air quality by reducing 
traffic congestion and by promoting 
public transit. It will provide good jobs 
for middle-class Americans. It will ensure 
America’s future as a world leader 
by maintaining and improving our 
world class transportation system. 

I strongly urge all of my colleagues 
to vote to invest in America’s future 
and vote in favor of H.R. 2400 today. 

f 


TAX REFORM NOW 

(Mr. GIBBONS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, a recent 
survey asking Americans to rank the 
least three desirable situations, revealed 
the following: Number three was 
being called by your boss and saying 
you are fired. Number two, well, it was 
going to lunch at a nice restaurant and 
finding your spouse dining with an ex-
boyfriend or girlfriend. And the first 
worst nightmare for Americans was 
going to the mailbox and finding a letter 
whose return address was the IRS. 

These examples, think about it, while 
graphic, illustrate the growing fear and 
frustrations the American people have 
with our tax system. April 1st is a day 
that brings practical jokes to the 
minds of many, yet the clock ticks on 
toward April 15th, a day that brings 
fear and paralysis to all working men 
and women. 

Mr. Speaker, only a few citizens are 
left in this country who can do their 
own taxes, and yet horror stories of 
IRS abuse are still mounting. The time 
to act is now. I urge my colleagues to 
join me in the tax reform effort, to 
make this the last April 1st where the 
American taxpayers are made out to be 
the fools. 

f 


HOUSE SHOULD DELAY PROPOSED 
TRANSPLANT RULES 

(Mr. BOSWELL asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BOSWELL. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to take this opportunity this 
morning to bring forth the perilous 
condition of one of my youngest constituents, 
Mekenzie Lee of Ottumwa, 
Iowa, to your attention. 

Little 5-year-old Mekenzie has liver 
cancer and desperately needs a liver 
transplant. Perhaps today, there are 

going to be proposed rules by HHS to 
make a major modification to how this 
system works. 

While the stated purpose of the rule 
is admirable and I strongly support efforts 
to increase the donations, I fear 
this rule may in fact result in a number 
of unintended consequences. 

It will take the decisionmaking process 
away from the physicians, those 
who are the most skilled and proficient 
to able to deal with this, who have got 
the expertise, and put it into the hands 
of some bureaucrats. Forcing a onesize-
fits-all is questionable to me. 

I would ask that members join the efforts 
to save Mekenzie and every transplant 
patient like her who may be 
harmed by this proposed rule by becoming 
a cosponsor, and delaying this 
process for one year and give us time 
to review it, to get input from the physicians 
and the places around the country 
that do this work, to be in play. So 
please join me in cosponsoring H.R. 
3584. 

f 


SUPPORT BESTEA 
(Mr. COOK asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. COOK. Mr. Speaker, it is not 
every day that we get to vote for legislation 
that will directly and tangibly 
improve the quality of life for every 
single American. That is what 
BESTEA does. BESTEA will repair and 
rebuild the highways and roads Americans 
use every day. BESTEA also restores 
trust with the American people. 
BESTEA does what no highway bill 
has done in two decades; spends gas 
taxes for its intended purposes. 
BESTEA is also fiscally responsible. In 
fact, it is paid for twice. First, it only 
spends what the government takes in 
in gas taxes. Second, much of it will be 
offset by spending cuts. 
Also, and often overlooked, BESTEA 
will save more lives than any other legislation 
we will act on this year. 
This is a great bill for the future of 
America, and I urge all my colleagues 
to support it. 

f 


NEEDS OF NATIONAL SECURITY 
BRAIN TRUST 

(Mr. TRAFICANT asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Speaker, the 
Pentagon says China and Russia are 
engaged in a nuclear arms race. They 
say both China and Russia can hit 
every city in America with a ballistic 
missile. 

Now, if that is not enough to cause 
you to fall on your sword, the Pentagon 
further says Russia and China are 
doing this with American dollars. 

Unbelievable. Let us check this out. 
China gets $60 billion in MFN from 
Uncle Sam. Russia gets $15 billion in 
foreign aid from Uncle Sam. In ex


change, Uncle Sam gets nuclear missiles 
pointed at our cities, two tape 
decks and three cases of vodka. 

Beam me up. I say our national security 
brain trust needs a proctologist on 
staff. 

f 


EMERGENCY PHONES FOR 
EMERGENCIES 

(Mr. KINGSTON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, this 
morning while reading H.R. 4–1–98, I 
found hidden deep in the Senate appropriations 
bill a $60,000 expenditure to 
install telephones in the Members-only 
Congressional bathrooms. That is 
right, $60,000 for Members to conduct 
business while doing their business. 
Emergency phones for emergencies. 

While Members have little time to 
waste, Mr. Speaker, that does not 
mean we have any more emergencies 
than the next guy. And, what is worse, 
this proposal calls for drilling holes in 
the historic mahogany shoeshine chair, 
which was donated to the House of 
Representatives by the Woodrow Wilson 
estate. 

Mr. Speaker, this is not good waste 
management. Let us see this proposal, 

H.R. 4–1–98, for the joke that it is, or 
we would be a bunch of April fools. 
f 


DISARMING DRUNK DRIVERS 

(Mr. BLUMENAUER asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I 
was saddened that the Republican leadership, 
which Monday killed a chance 
for a vote on meaningful campaign 
spending reform, breaking Speaker 
GINGRICH’s promise, last night voted to 
deny the House even the right to vote 
on the .08 provisions so passionately 
supported by the Mothers Against 
Drunk Drivers volunteers. 

Fortunately, there is one element to 
reduce the carnage of repeat drunk 
drivers on our roads: Taking away 
their cars. Modeled on a program I 
started in Portland, which dramatically 
reduced the rate of repeat drunk 
drivers and is now used from North 
Carolina to Anchorage, H.R. 2400 provides 
incentives for all States to disarm 
these people who have no right on 
the road. 

Take away the cars of repeat drunk 
drivers. Use these provisions to save 
the lives of American families. 

f 


GIVING HIGHWAY MONEY BACK TO 
THE STATES 

(Mrs. LINDA SMITH of Washington 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend her remarks.) 

Mrs. LINDA SMITH of Washington. 
Mr. Speaker, each day in every rural 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1857 

community and in every bustling community 
across this Nation, families 
pull up to the gas tank, fill their tank 
with gas, and pay 18 cents a gallon to 
the Federal Government for transportation 
projects. But, unfortunately, 
each year Congress has allocated nearly 
a third less of the money than they 
have paid for the transportation 
projects. 

Many of us stood up against that last 
year, even in the budget. We would not 
vote for the general budget, and we 
would not vote for the transportation 
budget, because the plan was to take 
$65 billion out of the money that was to 
come back to the communities for 
their safe roads, and we held out. 

Today we are going to have a vote to 
put the money back. We are going to 
have a vote to put the money back into 
communities for safe roads. Anybody 
who says they are for families and does 
not do something about the transportation 
projects is dooming them to 
spending hours in their cars instead of 
being home with their families. 

The vote today is good. It is about 
the projects our communities need; 
about projects they need to keep their 
families safe and which will allow them 
to spend time with their families. 

f 


PRIORITY LEGISLATION NOT 
BEING PASSED 

(Ms. DELAURO asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, when 
the gentleman from Georgia (Speaker 
GINGRICH) promised a fair and open debate 
on campaign finance reform, it 
must have been an April Fools’ joke. 
Unfortunately, it was not the only joke 
the GOP has played on the American 
people. 

In the 40 legislative days that this 
body has been in session this year, the 
House has failed to pass bills that the 
Republican leadership claimed were 
priorities. The American people have 
had no disaster relief, no IRS reform, 
no budget resolution and no campaign 
finance reform. 

b1015 
In addition, the Republicans have 
completely ignored other issues that 
the American public are clamoring for 
action on. They have had no managed 
care reform, and there is bipartisan 
support for managed care reform, no 
bills to improve our public schools, and 
no minimum wage increase. 
Mr. Speaker, I only wish I could say 
this was an April Fools’ joke. But it 
looks like the joke is on us and the 
American people. 

f 


BESTEA WILL CREATE JOBS, KEEP 
NATION COMPETITIVE, AND 
SAVE LIVES 

(Mr. LATOURETTE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 

Mr. LATOURETTE. Mr. Speaker, 
over 40 years ago, President Eisenhower 
made a deal with the American 
public. If folks would pay gasoline 
taxes when they bought gas, the government 
would build and maintain 
highways so that they could travel to 
work, so that we could maintain our 
position in the world and move goods 
to market, and so that Americans 
could travel with their families on safe 
transportation systems. 

Sadly, during the 1960s, when the unified 
budget was used to hide the cost of 
the Vietnam conflict, the trust fund, 
and I want to emphasize the word 
‘‘trust’’ fund, was used to mask the size 
of that overspending. Since that time, 
we have failed to keep faith with the 
Americans who pay the tax with the 
expectation that we will keep that deal 
made so long ago. 

Today, we have the opportunity to 
keep the contract with the American 
public by passing BESTEA. BESTEA 
will create jobs, it will keep our Nation 
competitive, and it will save lives. 

Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, there is 
criticism in some quarters that 
BESTEA falls outside the budget deal 
of last year. The Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure has 
worked hard to make sure that 
BESTEA not only comes within those 
budget caps but also restores truth in 
budgeting. It says that the Highway 
Trust Fund is a contract with the 
American people, and today we in this 
House must force Washington to keep 
its end of the bargain. 

f 


PASS BESTEA BILL AND INVEST 
IN NATION’S ECONOMY 

(Mr. MASCARA asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. MASCARA. Mr. Speaker, one 
thing that get lost in the debate on 
BESTEA is the importance of our Nation’s 
highway system. Nearly $6 trillion 
worth of goods are shipped each 
year over our country’s highways. Seventy-
five percent of the total value of 
our Nation’s commodities are shipped 
interstate over our national highway 
system. 

Our economy depends heavily on our 
transportation system. Yet we are 
watching it while it crumbles. Our 
country has long neglected its infrastructure 
needs. The condition of our 
roads and highways continue to decline. 


The Department of Transportation 
estimates that 59 percent of the Nation’s 
highways are in disrepair. These 
road conditions, poor road conditions, 
cost American drivers over $23 billion a 
year, or equivalent to $132 for each 
driver. 

Traffic on our highways has more 
than doubled in the past 25 years, while 
new road construction has stagnated. 
It is time to invest in our Nation’s infrastructure. 
It is time to fix our roads. 

DOLLARS TO THE CLASSROOM 
(Mr. PITTS asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. PITTS. Mr. Speaker, can we talk 
about education in this country without 
talking about the most important 
recipients of education, our kids? 
Someone should explain to us how Federal 
studies like ‘‘Channeling Your 
Donna Reed Syndrome’’ or ‘‘Cement, 
the Concrete Experience’’, even studies 
on researchers researching their research 
techniques have anything to do 
with kids learning their ABCs or basic 
skills. This is exactly the kind of waste 
that is produced in the bloated bureaucracy 
here in Washington, D.C. 
Mr. Speaker, instead of sending our 
Federal tax dollars to parents, teachers 
and local educators, the dollars get lost 
in the abyss of the bureaucracy and on 
Federal studies. The Committee on 
Education and the Workforce estimates 
that, on the average, only 65 cents of 
every Federal education dollar gets 
into the classroom. 
We now have the opportunity to send 
our Federal education tax dollars directly 
to the classrooms of the Nation. 
The Dollars to the Classroom Act ensures 
that 95 cents of every Federal 
education dollar goes directly to the 
classroom, to the hands of someone 
who knows your child’s name. Mr. 
Speaker, this means microscopes, computers, 
books and not bureaucrats. Let 
us send the dollars to the classroom. 

f 


DEMOCRATS UNVEIL MANAGED 
CARE REFORM LEGISLATION 

(Mr. PALLONE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, today is 
April Fool’s Day; and so it seems appropriate 
that the Republican leadership 
is having a rally to celebrate the 
achievements of the GOP Congress before 
Members leave Washington for the 
recess. 

The Republican Congress has simply 
wasted time in 1998, producing no results 
to improve the lives of the average 
working American. Important 
issues like managed care reform, Medicare 
expansion for those 55 to 64, a 
minimum wage increase, school modernization 
and reduced class size have 
simply been neglected. 

Democrats and President Clinton 
have prioritized these issues because 
they know they are important to the 
American people and will improve the 
quality of their lives. Just yesterday, 
Democrats unveiled their managed 
care reform legislative proposal with 
President Clinton’s strong backing. 
But the Republican leadership, they 
just want to go home. They are incapable 
of addressing the issues of real concern 
to working Americans. 

f 


SUPPORT THE BESTEA BILL 

for 1 minute and to revise and extend Join me in voting for H.R. 2400 and in-(Mrs. KELLY asked and was given 
his remarks.) vest in our Nation’s economy. permission to address the House for 1 


H1858 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. KELLY. Mr. Speaker, later 
today this body will consider the 
BESTEA bill. This bill provides the 
necessary resources to improve America’s 
aging and decrepit infrastructure. 

While today we will hear discussions 
of roads and transit and funding formulas, 
I want to point out a lesser-
known feature of this important bill, 
environmental enhancements. BESTEA 
significantly increases funding for the 
Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality 
program, for the transportation enhancements 
program, and for the recreational 
trails program. The measure 
creates new transit enhancement programs 
and encourages alternative 
modes of transportation such as 
biking. In fact, BESTEA even works to 
improve compliance with the Clean Air 
Act. 

Mr. Speaker, this bill proves we can 
balance America’s economic and environmental 
needs. For the environment, 
for highway safety, for job growth and 
for infrastructure improvements, I am 
a strong supporter of this bill; and I 
hope my colleagues will join me with 
their support. 

f 


LET US HAVE FAIR COMPETITION 

IN THE ELECTRIC POWER INDUS


TRY 

(Mr. KUCINICH asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, with all 
the talk about the supposed benefits of 
competition in the electric power industry, 
I say let us have really fair 
electric competition. 

Many consumers now enjoy the benefits 
of a municipally owned electric 
system, such as low rates and high 
standards and open governance and direct 
corporate democracy. Private 
power marketers should have to be as 
democratic and open as public power. 
This means they should; 

First, comply with State and local 
open meeting laws; 

Second, provide for a publicly elected 
board of directors; 

Third, permit the public election of 
all chief executive officers; 

Fourth, hold public hearings on budgets; 


Fifth, require compliance with State 
and local government conflict of interest 
regulations; and 

Sixth, not deduct advertising expenses 
from their income taxes. 

Really competitive power marketers 
would put into practice the high democratic 
standards of public power. 

f 


MUGGED BY REALITY 
(Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 
Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 

usually takes several years. Now, most 
people start out relatively liberal; but 
they eventually see the error of their 
ways and become more conservative 
upon realizing that left-wing programs 
simply do not work. In the famous 
phrase, they are mugged by reality. 

But there is one way to speed up the 
process. It is an event that almost 100 
percent will guarantee success. Take a 
liberal, subject him to an IRS audit 
and presto, you soon hear some very 
conservative thoughts coming out of 
their mouths. All of a sudden, their beloved 
Federal Government is no longer 
seen as their friend. All of a sudden, 
the Federal Government now looks like 
the last place to look for fairness. All 
of a sudden, dealing with a massive 
Federal bureaucracy is not such a wonderful, 
wholesome experience after all; 
and all of a sudden, what looks so great 
in the abstract starts to look silly, illogical, 
out of touch and quite menacing 
indeed when reality hits. 

Mr. Speaker, it is an obvious truth 
that if liberals were audited by the 
IRS, the Democrat Party would cease 
to exist almost overnight. 

f 


VOTE YES ON H.R. 1151, CREDIT 
UNION ACCESS BILL 

(Mr. KANJORSKI asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. KANJORSKI. Mr. Speaker, today 
one out of four Americans will have an 
opportunity to keep their eye on the 
House of Representatives as we will 
have an opportunity to take up H.R. 
1151, the Credit Union Access Bill 
which will allow 70 million Americans 
to exercise their right of choice for financial 
services in this country. 

I want to compliment the 207 sponsors 
and cosponsors on both sides of the 
aisle of this legislation. I further want 
to compliment the bipartisan spirit of 
the Speaker, the minority leader and 
minority whip, Mr. BONIOR, who sponsored 
the bill, the chairman of the 
Committee on Rules and, most particularly, 
the chairman and the ranking 
member of the Committee on Banking 
and Financial Services who, working 
together, have shown what a bipartisan 
effort can do in the House of Representatives 
when the job has to get 
done. 

Today, as we pass under suspension 

H.R. 1151 and send it on to the Senate, 
we will be performing an act that is 
truly American in the best spirit of the 
cooperative movement of the credit 
union movement of America. All I ask 
is all my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to express their aid and assistance 
for the credit union movement 
by voting yes on H.R. 1151. 
f 


PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.R. 2400, BUILDING EFFICIENT 
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
AND EQUITY ACT OF 1998 

up House Resolution 405 and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 
The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 405 
Resolved, That at any time after the adoption 
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant 
to clause 1(b) of rule XXIII, declare the 
House resolved into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for 

consideration of the bill (H.R. 2400) to authorize 
funds for Federal-aid highways, highway 
safety programs, and transit programs, 

and for other purposes. The first reading of 
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to 
the bill and the amendments made in order 
by this resolution and shall not exceed two 
hours and 30 minutes, with two hours equally 
divided and controlled by the chairman and 
ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure and 30 
minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the chairman and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute rule. It 
shall be in order to consider as an original 
bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
now printed in the bill, modified 
by the amendment recommended by the 
Committee on Ways and Means now printed 
in the bill and the amendment printed in 
part 1 of the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against that amendment in the nature 
of a substitute are waived. No amendment to 
that amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed 
in part 2 of the report of the Committee on 
Rules. Each amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the first time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject 
to amendment, and shall not be subject 
to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. 
All points of order against the amendments 
printed in the report are waived. The chairman 
of the Committee of the Whole may: (1) 
postpone until a time during further consideration 
in the Committee of the Whole a request 
for a recorded vote on any amendment; 
and (2) reduce to five minutes the minimum 
time for electronic voting on any postponed 
question that follows another electronic vote 
without intervening business, provided that 
the minimum time for electronic voting on 
the first in any series of questions shall be 15 
minutes. At the conclusion of consideration 
of the bill for amendment the Committee 
shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate 
vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to 
the bill or to the amendment in the nature of 
a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and amendments thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). The gentleman from Califor-

Mr. Speaker, the intellectual evolution Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, by direc-nia (Mr. DREIER) is recognized for 1 
in the typical American’s political life tion of the Committee on Rules, I call hour. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1859 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, for the 
purposes of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to the gentleman 
from South Boston, MA (Mr. MOAKLEY), 
pending which I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. During consideration 
of this resolution, all time 
yielded is for the purpose of debate 
only. 

(Mr. DREIER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks 
and include extraneous material.) 


b1030 
Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, this rule 
makes in order H.R. 2400, the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and 
Equity Act, better known as BESTEA, 
under a balanced but structured rule 
providing 21/2 hours of general debate 
with 2 hours divided between the chairman 
and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure and 30 minutes divided 
between the chairman and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
The rule waives all points of order 
against consideration of the bill and 
makes in order an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute as an original 
bill for the purpose of amendment, 
which shall be considered as read. The 
rule waives all points of order against 
consideration of the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute, as modified. 
Only those amendments printed in 
part 2 of the committee report are 
made in order and all points of order 
against the amendments are waived. 
The amendment made in order under 
part 2 of the report shall be considered 
as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report, equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for a division of the question 
in the House or in the Committee of 
the Whole. 
Further, Mr. Speaker, the rule allows 
the Chairman of the Committee of the 
Whole to postpone votes and to reduce 
voting time to 5 minutes on a postponed 
question if the vote follows a 15minute 
vote. Finally, the rule provides 
for one notion to recommit, with or 
without introductions. 
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2400 recognizes 
that the United States has essentially 
concluded the 40-year interstate highway 
construction era. It transitions 
the Federal Government into a new 
role, that of maintaining the interstate 
system and overseeing national priorities 
while supporting State and local 
transportation programs. 
BESTEA improves on ISTEA by simplifying 
programs, updating formulae, 
giving States more flexibility, and 
guaranteeing States a greater share of 
their contributions to the Highway 
Trust Fund. It expands funding for priority 
corridors and provides $570 million 
for new border infrastructure and 
safety improvements to more efficiently 
handle the NAFTA-related 

trade. Mr. Speaker, the smooth movement 
of goods and people is increasingly 
critical to American competitiveness 
in this period of expanding global 
trade. 

BESTEA ensures that all gas tax revenues 
are spent on transportation by 
removing the Highway Trust Fund 
from the unified Federal budget. Furthermore, 
it reaffirms the commitment 
of this Congress to federalist principles, 
upholding the rights of States 
to set and enforce their own traffic 
safety codes, while providing financial 
rewards to encourage States to adopt a 
range of measures to reduce drunken 
driving. 

Every Member of this body agrees on 
the importance of reducing drunken 
driving. The compromise language included 
in H.R. 2400 ensures that States 
will redouble their efforts to get drunk 
drivers off the road, while recognizing 
that each State should have the latitude 
to adopt the approach that suits 
that State best. 

Mr. Speaker, this fair and balanced 
rule allows the House to work its will 
on the most important questions surrounding 
Federal transportation programs. 
For example, H.R. 2400 allocates 
more money than ever before to Member-
sponsored priority projects. Under 
this rule, Members will have the opportunity 
to decide whether to eliminate 
these projects, saving the taxpayers 
over $11 billion, and allowing the 
States to determine transportation priorities. 


Mr. Speaker, perhaps no issue in public 
debate is more controversial than 
that of racial and gender preferences. 
The House will consider whether to end 
the use of such preferences in Federal 
highway contracting and to return affirmative 
action to its original intent, 
an outreach to people of all races and 
genders designed to promote equal opportunity 
for all. 

Most important, Mr. Speaker, the 
House will have the opportunity to recognize 
that with the completion of the 
interstate system, the proper role of 
the Federal Government is now limited 
to maintaining that system and responding 
to a discrete range of national 
concerns. 

The turnback amendment sponsored 
by the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. KASICH), 
chairman of the Committee on 
the Budget, and made in order by this 
rule, if adopted, will continue the Federal 
role in matters of national significance 
but return to State and local 
governments the authority to determine 
and to fund their own transportation 
priorities. 

The Kasich amendment recognizes 
the tremendous waste in the current 
system, where the States collect the 
gasoline tax and remit it to us here in 
Washington, which takes some off the 
top for Federal bureaucracy, some for 
other States, and some for projects 
that are not State priorities, all just to 
return the money to the States that 
collected it in the first place. If they 
replace the Federal tax on a penny-for


penny basis, 32 States will have more 
money for transportation programs 
and six States will break even. 

But because leaving the money with 
the States in the first place is so much 
more efficient, not all States will have 
to replace the Federal gas tax on a 
penny-for-penny basis. Like my home 
State of California, for example, most 
States along with it will be able to reduce 
taxes overall while increasing 
spending on transportation, because 
the waste in the Washington bureaucracy 
would be totally eliminated. In 
fact, economists estimate that about 20 
percent of the purchasing power of gas 
tax revenues is lost in the round trip to 
Washington and back. 

If Members join me in support of the 
turnback amendment, that 20 percent 
can be returned to motorists in the 
form of tax cuts or used to increase investment 
in transportation or other 
worthwhile spending. The turnback 
amendment recognizes that the only 
way to finally resolve the problem of 
donor States and to ensure efficient expenditure 
of gas tax revenues is to let 
each State run its own program without 
interference from Washington. 

Mr. Speaker, with that I urge my colleagues 
to join me in supporting this 
very fair and balanced rule, which 
makes in order a bill that significantly 
enhances existing transportation programs 
and gives the House the opportunity 
to debate important improvements 
as well as alternatives to these 
programs. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker I thank 
the gentleman from California (Mr. 
DREIER) my dear friend and the great 
acting chairman of the Committee on 
Rules, for yielding me the customary 
half-hour, and I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I really want to congratulate 
my colleagues, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Chairman 
SHUSTER) and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), the ranking 
member, for their very hard work on 
this very, very difficult bill. Despite 
the months and months of clamorings, 
despite the vastly different transportation 
needs of 50 States, Mr. Speaker, 
they have finally managed to come up 
with a bill that satisfies a vast majority 
of Members, and for that they really 
deserve our thanks. 

I am sure that there are very few 
Members who would not change a thing 
or two in this bill if they could, but all 
things considered, it is about the best 
we are going to get and I urge all of my 
colleagues to support it. 

Mr. Speaker, as far as I am concerned, 
it is coming not a moment too 
soon. The Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 expired 
on September 30, 1997. The few available 
Federal dollars in the pipeline 
may very well run out on May 1, and it 
is critical that we not leave the States 
with enormous half-finished transportation 
projects on their hands. 


H1860 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

So, Mr. Speaker, this bill reauthorizes 
our transportation programs to 
the tune of some $217 billion in contract 
authority for the Highway Trust 
Fund. Of that funding, Mr. Speaker, $36 
billion is for transit and $181 billion is 
for highways and for highway safety. 

Mr. Speaker, many people take 
American infrastructure for granted. 
They get in their automobile, they 
drive to work, they drive to school 
without even thinking about it. But 
those roads they drive on and those 
bridges they cross do not last forever, 
especially in the Northeast, and we 
need to do our very best to make sure 
they stay as safe and as accessible as 
possible. 

So anybody who is horrified at the 
amount of transportation funding included 
in this bill needs to remember 
that this is how we get our produce to 
market, our computer chips to the 
docks to be sent overseas, our Gillette 
products and Reebok sneakers to the 
malls. A good transportation system 
creates jobs, it keeps America safe, and 
it advances our country’s economy. 

So, Mr. Speaker, the bill we are considering 
today is a 6-year bill. It retains 
the basic structure from ISTEA, 
including its very good environmental 
programs and its intense commitment 
to safety. It also encourages equal opportunities 
by keeping the Disadvantaged 
Business Enterprise Program for 
women and for minority-owned construction 
firms, and I am very happy to 
say that this bill applies Federal labor 
standards and employee protections 
like the Davis-Bacon Act for people 
working on highway and transit 
projects. 

In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, the safety 
programs in this bill are very well 
worth it. Every year some 40,000 people 
die in motor vehicle-related deaths in 
this country. And if this bill improves 
highway safety enough just to lower 
that number by one, I feel it is worth 
it. 

Once again, Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Chairman 
SHUSTER), I thank the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), the 
ranking member, for their very, very 
hard work on this matter, and I urge 
my colleagues to support the rule and 
support the bill. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I suspect 
that we will have a few Members who 
will want to participate in the debate 
on the rule, but at this time we do not 
have anyone here, so I will reserve the 
balance of my time. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Massachusetts 
(Mr. MCGOVERN), a member of 
the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
to express my strong support for the 
Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act. This bill is good 
for the environment, it is good for 
labor, it is good for the opportunity it 

provides to women and minorities, it is 
good for the economy, good for our cities 
and our more rural regions, and 
most important, Mr. Speaker, this bill 
is good for our communities, our families 
and our children. 

Our Nation’s infrastructure is desperate 
for capital improvements to 
make commerce flow more efficiently 
and to make roads and bridges safer for 
the families who use them daily. The 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER) and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) have worked 
tirelessly to design legislation that 
truly meets our Nation’s needs, and I 
applaud them for their hard work and 
their great success. 

Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan legislation 
is what good government is all 
about: meeting the needs of our Nation’s 
families and overall economy. 
While Europe and the Pacific Rim nations 
invest trillions into their infrastructure, 
we cannot rest. We must invest 
in our infrastructure if we have 
any hope of competing in the global 
economy. I urge my colleagues to support 
the rule and final passage of 
BESTEA. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. EDWARDS). 

Mr. EDWARDS. Mr. Speaker, the 
question before us today is not whether 
we want to improve transportation infrastructure. 
The answer to that question 
is clearly ‘‘yes.’’ The question before 
us today is this: Should Congress 
increase spending by $26 billion on any 
program without paying for it? I believe 
the answer to that question is 
‘‘absolutely not.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, it is fiscal irresponsibility 
at its worst. Do not trust my judgment. 
Let us see what fiscally conservative 
groups said about this question. 
The National Taxpayers Union said, 
‘‘Unlike the Boston Tea Party, Congress’ 
ISTEA party,’’ this bill, ‘‘will 
leave taxpayers with a huge fiscal 
hangover.’’ 

To my Republican colleagues who 
have attacked Democrat spending habits 
for years, the National Taxpayers 
Union, their friend, also said, ‘‘If the 
trend continues, the free-spending 
Democratic Congresses of the early 
nineties could look like misers compared 
to this one.’’ 

The Wall Street Journal said just 
yesterday that this bill is highway robbery 
and that all in all the highway 
bill is the lowest moment since Republicans 
regained Congress, a highway 
bill that has become one of the great 
log rolling parties of all time. 

The Citizens Against Government 
Waste said that, ‘‘If Congress persists 
in this attempt to break the highway 
spending caps imposed on the budget 
deal from less than a year ago, the balanced 
budget deal is dead.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, if a principle is worth 
fighting for, it should be worth fighting 
for two days in a row. Yesterday, from 
this very well, our Republican colleagues 
said it was essential to have 

offsets to pay for our supplemental 
emergency appropriation bill and cover 
flooding damage in this country. Yet 
today, the same Republican leadership 
will force this House to pass a highway 
bill that does not pay for one dime of 
the $26 billion in new spending. 

I guess the Republican leadership is 
saying that yesterday fiscal responsibility 
was important, today it is not. 

b1045 
Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Everett, 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), the 
very distinguished chairman of the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to respond just briefly to our 
friend who previously spoke in the 
well. First of all, this bill does not 
spend a penny more than the revenue 
paid into the Transportation Trust 
Fund by the American people, the traveling 
public from their gas taxes, not a 
penny more. In fact, over the 6 years of 
the bill, we spend approximately $3 billion 
less than the revenue paid in gas 
taxes. 
We do not spend any of the money 
that is currently in the Transportation 
Trust Fund, the $23 billion in the Highway 
Trust Fund, not a penny of it. In 
fact, we have agreed that the portion of 
that fund, which is not necessary to 
provide liquidity, will not be spent and 
will be turned back. That is approximately 
$10 billion in reduction in the 
national debt. 
Further, we have agreed that we will 
not count the interest paid on that balance 
in those trust funds, which means 
over 6 years that is approximately $15 
billion in foregone debt. So with those 
two provisions, and I must tell my colleagues, 
many of us swallowed hard in 
these negotiations to give up those two 
principles, but because of that, it 
means that when we count the reduction 
in the national debt on the interest, 
and we count the reduction by 
foregoing the $10 billion balance in the 
trust fund, that is $25 billion. That accounts 
virtually for the increased 
spending by reducing the national debt. 
Let me emphasize again, however, 
setting all that aside, the cold hard 
fact remains that we are simply spending 
the revenue coming in. This is honesty 
in budgeting. If we are not going 
to spend the revenue coming in, then 
we should reduce the taxes. 
Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. JACKSON-LEE). 
(Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas asked 
and was given permission to revise and 
extend her remarks.) 
Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, I appreciate where we are 
today. Let me thank the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) and 
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
OBERSTAR) for a bill that has worked 
its way through the process in a manner 
that recognizes that we do need to 
repair our bridges and highways in 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1861 

America. Not only do we face in cities 
and rural communities crumbling infrastructure, 
but every one of us knows 
that congestion abounds in our cities, 
our counties, our hamlets and our 
States. 

This BESTEA legislation recognizes 
that over a 6-year period it is important 
to rebuild America. Houston’ 
Mayor, Bob Lanier, chaired the Committee 
to Rebuild America. We fully 
recognize the importance of making 
sure that this crumbling infrastructure 
does not do damage to the trade and 
economic vitality of our Nation. This 
bill takes that into consideration. Particularly 
in the manager’s amendment, 
the provision that the DOT to develop 
a strategic plan for highway research 
and technology development, this allows 
the Department of Transportation 
to have develop and transportation 
plan for the nation. 

In my city of Houston in particular 
we are looking at new opportunities for 
transit ways, for commuter rail, for 
people movers, and we look forward in 
the years to come to redesigning our 
effort and possibly moving forward to 
end the congestion in our city. This 
transportation bill allows those considerations 
to occur regarding rail, even 
though we know that it will require an 
additional application process. 

We are moving in the right direction, 
but, Mr. Speaker, I am greatly concerned, 
because there seems to be an 
effort that is misdirected in eliminating 
the DBE program, which flies in 
the face of constitutional law that allows, 
under Adarand, the opportunity 
for reaching out, for goals, for the need 
to diversify in contracting with Federal 
monies, and to allow contractors 
who are women and minorities to participate 
in a full and open process. I am 
not so sure where this amendment 
came from, Mr. Speaker, but I would 
ask my colleagues to vote it down. 
Even after we vote for the rule we will 
not support the amendment eliminating 
the DBE program of the DOT. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today on the rule for 

H.R. 2400. I want to commend Representatives 
SHUSTER and OBERSTAR for their work on 
this complex and highly important piece of legislation. 
I generally support the Rule, but it allows 
certain amendments and disallows others 
that may be vital to the bill itself. 
It is vital to pass the amendment offered by 
Congressman DAVIS (D-Ill.) to increase from 
$42 million to $150 million per year the bill’s 
authorization for the new Welfare-to-Work 
transportation program. This is a common 
sense program that will finance services that 
transport current and former welfare recipients 
to and from jobs, and job-related activities. If 
we really want to help people make this kind 
of transition then this is the kind of support we 
should be giving them. 

It bothers me that there is an amendment 
being offered to end the Disadvantaged Business 
Enterprises program. This is a program 
that has allowed full opportunity for women 
and minorities to participate in the contracting 
for small businesses after years of being denied 
that right. 

The DOT’s equal opportunity program benefits 
all Americans by promoting the formation 

of small businesses, creating new jobs, fostering 
economic growth and stimulating innovation. 


If Congress decides not to reauthorize the 
DBE program, it will create a major disruption 
in the national economy. Thousands of small 
businesses may go out of business, costing 
tens of thousands of jobs. 

In the past, when state or local governments 
cut similar DBE programs, opportunities for 
women and minority-owned firms dried up. 
Prime contractors, in effect, told disadvantaged 
business owners, ‘‘We’ll call when we 
need a minority.’’ 

By refusing to authorize the DBE program, 
Congress will be creating a huge pot hole in 
the road to equal opportunity. 

Mr. Speaker, this Rule is the result of hard 
work and should be supported. Thank you. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 
minutes to the gentleman from 
Sanibel, Florida, (Mr. GOSS), the distinguished 
chairman of the House Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence 
and the chairman of the Subcommittee 
on Budget and Legislative Process. 

(Mr. GOSS asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GOSS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman from greater San Dimas, 
California, for yielding me the time. I 
rise in support of this fair-structured 
rule. It is a good process that makes in 
order amendments from both side of 
the aisle. 

Today we seek to balance two important 
goals: Maintaining, enhancing our 
Nation’s roads and highways on the one 
hand, while remaining committed to 
last year’s balanced budget agreement 
on the other. We all know we need 
more infrastructure, and we all know 
we need more fiscal responsibility how 
to deal with it. 

Additional concern of the folks I represent 
in Florida is not a new one: Providing 
equity to donor States through 
the transportation funding formula. I 
would like to commend the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) for 
addressing the equity issue. BESTEA 
does represent an improvement in 
terms of rate of return. We are pleased 
to see that. 

Under the current formula, Florida 
should receive 90 cents back on the dollar 
as opposed to 83 cents or less currently 
set in law. That is progress. I 
think it is equity. But I have got to say 
I am disappointed that this long-awaited 
reform has to come at the expense of 
fiscal discipline. Instead of prioritizing 
our resources and making the tough 
choices, this bill creates a larger pie 
for everyone. It is one way of doing 
things, sort of a classic Washington response. 


We do not have enough money to do 
everything we want. We make a bigger 
pie, spend anyway, and hope that 
things work out. What is worse, I 
think, is that the bill provides no offsets. 
We have an extra 26 billion over 
last year’s budget caps. I do not think 
it is fiscally responsible. It is not acceptable 
to those who wish to balance 
the budget to add 26 billion. 

Just yesterday, we committed to offsets 
for our supplemental emergency 
spending. It was a long, long debate 
and we had a lot of discussion about it. 
But I think the principle of setting for 
offsets is extremely important. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. GOSS. I yield to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, this legislation 
requires that not one penny of 
this can be spent unless we bring back 
offsets agreed to in the conference with 
the House and the Senate. It was felt 
by our leadership that we might as well 
do this in conference once because the 
Senate will have different priorities 
than we do. We need to negotiate the 
differences. So let me emphasize, not 
one penny of this can be spent unless 
we bring back offsets from conference. 

Mr. GOSS. Reclaiming my time, Mr. 
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for the 
explanation. I understand that. My 
concern is that we have not yet delineated 
those offsets. 

As the chairman of the Subcommittee 
on Legislative and Budget Process, 
I am also concerned about the bill’s 
provision moving the Highway Trust 
Fund off budget. We have to be extremely 
careful about placing more 
money outside the parameters of the 
congressional budget process. 

Frankly, instead of piecemeal reforms 
that will provide less control 
over spending, I think we should work 
toward comprehensive budget process 
reform that makes sense. I am pleased 
to be working with the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. SOLOMON), the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. KASICH), the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. NUSSLE), 
and a great many others, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. BARTON), to 
make the question of budget reform a 
goal that we can accomplish this year. 

There are other real concerns that I 
am sure Members will touch on as well. 
I do not pretend to judge the merits of 
each demonstration project, but I 
think it is doubtful that well over 1,400 
projects are deserving of Federal attention. 
To put this number in some kind 
of a perspective, the last ISTEA bill, 
1991, contained only 539 demo projects, 
I am told. No transportation bill contained 
any demo projects until 1982. So 
we got along without them for quite a 
while. In fact, the committee’s own 
rules state that it shall not be in order 
for any bill providing general legislation 
in relation to roads to contain any 
specific provision for any road. 

Mr. Speaker, I can contend it is time 
that we abandon demonstration 
projects and let the States, the local 
folks decide what their State transportation 
priorities are. That is why I intend 
to support the chairman of the 
Committee on the Budget, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. KASICH), in his 
turn-back amendment later today. I 
think the idea makes good sense, cut 
the gas tax, keep just enough to maintain 
our interstates, and let the individual 
States decide and manage their 
own transportation priorities. 


H1862 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

The wisdom of Members of Congress 
goes far, but I do not think it extends 
to the intricate details of planning 
highway and bridge and interchange 
improvements and construction. I 
think those decisions should be made 
by the professionals at the State departments 
of transportation. I am disappointed 
I cannot support the hard 
work of the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER) and others. I know 
they have worked hard and brought 
forth what is a very good bill in their 
eyes. 

I am concerned about the fiscal constraints 
problem, the demo problem, 
some of the other points I have mentioned. 
I do urge a yes vote on this rule 
so we can have a debate, and I urge fiscal 
discipline and loyalty to the principle 
of fiscal discipline when we get to 
the final vote. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. OBEY), ranking member of 
the Committee on Appropriations. 

Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, when I came 
to Congress my State got back about 70 
cents for every dollar it sent to Washington 
for highways. Through the years 
working with Mr. Petri and others we 
have been able to raise that to just 
about a dollar. This bill continues that 
new one-to-one relationship roughly, 
and for that I am very pleased. 

But this bill has three problems that 
lead me to conclude I cannot support 
it. First of all, the bill increases spending 
by 44 percent over the last bill. I 
simply do not think we have the 
money. 

Secondly, yesterday this House made 
a great thing of insisting that the 
emergency appropriation for Iraq and 
Bosnia and natural disasters be fully 
offset to the tune of about $3 billion. 
Today we are being asked to vote for a 
bill that is 13 times that large in terms 
of the amount by which it exceeds the 
amount that the budget allowed for it 
last year, and yet we have no idea 
whatsoever what other priorities are 
going to have to be cut back in order to 
pay for it. 

Highways are a very high priority 
with me. But they are not the only priority. 
It seems to me irresponsible, to 
say the least, for the House to vote on 
this before we know where the money 
is going to come from. In my view, this 
House ought to turn down this bill 
until the budget resolution is out here 
so that Congress can make its priority 
choices and decide how much more 
funding it wants in education, how 
much more funding it wants in health 
care, how much more funding it wants 
in Medicaid, or how much less it may 
want in some of these areas. 

Until we know that, I think it is 
spectacularly irresponsible for us to 
proceed to vote for this bill. And even 
though I am a zealous supporter of 
highway construction, and I guess in 
my days in the State legislature I was 
probably a pretty good imitation of the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER), under these circumstances I 
simply cannot support this bill. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Bolivar, 
Missouri (Mr. BLUNT). 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. Speaker, it is a 
privilege to be able to stand here in 
support of this bill. I think this bill 
moves highway funding in the right direction. 
Certainly I want to say in response 
to my friend, the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. OBEY), that I do 
not know what the third point was, but 
in response to the first two, this bill 
does increase spending for highways by 
about 40 percent. But the way it does 
this is by spending the Highway Trust 
Fund on transportation. That is the 
way this should have been done all the 
time. 

We would not be talking about spending 
more money on highways than we 
had planned for in the past if we had 
been doing what the American people 
thought we were doing all the time, 
which was spending their gas tax 
money for the purpose they thought it 
was going to be spent for. In terms of 
the offsets, we wouldn’t have to be considering 
offsets if a year ago we had 
moved to move this transportation 
fund off budget. It is important, I 
think, to create and continue the credibility 
that the gas tax system has by 
spending the money for what Americans 
think the money is going to be 
spent for, by balancing the budget in a 
true and fair way, and the way to do 
that is to move this trust fund off 
budget, treat it as a trust fund, and of 
course that results in more money 
being spent on our infrastructure because 
that is exactly how people 
thought that money was going to be 
spent in the past. 

Of course in response to the questions 
on demonstration projects, the 
projects that have some input by the 
Members of Congress only reflect about 
5 percent of the money being spent on 
total, on transportation. Those 
projects still have to be approved as 
part of the State-wide plan. Eighty-five 
percent of the dollars spent are spent 
by the departments of transportation 
in the various States. 

b1100 
Seven percent is spent by the administration 
in one way or another; and 
only five percent receive real input 
from the Members of Congress, who 
know their districts better than anybody 
else. 
I urge adoption of the rule and adoption 
of the plan. 
Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from West 
Virginia (Mr. RAHALL), a member of 
the committee. 
Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from Massachusetts for 
yielding me the time. 
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to 
adopt this rule, especially on my side 
of the aisle; and I urge them to set 
aside partisan considerations and any 
special agendas and support the rule. 
The consideration of legislation to 
reauthorize ISTEA simply cannot wait. 

It is the 11th hour. We face a May 1 
deadline, upon which the ability of 
States to obligate Federal highway dollars 
will expire. This comes at a critical 
time, especially in many States 
where the start of the construction 
season must begin earlier than in other 
parts of the country. 

A vote against this rule will unravel 
the delicate balance that the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) 
has achieved; and I commend his 
leadership, as well as the ranking 
member, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), in achieving 
this delicate balance. 

If we defeat this rule, it kills the bill. 
I cannot even imagine what the alternative 
would be. So I urge my colleagues 
to keep their eye on the ball 
here. 

To those who believe ISTEA spends 
too much, I say, under the rule, they 
will have their chance to vent their 
concerns through the amendments offered 
by the gentleman from Ohio and 
the gentleman from South Carolina. 
They will have their shot through 
these two amendments. 

To those who are concerned with the 
proposed amendment of my good friend 
and colleague, the gentlewoman from 
New York (Mrs. LOWEY), I say to them 
that they will have their chance in 
conference to vent their concerns and 
their support for this amendment at 
that time. 

We may debate the issue today and 
during general debate or during consideration 
of this rule, but I urge support 
of the rule so that the process may go 
forward so that we will have consideration 
during the conference committee. 


And to those of my colleagues who 
are concerned that this rule makes in 
order the amendment of the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) 
to eliminate the DBE program, I 
say that they will have the commitment 
from the bipartisan leadership of 
the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure that will stand with 
them in opposing this amendment. Republican 
and Democrat alike, we in the 
leadership on the committee will urge 
a no vote on that amendment. 

So I urge adoption of this rule. 

My colleagues, do not have it said 
that we have worked to defeat the 
most important legislation facing our 
Nation today, because the eyes of the 
Nation are upon us. Every motorist 
who sat in congestion this morning 
knows that, every driver subject to 
road rage. A vote on this rule is a defining 
moment. I urge its adoption. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to my friend, the gentleman 
from Scottsdale, Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH). 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, 
thank my colleague from California for 
yielding me the time; and I rise in 
strong support of the rule and the self-
executing amendment contained therein. 


Mr. Speaker, I would urge all my colleagues 
and their staffs and the American 
people to listen closely, especially 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1863 

the veterans who have served this 
country. Because contained within this 
rule is an amendment that sends a very 
strong message to our Nation’s veterans, 
a message that needs to be reaffirmed 
loudly and clearly, that I do 
this morning in the well of the House 
and that, more importantly, we do in 
the legislative language of this rule. 
Because we need to say to America’s 
veterans that we will not take money 
from their programs to pay for transportation 
spending. 

The American Legion, the Veterans 
of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American 
Veterans, AMVETS, Paralyzed 
Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans 
of America, the Blinded Veterans 
Association, the Jewish War Veterans, 
the Military Order of the Purple Heart, 
and the Non-Commissioned Officers Association 
have all spoken very clearly; 
and, my colleagues, we should heed 
their call to resist the temptation to 
raid veterans’ programs to fund this 
bill. 

Now, I appreciate the willingness of 
the chairman to accept this amendment 
and include it as part of the rule. 
I appreciate the willingness of my 
friend from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), 
the chairman of the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
to hear these concerns. 

And the reason we must express them 
today from this well and in this rule is 
because, sadly, the other body, the 
Senate, it seems, ignored veterans’ 
concerns when it passed its version of 
the bill. The Senate-passed bill would 
apparently spend all the veterans’ 
money on surface transportation 
projects. 

Now, it is my view that in passing 
this rule and the amendment contained 
herein, this House will send a message 
to the other body that we are opposed 
to that. So it is important to give our 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
chairman and other members 
of the conference a clear signal 
when they go into consultations with 
the other body so that they stand firm 
and we stand firm protecting veterans’ 
programs. 

Again, I would like to thank the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. SOLOMON), 
the chairman of the Committee on 
Rules, for his help in making this 
amendment in order. 

Let me also pause at this time, Mr. 
Speaker, to thank the dean of our Arizona 
delegation, the gentleman from 
Arizona (Mr. STUMP), chairman of the 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, who 53 
years ago today was landing in the Pacific 
possessions defending America’s 
freedom in World War II, for his leadership; 
and also one of our new colleagues, 
the gentleman from New Mexico 
(Mr. REDMOND), for his help in joining 
with me to offer this amendment, 
again, to echo the comments of my 
good friend from the other side of the 
aisle from West Virginia. 

This is an important rule, an important 
piece of legislation. Please vote 
yes on this rule and the amendment 
contained therein. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
21/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
New York (Mrs. LOWEY). 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, well, my 
colleagues, today is April Fool’s Day. 
How fitting and how truly outrageous 
that we are here today considering a 
rule that silences this Chamber and 
prevents debate on our amendment 
that will save hundreds of lives every 
year. 

The amendment that I had hoped to 
offer, along with our colleagues, the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. CANADY), 
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. 
MORAN), the gentleman from Delaware 
(Mr. CASTLE), the gentleman from Tennessee 
(Mr. CLEMENT), and the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. GILMAN), 
and over 100 cosponsors, was not a radical 
proposal. It would have simply established 
.08 BAC as the national DWI 
standard. It was identical to a measure 
adopted overwhelmingly by the Senate 
during consideration of the highway 
bill last month. 

More than 17,000 Americans were 
killed last year by drunk drivers. More 
than 3,700 of these fatalities and countless 
other injuries occurred in crashes 
involving persons with BAC levels 
below .10. Virtually every medical, law 
enforcement, and highway safety organization 
supports the .08 standard. The 
United States lags behind other industrialized 
nations in adopting .08 laws, 
despite the overwhelming evidence 
that drivers are seriously impaired at 
.08. 

Here in the United States, 15 States 
have already adopted .08 laws; and 
studies show that as many as 600 lives 
would be saved each year if every State 
adopted the .08 standard. And yet, this 
life-saving measure was blocked by the 
Committee on Rules. How shameful. 

In my 10 years of service in this institution, 
I have never been so disgusted. 
The liquor and restaurant industries 
gave millions in campaign contributions 
last year, and today they got 
what they paid for. The liquor industry 
owns this House lock, stock, and barrel. 


Every 30 minutes an American is 
killed by a drunk driver, and yet the 
House leadership could not even give 
Members half that time to debate our 
amendment. Somehow, though, they 
managed to find time for 60 minutes of 
debate on a partisan measure that 
failed the Senate overwhelmingly. 
What a sham. 

The House leadership has opened 
their doors and pockets to the liquor 
lobby and slammed them in the face of 
the mothers and fathers who have lost 
children to drunk drivers. The liquor 
lobby has bottled up our bill and demonstrated 
loud and clear that they put 
profits ahead of people’s lives. 

Today we had an opportunity, my 
colleagues, to follow the Senate lead 
and save lives. We were poised at a crucial 
moment in the fight to make our 
Nation’s roads safer from drunk drivers. 
The rule defeats all that. 

I urge Members to oppose this gag 
rule. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Middleton, 
New York (Mr. GILMAN), the very 
distinguished chairman of the Committee 
on International Relations. 

(Mr. GILMAN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GILMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise to express concern 
about the rule which fails to make the 
.08 blood alcohol content amendment 
in order during consideration of ISTEA 
reauthorization. 

I commend the gentlewoman from 
New York (Mrs. LOWEY) for bringing 
this measure to the attention of the 
House. This amendment establishes a 
National DWI standard of .08 blood alcohol 
concentration and was approved 
by the Senate by a 62–32 vote earlier in 
March. 

Fifteen States have already adopted 
.08 BAC laws, and their experiences 
show that 600 lives would be saved in 
our Nation each year if every State 
adopted this tough and necessary DWI 
standard. The tragedy of a fatality 
that results in drunk driving has 
touched too many families throughout 
our Nation. Seventeen thousand Americans 
were killed by drunk drivers just 
in last year alone. 

In response to opponents of the .08 
BAC due to States rights concerns, 
please bear in mind that President 
Reagan’s remarks during the signing of 
a bill establishing the age of 21 as the 
national minimum drinking age stated, 
‘‘This problem is bigger than the individual 
States. It is a grave national 
problem, and it touches all of our lives. 
With the problem so clear-cut and the 
proven solution at hand, we have no 
misgivings about the judicious use of 
Federal power. I’m convinced it will 
help persuade State legislators to act 
in the national interest to save our 
children’s lives.’’ 

That was President Reagan who succinctly 
emphasized the importance of 
the measure. It is clear that President 
Reagan understood the need for the 
Federal Government to protect our 
youth across the Nation. I am confident 
that he would feel no less obligated 
to do the same if he was still 
president. 

Bear in mind that the .08 amendment 
leaves it up to the States to decide 
what penalty should apply for DWI 
convictions. Those who stand to lose 
the most by the blood alcohol content 
standards higher than .08 are our children. 


In closing, let me urge our colleagues 
that this rule, which I reluctantly support, 
would have been far stronger by 
including the Lowey-Gilman amendment; 
and I am urging my colleagues 
to provide a future opportunity for further 
consideration of this worthy proposal. 


Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. STENHOLM). 

(Mr. STENHOLM asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 


H1864 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. STENHOLM. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
in strong opposition to this rule; and I 
do so not in criticism of the chairman 
and ranking member of the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
They have attempted to do their job in 
high priority. 

My concern today deals with the 
total amount of spending and the 
waiving of the budget process in a way 
that I have never seen in the 19 years I 
have served in this House of Representatives. 
We Democrats used to waive 
budget decisions and were criticized for 
doing it. But it was wrong when we did 
it. It is wrong when they do it today. 
And never have we seen it done as it is 
being done today. 

Where is the budget resolution? I 
want to have a warning, and I want all 
of my colleagues who believe this is a 
free shot today to listen to what I am 
about to say. We are using real bullets 
in this bill. Passing the highway bill as 
it is passed today jeopardizes a lot of 
other programs. 

Agriculture, for example, has priorities; 
and they are the first casualty of 
this bill. The Committees on Agriculture 
in the House and Senate have 
worked with the administration to 
reach a compromise on the Ag Research 
Conference, using savings from 
food stamp administration to pay for 
agriculture research, nutrition programs, 
rural development, and crop insurance. 


Now we are hearing the leadership of 
the Congress has determined that the 
agriculture research bill will not come 
to a vote because those monies have 
been reserved to pay for the highway 
bill. Now, if my colleagues care about 
problems of crop insurance, if my colleagues 
care about problems of nutrition 
programs, if my colleagues care 
about rural development programs, if 
my colleagues care about crop insurance 
concerns, please understand this 
is not a free shot. 

Paying for these programs under the 
caps of the budget that we have 
bipartisanly agreed to will be extremely 
difficult if the first bill outside 
the budget resolution comes to the 
floor of the House and is passed without 
anyone thinking they are going to 
have to pay for it with real dollars. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire 
how much time we have remaining 
on both sides? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). The gentleman from California 
(Mr. DREIER) has 91/2 minutes remaining, 
and the gentleman from Massachusetts 
(Mr. MOAKLEY) has 121/2 minutes 
remaining. 

b1115 
Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 
Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. MINGE). 
Mr. MINGE. Mr. Speaker, this rule 
should be rejected. It excuses a massive 
failure of leadership, and it is an April 
fool’s joke on the American people. We 

are breaking the historic budget agreement 
to eliminate our Nation’s deficit 
when the ink is hardly dry. 

An agreement that was widely 
praised on both sides of the aisle and 
around the country is now being repudiated. 
We are spending at least $33 billion 
more in this particular bill than 
that historic agreement allowed in the 
budget. 

We are also using the Highway Trust 
Fund concept as a smoke screen for a 
spending spree that even leaves the 
most conservative critics in despair. 
The fact of the matter is that we have 
spent on transportation, more particularly 
highways, during the period of 
this trust fund, $152 billion that is not 
accounted for in the trust fund. It is 
because this money, including interest, 
has come out of the general fund. This 
is according to a GAO report. 

We are also violating all budget 
rules. Previous speakers have alluded 
to that. It makes no sense to have a 
budget resolution process and then neglect 
it. 

Finally, we are passing legislation 
that disregards the responsibility that 
we all have of balancing the various 
needs of the Federal Government and 
the American society as we identify 
our priorities. We are simply identifying 
transportation as the first and only 
priority. We are neglecting what this 
does and many other very important 
programs. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. SPRATT), the ranking 
member of the Committee on the Budget. 


(Mr. SPRATT asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Speaker, I support 
more funding for highway and mass 
transit. My district needs it, and my 
constituents want it. And the committee 
has kindly provided some funds for 
my district. But we have provided a 
substantial plus-up in transportation 
spending already. 

In the Balanced Budget Agreement of 
1997, transportation was the only function 
of the budget funded at a higher 
level than the President requested. In 
the appropriation process, we went 
even further. In highway programs 
alone, we appropriated $23.3 billion in 
fiscal 1998. That is $2.3 billion above 
the level appropriated in fiscal year 
1997. In terms of outlays, it is $3.5 billion 
more than fiscal year 1997, an increase 
of 19 percent. 

This bill goes far beyond even those 
increased levels. BESTEA is $40 billion 
above the Balanced Budget Agreement 
of 1997, and outlays is $26 billion. If we 
pass this bill, transportation will 
trump the rest of the budget. We will 
have to pare back priorities that we 
have already committed to and preclude 
ourselves from doing initiatives 
in other areas. 

What does that mean? Education will 
take a hit. Housing is in jeopardy, NIH 
and biomedical research, other infrastructure, 
the Corps of Engineers. 

Exactly what offsets we will make we 
do not know, because this bill does not 
identify them. It says elliptically that 
no funds can be obligated under this 
law until offsets have been identified. I 
take it this decision will be made in 
conference by the conferees on this 
bill, not by the Committee on Budget 
in a budget resolution, not the Committee 
on Appropriations in the 302(b) 
allocation process. 

This is a radical departure from our 
established procedures. This bill violates 
the Balanced Budget Agreement 
by being $40 billion above the agreed-
upon amount. It violates the Congressional 
Budget Act by presenting this 
bill before a budget resolution has been 
passed and by exceeding the allocations 
made last year. It violates the Budget 
Enforcement Act by presenting or creating 
$9.3 billion in mandatory spending, 
which is not without identifying 
the offsets. 

What I call for, Mr. Speaker, is a vote 
against the rule and return to established 
procedures, to the disciplines 
that have brought us at long last to a 
balanced budget. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to my friend, the gentleman 
from Stamford, Connecticut (Mr. 
SHAYS). 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
1 additional minute to the gentleman 
from Connecticut. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). The gentleman from Connecticut 
is recognized for 3 minutes. 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman for yielding to me. 

I know there are men and women of 
goodwill on both sides of this issue. I 
have a feeling that, I end up sounding 
a bit self-righteous because I have lot 
of convictions. 

I just want to say from the outset 
that someone said to me, you may feel 
strongly you are right, but you are not 
always right. Maybe this is one of 
those times. 

But I believe with all my heart and 
soul this is a core debate for this Republican 
Congress. Are we truly going 
to get our country’s financial house in 
order and balance the budget? It is a 
core issue. Are we are going to talk 
about spending surpluses before surpluses 
even exist? 

Last year, many of us felt the budget 
agreement was too generous. The 
Budget Committee allowed the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
for instance, to get $9 billion 
more. Then the Appropriations Committee 
decided to give the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure 
another $11 billion. Last year we gave 
the committee $20 billion more during 
a 5-year period. 

We have a bill that is coming before 
us that is going to spend, according to 
CBO $33 billion above and beyond the 
budget agreement. I know Republicans 
are not going to let it be paid for out of 
the defense side of the budget. Democrats, 
particularly the President, are 
not going to let transportation be paid 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1865 

out of the social side of the budget. So 
maybe it comes out of some theoretical 
savings that we have in entitlements, 
or maybe it just does not get paid for. 

Mr. Speaker, I believe if we do have a 
surplus, it should go for social security 
or deficit reduction like my side has 
advocated. I think if we have new programs, 
they should be paid for out of 
old programs. I believe, if we have new 
taxes, we should cut taxes somewhere 
else for no net increase. 

I am hard-pressed to know how this 
$33 billion budget buster fits in with 
this Republican majority and what I 
have been about for 11 years in trying 
to get my country’s financial house in 
order. 

I particularly object to the fact that 
the Committee on Rules did not provide 
in order a bipartisan amendment 
which would have allowed us to debate 
this issue and bring the transportation 
bill in line with the budget agreement. 

I am particularly disappointed the 
Committee on Rules did not put in 
order an amendment that would have 
allowed us to vote on whether the 
transportation bill would be in accordance 
with our budget agreement. In 
other words, if our amendment had 
been in order and passed, we would 
take $33 billion out of this $217 billion 
bill. 

Mr. Speaker, I hope and pray that 
this Republican majority finds its center 
again. I believe we are losing it. I 
believe we need to work overtime to 
get it back. I honestly have to say to 
my colleagues I think we will be judged 
harshly if we don’t. I oppose the rule. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from California 
(Mr. FAZIO). 

Mr. FAZIO of California. Mr. Speaker, 
I yield to no Member of this institution 
in my love for infrastructure. I 
think we all appreciate the fact that 
this bill gives us a great opportunity to 
take something home to the people 
who send us here. 

But my problem with it is that it is, 
frankly, too big. This is not just a vote 
about bridges and highways. This is, in 
fact, the budget vote for this Congress. 
This is a vote that is going to shape 
the Federal budget not just this year 
but for the next 5 years. 

We have already passed the deficit 
reduction package in the first year of 
this Congress. Most of the cuts occur in 
the outyears. Most of the outlays in 
this bill occur in the outyears. The 
Budget crunch is out ahead of us. 

Those of us on this side of the aisle 
who want another 100,000 teachers in 
the classroom so we can reduce classroom 
size, or who want to expand Medicare 
to people who are 55 to 65 and have 
lost their jobs and their health benefits 
and those on the other side of the aisle 
who think they may want some tax 
cuts in the future are, at this point, 
being told by the people bringing us 
this bill that their priorities do not 
count that they have no lace in the debate. 


If we want to protect social security 
by allowing the surplus to be held in 

abeyance until we come up with that 
fix, we can count on that surplus being 
spent if this bill passes. In fact, this is 
a vote that will, in fact, put us in a position 
to have no discretionary dollars 
to spend on any of our priorities on either 
side of the aisle in the next 3 to 5 
years. 

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake about 
it. By skipping the budget process, by 
not facing up to these dilemmas, these 
needs for offsets publicly, up front, we 
are delaying till the end of this process 
the responsibility we should have 
taken by now. 

We are not willing to have a priorities 
debate in front of ourselves, let 
alone the American people and that decision 
is an abomination. I appreciate 
the people who bring this bill to us. 
They do it in all good faith. But they 
do it in a way that is detrimental to 
the future of this institution and the 
American people despite their sincere 
belief that the Highway bill should 
take precedent over every other spending 
program. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to my very good friend, the 
gentleman from Knoxville, Tennessee 
(Mr. DUNCAN), the chairman of the Subcommittee 
on Aviation. 

Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me this 
time. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support 
of this rule and this bill. 

I particularly want to commend the 
chairman, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER), for his hard 
work on this bill. It is a real tribute to 
his perseverance and his dedication to 
and love for his country. 

I want to also commend the ranking 
member, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), for his work. 

A misimpression is being conveyed 
on this bill. Many people seem to think 
that all of this spending is being done 
in 1 year. This is a 6-year bill. When we 
divide 6 into the total involved here, it 
comes out to slightly less than 2 percent 
of Federal spending over this period. 
Let me repeat that, Mr. Speaker, 
slightly less than 2 percent of Federal 
spending over this 6-year period. 

I believe we can poll any group in 
this country and well over 90 percent of 
the people in this country would agree 
that 2 percent is not too much for Federal 
Government to spend on our Nation’s 
highways, roads, bridges, and 
transit needs. This is a very conservative 
bill, Mr. Speaker. It is one that 
all Members can and should support. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
21/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. LEWIS), the minority 
whip. 

Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise against this rule. Under today’s 
budget constraint, $218 billion is simply 
too much. It is too much asphalt, 
too much money to take away from 
our children, the elderly, our veterans, 
and the needy. 

This bill busts the budget by $26 billion. 
Money does not grow on trees. It 

must come from somewhere. This bill 
will force us to cut valuable government 
programs like Head Start, school 
lunches, low income housing, health 
care, veterans, and environmental protection. 


This bill is not the bridge to the 21st 
century. It is not a bridge to our future. 
We are moving down the wrong 
highway. Are we prepared as a great 
Nation to choose concrete over children, 
bridges over books, pavement 
over people? 

Do not get me wrong. We need Federal 
transportation programs, but $218 
billion is simply too much. Beginning 
with the Democratic budget in 1993, we 
have put our fiscal house in order. Now 
we have a balanced budget. We have 
money for schools. We have money for 
children. We have money for veterans, 
the elderly, and the needy. This bill 
will end all of that. It puts our fiscal 
house in disarray. It busts the bank. 

Because this bill does not pay for 
itself, it makes no hard choices. It is 
easy to vote for a $20 million road 
project in our district. But how do we 
tell little children there is no money 
for schools, no money for books, no 
money for teachers? 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to 
reject this rule. I am not willing, I am 
not prepared to sacrifice education, 
health care, the environment, and community 
development to $218 billion 
worth of asphalt and urban sprawl. It is 
simply too much. 

b1130 
Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Los Alamos, 
New Mexico (Mr. REDMOND) who 
worked long and hard to make sure 
that veterans will not be detrimentally 
impacted by this bill. 
Mr. REDMOND. Mr. Speaker, this 
vote this morning is concerning keeping 
our word, our word to those who 
pay taxes into the Highway Trust Fund 
for the highways and the bridges that 
Americans deserve, but it is also about 
keeping our word to the veterans of the 
United States of America. 
I am proud to represent in the State 
of New Mexico the survivors of the Bataan 
death march, a road of a different 
kind. These were men that laid down 
their lives, and their brothers were 
killed during the time of the Bataan 
death march, and we need to remember 
that these men received promises from 
this government to take care of their 
medical needs, and to be utilizing 
money for roads from the veterans’ 
fund is unconscionable, but it is equally 
unconscionable to be charging 
Americans at the gas pump for taxes 
and not delivering the roads. 
So, Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of 
the rule, the rule that will enable us to 
keep our word both to those who have 
supported our veterans and also those 
who have supported our roads. 
Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Del Mar 
(Mr. CUNNINGHAM), my very good friend 
and fellow Californian. 


H1866 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise in favor of this rule. Like all the 
bills that we have, I do not know of a 
single bill that we have that there are 
parts that we do not like. I like the 
section that we just talked about, protecting 
the veterans, and I think the 
case that can be made in order is a 
very good one. The chairman may disagree 
with that. 

But I was disappointed at one area, 
and the gentlewoman from New York 
(Mrs. LOWEY) has an amendment that 
would draw down drunk drivers down 
to .8 percent and put penalties. It is a 
stick. There are measures in the bill 
that is a carrot and a stick, but I think 
in the case of drunk drivers we need 
more stick than we do carrot, and I am 
disappointed that that is not allowed. 
It is in the Senate version, and I would 
ask the chairman and the ranking minority 
to support that in conference 
even though it is not in our bill. 

Mr. MOAKLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
the balance of my time to the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) 
ranking member of the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). The gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) is recognized for 
for 3 minutes. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the ranking member of the Committee 
on Rules for this time. 

Listening to all these previous speakers 
who came up with one or another 
complaint about this legislation, one 
would think Chicken Little was right, 
the sky is falling all around us, or the 
budget. Or one might think that this 
bill is some sort of budgetary Pac Man 
chewing its way through the budget, 
nibbling up everything else for every 
other function. To say that we cannot 
do anything for education or we cannot 
do anything for veterans because of 
this bill is absolute hogwash. Look at 
the budget and the billions of dollars 
that are in that budget for every other 
function of government. 

To say that we are taking $26 billion 
is wrong. It is $25.4; let us be right, let 
us get the numbers right. Even if my 
colleagues figure out that a decimal 
point does not go over a halfway point 
they can slip it over to the first. Let us 
be exact about it, $25.4 billion. That is 
$4 billion a year over the budget agreement 
over the period of this bill. 

Do my colleagues mean they cannot 
find $4 billion in a $1.7 trillion federal 
budget? Out of a $7 trillion national 
economy? That transportation accounts 
for over 10 percent of our total 
gross domestic product, approaching 
$778 billion, the transportation sector 
alone? It is the engine driving the national 
economy. 

For 30 years, my colleagues, for 30 
years surpluses have been building up 
in the Highway Trust Fund, being used 
to fund other functions of government. 
Transportation going to come to the 
floor over the last 30 years and say, 
‘‘Oh, my God, you can increase spending 
for this that or the other function 

because it means we won’t build more 
roads and bridges.’’ No. And over that 
period of 30 years $29 billion have been 
built up in the surplus in the Highway 
Trust Fund, and now that surplus is 
just going to go poof, off into the ether, 
to reduce the Federal debt somehow, 
and we do not even get to spend out the 
interest on capital into the Highway 
Trust Fund in the next 6 years of this 
legislation. 

As my colleagues know, the Congress, 
this Congress, this body right 
here made an agreement with the driving 
public of America in 1956 and said 
we will create a trust fund into which 
taxes on gasoline will be paid, and from 
that trust fund we will create a guaranteed 
dedicated revenue stream to 
build these projects. And bills would 
come to the House floor every 5 years 
and pass on a voice vote because the 
public had confidence that we meant 
what we said, that we struck a bargain 
and we are living by that bargain. And 
now we have got that surplus built up, 
and that surplus is just going to go 
away. That is nonsense. 

Vote for this rule, vote for this bill, 
vote for the future of America. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, that was a spectacular 
speech, but I am sure we will hear an 
even better one now from the distinguished 
chairman of the Committee on 
Rules. Pending that I would like to 
make a unanimous consent request. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days in which to revise 
and extend their remarks on general 
debate for this rule, H. Res. 405. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from California? 


There was no objection. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I yield the 
balance of my time to the gentleman 
from Glens Falls, New York (Mr. SOLOMON), 
the chairman of the Committee 
on Rules. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from New York (Mr. SOLOMON) 
is recognized for 41/2 minutes. 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from California for 
yielding this time to me. 

After the last speech by my good 
friend, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), I should just move the 
previous question because I think he 
has sold this House, and rightfully so. 
In doing so I want to commend the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) 
and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) and all of the 
other members of the committee that 
worked so diligently on this. 

As my colleagues know, Mr. Speaker, 
I take no back seat for anyone as far as 
fiscal responsibility in this House. And 
as my colleagues know, 5 years ago I 
wrote a book. It is called ‘‘The Balanced 
Budget, A Republican Plan,’’ and 
it shows how to go about balancing the 

budget not in 7, 6, 5, 4, 3 or 2, but in 1 
year, and we followed it up with a 2,000 
page bill that shows how to deduct over 
$900 billion in spending. Well, the Republican 
and the Democratic Members 
of this House adopted much of this, and 
today I am so very, very proud that 
after 20 years that I, JERRY SOLOMON, 
can say we have got a balanced budget 
in this House. 

Now it comes to the trust funds. 
There is nothing more outrageous to 
the American people, nothing, than 
taxing them for a certain purpose and 
then this Congress absconding with the 
money, and that is what we have been 
doing for years in the Social Security 
Trust Fund, in the Medicare Trust 
Fund, in the Highway Trust Fund. 
That is illegal. 

Of course we have done it legally, but 
it is illegal to the American people because 
the motorists have paid these 
taxes year after year after year, these 
surpluses have built up, and then we 
have used the surpluses to offset and 
say we have a balanced budget. Well, 
we are not going to do that any more; 
we are going to take those moneys that 
were raised for this purpose and we are 
going to spend it all across this country. 


Mr. Speaker, I represent the Northeast. 
It is the Rust Belt. I represent an 
area in the Catskill Mountains, the 
Hudson Valley and the Adirondacks 
where we still have old post roads 
where they used to drive horses and 
carriages over them, and we have 
bridges that are falling down and people 
are being killed. Not too many 
years ago a whole wide road washed 
out and killed dozens of people. 

The infrastructure of this country is 
going down the drain, and if we do not 
have a strong infrastructure, how can 
we continue to have a good economy? 
We cannot, and that is why every Member, 
especially conservatives like me, 
ought to come over here and live up to 
their fiscal responsibility and vote for 
this rule and vote for the bill. 

Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong 
support of the amendment to H.R. 2400 which 
expresses the Sense of Congress that offsets 
to spending above the Congressional Budget 
Office baseline, as described in section 1001 
of the bill, should not be taken from veterans 
programs. This amendment will be considered 
as adopted upon approval of the rule governing 
consideration of H.R. 2400. 

This important amendment makes it clear 
that offsets for increases in spending authorized 
by the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act should not include 
any provision making a change in programs or 
benefits administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs. 

There seems to be a widespread misconception 
about restricting or denying a benefit 
to which a qualifying veteran is entitled to 
receive as a means of finding ‘‘savings’’ to offset 
the costs of other legislation. This misconception 
is seductively simple—if a veteran 
is not now in receipt of an entitlement which 
he or she would qualify to receive if they had 
applied for this benefit, then eliminating this 
benefit does that veteran no harm. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1867 

Hinchey McInnis Sandlin Klug Rangel Royce

Would the Members of the House and Sen-

Hinojosa McIntosh Sawyer Payne Riggs Waters

ate who are eligible for, but not yet in receipt 

Hobson McIntyre Saxton 

of, a retirement pension believe they would Hoekstra McKeon Scarborough b1200 

not be harmed if their anticipated retirement 
benefit was reduced or eliminated because 
they had not yet applied to receive it? There 
would be shrieks and howls about such an injustice. 
We would be told the Members had 
‘‘earned’’ their pension. Veterans also have 
earned the benefits which they are entitled to 
receive. 

Let me also make it clear that I strongly 
support passage of H.R. 2400. We clearly 
need to have a modern, efficient and reliable 
transportation infrastructure. This has always 
been important and is certainly no less important 
today with the increasing globalization of 
the economy and economic competition. We 
can do this, however, while continuing to 
honor our commitments to veterans. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, I urge 
strong support of the rule. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time, and I move the previous 
question on the resolution. 

The previous question was ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the resolution. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, on that, I 
demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 357, nays 61, 
not voting 12, as follows: 

[Roll No. 90] 
YEAS—357 
Abercrombie Capps Eshoo 
Ackerman Carson Evans 
Aderholt Chabot Everett 
Allen Chambliss Ewing 
Andrews Chenoweth Farr 
Archer Clay Fattah 
Armey Clement Fawell 
Bachus Clyburn Filner 
Baesler Coble Foley 
Baker Coburn Forbes 
Baldacci Collins Fossella 
Ballenger Combest Fowler 
Barcia Condit Fox 
Barr Cook Frank (MA) 
Bartlett Cooksey Franks (NJ) 
Barton Costello Frelinghuysen 
Bass Coyne Frost 
Bateman Crane Furse 
Bereuter Crapo Gallegly 
Berman Cubin Ganske 
Berry Cummings Gejdenson 
Bilbray Cunningham Gekas 
Bilirakis Danner Gibbons 
Bishop Davis (IL) Gillmor 
Blagojevich Davis (VA) Gilman 
Bliley Deal Goode 
Blumenauer DeFazio Goodlatte 
Blunt DeGette Goodling 
Boehlert Delahunt Gordon 
Boehner DeLauro Goss 
Bonilla DeLay Granger 
Bonior Diaz-Balart Green 
Borski Dickey Greenwood 
Boswell Dicks Gutierrez 
Boucher Dingell Gutknecht 
Boyd Dixon Hall (OH) 
Brady Doggett Hall (TX) 
Brown (CA) Doolittle Hamilton 
Brown (FL) Doyle Hansen 
Bryant Dreier Hastert 
Bunning Duncan Hastings (WA) 
Burr Dunn Hayworth 
Burton Ehlers Hefley 
Buyer Ehrlich Hefner 
Callahan Emerson Herger 
Calvert Engel Hill 
Camp English Hilleary 
Campbell Ensign Hilliard 

Holden McKinney Schaefer, Dan 
Hooley McNulty Schaffer, Bob 
Horn Meehan Scott 
Hostettler Meeks (NY) Sensenbrenner 
Houghton Menendez Serrano 
Hulshof Metcalf Sessions 
Hunter Mica Shaw 
Hutchinson Millender-Sherman 
Hyde McDonald Shimkus 
Istook Miller (CA) Shuster 
Jackson (IL) Mink Sisisky 
Jackson-Lee Moakley Skeen 
(TX) Mollohan Skelton 
Jenkins Moran (KS) Slaughter 
John Murtha Smith (MI) 
Johnson (CT) Nadler Smith (NJ) 
Johnson (WI) Neal Smith (OR) 
Johnson, E.B. Nethercutt Smith (TX) 
Johnson, Sam Neumann Smith, Linda 
Jones Ney Snowbarger 
Kanjorski Northup Snyder 
Kaptur Norwood Solomon 
Kasich Nussle Souder 
Kelly Oberstar Spence 
Kennedy (RI) Olver Stabenow 
Kennelly Ortiz Stark 
Kildee Owens Stearns 
Kilpatrick Oxley Stokes 
Kim Packard Strickland 
King (NY) Pallone Stump 
Kingston Pappas Stupak 
Kleczka Parker Sununu 
Klink Pascrell Talent 
Knollenberg Pastor Tauscher 
Kolbe Paul Tauzin 
Kucinich Paxon Taylor (MS) 
LaHood Pease Taylor (NC) 
Lampson Peterson (MN) Thomas 
Lantos Peterson (PA) Thompson 
Largent Petri Thornberry 
Latham Pickering Thune 
LaTourette Pickett Thurman 
Lazio Pitts Tiahrt 
Leach Pombo Tierney 
Levin Portman Towns 
Lewis (CA) Poshard Traficant 
Lewis (KY) Pryce (OH) Turner 
Linder Quinn Upton 
Lipinski Radanovich Velazquez 
Livingston Rahall Vento 
LoBiondo Ramstad Visclosky 
Lofgren Redmond Walsh 
Lucas Regula Wamp 
Maloney (CT) Reyes Watkins 
Manton Riley Watts (OK) 
Manzullo Rivers Waxman 
Markey Rodriguez Weldon (FL) 
Martinez Roemer Weldon (PA) 
Mascara Rogan Weller 
Matsui Rogers Weygand 
McCarthy (MO) Rohrabacher White 
McCarthy (NY) Ros-Lehtinen Whitfield 
McCollum Rothman Wicker 
McCrery Roukema Wise 
McDade Rush Woolsey 
McGovern Ryun Wynn 
McHale Sanchez Young (AK) 
McHugh Sanders 
NAYS—61 
Barrett (NE) Harman Price (NC) 
Barrett (WI) Hastings (FL) Roybal-Allard 
Becerra Hoyer Sabo 
Bentsen Inglis Salmon 
Brown (OH) Kind (WI) Sanford 
Canady LaFalce Schumer 
Cardin Lewis (GA) Shadegg 
Castle Lowey Shays 
Christensen Luther Skaggs 
Clayton Maloney (NY) Smith, Adam 
Conyers McDermott Spratt 
Cramer Meek (FL) Stenholm 
Davis (FL) Miller (FL) Tanner 
Deutsch Minge Torres 
Dooley Moran (VA) Watt (NC) 
Edwards Morella Wexler 
Etheridge Myrick Wolf 
Fazio Obey Yates 
Ford Pelosi Young (FL) 
Gephardt Pomeroy 
Graham Porter 
NOT VOTING—12 
Cannon Gilchrest Jefferson 
Cox Gonzalez Kennedy (MA) 

Messrs. HASTINGS of Florida, 
CRAMER, WATT of North Carolina, 
SCHUMER, Mrs. MEEK of Florida, and 
Messrs. INGLIS of South Carolina, 
SALMON, TORRES, GRAHAM, and 
SANFORD changed their vote from 
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 

Mr. RODRIGUEZ and Mrs. THURMAN 
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to 
‘‘yea.’’ 

So the resolution was agreed to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table 

f 


REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 2183 

Mr. DICKEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that my name be 
removed as a cosponsor of H.R. 2183. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the gentleman from Arkansas? 


There was no objection. 

f 


CONDITIONAL RECESS OR ADJOURNMENT 
OF THE SENATE 
AND CONDITIONAL ADJOURNMENT 
OF THE HOUSE FOR THE 
EASTER RECESS 

Mr. ARMEY. Mr. Speaker, I offered a 
privileged concurrent resolution (H. 
Con. Res. 257) and ask for its immediate 
consideration. 

The Clerk read the concurrent resolution, 
as follows: 

H. CON. RES. 257 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the 
Senate concurring), That when the House adjourns 
on the legislative day of Wednesday, 
April 1, 1998, it stand adjourned until 12:30 

p.m. on Tuesday, April 21, 1998, or until noon 
on the second day after Members are notified 
to reassemble pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs 
first; and that when the Senate recesses or 
adjourns at the close of business on Thursday, 
April 2, 1998, Friday, April 3, 1998, Saturday, 
April 4, 1998, or Sunday, April 5, 1998, 
pursuant to a motion made by the Majority 
Leader, or his designee, in accordance with 
this concurrent resolution, it stand recessed 
or adjourned until noon on Monday, April 20, 
1998, or such time on that day as may be 
specified by the Majority Leader or his designee 
in the motion to recess or adjourn, or 
until noon on the second day after members 
are notified to reassemble pursuant to section 
2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever 
occurs first. 
SEC. 2. The Speaker of the House and the 
Majority Leader of the Senate, acting jointly 
after consultation with the Minority Leader 
of the House and the Minority Leader of the 
Senate, shall notify the Members of the 
House and the Senate, respectively, to reassemble 
whenever, in their opinion, the public 
interest shall warrant it. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). The concurrent resolution is 
not debatable. 

The question is on the concurrent 
resolution. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 


H1868 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. TIERNEY. Mr. Speaker, on that, 
I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 223, nays 
187, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 

(H.R. 1151) to amend the Federal Credit 
Union Act to clarify existing law and 
ratify the longstanding policy of the 
National Credit Union Administration 
Board with regard to field of membership 
of Federal credit unions, as 
amended. 
The Clerk read as follows: 
H.R. 1151 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Credit Union 
Membership Access Act’’. 

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. 

The Congress finds the following: 

(1) The American credit union movement 
began as a cooperative effort to serve the 
productive and provident credit needs of individuals 
of modest means. 
(2) Credit unions continue to fulfill this 
public purpose, and current members and 
membership groups should not face divestiture 
from the financial services institution 
of their choice as a result of recent court action. 
(3) To promote thrift and credit extension, 
a meaningful affinity and bond among members, 
manifested by a commonality of routine 
interaction, shared and related work experiences, 
interests, or activities, or the 
maintenance of an otherwise well-understood 
sense of cohesion or identity is essential to 
the fulfillment of credit unions’ public mission. 
(4) Credit unions, unlike many other participants 
in the financial services market, 
are exempt from Federal and most State 
taxes because they are member-owned, 
democratically operated, not-for-profit organizations 
generally managed by volunteer 
boards of directors and because they have 
the specified mission of meeting the credit 
and savings needs of consumers, especially 
persons of modest means. 
(5) Improved credit union safety and soundness 
provisions will enhance the public benefit 
that citizens receive from these cooperative 
financial services institutions. 
TITLE I—CREDIT UNION MEMBERSHIP 

SEC. 101. FIELDS OF MEMBERSHIP. 

Section 109 of the Federal Credit Union Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1759) is amended— 

(1) in the 1st sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Federal credit union membership 
shall consist of’’ and inserting ‘‘(a) 
IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b), Federal 
credit union membership shall consist 
of’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘, except that’’ and all that 
follows through the period at the end of such 
sentence and inserting a period; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
subsections: 
‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP FIELD.—Subject to the 
other provisions of this section, the membership 
of any Federal credit union shall be limited 
to the membership described in 1 of the 
following categories: 

‘‘(1) SINGLE COMMON-BOND CREDIT UNION.—1 
group which has a common bond of occupation 
or association. 

‘‘(2) MULTIPLE COMMON-BOND CREDIT 
UNION.—More than 1 group— 

‘‘(A) each of which has (within such group) 
a common bond of occupation or association; 
and 

‘‘(B) the number of members of each of 
which (at the time the group is first included 
within the field of membership of a credit 
union described in this paragraph) does not 
exceed any numerical limitation applicable 

19, as follows: 

[Roll No. 91] 
YEAS—223 
Aderholt Gibbons Packard 
Archer Gillmor Pappas 
Armey Gilman Parker 
Bachus Goodlatte Paul 
Baker Goodling Paxon 
Ballenger Goss Pease 
Barr Graham Peterson (PA) 
Barrett (NE) Granger Pickering 
Bartlett Gutknecht Pickett 
Barton Hansen Pitts 
Bass Hastert Pombo 
Bateman Hastings (WA) Porter 
Bereuter Hayworth Portman 
Bilbray Hefley Pryce (OH) 
Bilirakis Herger Quinn 
Bliley Hill Radanovich 
Blunt Hilleary Ramstad 
Boehlert Hobson Redmond 
Boehner Hoekstra Regula 
Bonilla Holden Riley 
Boswell Horn Rogers 
Boucher Hostettler Rohrabacher 
Brady Houghton Ros-Lehtinen 
Bryant Hulshof Roukema 
Bunning Hunter Ryun 
Burr Hutchinson Salmon 
Burton Hyde Sanford 
Buyer Inglis Saxton 
Callahan Istook Scarborough 
Calvert Jenkins Schaefer, Dan 
Camp Johnson (CT) Sensenbrenner 
Campbell Johnson, Sam Sessions 
Canady Jones Shadegg 
Carson Kasich Shaw 
Castle Kelly Shays 
Chabot Kim Shimkus 
Chambliss King (NY) Shuster 
Chenoweth Kingston Skeen 
Christensen Knollenberg Smith (MI) 
Coble Kolbe Smith (NJ) 
Collins LaHood Smith (OR) 
Combest Largent Smith (TX) 
Cook Latham Smith, Linda 
Cooksey LaTourette Snowbarger 
Crane Lazio Solomon 
Crapo Leach Souder 
Cubin Lewis (CA) Spence 
Cunningham Lewis (KY) Stearns 
Davis (VA) Lipinski Stump 
Deal Livingston Sununu 
DeLay LoBiondo Talent 
Diaz-Balart Lucas Tauzin 
Dickey Manzullo Taylor (NC) 
Doolittle Mascara Thomas 
Doyle McCollum Thornberry 
Dreier McCrery Thune 
Duncan McDade Tiahrt 
Dunn McHugh Traficant 
Ehlers McInnis Upton 
Ehrlich McIntosh Walsh 
Emerson McKeon Wamp 
English Metcalf Watkins 
Ensign Mica Watts (OK) 
Everett Miller (FL) Weldon (FL) 
Ewing Moran (KS) Weldon (PA) 
Foley Morella Weller 
Forbes Murtha White 
Fossella Myrick Whitfield 
Fowler Nethercutt Wicker 
Fox Neumann Wolf 
Franks (NJ) Ney Yates 
Frelinghuysen Northup Young (AK) 
Gallegly Norwood Young (FL) 
Ganske Nussle 
Gekas Oxley 
NAYS—187 
Abercrombie Berry Cardin 
Ackerman Bishop Clay 
Allen Blagojevich Clayton 
Baesler Blumenauer Clement 
Baldacci Bonior Clyburn 
Barcia Boyd Condit 
Barrett (WI) Brown (CA) Conyers 
Becerra Brown (FL) Costello 
Bentsen Brown (OH) Coyne 

Cummings Kildee Poshard 
Danner Kilpatrick Price (NC) 
Davis (FL) Kind (WI) Rahall 
Davis (IL) Kleczka Reyes 
DeFazio Klink Rivers 
DeGette Kucinich Rodriguez 
Delahunt LaFalce Roemer 
DeLauro Lampson Rogan 
Deutsch Lantos Rothman 
Dicks Levin Roybal-Allard 
Dingell Lewis (GA) Rush 
Dixon Lofgren Sabo 
Doggett Lowey Sanchez 
Dooley Luther Sanders 
Edwards Maloney (CT) Sandlin 
Engel Maloney (NY) Sawyer 
Eshoo Manton Schaffer, Bob 
Etheridge Markey Schumer 
Evans Martinez Scott 
Farr Matsui Serrano 
Fattah McCarthy (MO) Sherman 
Fazio McCarthy (NY) Sisisky 
Filner McDermott Skaggs 
Ford McGovern Skelton 
Frank (MA) McHale Slaughter 
Frost McIntyre Smith, Adam 
Furse McKinney Snyder 
Gejdenson McNulty Spratt 
Gephardt Meehan Stabenow 
Gordon Meek (FL) Stark 
Green Meeks (NY) Stenholm 
Gutierrez Menendez Stokes 
Hall (OH) Millender-Strickland 
Hall (TX) McDonald Stupak 
Hamilton Miller (CA) Tanner 
Harman Minge Tauscher 
Hastings (FL) Mink Taylor (MS) 
Hefner Moakley Thompson 
Hilliard Mollohan Thurman 
Hinchey Moran (VA) Tierney 
Hinojosa Nadler Torres 
Hooley Neal Towns 
Hoyer Oberstar Turner 
Jackson (IL) Obey Velazquez 
Jackson-Lee Olver Vento 
(TX) Ortiz Visclosky 
John Owens Watt (NC) 
Johnson (WI) Pallone Waxman 
Johnson, E. B. Pascrell Wexler 
Kanjorski Pastor Weygand 
Kaptur Pelosi Wise 
Kennedy (RI) Peterson (MN) Woolsey 
Kennelly Pomeroy Wynn 

ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1 
Coburn 
NOT VOTING—19 

Andrews Goode Petri 
Borski 
Cannon 
Cox 
Fawell 
Gilchrest 
Greenwood 
Jefferson 
Kennedy (MA) 
Klug 
Linder 
Rangel 
Riggs 
Royce 
Waters 
Gonzalez Payne 
b1222 

So the concurrent resolution was 
agreed to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 1173 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the name of 
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. 
HILLEARY) be removed as cosponsor of 
H.R. 1173. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Michigan? 

There was no objection. 

f 


CREDIT UNION MEMBERSHIP 
ACCESS ACT 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I move to 

Berman Capps Cramer suspend the rules and pass the bill under subsection (d). 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1869 

‘‘(3) COMMUNITY CREDIT UNION.—Persons or 
organizations within a well-defined local 
community, neighborhood, or rural district. 

‘‘(c) GRANDFATHERED MEMBERS AND 
GROUPS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(b)— 

‘‘(A) any person or organization who is a 
member of any Federal credit union as of the 
date of the enactment of the Credit Union 
Membership Access Act may remain a member 
of such credit union after such date; and 

‘‘(B) a member of any group whose members 
constituted a portion of the membership 
of any Federal credit union as of such date of 
enactment shall continue to be eligible to 
become a member of such credit union, by 
virtue of membership in such group, after 
such date. 

‘‘(2) SUCCESSORS.—If the common bond of 
any group referred to in paragraph (1) is defined 
by any particular organization or business 
entity, paragraph (1) shall continue to 
apply with respect to any successor to such 
organization or entity. 

‘‘(d) MULTIPLE COMMON-BOND CREDIT UNION 
GROUP REQUIREMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) NUMERICAL LIMITATION.—Except as 
provided in paragraph (2), only a group with 
fewer than 3,000 members shall be eligible to 
be included in the field of membership of a 
credit union described in subsection (b)(2). 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS.—In the case of any Federal 
credit union whose field of membership 
is determined under subsection (b)(2), the numerical 
limitation described in paragraph (1) 
shall not apply with respect to the following: 

‘‘(A) CERTAIN LARGER GROUPS INCAPABLE OF 
SUPPORTING AND OPERATING A SINGLE-GROUP 
CREDIT UNION.—Any group which the Board 
determines, in writing and in accordance 
with the guidelines and regulations described 
in paragraph (4), could not feasibly or reasonably 
establish a new single common-bond 
credit union described in subsection (b)(1) because— 


‘‘(i) the group lacks sufficient volunteer 
and other resources to support the efficient 
and effective operation of a credit union; 

‘‘(ii) the group does not meet the criteria 
which the Board has determined to be important 
for the likelihood of success in establishing 
and managing a new credit union, including 
demographic characteristics, such as 
geographical location of members, diversity 
of ages and income levels, and other factors 
which may affect the financial viability and 
stability of a credit union; or 

‘‘(iii) the group would be unlikely to operate 
a safe and sound credit union. 

‘‘(B) TRANSACTIONS FOR SUPERVISORY REASONS.—
Any group transferred from another 
credit union— 

‘‘(i) in connection with a merger or consolidation 
which has been recommended by 
the Board or any appropriate State credit 
union supervisor for safety and soundness 
concerns with respect to such other credit 
union; or 

‘‘(ii) by the Board in the Board’s capacity 
as conservator or liquidating agent with respect 
to such other credit union. 

‘‘(3) EXCEPTION FOR UNDERSERVED AREAS.— 
Notwithstanding subsection (b), in the case 
of a Federal credit union described in paragraph 
(2) of such subsection, the Board may 
allow the membership of the credit union to 
include any person or organization within a 
local community, neighborhood, or rural district 
if— 

‘‘(A) the Board determines that such local 
community, neighborhood, or rural district— 

‘‘(i) meets the requirements of paragraph 

(3) and subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph 
(4) of section 233(b) of the Bank Enterprise 
Act of 1991, and such additional requirements 
as the Board may impose; and 
‘‘(ii) is underserved, based on data of the 
Board and the Federal banking agencies (as 
defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act), by other depository institutions 
(as defined in section 19(b)(1)(A) of the 
Federal Reserve Act); and 

‘‘(B) the credit union establishes and maintains 
an office or facility in such local community, 
neighborhood, or rural district at 
which credit union services are available. 

‘‘(4) REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES.—The 
Board shall issue guidelines or regulations, 
after notice and opportunity for comment, 
setting forth the criteria the Board will 
apply in determining whether or not an additional 
group may be included within the field 
of membership of an existing credit union 
pursuant to paragraph (2). 

‘‘(e) ADDITIONAL MEMBERSHIP ELIGIBILITY 
PROVISIONS.— 

‘‘(1) MEMBERSHIP ELIGIBILITY LIMITED TO IMMEDIATE 
FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS.—No 
individual shall be eligible for membership 
in a credit union on the basis of the relationship 
of such individual to another person 
who is eligible for membership in such credit 
union unless the individual is a member of 
the immediate family or household (as such 
terms are defined by the Board by regulation) 
of such other person. 

‘‘(2) RETENTION OF MEMBERSHIP.—Except as 
provided in section 118, once a person becomes 
a member of a credit union in accordance 
with this title, such person or organization 
may remain a member of such credit 
union until the person or organization chooses 
to withdraw from the membership of the 
credit union.’’. 

SEC. 102. CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF EXPAN


SION OF MEMBERSHIP OF MULTIPLE 

COMMON-BOND CREDIT UNIONS. 

Section 109 of the Federal Credit Union Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1759) is amended by inserting after 
subsection (e) (as added by section 101 of this 
title) the following new subsection: 

‘‘(f) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF EXPANSION 
OF MULTIPLE COMMON-BOND CREDIT UNIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall— 

‘‘(A) encourage the formation of separately 
chartered credit unions instead of approving 
an application to include an additional group 
within the field of membership of an existing 
credit union whenever practicable and consistent 
with reasonable standards for the 
safe and sound operation of the credit union; 
and 

‘‘(B) if the formation of a separate credit 
union by such group is not practicable or 
consistent with such standards, require the 
inclusion of such group in the field of membership 
of a credit union which is within reasonable 
proximity to the location of the 
group whenever practicable and consistent 
with reasonable standards for the safe and 
sound operation of the credit union. 

‘‘(2) APPROVAL CRITERIA.—The Board may 
not approve any application by a Federal 
credit union described in subsection (b)(2) to 
include any additional group within the field 
of membership of such credit union (or an 
application by a Federal credit union described 
in paragraph (1) to include an additional 
group and become a credit union described 
in paragraph (2)) unless the Board determines, 
in writing, that— 

‘‘(A) such credit union has not engaged in 
any unsafe or unsound practice (as defined in 
section 206(b)) which is material during the 
1-year period preceding the filing of the application; 


‘‘(B) the credit union is adequately capitalized; 


‘‘(C) the credit union has the administrative 
capability to serve the proposed membership 
group and the financial resources to 
meet the need for additional staff and assets 
to serve the new membership group; 

‘‘(D) pursuant to the most recent evaluation 
of such credit union under section 215, 
the credit union is satisfactorily providing 
affordable credit union services to all individuals 
of modest means within the field of 
membership of such credit union; 

‘‘(E) any potential harm the expansion of 
the field of membership of the credit union 
may have on any other insured credit union 
and its members is clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable beneficial effect 
of the expansion in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the members of the group 
proposed to be included in the field of membership; 
and 

‘‘(F) the credit union has met such additional 
requirements as the Board may prescribe 
in regulations.’’. 

SEC. 103. GEOGRAPHICAL GUIDELINES FOR COMMUNITY 
CREDIT UNIONS. 

Section 109 of the Federal Credit Union Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1759) is amended by inserting after 
subsection (f) (as added by section 102 of this 
title) the following new subsection: 

‘‘(g) REGULATIONS REQUIRED FOR COMMUNITY 
CREDIT UNIONS.— 

‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF WELL-DEFINED LOCAL 
COMMUNITY, NEIGHBORHOOD, OR RURAL DISTRICT.—
The Board shall prescribe regulations 
defining the term ‘well-defined local 
community, neighborhood, or rural district’ 
for purposes of— 

‘‘(A) making any determination with regard 
to the field of membership of a credit 
union described in subsection (b)(3); and 

‘‘(B) establishing the criteria applicable 
with respect to any such determination. 

‘‘(2) SCOPE OF APPLICATION.—Paragraph (1) 
shall apply with respect to any application 
to form a new credit union, or to alter or expand 
the field of membership of an existing 
credit union, which is filed with the Board 
after the date of the enactment of Credit 
Union Membership Access Act.’’. 

TITLE II—REGULATION OF CREDIT 
UNIONS 
SEC. 201. FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 202(a)(6) of the 
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 
1782(a)(6)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraphs: 
‘‘(C) ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Accounting principles 
applicable to reports or statements required 
to be filed with the Board by each insured 
credit union shall be uniform and consistent 
with generally accepted accounting principles. 


‘‘(ii) BOARD DETERMINATION.—If the Board 
determines that the application of any generally 
accepted accounting principle to any 
insured credit union is not appropriate, the 
Board may prescribe an accounting principle 
for application to such credit unions which is 
no less stringent than generally accepted accounting 
principles. 

‘‘(iii) DE MINIMUS EXCEPTION.—This subparagraph 
shall not apply to any insured 
credit union the total assets of which are 
less than $10,000,000 unless prescribed by the 
Board or an appropriate State credit union 
supervisor. 

‘‘(D) LARGE CREDIT UNION AUDIT REQUIRE-
MENT.—Each insured credit union which has 
total assets of $500,000,000 or more shall have 
an annual independent audit of the financial 
statement of the credit union performed in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards by an independent certified public 
accountant or public accountant licensed by 
the appropriate State or jurisdiction to perform 
such services.’’. 

(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—
Section 202(a)(6)(B) of the Federal 
Credit Union Act (12 1786(b)(6)(B)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘subparagraph (A)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subparagraph (A) or (D)’’. 

H1870 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

SEC. 202. CONVERSIONS OF CREDIT UNIONS INTO 
OTHER DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS. 

(a) REVIEW OF REGULATIONS REQUIRED.— 
The National Credit Union Administration 
Board shall conduct a detailed review of all 
regulations which govern or affect the conversion 
of a credit union into any other form 
of depository institution, including regulations 
relating to the form of disclosure required 
preceding a vote by the members of a 
credit union with regard to any such conversion 
and the manner in which such vote shall 
be conducted, to ensure that such regulations 
freely and fairly permit any such conversion 
after free, fair, and objective disclosure 
to the members of the credit union of 
the facts and issues involved in any such 
conversion. 
(b) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Before the end of the 12month 
period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the National Credit 
Union Administration Board shall submit a 
detailed report on the findings and conclusions 
of the Board in connection with the review 
required under subsection (a). 
(2) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—The report submitted 
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall contain— 
(A) any recommendation for any administrative 
or legislative change which the Board 
may determine to be appropriate with regard 
to any aspect of the conversion of a credit 
union into another form of depository institution; 
and 
(B) the justification for any recommendation 
of the Board— 
(i) to retain in effect any provision of the 
regulations in effect on March 13, 1998, which 
govern or affect the conversion of a credit 
union into any other form of depository institution; 
or 
(ii) to amend or alter any such provision. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, 
the following definitions shall apply: 
(1) CREDIT UNION.—The term ‘‘credit union’’ 
means any Federal credit union or State 
credit union (as such terms are defined in 
paragraphs (1) and (6), respectively, of section 
101 of the Federal Credit Union Act). 
(2) DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION.—The term 
‘‘depository institution’’ has the meaning 
given such term in section 3 of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act. 
SEC. 203. FREEZE ON BOARD REGULATIONS RELATING 
TO COMMERCIAL LOANS 
AND CERTAIN APPRAISAL REQUIREMENTS 
RELATING TO SUCH LOANS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The regulations of the 
National Credit Union Administration Board 
which are codified in parts 701.21(h) and 
722.3(a) of the Code of Federal Regulations, 
as in effect on March 13, 1998 (relating to 
business loans and lines of credit to members 
and appraisal requirements), including any 
other regulations which are applicable with 
respect to loans or lines of credit to which 
the part applies, shall remain in effect without 
amendment or altered application until 
the end of the 1-year period beginning on 
such date and, notwithstanding the Federal 
Credit Union Act or any other provision of 
law, any action of the National Credit Union 
Administration Board, or the National Credit 
Union Administration, on or after such 
date which purports to amend (including an 
amendment by substitution) or otherwise 
apply any such regulation differently than in 
effect on such date shall have no force or 
legal effect before the end of such 1-year period. 
(b) REVIEW AND REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.— 
Before the end of the 1-year period described 
in subsection (a), the National Credit Union 
Administration Board shall conduct a review 
of the effectiveness of the regulations referred 
to in such subsection as in effect on 
March 13, 1998, and shall submit a report to 
the Congress on the results of such review 
before the end of such 1-year period. 

SEC. 204. SERVING PERSONS OF MODEST MEANS 

WITHIN THE FIELD OF MEMBERSHIP 

OF CREDIT UNIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Federal 
Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1781 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new section: 
‘‘SEC. 215. SERVING PERSONS OF MODEST MEANS 

WITHIN THE FIELD OF MEMBERSHIP 

OF CREDIT UNIONS. 

‘‘(a) CONTINUING AND AFFIRMATIVE OBLIGATION.—
The purpose of this section is to reaffirm 
that insured credit unions have a continuing 
and affirmative obligation to meet 
the financial services needs of persons of 
modest means consistent with safe and 
sound operation. 

‘‘(b) EVALUATION BY THE BOARD.—The 
Board shall, before the end of the 12-month 
period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of the Credit Union Membership Access 
Act— 

‘‘(1) prescribe criteria for periodically reviewing 
the record of each insured credit 
union in providing affordable credit union 
services to all individuals of modest means 
(including low- and moderate-income individuals) 
within the field of membership of 
such credit union; and 

‘‘(2) provide for making the results of such 
review publicly available. 

‘‘(c) ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR COMMUNITY 
CREDIT UNIONS REQUIRED.—The Board shall, 
by regulation— 

‘‘(1) prescribe additional criteria for annually 
evaluating the record of any insured 
credit union which is organized to serve a 
well-defined local community, neighborhood, 
or rural district in meeting the credit needs 
and credit union service needs of the entire 
field of membership of such credit union; and 

‘‘(2) prescribe procedures for remedying the 
failure of any insured credit union described 
in paragraph (1) to meet the criteria established 
pursuant to such paragraph, including 
the disapproval of any application by such 
credit union to expand the field of membership 
of such credit union. 

‘‘(d) EMPHASIS ON PERFORMANCE, NOT PA-
PERWORK.—In evaluating any insured credit 
union under this section, the Board shall— 

‘‘(1) focus on the actual performance of the 
insured credit union; and 

‘‘(2) not impose burdensome paperwork or 
recordkeeping requirements.’’. 

(b) ANNUAL REPORTS.—With respect to each 
of the 1st 5 years which begin after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the National 
Credit Union Administration Board shall include 
in the annual report to the Congress 
under section 102(d) of the Federal Credit 
Union Act a report on the progress of the 
Board in implementing section 215 of such 
Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section). 
SEC. 205. NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION 
BOARD MEMBERSHIP. 

Section 102(b) of the Federal Credit Union 
Act (12 1752a(b)) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘(b) The Board’’ and inserting 
‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT OF 
BOARD.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 

‘‘(2) APPOINTMENT CRITERIA.— 

‘‘(A) EXPERIENCE IN FINANCIAL SERVICES.— 
In considering appointments to the Board 
under paragraph (1), the President shall give 
consideration to individuals who, by virtue 
of their education, training, or experience 
relating to a broad range of financial services, 
financial services regulation, or financial 
policy, are especially qualified to serve 
on the Board. 

‘‘(B) LIMIT ON APPOINTMENT OF CREDIT 
UNION OFFICERS.—Not more than 1 member of 

the Board may be appointed to the Board 
from among individuals who, at the time of 
such appointment, are, or have recently 
been, involved with any insured credit union 
as a committee member, director, officer, 
employee, or other institution-affiliated 
party.’’. 

SEC. 206. REPORT AND CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW 

REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN REGU


LATIONS. 

Any regulation prescribed by the National 
Credit Union Administration Board defining, 
or amending the definition of— 

(1) the term ‘‘immediate family or household’’ 
for purposes of subsection (e)(1) of section 
109 of the Federal Credit Union Act (as 
added by section 101 of this Act); or 
(2) the term ‘‘well-defined local community, 
neighborhood, or rural district’’ for 
purposes of subsection (g) of such section (as 
added by section 103 of this Act), 
shall be treated as a major rule for purposes 
of chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code. 

TITLE III—CAPITALIZATION AND NET 
WORTH OF CREDIT UNIONS 
SEC. 301. PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Federal 
Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1781 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 215 (as 
added by section 204 of this Act) the following 
new section: 
‘‘SEC. 216. PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION 

‘‘(a) RESOLVING PROBLEMS TO PROTECT 
FUND.— 

‘‘(1) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section 
is to resolve the problems of insured credit 
unions at the least possible long-term loss to 
the National Credit Union Share Insurance 
Fund. 

‘‘(2) PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION RE-
QUIRED.—The Board shall carry out the purpose 
of this section by taking prompt corrective 
action to resolve the problems of insured 
credit unions. 

‘‘(b) REGULATIONS.—The Board shall implement 
subsection (a) of this section by prescribing 
regulations, after public notice and 
opportunity for comment, which— 

‘‘(1) establish criteria and procedures for 
classifying credit unions as ‘well capitalized’, 
‘adequately capitalized’, ‘undercapitalized’, 
‘significantly undercapitalized’, or 
‘critically undercapitalized’; 

‘‘(2) specify a series of graduated regulatory 
enforcement actions that may be imposed 
upon any credit union which fails to 
meet the requirements for classification as 
an adequately capitalized credit union, including— 


‘‘(A) the submission of net worth restoration 
plans; 

‘‘(B) earnings retention requirements; 

‘‘(C) prior written approval by the Board 
for certain activities such as branching and 
entry into new lines of business; and 

‘‘(D) the appointment of a conservator or 
liquidating agent in appropriate circumstances; 


‘‘(3) establish reasonable net worth requirements, 
including risk-based net worth 
requirements in the case of complex credit 
unions, for various categories of credit 
unions and prescribe the manner in which 
net worth is calculated (for purposes of such 
requirements) with regard to various types 
of investments, including investments in 
corporate credit unions, taking into account 
the unique nature and role of credit unions; 

‘‘(4) establish criteria for reclassifying the 
capital classifications of credit unions that 
engage in unsafe or unsound practices; and 

‘‘(5) are generally comparable with the 
prompt corrective action provisions set forth 
in section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act, taking into account the distinct 
capital structure, cooperative nature, and 
other characteristics of credit unions.’’. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1871 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE OF REGULATIONS.— 
(1) PROPOSED REGULATIONS.—The National 
Credit Union Administration Board shall 
publish, in the Federal Register, proposed 
regulations which meet the requirements of 
the amendment made by subsection (a) before 
the end of the 270-day period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this Act. 
(2) FINAL REGULATIONS.—The regulations 
required by the amendment made by subsection 
(a) shall take effect in final form by 
the end of the 18-month period beginning on 
the date of the enactment of this Act. 
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—At the time the 
proposed prompt corrective action regulations 
are published in the Federal Register 
by the National Credit Union Administration 
Board pursuant to subsection (b)(1), the 
Board shall submit a report to the Congress 
on the differences and similarities between 
such prompt corrective action regulations 
and the regulations prescribed by the Federal 
bank agencies under section 38 of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 
SEC. 302. NATIONAL CREDIT UNION SHARE INSURANCE 
FUND EQUITY RATIO, 
AVAILABLE ASSETS RATIO, AND 
STANDBY PREMIUM CHARGE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 202 of the Federal 
Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782) is amended— 
(1) by amending subsection (b) to read as 
follows: 

‘‘(b) CERTIFIED STATEMENT.— 

‘‘(1) STATEMENT REQUIRED.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each calendar year 
in the case of an insured credit union with 
total assets of not more than $50,000,000, and 
for each semi-annual period in the case of an 
insured credit union with total assets of 
$50,000,000 or more, an insured credit union 
shall file with the Board, at such time as the 
Board prescribes, a certified statement showing 
the total amount of insured shares in the 
credit union at the close of the relevant period 
and both the amount of its deposit or 
adjustment of deposit and the amount of the 
insurance charge due to the fund for that period, 
both as computed under subsection (c). 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR NEWLY INSURED CREDIT 
UNION.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
with respect to a credit union that became 
insured during the reporting period. 

‘‘(2) FORM.—The certified statements required 
to be filed with the Board pursuant to 
this subsection shall be in such form and 
shall set forth such supporting information 
as the Board shall require. 

‘‘(3) CERTIFICATION.—The president of the 
credit union or any officer designated by the 
board of directors shall certify, with respect 
to each such statement, that to the best of 
his or her knowledge and belief the statement 
is true, correct, complete, and in accordance 
with this title and the regulations 
issued under this title.’’; 

(2) by amending clause (iii) of subsection 
(c)(1)(A) to read as follows: 
‘‘(iii) PERIODIC ADJUSTMENT.—The amount 
of each insured credit union’s deposit shall 
be adjusted as follows, in accordance with 
procedures determined by the Board, to reflect 
changes in the credit union’s insured 
shares: 

‘‘(I) annually, in the case of an insured 
credit union with total assets of not more 
than $50,000,000; and 

‘‘(II) semi-annually, in the case of an insured 
credit union with total assets of 
$50,000,000 or more.’’; 

(3) by amending paragraphs (2) and (3) of 
subsection (c) to read as follows: 

‘‘(2) INSURANCE PREMIUM CHARGES.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each insured credit 

union shall, at such times as the Board prescribes 
(but not more than twice in any calendar 
year), pay to the fund a premium 
charge for insurance in an amount stated as 

a percentage of insured shares (which shall 
be the same for all insured credit unions). 

‘‘(B) RELATION OF PREMIUM CHARGE TO EQUITY 
RATIO OF FUND.—The Board may assess 
a premium charge only if— 

‘‘(i) the fund’s equity ratio is less than 1.3 
percent; and 

‘‘(ii) the premium charge does not exceed 
the amount necessary to restore the equity 
ratio to 1.3 percent. 

‘‘(C) PREMIUM CHARGE REQUIRED IF EQUITY 
RATIO FALLS BELOW 1.2 PERCENT.—If the fund’s 
equity ratio is less than 1.2 percent, the 
Board shall, subject to subparagraph (B), assess 
a premium charge in such an amount as 
the Board determines to be necessary to restore 
the equity ratio to, and maintain that 
ratio at, 1.2 percent. 

‘‘(3) DISTRIBUTIONS FROM FUND REQUIRED.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall effect a 
pro rata distribution to insured credit unions 
after each calendar year if, as of the end of 
that calendar year— 

‘‘(i) any loans to the fund from the Federal 
Government, and any interest on those 
loans, have been repaid; 

‘‘(ii) the fund’s equity ratio exceeds the 
normal operating level; and 

‘‘(iii) the fund’s available assets ratio exceeds 
1.0 percent. 

‘‘(B) AMOUNT OF DISTRIBUTION.—The Board 
shall distribute under subparagraph (A) the 
maximum possible amount that— 

‘‘(i) does not reduce the fund’s equity ratio 
below the normal operating level; and 

‘‘(ii) does not reduce the fund’s available 
assets ratio below 1.0 percent. 

‘‘(C) CALCULATION BASED ON CERTIFIED 
STATEMENTS.—In calculating the fund’s equity 
ratio and available assets ratio for purposes 
of this paragraph, the Board shall determine 
the aggregate amount of the insured 
shares in all insured credit unions from insured 
credit unions certified statements 
under subsection (b) for the final reporting 
period of the calendar year referred to in 
subparagraph (A).’’; 

(4) by adding at the end of subsection (c) 
the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(4) TIMELINESS AND ACCURACY OF DATA.— 
In calculating the available assets ratio and 
equity ratio of the fund, the Board shall use 
the most current and accurate data reasonably 
available.’’; and 

(5) by amending subsection (h) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, 
the following definitions shall apply: 
‘‘(1) AVAILABLE ASSETS RATIO.—The term 
‘available assets ratio’, when applied to the 
fund, means the ratio of— 

‘‘(A) the amount determined by subtracting— 


‘‘(i) direct liabilities of the fund and contingent 
liabilities for which no provision for 
losses has been made, from 

‘‘(ii) the sum of cash and the market value 
of unencumbered investments authorized 
under section 203(c), to 

‘‘(B) the aggregate amount of the insured 
shares in all insured credit unions. 

‘‘(2) EQUITY RATIO.—The term ‘equity 
ratio’, when applied to the fund, means the 
ratio of— 

‘‘(A) the amount of fund capitalization, including 
insured credit unions’ 1 percent capitalization 
deposits and the fund’s retained 
earnings balance (net of direct liabilities of 
the fund and contingent liabilities for which 
no provision for losses has been made), to 

‘‘(B) the aggregate amount of the insured 
shares in all insured credit unions. 

‘‘(3) INSURED SHARES.—The term ‘insured 
shares’, when applied to this section, includes 
share, share draft, share certificate, 
and other similar accounts as determined by 
the Board, but does not include amounts ex


ceeding the insured account limit set forth 
in section 207(c)(1). 

‘‘(4) NORMAL OPERATING LEVEL.—The term 
‘normal operating level’, when applied to the 
fund, means an equity ratio specified by the 
Board, which shall be not less than 1.2 percent 
and not more than 1.5 percent.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall become 
effective on January 1 of the first calendar 
year beginning more than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 303. ACCESS TO LIQUIDITY. 

Section 204 of the Federal Credit Union Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1784) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsections: 

‘‘(f) ACCESS TO LIQUIDITY.—The Board 
shall— 

‘‘(1) periodically assess the potential liquidity 
needs of each insured credit union, 
and the options that the credit union has 
available for meeting those needs; and 

‘‘(2) periodically assess the potential liquidity 
needs of insured credit unions as a 
group, and the options that insured credit 
unions have available for meeting those 
needs. 

‘‘(g) SHARING INFORMATION WITH FEDERAL 
RESERVE BANKS.—The Board shall, for the 
purpose of facilitating insured credit unions’ 
access to liquidity, make available to the 
Federal reserve banks (subject to appropriate 
assurances of confidentiality) information 
relevant to making advances to such 
credit unions, including the Board’s reports 
of examination.’’. 

TITLE IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

SEC. 401. ASSURING INDEPENDENT DECISION 

MAKING IN CONNECTION WITH CER


TAIN CONVERSIONS. 

Section 18 of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1828) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection: 

‘‘(t) CONVERSIONS INVOLVING FORMER CREDIT 
UNIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law— 

‘‘(A) an insured credit union may not convert 
into an insured depository institution; 
and 

‘‘(B) an insured depository institution 
which resulted from a prior conversion of an 
insured credit union into such insured depository 
institution may not convert from the 
mutual form to the stock form and may not 
convert from 1 form of depository institution 
into another, 
unless the appropriate Federal banking agency 
for the insured depository institution 
which results from any such conversion reviews 
the conversion and determines that 
the requirements of paragraphs (2) and (3) 
have been met. 

‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON ECONOMIC BENEFIT FROM 
CONVERSION FOR CREDIT UNION OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, 
AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS.—An individual 
who is or, at any time during the 5year 
period preceding any conversion described 
in paragraph (1), was a director, committee 
member, or senior management official 
of an insured credit union described in 
subparagraph (A) or (B) of such paragraph (in 
connection with such conversion) may not 
receive any economic benefit as a result of 
the conversion with regard to the shares or 
interests of such director, member, or officer 
in the former insured credit union or in any 
resulting insured depository institution. 

‘‘(3) ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND ATTESTATION 
BY OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS.—
Any insured credit union or insured 
depository institution which is seeking to 
engage in a conversion which is subject to 
this subsection shall submit— 

‘‘(A) a written acknowledgement, in such 
form and manner as the appropriate Federal 
banking agency may prescribe, by every individual 
who is subject to the prohibition 


H1872 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

contained in paragraph (2), that such individ-accept members from an unrelated (Mr. LAFALCE asked and was given 

ual is aware of such prohibition; and 

‘‘(B) an attestation that the conversion 
under review will not result in a violation of 
such prohibition. 

‘‘(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, 
the following definitions shall apply: 

‘‘(A) INSURED CREDIT UNION.—The term ‘insured 
credit union’ has the meaning given to 
such term in section 101(7) of the Federal 
Credit Union Act. 

‘‘(B) SENIOR MANAGEMENT OFFICIAL.—The 
term ‘senior management official’ means a 
chief executive officer, an assistant chief executive 
officer, a chief financial officer, and 
any other senior executive officer (as defined 
by the appropriate Federal banking agency 
pursuant to section 32(f)).’’. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the rule, the gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. LEACH) and the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. LAFALCE) each 
will control 20 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. LEACH). 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

(Mr. LEACH asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, the House 
today takes up H.R. 1151, the Credit 
Union Membership Access Act, which 
the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services approved by unanimous 
voice vote last Thursday. 

The bill is before us today as a result 
of a ruling by the Supreme Court on 
February 25, holding that the National 
Credit Union Administration had improperly 
interpreted its 1934 act in allowing 
for mergers between credit 
unions with different common bonds. 

Last year, at the time the Court took 
the case, there were those who advocated 
congressional action. My view, 
and that of many others, was that it 
would have been inappropriate for Congress 
to act while the case was pending 
before the Court. However, I made it 
clear to all affected parties that I was 
committed to prompt hearings and action 
if necessary to ensure that no 
Americans would be kicked out of the 
financial institution of their choice. 

Mr. Speaker, we have moved quickly 
for a deliberative legislative body. 
Within two weeks of the Supreme 
Court ruling, the Committee on Banking 
and Financial Services had a comprehensive 
hearing on the subject. Two 
weeks later we marked up a bill, and 
now it is being brought to the floor. 

Credit unions represent democracy at 
work in the marketplace, and this legislation 
will go a long way towards ensuring 
they remain an integral part of 
the American way of life. 

The legislation before us first and 
foremost provides for grandfathering 
all current common bond arrangements 
and all current credit union members. 
It ensures the continued safety and 
soundness of credit unions by permitting 
certain multiple common bond 
formations in the future. 

H.R. 1151 would allow any credit 
union members jeopardized by the 
court ruling to retain their membership. 
It would allow credit unions to 
group as long as the members from the 
group do not exceed 3,000. Groups that 
joined would also have to be located 
within a reasonable proximity of the 
credit union itself. 

The bill would require the Credit 
Union Administration to move to more 
specifically define who could join a 
credit union, based on their status as a 
member’s immediate family or household 
or living in a certain geographic 
area. 

The bill would extend for one year 
current regulations that allow credit 
unions to make commercial loans. 

The bill would require credit unions 
to serve members of modest means, and 
require the Credit Union Administration 
to set up criteria for periodically 
reviewing credit unions’ lending 
records to ensure compliance with this 
provision. This provision is similar to 
the requirements of the 1977 Community 
Reinvestment Act which applies 
to the banking industry. 

The bill would also require that the 
Credit Union Administration promulgate 
regulations that would apply capital 
requirements to credit unions to 
ensure safety and soundness. Such requirements 
deal with such items as reserves 
and collateral now applied to 
banks. 

The bill would allow the Credit Union 
Administration to increase the funds 
that credit unions must pay to the National 
Credit Union Insurance Fund, a 
Federal fund that insures deposits and 
makes credit unions safe for the public. 

Finally, I would like to draw Members’ 
attention to a provision I authored 
which is designed to protect 
credit union members in the event a 
credit union changes to a stock charter. 
In the S&L industry in recent 
years, insiders who controlled mutual 
associations reaped large profits when 
they changed to a stock structure. 
Under this bill, in the event any credit 
union changes its structure, the benefits 
of the credit union will go to the 
membership rather than insiders. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask for Members’ support 
for this bill, and would like to recognize 
important contributions in its 
crafting by the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. LAFALCE), the distinguished 
ranking member of the committee, as 
well as that of the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) and the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
VENTO), the chair and ranking member 
of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions 
and Consumer Credit. 

b1230 
In addition to the original cosponsors 
of H.R. 1151, the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. LATOURETTE) and the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI) 
made extraordinary contributions to 
the legislation before us. I thank all of 
them and their respective staffs for 
working days, evenings and weekends 
in order to bring this to the floor on a 
timely basis. 
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself 2 minutes. 

I strongly support the bill that is before 
us today. The bill will preserve 
and promote the future viability of federally 
chartered credit unions. This bill 
is an imperative. It must be passed 
today. It must be passed in the Senate 
as soon as possible and signed into law 
by the President. 

The reason we are at the point we are 
today in large part is because of the 
outstanding work of the chairman of 
the committee, the gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. LEACH). The gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. LEACH) made the decision to 
proceed in not a bipartisan, but a nonpartisan 
way and that is the way it has 
been on this bill from the day of the 
Supreme Court decision. There has 
been a totally cooperative, collegial 
approach, not only between the chairman 
and myself, but between the Republican 
side of the aisle and the 
Democratic side of the aisle, their excellent 
staff and our excellent staff 
working jointly. 

We have produced a good bill, a bill 
that can be supported by every one, a 
bill that can be supported by the administration 
and a bill that will be a 
clear winner, a winner for credit unions 
and credit union members, yes. A winner 
for banks also, because it closes 
down on some inappropriate practices 
that, to a certain extent, existed and 
could exist under previous law. Those 
have been closed down, tightened up. 

Most importantly, it is a clear winner 
for the American consumer. It promotes 
safety and soundness, and it 
gives the consumer the option of going 
to a credit union, a thrift, a bank, 
whatever the consumer might want. 
And it maintains the concept of the 
credit union as we have known it. 

My thanks to every one, especially 
the chairman, the staff of both the Republican 
and Democratic side and my 
colleagues, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. VENTO), the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA), the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
KANJORSKI), and the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. LATOURETTE) and so many 
others. I would love to proceed on 
every single bill before our committee 
in the manner that we proceeded on 
this one. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentlewoman from New 
Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA), who played 
such a critical role in the development 
of this approach. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Speaker, 
thank Chairman LEACH for yielding me 
the time. I want to commend him for 
his profound and extraordinary leadership 
on what could have been an extraordinarily 
controversial issue here 
and certainly express my appreciation 
to the ranking members Representatives 
LAFALCE and VENTO. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1873 

Members have already heard outlined 
the fact that we are profoundly and 
promptly responding to the Supreme 
Court decision and really exercising in 
a proper way the separation of powers 
between the judiciary and the Congress. 
We are exercising our statutory 
authority here. I do support it. 

I would like to make three other 
short points. First, obviously we have 
promptly acted on the Supreme Court’s 
decision, and I think we have done it in 
time so that we can avoid other court 
decisions that might further complicate 
the problem. So we have resolved 
that statutory responsibility. 

Secondly, we are protecting hardworking 
savers and consumers, the 20 
million credit union Members that are 
really innocent of this problem as it 
was created, but they deserve to be 
grandfathered and protected and that 
is done under this bill. 

Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly 
for our Members who are conflicted 
about the different special interest 
groups here and the perhaps imprecise 
information that they have 
been given, we are putting in place 
many of the Treasury Department’s 
recommendations on safety and soundness. 
That is important, of primary importance 
to our committee. Credit 
unions will have bank-like capital and 
net worth requirements in this bill. 
Large credit unions are required to 
have annual audits by licensed CPAs. I 
agree with the complete explanation 
the Chairman presented, on that provision. 
These and other new requirements 
will assure that credit unions 
are financially safe, in the years to 
come and not be a threat to the taxpayer. 


Mr. Speaker, I think we can take 
some pride in what is done here. It does 
not mean that I would not have made 
some tighter restrictions on the multiple 
common bonds. I would have. But 
I think what we have to understand is 
that there are stricter, there are tighter 
restrictions on the growth of these 
common bonds, really restrictions that 
can be held to tight legal requirements 
as far as I am concerned. But the important 
thing here is that we have 
reached a consensus. We have found 
common ground here. I think we have 
balanced properly good public policy 
with what is the need for continuing 
credit union life. I think that is important. 


I would also note that in terms of 
putting requirements on the multiple 
common bond credit unions, we did put 
geographic limitations on the expansion 
and we have seen in the local preference 
provisions in section 102 of the 
bill that it is extremely important, the 
local preference positions. 

Again, I think we have struck the 
right balance between good public policy 
and given the proper and timely 
legislative response to the Supreme 
Court dictate. 

I commend this to my colleagues for 
approval, and ask that the language of 
the Committee report (as attached) be 
included in this debate. 

The Committee does not intend for this numerical 
limitation to be interpreted as permitting 
all groups with 3,000 or fewer members 
to be included within the field of membership 
of an existing credit union. The 3,000 
member limitation is intended as the maximum 
size of groups that can organize within 
an existing credit union, unless a group 
meets specific exemptions. The Board is required, 
under Section 102 of the bill, to encourage 
common bond groups, regardless of 
size, to organize new separately chartered 
credit unions. The NCUA must determine 
that a group has sufficient financial and 
operational resources to form a separate 
credit union and to operate it in a safe and 
sound manner. 

There are two exceptions to the 3,000 member 
limit. First, the NCUA may permit 
groups with over 3,000 members to join an existing 
credit union if the Board determines 
in writing that the group does not have the 
financial resources or operational capacity 
to organize and operate a new single common 
bond credit union. Second, the Board 
may merge or consolidate a group with over 
3,000 members with another credit union for 
supervisory reasons. The Committee does 
not intend for these exceptions to provide 
broad discretion to the Board to permit larger 
groups to be incorporated within or 
merged with other credit unions. The exceptions 
are intended to apply where the Board 
has sufficient evidence to support a finding 
that creation of a separately chartered credit 
union, or the continued operation of an existing 
credit union, present safety and 
soundness concerns. 

There is also an exception in this section 
for underserved areas. Any person or organization 
within an underserved local community, 
neighborhood, or rural district may be 
added to multiple common bond credit 
unions which establishes and maintains an 
office or facility in the underserved areas. 
The term ‘‘facility’’ in the Act is meant to 
be defined in the same way that the National 
Credit Union Administration (‘‘NCUA’’ or 
‘‘Board’’) has defined ‘‘service facility,’’ that 
is, an automatic teller machine or similar 
device would not qualify. The section also requires 
the NCUA to issue regulations, with 
notice and comment, establishing criteria 
that will be applied when determining 
whether additional groups may be added 
under this section. 

Under this section, multiple common bond 
credit unions are required to apply to the 
NCUA every time they want to add a new 
group to their field of membership, regardless 
of the size of the group to be added. The 
NCUA must determine in writing that the 
six specific approval criteria have been met. 
This NCUA determination is a final agency 
action. Specifically, the Board must find 
that the credit union has not engaged in material 
unsafe or unsound practices during the 
year prior to the application; the credit 
union is adequately capitalized; it has the 
administrative capability to serve the proposed 
membership group and the financial 
resources to meet the need for additional 
staff and assets to serve the new group. Additionally, 
in accordance with section 215 of 
the Federal Credit Union Act, the Board 
must determine that the credit union is satisfactorily 
providing credit union services to 
all individuals of modest means within its 
field of membership; and that any potential 
harm to another insured credit union and its 
members from the credit union’s expansion 
is clearly outweighed by the probable beneficial 
effect of the expansion in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the members of the 
group proposed to be included. The credit 
union must also meet any other requirements 
the Board has prescribed. 

The Committee specifically notes the approval 
criteria in subparagraph (E) which re


lated to potential harm to other insured 
credit unions. As noted above, the Committee 
strongly favors placing groups with local 
credit unions. However, it is not intended 
that this requirement be implemented in a 
manner that causes significant injury to 
other local credit unions in terms of creating 
overlapping memberships that may weaken 
the membership or financial base of an existing 
credit union. The Board is expected to establish 
procedures to minimize the potential 
harm to other insured credit unions wherever 
possible and, at a minimum, to ensure 
that any potential harm to an existing credit 
unions is clearly outweighed by the benefits 
created by the membership expansion in 
terms of additional services and convenience 
for the new member group. 

Section 103. GEOGRAPHICAL GUIDELINES FOR 
COMMUNITY CREDIT UNIONS. 

Section 103 requires the Board to define by 
regulation the criteria it will use in determining 
the meaning of the term ‘‘well defined 
local community, neighborhood, or 
rural district’’ for purposes of evaluating 
charter applications by community credit 
unions. These terms shall only apply to applications 
for new credit unions and applications 
to alter the membership of existing 
credit unions submitted after the date of enactment. 


Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Maine (Mr. BALDACCI). 

(Mr. BALDACCI asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BALDACCI. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
in support of H.R. 1151. 

I rise today in support of HR 1151, the 
Credit Union Membership Access Act. In light 
of the Supreme Court’s decision, it is important 
that we take action to clarify the status of 
credit unions and their members. 

Credit unions—along with banks large and 
small—are an important part of our Nation’s financial 
fabric. People want to—and should be 
able to—choose the financial institution with 
which they will do business. Banks, community 
banks, and credit unions each provide valuable 
services in Maine. We need to make 
sure that a healthy competition exists which 
will ultimately benefit the people of Maine. 

At the same time, I am disappointed that 
this legislation has come to the Floor under 
Suspension of the Rules. This procedure 
means that there is no opportunity to fully debate 
this subject, or to offer amendments to 
the bill. Specifically, I would have liked the opportunity 
to debate many of the Treasury Department’s 
recommendations and capital requirements 
which were not included in this bill. 

Credit unions play a critical role in our financial 
markets, and it is absolutely necessary 
that strong safety, soundness and capital 
measures be adopted to ensure their viability 
well into the next century. 

Again, I support this legislation. However, I 
would urge my colleagues on the Banking 
Committee to take these issues into consideration 
should this matter go into conference. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. VENTO), distinguished 
ranking member of the Subcommittee 
on Financial Institutions and Consumer 
Credit. 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me this 
time. 

I commend the chairman and ranking 
member, the subcommittee chair, the 


H1874 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. 
ROUKEMA) and others, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI), 
and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 
LATOURETTE), for their work in terms 
of bringing and shaping the package 
that we have before us. I think this is 
a bill that the Members should overwhelmingly 
record their vote in support 
of. 

The fact is that this remedies the 
court decision of about a month ago 
that had been a long time considered 
by the courts in terms of the field of 
membership for credit unions. The definitions 
in the law really have not been 
substantively adjusted since 1934. After 
some over 60 years, it is appropriate to 
recognize in the law the changing complexion 
of our society and our economy 
and the nature of mergers, acquisitions 
and divestiture that often has occurred 
with regard to various employee and 
other association groups that had been 
organized as credit unions. It is only 
common sense to recognize that this 
evolution would cause and eclipse the 
1934 law upon which credit unions rely 
for the base of membership. 

This importantly not just remedies 
the Supreme Court case, but sets a policy 
path and guidance for the future by 
strengthening the definitions of such 
groupings and probably averting future 
court cases that have recently been 
rendered by the Supreme Court. It 
greatly strengthens, this bill strengthens 
the Credit Union Administration. 
It provides additional safety and 
soundness, and it very importantly 
provides a social responsibility. The 
reason that we, of course, have financial 
institutions, including banks, credit 
unions and thrifts and others, is, of 
course, to serve the people we represent. 


Some 20 years ago we set in place 
something called the Community Reinvestment 
Act. This puts in place the 
Community Reinvestment Act that fits 
and is tailored to the needs of the credit 
union. I urge Members to support 
and record their vote in favor of this 
measure. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this urgently 
needed legislation for current credit 
unions and their members who have been 
jeopardized by the Supreme Court’s decision 
in February. This bill will protect the ten to 
twenty million credit union members that could 
be affected by that ruling. H.R. 1151 as reported 
by the Banking Committee last week 
will also assist future credit unions and their 
members by providing additional statutory direction 
that can immunize the credit union industry 
from future law suits. 

As Members know, this legislative compromise 
came together through the work of a 
bipartisan working group that sorted through 
the various issues to present to the Banking 
Committee. I want to thank Chairman LEACH 
who brought me, Mr. LAFALCE, Mr. KANJORSKI 
and Members from the other side of the aisle 
together over the past month to forge this 
measure. The Banking Committee perfected 
this bill and we have brought the House a 
sound and solid compromise. We took input 
and advice from the interest parties, the credit 

unions, the banks, and the good legislative initiatives 
of our colleagues. The work of Mr. 
KANJORSKI, Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. LAFALCE, Mr. 
BARRETT, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. FROST, Mr. BAKER, 
Mr. EHRLICH and others is reflected in this bill 
before the House today. 

Mr. Speaker, we need to modernize the 
credit union field of membership definitions 
which do not fit the socio-economic reality of 
the 1990’s. The merger/divestiture phenomena 
of corporate America has changed the landscape 
and has had an unusual and special effect 
upon credit unions bound by the ‘‘common 
bond’’ and ‘‘field of membership’’ law. 
This has conversely forced divestitures, mergers 
or closings of credit unions. Federal credit 
union law needs to accommodate and respond 
to this reality. Credit union law needs to 
be modernized, addressing the membership 
base of credit unions because they would not 
be able to sustain a membership base and 
reasonable services under the strict interpretation 
of a 1934 federal credit union law. 

By creating a new mechanism for adding 
so-called select employee groups, basically allowing 
multiple common-bond credit unions, 
we are revamping and facilitating the federal 
credit union law and empowering credit unions 
to adapt to the 1990’s market place. The bill 
provides clear direction to the National Credit 
Union Administration (NCUA) including a 
3,000 field of membership guideline and a reasonable 
proximity test. It also affords the regulator 
with flexibility to accommodate groups 
that may not meet this test but that would find 
it difficult to form a single-bond credit union of 
their own. 

H.R. 1151 now has a Community Reinvestment 
Act-like test that I am optimistic credit 
unions can met. This policy and requirement 
will benefit our communities and economy. 
Credit unions can and should meet the needs 
of credit union members of modest means. I 
have urged credit unions to accept this responsibility 
and now I would encourage the 
NCUA in implementing this new CRA-like test 
to emphasize performance and results not paperwork. 
I expect that the NCUA will review 
and draw from the good work of other financial 
institutions regulators who in the last few 
years have revamped CRA to do just that. 
We have strengthened the regulatory foundation 
of credit unions, the regulators and the 
NCUA insurance fund by adding capital and 
net worth requirements to be established by 
the National Credit Union Administration 
based on the guidance in this legislation. The 
NCUA will be empowered with prompt corrective 
action powers, substantially similar to 
those that have been established to govern 
the banks and thrifts. We have reinforced the 
share insurance fund mandating the retention 
of funds. Independent audits will be required 
for today’s very large credit unions with assets 
in excess of $500 million. 

H.R. 1151 also keeps the data flowing on 
member business loans and mandates special 
credit union qualifications for activities, maintaining 
a $50,000 threshold for reporting and 
other requirements. It does not, however, 
place any additional restrictions on the size or 
quantity of personal loans for a business purpose 
that a credit union can make to its members. 
The report called for in this measure will 
provide the information needed to better understand 
member business loans so that any 
action would be based on facts that justify the 
action. 
Mr. Speaker, we need to pass this bill today 
so that this corrective legislation with regards 
to credit unions will move forward expeditiously 
in the Senate and make its way to the 
President as soon as possible. Credit unions 
have been faced by the same competitive 
pressures, changing technology, and the evolution 
in products and services that other financial 
institutions are facing. In order to meet 
the challenges of the 21st Century, credit 
union law, regulation and operation must modernize 
and grow responsibly. I urge my Colleagues 
to support H.R. 1151, the Credit 
Union Membership Access Act. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. LATOURETTE), original author of 
this legislation, a very committed and 
distinguished Member. 

(Mr. LATOURETTE asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. LATOURETTE. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the chairman very much for 
yielding time to me. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a wonderful day 
for the 70 million Americans who belong 
to credit unions, including the 2.8 
million members in my home State of 
Ohio. When the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. KANJORSKI) and I began 
this journey a little over a year ago, I 
do not think we could have imagined 
that our simple 6-line bill designed to 
update a 1934 depression era statute 
would grow to over 30 pages and enjoy 
200 cosponsors in the House, including 
the Speaker of the House, the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. GINGRICH). 

The evolution of this legislation has 
everything to do with the strong grass 
roots campaign by the members of 
America’s credit unions and the willingness 
of leadership on both sides of 
the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services to work with the issue 
and develop a compromise that takes 
into account the concerns of many 
Members and many interests. 

I especially want to thank and recognize 
the efforts of the gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. LEACH), the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. LAFALCE), the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) 
and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. VENTO). Without their involvement 
following the Supreme 
Court decision and their willingness to 
work long hours and to talk through 
these issues, we would not be on the 
floor today. 

I also want to make an observation 
that working with a member from the 
other side of the aisle, as I have had a 
chance to do with the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI) for the 
last year, is something that I would 
recommend to all my friends. This experience 
has given me the chance to realize 
what a fine man and representative 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. KANJORSKI) is and how lucky his 
constituents in Pennsylvania are that 
they have him representing their interests 
in the House. 

This effort would also not have been 
possible without the support and encouragement 
of Speaker GINGRICH. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1875 

Quite frankly, his cosponsorship of this 
bill greatly accelerated its pace and 
jump started the support of many 
Members. His willingness to be out 
front on this issue should be applauded. 

Mr. Speaker, why is it important for 
credit unions to be allowed to expand 
as they have for the last 16 years? The 
need was certainly illustrated to me in 
a letter that I received from a constituent, 
Betty Yelochen of Mayfield Village. 
Ms. Yelochen has been a member 
of Clark General Federal Credit Union 
for over 40 years and has worked as its 
manager the last 19 years. 

She writes about her credit union: 

Our original sponsor company, Clark Controller 
Co., went out of business a number of 
years ago. In order to survive, the credit 
union took in a number of mergers. When 
the policy was adopted in 1982 permitting 
multiple groups, we took in a number of 
smaller companies that couldn’t support a 
credit union on their own. Our credit union 
is small, only $1.7 million in assets and approximately 
1,300 members. All of my financing 
has been handled by our credit union. 
Clark General Federal Credit Union offers 
personalized service with minimal fees. 

It is as simple as this, Mr. Speaker. 
As Members have died, they have been 
replaced by Members from small companies, 
some of which join in increments 
of as few as four employees at a 
time. Additionally, in the 16 years following 
the relaxation of membership 
rules, Clark General Federal Credit has 
taken in a few smaller companies and 
credit unions including the Curtis Employees 
Credit Union of Eastlake, Ohio, 
which was on the brink of collapse 
after a protracted labor strike by Curtis 
employees. 

About 230 Curtis employees now belong 
to Clark General. Most members 
of Clark General Credit Union are elderly 
and have been members for 40 
years or more. Betty Yelochen says it 
is kind of like home. It is run on a 
shoestring, and we are so reserved it is 
unreal. Still even this small credit 
union wants to remain viable, and to 
do so it has to be able to add new members 
and new services which H.R. 1151 
permits it to do. 

It is important to note that this 
credit union has no aspirations of offering 
home mortgages or even second 
mortgages. Heck, they would be 
thrilled if they could just have a drive-
through window or an ATM machine. 
This particular credit union exists 
largely because of its low-cost loans 
that it can provide to members and its 
low delinquency rate. It is doing the 
same things well today that it did for 
50 years. 

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1151 ensures credit 
union access to America’s millions and 
millions of small businesses. This hardworking, 
prosperous and inventive 
work force will now have the ability to 
choose where they can conduct their financial 
dealings. Had the Congress let 
the Supreme Court ruling stand and 
prevented new employee groups, each 
with its own common bond, from joining 
credit unions, we would have been 
harming a huge chunk of America’s 
work force. 

Remember, Mr. Speaker, our country’s 
22 million small businesses employ 
more than 50 percent of the private 
work force, generate more than 
half of the Nation’s gross domestic 
product, and are the principle source of 
new jobs. When President Clinton announced 
plans to reinvent the Federal 
Government he indicated the goal was 
‘‘customer service equal to the best in 
business.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, many credit union 
members believe this is precisely what 
they get today from their credit union, 
the best customer service in the business. 


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1151 should not be 
considered pro credit union or 
antibank. Instead, it should be viewed 
as it was intended, pro consumer and 
pro competition, both of which are 
good things. I urge Members to pass 
this bill. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI), 
primary Democratic author of 
the original version of H.R. 1151, and 
certainly the primary promoter of a 
cure for the problem created by the Supreme 
Court decision. 

b1245 
Mr. KANJORSKI. Mr. Speaker, this 
is a great day for the House of Representatives. 
I just want to take a moment 
because I am one of the Members 
that have had the opportunity to serve 
in this House not only as a Member of 
Congress but as a page. So my history 
goes back to the 83rd Congress, and I 
have watched so many great and fine 
people come through this tradition and 
this institution and go on to our highest 
office. 
But today is a fine day; and our 
former friend and colleague, Bill Emerson, 
would have been pleased to be here 
today because he had the same intuition 
as I have about this fine institution. 
We had a problem yesterday with the 
attachment, and we saw the chairman 
of the Committee on Rules take appropriate 
and good action in the best spirit 
of bipartisanship. We saw the chairman 
of the Committee on Banking and 
Financial Services reach out and create 
a task force to work on this bill. 
We have seen the ranking member of 
the full committee and the ranking 
member of the subcommittee on our 
side go through extra efforts to make 
certain that the task force was made 
up of all people and all issues and interest 
groups in the committee. 
We took it through the process of the 
committee. And although this is a contentious 
issue and was in the beginning 
because some people felt there had to 
be winners and losers, as my friend, 
and now he is my friend, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. LATOURETTE), just said, 
there are not any winners and losers 
here; it is just good, solid legislation 
by a House of Representatives that on 
April 1, April Fools Day, are going to 
prove they are not fools, that they are 

real legislators on both sides of the 
aisle. This is one of our finest hours, in 
my opinion. 

What this bill covers, we have heard 
all the discussion. It stops bleeding 
that would have killed the credit union 
movement in this country. It creates a 
framework under which they can exist 
and continue to grow and serve their 
membership and serve America. It does 
not unfairly compete with other financial 
institutions in our system but allows 
consumers free choice and protection. 


Most importantly, it reaches out to 
the new jobs and new businesses of 
small business that they, too, could be 
credit union members. It does for 70 
million Americans something that, if 
this action were not taken today, 
would have been a death knell for their 
interests and their movement. 

It has 207 bipartisan sponsors on the 
Republican side of the aisle, on the 
Democratic side of the aisle. It has 
brought together the support of consumers 
groups across America, the 
Consumer Federation of America and 
Consumers Union. It will maintain the 
existence and growth of the credit 
union movement and will not unduly 
interfere with the banks in any way. 

Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of bipartisanship 
today, I want to thank everybody 
that has taken part, particularly 
my new and great friend, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. LATOURETTE), 
for this year comes to an end when we 
can send through the House of Representatives 
one of our most responsible 
financial services legislation, 
send it on to the Senate with the finest 
recommendation, and recommend to 
the President of the United States that 
he signs into law this resolution as 
soon as possible. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. SOLOMON), the distinguished 
chairman of the Committee on Rules, 
who has been a staunch and consistent 
supporter of the credit union movement. 


Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, rising 
in support of this legislation, let me 
heap praise on the sponsor, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. LATOURETTE), 
for his counsel in introducing and dragging 
and pulling this legislation to the 
floor today. Many people in the very 
beginning said it could not be done, 
and my colleague did it with perseverance. 


And I commend the gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. LEACH), chairman of the 
committee, and, of course, my good 
friend, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. KANJORSKI), because they 
also were strong supporters of this legislation. 


From the very beginning, Mr. Speaker, 
I always believed that a nation in 
the private sector and government at 
all levels must do all they can to encourage 
increased savings by the American 
people; and credit unions are a 
viable, dependable, and stable financial 
group that contribute so much to the 


H1876 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

economy, the health of our country 
and its people in making it easier for 
the American people to save and invest. 
And that is what keeps this economy 
chugging along. 

Credit unions are oriented to people 
rather than profits. We should always 
keep that in mind. The average credit 
union is small, just $23 million in assets, 
less than a tenth the size of the 
average bank. That is less than the single 
largest U.S. bank, all of the credit 
unions together, less than the single 
largest U.S. banking company. 

Mr. Speaker, this is a battle between 
rich bankers and working Americans. 
America’s banking institutions are 
waging a war against credit unions, 
and let us not ever forget it, and let us 
not cover it up on this floor. These 
banks want credit unions out, including 
my good friends, the bankers in 
Glens Falls, New York. 

Both in court and in Congress, banks 
are trying to stamp out credit union 
competition and deny millions of 
American consumers access to affordable 
credit union financial services. 
This bill addresses the critically important 
question of credit union membership, 
which has already been outlined 
by the gentleman that spoke before 
me. 

Mr. Speaker, in my congressional district 
in upstate New York, there are 
200,000 credit union members; and there 
are an average of 163,000 credit union 
members in every congressional district 
in America. 

Mr. Speaker, credit union members 
are so worried about this legislation 
because they are the owners themselves; 
and that is why they are there, 
to serve the people. 

I thank the gentleman for yielding 
me the time. Let us pass this legislation 
and get it over to the Senate. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. BONIOR), the distinguished 
Democratic Whip. 

Mr. BONIOR. Mr. Speaker, the word 
‘‘love’’ I reserve for very special occasions. 
I love my wife. I love my children. 
I love my family. I love my colleagues. 
But I am here this afternoon 
to say that I love my credit union. 

And the reason I love my credit 
union is because, of all the financial institutions 
or all the business institutions 
that I have had to deal with in 
my life, the credit union has provided 
me with the best service at the fairest 
rate within the sense of community. 
And the reason it will do so well on 
this floor today is because it provides 
that kind of service. 

I got my washing machine, my dryer, 
my car, my kids’ education all from 
my credit union. And they did it with 
style, they will did it with grace, they 
did it with good rates, and they did it 
within the sense of community, as I 
said. 

I want to commend my colleagues, 
the gentleman from New York (Mr. LAFALCE), 
the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. 
LEACH), the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 

LATOURETTE), and the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI), for taking 
the lead on this. 

This is a very good bill. It is a responsible 
bill. It has updated the law 
that relates to credit unions, which has 
not been updated for almost 50 years 
now; and it does it in a way that will 
allow credit unions to continue to grow 
and will not jeopardize the 70 million 
members who would be jeopardized by 
the Supreme Court ruling, the narrow 
Supreme Court ruling that we had 
come down recently. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to our distinguished colleague, 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. PAUL). 

(Mr. PAUL asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
chairman for yielding me the time. 

I am an original cosponsor of 1151. 
But the original bill never came to the 
committee. It was quickly substituted 
with another bill, which I think is seriously 
weakened from the original bill 
that we had. So I would like to let all 
those 207 Members who are cosponsors 
that are not voting on the bill that 
they signed their name onto know that 
there are two major changes that have 
occurred. 

One is that the multiple common-
bond position of 1151 has been removed. 
Now it is restrictive. And the other 
thing is there has been a lot of regulations 
added, and I think that we should 
consider long-term economic consequences 
and political consequences of 
opening up the door to regulations and 
also what it means down the road as 
far as insurance goes. 

For instance, it was bragged upon, 
the bill was bragged upon because the 
regulations of safety and soundness 
was good. We have had a lot of regulation, 
for safety and soundness for 
banks and savings and loan, and yet 
the FDIC and FSLIC had to be bailed 
out. The insurance deposit for credit 
unions was started by private money, 
no government subsidies, and has never 
been bailed out. So now we are going to 
overlook the credit unions and make 
sure they are safer and sound. 

I think it is the wrong direction that 
we are going. I think the whole notion 
that we are going to have the Community 
Reinvestment Act applied to the 
credit unions is going in the wrong direction. 
This is a form of credit allocation 
and, actually, long term, will 
weaken the credit unions. 

I would like to speak up for the credit 
unions and say this bill has been 
weakened to such a degree that they 
have opened up the doors, and down the 
road they are going to be treated like 
the banks, and down the road they will 
probably receive the taxation that 
banks have. 

I resent the idea that the competitors 
and the small banks, who do not 
like the competition of the credit 
unions, they say, well, let us tax them 
and regulate them. So, in a way, we 
have accommodated the banks by add


ing the regulations onto the credit 
unions. 

I do not think this is going in the 
right direction, and we should seriously 
consider a no vote on this legislation. 


Mr. LaFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from Vermont 
(Mr. SANDERS). 

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. 

Let me begin by doing something 
that I very rarely do, and that is concur 
with the remarks of my friend, the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. SOLOMON). 
We should not be naive and not 
understand that the largest banks in 
this country have done everything that 
they could to prevent the passage of 
this legislation. 

Mr. Speaker, as an original cosponsor 
of H.R. 1151, I am proud to be on the 
floor to offer my strong support for 
this legislation and for its passage 
today. At a time of increasing bank 
fees, increasing ATM fees, increasing 
credit card fees, increasing minimum 
balance requirements, and the loss of 
many locally-owned banks to large 
multi-billion-dollar corporate institutions, 
credit unions today are more important 
than they have ever been. 

H.R. 1151 will go a long way toward 
ensuring the long-term viability of 
credit unions, of allowing credit unions 
to expand rather than to contract and 
wither away, which is clearly the goal 
of many large banks. 
Mr. Speaker, I make no apologies for 
being a strong supporter of credit 
unions. I want to see credit unions 
grow. Because they are good for the 
State of Vermont, and they are good 
for America. Congress chartered credit 
unions not only to help people of modest 
means but to give ordinary Americans 
a not-for-profit cooperative alternative 
to for-profit banks. 

If we do not act today, the Supreme 
Court decision would be extremely 
harmful to tens of thousands of Vermonters 
and millions of Americans. 
Let us pass this legislation. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to my wonderful friend and 
distinguished colleague, the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. GILMAN), the 
chairman of the Committee on International 
Relations. 

(Mr. GILMAN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GILMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support 
of H.R. 1151, the Credit Union Membership 
Act. I commend the distinguished 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. LEACH), 
chairman of the Committee on Banking 
and Financial Services; the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI); 
the gentleman from New York 
(Mr. LAFALCE); and the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. LATOURETTE); for their 
cosponsorship of this important measure. 



April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1877 

This legislation was introduced in response 
to a recent Supreme Court decision 
where the Court, in a narrow interpretation 
of the Federal Credit 
Union Act of 1934, invalidated the 
International Credit Union Administration’s 
policy permitting multiple-
group memberships. 

H.R. 1151 redefines the 1934 law to 
provide for three types of common-
bond requirements for Federal credit 
unions: single common bond, multiple 
common bond, community credit 
unions. It also provides regulations 
pertaining to assets and reserve requirements 
which will serve as additional 
protections for our consumers. 
We recognize that this bill is not popular 
with the banking industry, which 
claims that credit unions have an unfair 
competitive advantage since they 
do not pay Federal taxes on their earnings. 
However, the record discloses 
that credit unions do not damage 
banks or cheat taxpayers and provides 
a worthy service. 

Historically, the primary reason behind 
Federal regulators’ support for 
multi-employer credit unions was to 
try to prevent individual small credit 
unions from going under when membership 
dropped due to corporate 
downsizing. Had those credit unions 
failed, the cost of their cleanup would 
have hit the taxpayers the same way 
the savings and loans failures hit our 
Nation. 

Mr. Speaker, the simple fact remains 
that credit unions do play an important 
role in our Nation’s financial environment. 
They allow consumers the 
early opportunity to open small accounts 
without experiencing prohibitive 
fees or burdensome restrictions. 

In closing, let me say that while the 
Supreme Court may have used a narrow 
interpretation of this 1934 law in 
making its recent ruling, Congress does 
have the constitutional right to change 
laws, if needed, should it believe the 
court acted in error; and I believe that 
is the case today. 

Accordingly, I urge my colleagues to 
join us in supporting this worthy legislation. 


b1300 
Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the distinguished freshman 
gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms. KILPATRICK). 
(Ms. KILPATRICK asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 
Ms. KILPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, it is 
a privilege to come today in strong 
support of H.R. 1151. One of the top 
largest banks is in my district. I support 
banks. But I also support credit 
unions and the 300,000 members in my 
district who are members of the credit 
union. 
I want to commend the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. Leach) and the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. LAFALCE) 
and our ranking members. This is the 
way true legislation should pass and 
work in this Congress, in a bipartisan 

way, for the betterment of our American 
citizens. And this bill just does 
that. 

It is important that as we discuss 
this bill and as we vote affirmatively 
for it, that, remember, we are in a 
large financial market. The world is 
global. Credit unions account for 2 percent 
of the financial market, and banks 
and other securities take care of the 
rest of it. It is a good bill. H.R. 1151, as 
was mentioned, is pro-consumer, pro-
competition, and I strongly support it. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, may I ask 
how much time is remaining on each 
side? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). The gentleman from Iowa 
(Mr. Leach) has 11/2 minutes remaining, 
and the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
LAFALCE) has 9 minutes remaining. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, this side 
would like to reserve its time until the 
conclusion. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. KLINK). 

(Mr. KLINK asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. KLINK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman for yielding to me. 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to begin by 
affiliating myself with the remarks 
made by my dear colleague, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. KANJORSKI). 
Both sides have come together 
in what is truly a fine moment of bipartisanship 
and what is really right 
for the country. 

I will tell my colleagues, use our region 
of the country as an example. 
Back in the days when the steel industry 
was booming and the railroads were 
strong and the manufacturing section 
was strong, these credit unions were 
begun for the employees, many times 
tens of thousands of them who worked 
in those companies. 

We have gone through a kind of a 
deindustrialization of this Nation. 
Many of those steel plants and the railroad 
operations do not even exist anymore, 
have been severely shrunk down. 
But other industries have been 
spawned out. 

Really, this bill today, if it is approved 
by the House, preserves credit 
union membership for current members, 
and it is going to preserve the opportunity 
for membership for many 
people across Pennsylvania and across 
other parts of the country which have 
had to merge and combine in order to 
survive. 

The credit union, as I said before, 
serve one manufacturer. What we are 
doing today is clarifying what is a 
common bond. This is good legislation. 
This legislation will clarify the law. It 
will allow multiple common bond 
groups to join together. It is the right 
thing to do. 

The banks truly have nothing to fear 
because, as many people here know, 89 
percent of the people who belong to 
credit unions also do business with the 
banks. So I would recommend an ‘‘aye’’ 
vote. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. FILNER) 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to ask my colleagues, what could 
be better for this country than a financial 
institution run and organized by 
its members, members who feel comfortable 
saving and investing for their 
futures at their institution, their credit 
union. 

H.R. 1151 is about guaranteeing 
choice, choice for consumers who want 
low cost, higher returns, and convenience. 
Nonprofit credit unions are 
mostly employer-sponsored, employee-
run. But to be financially viable, each 
credit union needs about 500 members. 
My district is filled with small employers. 
We need to protect these employers’ 
and these employees’ rights to 
create and participate in credit unions 
with broader membership bases. Credit 
unions came into being to provide financial 
service for the everyday worker. 
H.R. 1151 ensures that these workers’ 
rights will not be tampered with. 

Mr. Speaker, all of the gentlemen in 
the House who have worked on this 
have been thanked. I want to thank the 
thousands and tens of thousands of 
credit union members around the country 
who got politically involved, talked 
to their Congress people, wrote letters 
to their newspaper, got on the talk 
shows. The credit union members 
around this country did an incredible 
job educating the Members of Congress. 
That effort will be rewarded with a 
vote today. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to a previous speaker, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. VENTO). 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the chairman and the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. LAFALCE) for yielding 
me this time. 

I just wanted to make a comment because 
there is some misunderstanding 
about some of the positions of various 
organizations. Clearly, the suit that resulted 
in the Supreme Court decision 
was a product of the banking associations. 


Quite frankly, I think, since the decision, 
there has been a recognition by 
the banking organizations to, in fact, 
look for a remedy to this field of membership 
issue. I think it would be unfair 
not to report that they had every intention 
that there be a grandfathered 
provision. In fact, without the participation 
both by the various groups, the 
coalition of bankers, and credit unions, 
and others, I do not think we would be 
where we are today. 

So while it is true that they had 
sought many other changes as is applicable 
to the charter of credit unions to 
Federal law, the fact is that they did 
make a positive contribution. 

I know that they have reservations 
about the bill we are acting on, but 
nevertheless I think that they were 
positive participants, certainly in the 
court case and certainly in the remedy 
that is being put forth today. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentlewoman from Texas 
(Ms. JACKSON-LEE). 


H1878 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas asked 
and was given permission to revise and 
extend her remarks.) 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, what a great day for democracy. 
I thank the ranking member, and 
I thank the chairman very much for allowing 
us to have a stand-alone vote on 
H.R. 1151. 

Credit unions represent democracy at 
work. Credit unions provide its members 
with higher savings rates, lower 
loan rates, and less fees. As well, they 
provide those who have not had access 
to credit a friendly atmosphere in 
which to seek credit. 

Credit unions were originally chartered 
to be a kind of economic ballast 
for working people. This H.R. 1151 does 
provide constraints; we accept that. It 
provides choices; we accept that. But 
at the same time, it gives opportunity 
to more than 70 million people in 
America to belong to their credit 
unions and allows them to grow. 

Yes, this legislation also provides 
that credit unions will not discriminate 
against loans to low and modest 
income members. It makes everyone a 
part of the family. This legislation allows 
us to work alongside of our banking 
friends in the banking industry and 
to ensure that credit unions are, in 
fact, part of the financial structure of 
America. 

I support H.R. 1151. Let us vote for it. 
Let us vote for democracy. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise to support the Credit 
Union Membership Access Act under suspension 
of the rules today. A Houston entrepreneur, 
has written to say that ‘‘As a business 
owner, I consider credit union membership 
to be one of the most important benefits 
that I offer my employees.’’ Moreover, I have 
received numerous letters stating that supporting 
H.R. 1151 means preserving consumers’ 
freedom to choose where they borrow money 
or invest their savings. Credit unions are critical 
to ordinary Americans, and I am proud to 
be a member of the Congressional Federal 
Credit Union. 

H.R. 1151 represents landmark legislation 
for federal credit unions and for their members. 
I am pleased to say that I have been a 
cosponsor of the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act, sponsored by Representatives 
STEVEN LATOURETTE and PAUL KANJORSKI, 
since July of 1997. Total cosponsorship of 
H.R. 1151 now stands at 206, including the 
Speaker of the House and Chairman of the 
Rules Committee. 
Today, we are setting a good example of 
policy-making by separating H.R. 1151 from 
the financial services overhaul plan (H.R. 10). 
I feel I can speak for many members of this 
body when I say that the two pieces of legislation 
deserve to be considered separately. In 
short, H.R. 1151 is significant legislation to all 
credit unions, and it is proper that we treat it 
as a ‘‘stand-alone’’ bill. 

It has been said that credit unions represent 
democracy at work. Credit Unions are about 
people helping people. Credit unions are 
present in every neighborhood in America. In 
the 18th Congressional District of Texas, there 
are over 328,000 individuals who belong to 
credit unions. These figures are a powerful reminder 
of the work we have laid out before us 

today. Above all, credit unions are not-for-profit 
institutions, built by the American people 
themselves. Credit unions must be preserved. 

Indeed, credit union members benefit by receiving 
higher savings rates, lower loan rates 
and less fees on financial transactions than if 
they did business with a bank. However, bankers 
across the country, both large and small, 
have enjoyed record growth and profits. Collectively 
they grew by $300 billion in 1997 
alone. The credit union industry’s total assets 
were only $350 billion by comparison. 

Credit unions were originally chartered to be 
a kind of economic ballast for working class 
people, as well as for persons with modest to 
low incomes. Preserving our constituents’ 
rights to participate in a credit union of their 
choice is in keeping with a long tradition of 
American history. 

The current dispute evolved from a policy 
adopted in 1982 by the federal regulator for 
credit unions, the National Credit Union Administration 
(NCUA). In 1982, the NCUA 
issued an interpretive ruling and policy statement 
which provided flexibility to the field of 
membership requirements for federal credit 
unions (FCU). Credit union charters are granted 
on the basis of a ‘‘common bond.’’ The 
common bond for establishing a credit union 
may be occupational, associational, or community. 
This requirement (found in the Federal 
Credit Union Act of 1934) determines the field 
of membership and is unique among depository 
financial institutions. 

The NCUA’s interpretation permitted membership 
in a company’s credit union could 
allow another company’s to join its credit 
union, but only if the potential number of new 
credit union members did not exceed 3,000. 

In other words, H.R. 1151 virtually codifies 
the 1982 National Credit Union Association’s 
(NCUA) interpretive ruling and policy statement 
which provided flexibility to the field of 
membership requirements for federal credit 
unions (FCU). The NCUA’s interpretation permits 
membership in a FCU to consist of more 
than one distinct group so long as each group 
has its own ‘‘common bond,’’ plus only a 
group with fewer than 3,000 members shall be 
eligible to be included in the field of membership 
of a credit union. 

The bill also would prevent credit unions 
from discriminating when considering loans to 
low- and modest-income members, a provision 
similar to the Community Reinvestment Act of 
1977 which applies banks and savings institutions. 
In addition, credit unions would be required 
to meet many of the ‘‘safety and soundness’’ 
capital requirements as banks. The bill 
would also require the Federal Reserve to pay 
interest on the ‘‘sterile reserves’’ banks are required 
to keep at the Fed. I believe we can 
still continue to work with our banks on these 
issues. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to 
stand up for the FCU to consist of more than 
one distinct group so long as each group has 
its own common bond. The NCUA’s action 
was taken in response to changing economic 
conditions and as part of an industry commitment 
to meet the needs of individuals seeking 
credit union service. 

In 1990, the American Bankers Association 
and several small North Carolina banks filed a 
lawsuit contesting the NCUA’s approval of 
multiple group field of membership expansion 
for the AT&T Family Federal Credit Union. In 
July 1996, The U.S. Court of Appeals for D.C. 

overturned a lower court’s decision and ruled 
that ‘‘all members of a federal credit union 
must share one common bond.’’ Currently, 
under the terms of several subsequent orders, 
FCUs cannot add new groups to their fields of 
membership but the institutions are permitted 
to enroll new members into those established 
groups already being served. The U.S. Supreme 
Court decided to take up the credit 
union case in February. An opinion was rendered 
on February 25, 1998 that seemed to 
favor the banking industry. 

In an attempt to protect the interests of 
credit unions, the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act (H.R. 1151) was introduced March 
20, 1997, with an additional sixteen original 
cosponsors. The bill’s aim is to make clear 
that credit unions may serve multiple customers; 
H.R. 1151 is distinctly about consumer 
choice. In its original version, H.R. 1151 
amended the Federal Credit Union Act to say 
‘‘the membership of any Federal credit union 
shall be limited to 1 or more groups each of 
which have (within such group) a common 
bond.’’ 

Today, more than 70 million Americans belong 
to credit unions, and industry officials 
have estimated that the Supreme Court’s decision 
will jeopardize 20 million of them. The 
legislation the committee approved last week 
would allow all 20 million members to keep 
their accounts, but it would set limits on credit 
union expansion. For instance, one freedom 
and consumer choice of 70 million Americans. 
I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1151, 
the Credit Union Membership Access Act. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. I 
am shortly going to yield back the balance 
of my time. Before I do, I just 
want to say some closing remarks. 

Again, it has been a pleasure working 
with the Chairman and the Members 
from both sides of the aisle. The staff 
that really worked as one staff in 
crafting this bill, is something we did 
on the IMF bill also. It is something 
that I hope we can do in the next several 
weeks and months on financial 
modernization. I look forward to doing 
that in a very similar collegial fashion. 

With respect to credit unions, I am 
proud to be a member of a credit union 
and a thrift and a bank and some securities 
accounts, et cetera, and have 
some insurance accounts also. These 
are all wonderful approaches to financial 
services. We need to enhance competition, 
and we need to protect and 
promote consumer interests in all financial 
services legislation. 

Within the confines of the credit 
union bill, we have to preserve the best 
of the past going forward into the future. 
I think that is what we have done 
in this bill. 

Credit unions are very, very special. 
They are usually relatively small. 
They are a place where we should know 
just about everybody. So they are confined, 
generally speaking, to a rather 
local area. Everybody who is a member 
is usually in close proximity to everyone 
else. It is where we and people with 
whom we have a common bond can 
save. It is where we can go for the basic 
essentials of life, the purchase of a 
home, a small loan, a loan for a car, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1879 

leasing, financing, et cetera. This bill 
preserves the integrity of the credit 
union concept. 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield to me? 

Mr. LAFALCE. I yield to the gentleman 
from Minnesota. 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate 
the gentleman yielding. I came 
from a credit union family. My father 
ran a credit union. But, nevertheless, I 
understand their role in terms of they 
fill a very special place. 

I was glad the gentleman mentioned 
the financial modernization. I want to 
recognize the leadership, first of all, 
for pulling the rule off the floor and 
preventing any polarization with regard 
to that important issue. Many of 
us have worked on it for a decade. As I 
said to my chairman and chairwoman, 
its demise, its death is greatly exaggerated. 
I think after Easter, those of us 
that claim a Christian affiliation do 
believe in resurrection, and we hope 
that we can vote on it. 

I am pleased that the leadership saw 
fit to give us the opportunity to vote 
on this important bill today, and want 
to publicly and on the floor thank the 
leadership for that and for the gentleman 
from Iowa (Mr. LEACH) and others 
that have gone ahead with this. 

I think it is important that Members 
be able to record a vote in favor of this. 
And I thank the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. LAFALCE), the ranking member 
and my friend, for yielding. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, I see 
that the gentleman from New York 
(Mr. SOLOMON), the distinguished chairman 
of the House Committee on Rules, 
has returned to the floor on this important 
bill. And I look forward to working 
with the chairman on financial 
modernization. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, first, let me thank my 
two good friends for their thoughtful 
words. As chairman of the Committee 
on Banking and Financial Services, I 
support a strong and competitive financial 
service sector. We need solid 
and viable banks, solid and viable saving 
and loans, insurance companies, 
mutual funds, securities firms, and 
credit unions. 

What is best for the American people 
is competition, choice. This bill ensures 
a stable future for a solid industry, 
one that deserves our respect because 
it has served the public so well. 

In huge letters in the basement of a 
credit union in Iowa City, Iowa is a 
quote from one of my State’s heroes, a 
man a named Nile Kinnick. It was 3 
years after Nile Kinnick won the 
Heisman Trophy in the few days before 
his death in World War II as a pilot 
that he wrote a letter home in which 
he said ‘‘people must come before profits.’’ 


That is what the credit union movement 
is all about. That is why I believe 
this House, despite angst from com


petitors, is obligated to give the benefit 
of doubt to the credit union movement. 
I would urge all my colleagues to 
support this bill. 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity 
to support H.R. 1151, the ‘‘Credit Union Membership 
Access Act.’’ 

I have long been a strong supporter of credit 
unions. Credit unions are an important alternative 
source of credit in our diverse financial 
marketplace. Credit unions also represent the 
concept of voluntary, non-profit membership. 

This legislation resolves an ambiguity in 
credit union membership rights that has been 
raised by the recent Supreme Court decision. 
We need to act quickly to resolve this ambiguity. 


At the same time, this legislation seeks to 
address important questions of competitive 
balance and fairness between credit unions on 
the one hand and banks and thrifts on the 
other. 

I particularly want to take this opportunity to 
talk about an important provision in H.R. 
1151—the provision setting out credit union 
community reinvestment obligations. With the 
enactment of this provision, we will be reaffirming 
an important principle: a financial institution 
which enjoys the benefits of federal 
deposit insurance has an affirmative obligation 
to meet the credit needs of the entire community 
or field of membership which it is chartered 
to serve, including neighborhoods and 
individuals of low- and moderate-income. With 
the enactment of H.R. 1151 in its current form, 
we will be extending this obligation, currently 
imposed on federally insured banks and thrifts, 
to federally insured credit unions. 

Specifically, H.R. 1151 requires all credit 
unions nationwide to provide affordable services 
to all individuals, including ‘‘low- and 
moderate-income individuals’’, within their field 
of membership. It further requires all credit 
unions organized on the basis of community, 
neighborhood, or rural district to meet the 
credit and service needs of the entire community 
which they are chartered to serve. 

As with the implementation of the Community 
Reinvestment Act for banks and thrifts, 
the bill requires the credit union regulator, the 
NCUA, to evaluate credit unions in meeting 
these obligations, and requires the public release 
of those evaluations. Finally, the bill requires 
the NCUA to take remedial action 
against credit unions which fail to meet these 
obligations. 

A community reinvestment requirement for 
banks and thrifts has been in effect since the 
passage of the CRA law in 1977. Despite 
early concerns by the banks, CRA has proven 
to be a tremendous success. To date, banks 
have made CRA commitments of $400 billion 
in low-income and minority neighborhoods. 

So many of the banks which originally opposed 
CRA now support it, recognizing that 
low-income lending can be a new source of 
profits. And, the banking regulators acknowledge 
that community lending does not negatively 
affect safety and soundness. 

During the course of debate and markup on 

H.R. 1151, it was debated whether a community 
reinvestment standard was necessary for 
credit unions, since by definition they are chartered 
to serve their members. While it is true 
that the majority of credit unions ably and responsibly 
serve low-income and minority 
members, there was also committee testimony 
that some credit unions did not have such a 
sterling record. 

The great benefit of requiring the credit 
union regulator to evaluate credit unions’ 
record of community reinvestment is that we 
will no longer have to guess which credit 
unions are and which are not serving the credit 
and service needs of their entire field of 
membership. Credit unions which are meeting 
those needs will have no problem with this requirement. 
Those that are not merit the scrutiny 
that this provision will give. 

A community reinvestment standard for 
credit unions has been in existence for 16 
years in Massachusetts. The record there is 
that such a standard is both necessary and effective. 
CRA exams for Massachusetts credit 
unions have demonstrated that there were a 
number of institutions that did not have a good 
record. However, over time, with the scrutiny 
of this process, the community lending record 
of Massachusetts credit unions has improved. 
Quite simply, this requirement works. 

Now, it is time to extend this requirement 
nationally to all federally insured credit unions. 
As we move into conference with the Senate, 
I urge members to support the community reinvestment 
provisions in H.R. 1151, and to 
fight the efforts of the enemies of community 
reinvestment who may try to strip out or water 
down these provisions. 

I urge adoption of H.R. 1151 in its present 
form. 

Mr. PAUL. Mr. Speaker, since I was the first 
one in this Congress to step forward and introduce 
legislation affirming the NCUA’s position 
allowing multiple common bonds for credit 
unions and signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 
1151 as originally written, I feel that I am in a 
disagreement among friends. I must oppose 
this bill because of the new regulations it imposes 
on credit unions and does nothing to 
address the legitimate concerns of the banks. 

While I strongly support the expansion of 
the field of membership for credit unions, the 
new regulations imposed upon them demonstrate 
a decision to follow the wrong path to 
‘‘level the playing field’’ with banks and other 
financial institutions. A better approach would 
have been to lead the congress towards less 
taxes and less regulation. H.R. 1151, The 
Credit Union Membership Access Act, as 
amended by the committee, follows a path of 
more regulations and leads toward higher 
taxes on credit unions while the Financial 
Freedom Act, H.R. 1121, which I introduced a 
year ago, lowers taxes and regulations on 
banks. While H.R. 1151 does not impose new, 
direct taxes on credit unions, I fear that that 
day is just around the corner. 

The NCUSIF was the only deposit insurance 
fund started without any federal seed money 
and the credit unions never came to Washington 
for a taxpayer-funded bailout. In fact, allowing 
multiple common bonds for credit 
unions enhanced their safety and soundness. 
This bill will add new ‘‘safety and soundness’’ 
and CRA-like regulations on credit unions. 
These regulations will add a burdensome regulatory 
cost. This cost will be passed on to the 
consumer in the form of higher fees, higher interest 
rates and less service. It is the marginal 
consumer who will lose the most when this bill 
becomes law. 

The estimated, aggregate cost of bank regulation 
(noninterest expenses) on commercial 
banks was $125.9 billion in 1991, according to 
The Cost of Bank Regulation: A Review of the 


H1880 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Evidence, Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System (Staff Study 171 by Gregory 
Elliehausen, April 1998). It reports that studies 
estimate that this figure amounts to 12 percent 
to 13 percent of noninterest expenses. These 
estimates only include a fraction of the ‘‘most 
burdensome’’ regulations that govern the industry, 
it adds, ‘‘The total cost of all regulations 
can only be larger.’’ 

These regulations, under which the credit 
unions will now suffer a greater burden with 
the passage of this bill, impose a disproportionate 
burden on smaller institutions. These 
increased, and unfairly imposed, regulations 
will stifle the possibility of new entrants into 
the financial sector and contribute to a consolidation 
and fewer market participants of the industry. 
As the introduction of new entrants into 
the market becomes more costly, smaller institutions 
will face a marginally increased burden 
and will be more likely to consolidate. ‘‘The 
basic conclusion is similar for all of the studies 
of economies of scale: Average compliance 
costs for regulations are substantially greater 
for banks at low levels of output than for 
banks at moderate or high levels of output,’’ 
the Staff Study concludes. 

Smaller banks face the highest compliance 
cost in relation to total assets, equity capital 
and net income before taxes, reveals Regulatory 
Burden: The Cost to Community Banks, 
a study prepared for the Independent Bankers 
Association of America by Grant Thornton, 
January 1993. CRA compliance costs for 
small banks was $1 billion and 14.4 million 
employee hours in 1991. For each $1 million 
in assets, banks under $30 million in assets 
incur almost three times the compliance cost 
of banks between $30–65 million in assets. 
This regulation almost quadruples costs on 
smaller institutions to almost four times when 
compared to banks over $65 million in assets. 
These findings are consistent for both equity 
capital and net income measurements, according 
to the report. 

The IBAA study identifies the Community 
Reinvestment Act as the most burdensome 
regulation with the estimated cost of complying 
with CRA exceeding the next most burdensome 
regulation by approximately $448 million 
or 77%. Respondents to the IBAA study rated 
the CRA as the least beneficial and useful of 
the thirteen regulatory areas surveyed. In 
short, this bill takes the most costly and least 
beneficial and useful regulation on banks and 
adds a similar, new regulation on credit 
unions. Reducing the most costly, and least 
beneficial and useful regulation on the banks 
would have been a better approach. 

In addition to all of the problems associated 
with the obligations and requirements that the 
government regulations impose on the productive, 
private sectors of the economy, the regulations 
amount to a government credit allocation 
scheme. As Ludwig von Mises explained 
well in the Theory of Money and Credit in 
1912, governmental credit allocation is a misdirection 
of credit which leads to 
malinvestment and contributes to an artificial 
boom and bust cycle. Nobel laureate Frederick 

A. Hayek and Murray Rothbard expounded on 
this idea. 
The unintended consequences of the passage 
of this bill, as written, will be to stifle the 
formation on new credit unions, consolidate 
current credit unions into larger ones better 
able to internalize the cost of the additional 
regulations, and lower productivity and eco


nomic growth due to the misallocation of credit. 
This increased burden must ultimately be 
passed on to the consumer. The increased 
costs on credit unions this bill imposes will 
lead to a reduction of access to credit unions, 
higher fees and higher rates. These provisions 
are anti-consumer. The marginal consumers, 
those who currently can only receive a loan 
from a credit union without the burden of CRA, 
are the ones who will suffer under the provision 
of this bill. I hope that the bill can be improved 
as the process continues and lead to 
less regulations and other taxes on banks 
rather than more regulations and other taxes 
on credit unions. 

Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of H.R. 1151, the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act, and I urge my colleagues 
to vote in favor of the bill today. 

Development of this bill is the product of 
long and hard work, not only by the House 
Committee on Banking which has brought the 
bill to the House floor, but by millions of individual 
members of credit unions across the 
country who let Congress know of the importance 
of the Supreme Court decision on this 
matter earlier, and of the need to move H.R. 
1511 as a result of that decision. 

The legislation we are considering today is 
a compromise that ends a dispute largely between 
credit unions and the nation’s banks. 
Federal regulators had interpreted federal law 
to allow multiple common bond memberships, 
and one result was a rapid increase in credit 
union membership. The increase in credit 
union membership came at a time when there 
was an expansion in the scope and type of 
services they had traditionally provided members, 
resulting in competition with commercial 
banks, thrift institutions and other financial 
services. Congress is now in the process of 
redefining the nature of all financial institutions 
so it is timely that we make a specific decision 
on the nature and scope of credit unions and 
the services they provide. And I believe enactment 
is H.R. 1151 is essential for competition 
with the new types of financial institutions now 
becoming a reality with the distinctions ending 
between banks, insurance firms, securities 
and commercial businesses. This bill is about 
making sure consumers have a choice, today 
and in the future. 

With a population of 1.3 million people, Hawaii 
has more than 550,000 credit union members 
in 113 affiliated credit unions. Hawaii’s 
traditional cultural values have resulted in one 
of the strongest credit union movements in 
America. Many first generation immigrants 
brought with them a system called tanomoshi. 
Workers and families in sugar cane and pineapple 
plantations in Hawaii pooled savings 
from which loans were provided for emergencies 
or more often for one family to start 
a business. When the business prospered, the 
funds would be repaid to the group and it 
would revolve to another family. In this way, 
much of the business, middle class in Hawaii 
developed from its plantation agriculture economy. 
The reality is that we had credit unions 
in Hawaii long before the mainland. It was 
simply called tanomoshi instead of credit 
unions. This is a grass-roots democratic 
movement built on the foundation of self-help 
and group identity. 

H.R. 1151 allows current credit union members 
to continue their membership. New membership 
groups must have less than 3,000 
common bond members at the time of joining, 
and groups will be within reasonable proximity 
to the credit union. However, there are circumstances 
when even these restrictions can 
be waived. It is important to credit union members 
as well as to their competitors that depositor 
insurance provisions be strengthened 
under the bill. It would also require that ‘‘persons 
of modest means’’ within each credit 
union membership field be served. 

Mr. Speaker, I believe H.R. 1151 is a solid, 
reasonable and responsible compromise. We 
must have a healthy and vigorous credit union 
movement in the 21st Century to meet the 
needs of individuals as well as the need of the 
nation for a diverse, competitive financial industry. 


Ms. KILPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today in strong support of H.R. 
1151, the Credit Union Membership Access 
Act. This bill would overturn the 
February 25, 1998 decision rendered by 
the Supreme Court in the National 
Credit Union Administration v. First 
National Bank and Trust, a decision 
that would have severely restricted the 
ability of credit unions to grow and expand. 
In essence, the Supreme Court 
said that the National Credit Union 
Administration (NCUA) illegally allowed 
credit unions to expand beyond 
their original base of membership. His 
legislation allows credit union members 
who were added under NCUA’s policy 
to remain with their credit union, 
and expounds upon the definition of 
‘‘common bond.’’ This bill is a victory 
for poor people, for low-income families, 
for working-class people, and for 
consumers. I would also like to add 
that I am greatly pleased that the collective 
wisdom of the Congress prevailed 
in deleting this legislation from 
the larger, sweeping omnibus financial 
services reauthorization bill yesterday. 
We can all say, in a truly bi-partisan 
manner, that we are finally getting to 
the work that truly matters to American 
taxpayers throughout our great 
nation. 

Of course, I support the banks in the 
15th Congressional District and in our 
nation. I also support our credit 
unions, and I have been a member of a 
credit union for a long, long time. 
Banks and credit unions have operated 
side-by-side since the first credit union 
was founded in Manchester, New Hampshire 
in 1909. In our nation, we have 
over 12,000 credit unions serving over 70 
million people. Close to 300,000 members 
of credit unions reside in my Congressional 
District. Credit unions are 
nonprofit, cooperative financial institutions 
owned and run by its members. 
These democratically controlled organizations 
provide their members with a 
safe place to save and borrow at reasonable 
rates. In order to become a 
member of a credit union, you must be 
eligible for membership. This legislation 
will allow each individual credit 
union to continue to decide whom it 
will serve. 

A recent article in The Washington 
Post compared recent fees among several 
areas banks and one credit union. 
In practically every instance, the credit 
union’s fee, rates or borrowing terms 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1881 

were more favorable to those of banks. 
In this era of bank consolidation and 
fewer bank branch offices, community 
development credit unions fill a special 
void. These credit unions primarily 
serve low-income members in distressed 
and financially underserved 
areas, and help fill the financial needs 
and dreams of poor and working-class 
people and families. 

Again, I want to applaud the hard 
work of Chairman Jim Leach and my 
leader, Ranking Minority Member 
John LaFalce, for their dedication and 
effort in getting this bill to the floor 
under a fair and truly bi-partisan manner. 
This legislation illustrates what 
Congress can do if Members have the 
opportunity to work in a truly fair, 
just and bi-partisan manner. As we 
move toward the next millennium and 
a global economy, banks and credit 
unions will have no choice but to work 
together to ensure the fiscal health of 
all of our constituents, businesses, and 
corporations, and I look forward to 
working with credit unions and banks 
to that very goal. Thank you for your 
time. 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I was 
happy today to cast my vote for H.R. 
1151, the Credit Union Membership Access 
Act. I was happier still that the 
majority of the House of Representatives 
voted for H.R. 1151 as well. 

Credit unions are the banks of working 
people: Credit unions do not charge 
exorbitant bank fees; they do not have 
excessive account minimums. They 
make low interest loans, mainly to 
their members in the communities in 
which they live. Credit unions are run 
by their members, who have a voice in 
the operation and policies of their 
credit union. 

Small businesses depend on credit 
unions for those reasons because offering 
credit union membership as a benefit 
to prospective employees is a benefit 
that workers value. 

Credit unions are very small compared 
with banks. The average credit 
union has less than $28 million in as-
sets—less than 1/16th the assets of the 
average bank. The two largest U.S. 
banks (Chase and Citibank) combined 
have more assets than all 12,047 credit 
unions combined. Furthermore, banks 
today control nearly every dollar in 
savings (93 percent) and in loans (94 
percent) in the United States. With 
nearly complete market dominance, 
banks have also chalked up record profits 
in recent years, posting an all-time 
record last year of $52 billion, much of 
which is due to the many new fees they 
are charging small consumers. 

But the banks were not satisfied, and 
in spite of their overwhelming market 
dominance and record profits, they lobbied 
to squash credit unions. In view of 
their power, it is historically significant 
that Congress did not serve today 
as a handmaiden to market power— 
credit unions and their 70 million members 
prevailed. So did an important, if 
embattled, democratic tradition in 
America—the non-profit, member-run 

and member-controlled financial institution. 


Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise in support of the Credit Union 
Membership Access Act (H.R. 1151). 
This legislation will reverse the February 
25, 1998, Supreme Court ruling 
(AT&T Family Federal Credit Union et 
al. v. First National Bank & Trust Co.) 
which sent shockwaves through this 
Nation’s 70 million credit union members. 


That decision threatened the future 
and financial safety of our Nation’s 
credit unions. The 51st District in California, 
which I represent, is served by 
more than 230 different credit unions 
with more than 305,000 members. By 
passing this legislation, we will ensure 
that not a single credit union member 
will lose their choice of financial service 
provider. 

This legislation affirms the commitment 
of this Republican Congress to 
keep a healthy, competitive financial 
service industry in America. I call on 
all my colleagues to join me in support 
of credit union members and to vote 
for H.R. 1151. 

Mr. WALSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in strong support of H.R. 1151, 
the Credit Union Membership Access 
Act. I am proud to have been an original 
cosponsor of this important legislation. 


My vote is a continuation of longstanding 
personal backing for credit 
unions in general. I believe they provide 
an invaluable service to working 
men and women—a service which is 
both convenient and comfortable. 

Credit unions are familiar places 
which in many cases don’t offer a full 
range of banking services but nevertheless 
do provide basic financial assistance—
whether it be pocket money or a 
small unsecured loan. 

After the U.S. Court of Appeals for 
the District of Columbia overturned a 
credit union decision in July of 1996, 
many of us in Congress realized the 
need for legislation to protect credit 
union members. Today’s vote is the 
culmination of our efforts. 

By passing this legislation, we allow 
Americans to choose the institution in 
which they put their money. By promoting 
continued operation of credit 
unions in a sound and reasonable manner, 
we spur competition and encourage 
savings. By supporting credit 
unions in this manner, we demonstrate 
our faith in the wisdom of working people. 


On behalf of my constituents in Central 
New York who will benefit from 
this consumer protection law, I want 
to thank the House for today’s passage. 

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, there has been 
much discussion recently about credit unions. 
I submit for the RECORD recent remarks by 
Norman D’Amours, the chairman of the National 
Credit Union Administration, in which he 
discusses the proper role of the credit union 
movement. 

THE FUTURE OF CREDIT UNIONISM 
(By Normal E. D’Amours) 
Good morning. It is always a pleasure and 
an honor to appear before so many dedicated 

credit union movement representatives. I 
thank Chairman Buck Levins and President 
Dan Mica and all of you for the opportunity 
to do so. 

It is also a pleasure to report that once 
again credit unions had an outstanding year 
and their financial performance continues to 
be magnificent. 

Both the NCUA and credit unions were 
closely examined by the U.S. Treasury Department 
last year and both emerged with 
their colors flying high. You can all be very 
proud of the success, strength, and safety of 
credit unions across the country. 

Although all of the statistical measurements 
are very positive and highly encouraging, 
we do face some serious challenges. For 
instance, you have heard much importuning 
from NCUA and others about the critical 
need to become Year 2000 compliant. It is difficult 
to overstate the importance of this 
issue and it requires our maximum attention. 
It is also difficult to overstate the importance 
of successfully responding to the 
bankers’ attacks on our field of membership 
policies. You have heard, and will continue 
to hear, extensive discussions of these problems 
from me and others. 

But today, I want to talk about what I 
think is a more serious problem facing credit 
unions. It is more serious because it affects 
your ability to maintain the essential character 
of credit unionism in the United States 
of America. In my view, credit unionism in 
the U.S. seems to be drifting toward becoming 
a not-for-profit banking sector. We have 
seen this happen in other countries where 
credit unions have become little more than 
member-controlled financial institutions. Institutions 
that are virtually indistinguishable 
from mutual banks. 

Some in the credit union movement have 
advised me that this drift toward a banklike 
structure has already gone too far to be 
stopped. I don’t believe that. It is not too 
late to stop this drift, but it will not be easy 
to do so. Changing course will require an 
honest acknowledgement of the problem. 
Stubborn denial serves no productive purpose. 
A thoughful decision is needed. 

I believe credit unions of all sizes and of 
differing memberships need to decide whether 
they wish to remain involved in the historical, 
philosophical and statutory mission 
of reaching out to people of small means. 
Whatever their own size, structure or membership 
characteristics, credit unions need to 
decide whether they wish to remain involved 
in the cooperative effort to reach out to empower 
the economically underserved. Indeed, 
whether they wish to continue operating in a 
cooperative atmosphere. 

It does not appear that these questions are 
being sufficiently acknowledged, debated, or 
discussed in the grassroots credit union 
movement. And in my view, it is unlikely 
that will happen until credit union volunteers 
reclaim their historic responsibilities 
and unambiguously reassert their role as full 
participants in the setting of credit union 
policy. Unpaid volunteers must demand a 
stronger voice in setting the direction of the 
credit union movement. This is necessary because 
in some instances professionals have 
taken a command of the movement that has 
effectively usurped the role that was intended 
for volunteers. 

The founders of this movement thought it 
absolutely essential that unpaid volunteers 
should set the tone. Friedrich Raiffeisen believed 
that volunteerism constituted ‘‘. . . 
one of the most important principles observed 
by Credit Unions.’’ 

Alphonse Desjardins agreed that the principle 
of volunteer participation was critical 
to credit unionism. He worked to spread 
credit unionism and served his credit union 
as president without taking any remuneration 
from the time he organized the credit 


H1882 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

union with a handful of dime and dollar deposits 
until he died in 1920, at which time its 
assets exceeded $1 million. Edward Filene 
and Roy Bergengren shared these views of 
volunteers. 

Certainly, no one is suggesting that competent 
and professional managers are not 
vital to credit union operations. They surely 
are. The point is that credit union founders 
understood the system needed a decision-
making function as untainted as possible by 
self-interest and the drive for profit or personal 
enrichment. They knew that the 
course of economic decision-making will necessarily 
be different if the decision-makers 
have a financial stake in the outcome, be it 
profit or pay. 

It is surprising to observe how far we’ve 
strayed from this principle. While credit 
union directors are still volunteers who act 
unselfishly and take their responsibilities to 
heart, and we thank God for them, it is not 
uncommon to find professionals in control of 
policy. This is especially true in the big decision-
making processes that affect the overall 
direction of the national credit union movement. 
These processes tend to be controlled 
by some trade group and other professionals 
with not nearly enough meaningful input 
from true volunteers. 

Let me be clear. I do not intend in any way 
to demean the importance and value of professionals 
to credit unions. I know that professionals 
both in trade groups and in credit 
unions are crucial to the economic success of 
credit unions and the movement. I know 
that thousands of them are as deeply imbued 
with the wonderful spirit of credit unionism 
as are volunteers. I’ve personally met many 
of them and admired their operations in both 
large and small credit unions. 

But professionals in the credit union world 
should not dominate policymaking to the 
virtual exclusion of volunteers. Credit 
unions deserve a system that includes strong 
and focused volunteer participation at the 
national and state decision-making levels. 
Such participation is needed to help set the 
system’s objectives and help keep it on 
track. Unfortunately, that is not the way it 
seems to be working today. Instead, it appears 
that national or statewide decision-
making in the movement today is almost totally 
professionalized. Just consider that 
there is not a single true volunteer serving 
on the CUNA Board, whereas a quota has 
been reserved to guarantee trade group professionals 
25 percent of the membership on 
that board. When one considers that the 
credit union movement is overwhelmingly 
populated by volunteers, one must be amazed 
not only at this obvious lack of volunteer 
participation, but also at the failure of the 
democratic processes that should protect 
against such representational distortions. 

Ruth Witzeling, a long time correspondent 
for CUNA’s Center for Professional Development, 
said it well a few years ago: ‘‘Volunteers 
are one of our greatest strengths, one 
of the greatest and most visible manifestations 
of how credit unions are different.’’ She 
is right, and the credit union founders were 
right. And that means it is the responsibility 
of the volunteers working closely with professionals 
to bring back into balance the 
structure of the credit union movement. 

More volunteer involvement could mean a 
greater emphasis on the social mission of 
credit unions. It is amazing how much subtle 
and not so subtle resistance can be provoked 
in certain quarters simply by pointing out 
the social mission to which credit unions 
were dedicated by their founders, their history, 
and by federal statute. There should be 
no resistance to this defining principle. 

Indeed, the fact is that credit unions are 
successfully doing exactly that sort of work 
today. Although for some reason they are 

not bragging about it nearly as much as they 
should. 

Alphonse Desjardins warned his contemporaries 
against ‘‘the error of thinking and 
doing only dry business, forgetting the most 
important . . . social and educational aspect 
of credit unions.’’ Edward Filene and Roy 
Bergengren also stressed the importance of 
the social mission of credit unions. Clearly 
these founders had something in mind beyond 
providing the best high tech financial 
system available and earning good salaries 
for themselves. And it was this core belief 
that found expression in the Federal Credit 
Union Act’s reference to serving ‘‘people of 
small means.’’ 

I know from experience that a credit union 
regulator who speaks out about this social 
mission of credit unions will be criticized by 
some in the movement for going beyond the 
narrow concern of the safety and soundness 
of credit unions. Of course, such criticisms 
conveniently overlook the fact that credit 
unions, by statutory directive, have a specific 
social mandate to serve people of small 
means. To go beyond what Desjardins called 
‘‘dry business.’’ 

And isn’t it strange that while such attitudes 
exist within the credit union system, 
we hear the Comptroller of the Currency, 
leaders at the Federal Reserve System, and 
others in the banking world urging their 
constituents to become more active in serving 
inner cities and the underserved? Yet I 
am not aware that the banking sector has 
criticized their regulators for such importuning 
comments. And remember those regulators 
do not have the statutory social mandate 
that Congress has imposed upon the 
NCUA. 

It is regrettable that credit unions and 
their trade groups are frequently not perceived 
as being in the leadership of modern 
efforts to empower those who are financially 
underserved. Isn’t that the function of credit 
unions? Why do some credit union people 
seem unwilling to warmly embrace this social 
element of credit union philosophy? 

I know that most of you are accomplishing 
that social mission. You are and you should 
be very proud of that. But there is much 
more that could be done by the credit union 
movement to reach out to the people who are 
financially underserved in order to help 
them bring themselves into the financial 
mainstream. It is not enough to demonize 
and attack bankers for their fees or for a 
lack of commitment to the underserved. It is 
what credit unions are doing that should be 
stressed, not what others are not doing. 

If credit unions lose sight of their social 
mission they will become indistinguishable 
from the not-for-profit banking sector. And 
that will cause credit unions to lose the support 
they now receive from consumer groups, 
from the U.S. Congress, and from the American 
public. That will, in time, bring about 
taxation and bank-like regulation which will 
further accelerate their transmutation into 
not-for-profit banks. 

If the credit union movement wishes to intentionally 
become more bank-like, more 
free market competitive, and down play its 
social mission, that is a course it has a right 
to take. A not-for-profit member owned 
banking system has a value that is well 
worth defending. But that decision should be 
a consciously deliberated one. It should not 
be the product of drift. In a truly democratic 
movement, those who disagree with such a 
course should have an opportunity to say 
‘‘no’’ even if they are a minority. Those who 
disagree should have an opportunity to express 
their opposition to becoming a not-forprofit 
banking sector. 

Nor should anyone hesitate to raise these 
questions. Over the history of credit unionism, 
many prominent leaders have worried 

and spoken out about losing sight of purpose. 
Alphonse Desjardins, as we have seen, 
warned about falling into the error of doing 
only ‘‘dry business.’’ 

Ralph Swoboda, a recent CUNA President 
who helped launch the renewal process, said 
that the real threat he saw to the credit 
union movement ‘‘. . . despite all the rosy 
numbers and the good growth, [is] the deterioration 
of commitment to credit union 
ideals and philosophy.’’ 

Al Williams, who was a good friend of mine 
and a former beloved chairman of CUNA and 
whom this conference is honoring, said in a 
speech only ten years ago that ‘‘Perhaps 
we’ve lost sight of our purpose . . . it’s time 
for us to rededicate ourselves to the ideas 
that created the credit union movement in 
the first place. We can grow and pile asset 
upon asset, but if we forget who we are and 
why we’re here, we will have failed.’’ 

One year later in 1989, a 45 year credit 
union organizer and leader named Donald J. 
McKinnon said he thought credit unions 
were headed toward their ‘‘last phase’’ because: 
‘‘They have not kept purpose constant’’. 


Some credit union leaders have complained 
to me that by quoting from our founders and 
early leaders, as I often do, I tend to freeze 
us in a horse and buggy financial world. Well 
the quotes I’ve just used really aren’t ancient 
history. But I could have gone back 
nearly 2000 years to the New Testament. In 
Mark 8:36, it is said ‘‘What shall it profit a 
man if he gains the whole world yet lose his 
own soul.’’ You simply must not allow credit 
unionism to lose its soul. 

If credit unions do not preserve their social 
mission of empowerment, what financial sector 
will be fully committed to giving all of 
America’s citizens a fair chance to meaningfully 
participate in the American economic 
system? What financial system will dedicate 
itself to providing all Americans with a fair 
chance at becoming the masters of their own 
economic destinies? What financial institutions 
will reach out to liberate people of 
small means from the depressing burdens of 
unmanageable debt? 

And we have another problem today that 
goes to the soul of credit unionism, our field 
of membership policies. 

Field of membership policies present yet 
another area where critical choices must be 
made. 

Few would disagree that one of the most 
vexing problems confronting credit unions 
today is the rapid expansion of community 
chartering and the overlapping of occupational 
and associational credit unions. 

The bankers’ early success in the At&T 
Family case and the resulting court injunction 
have driven this issue to a preeminence 
that has caused a division both on the NCUA 
Board and among credit unions. Some would 
like this question avoided in order to dodge 
the resulting controversy. That would be a 
mistake. If this question of overlaps is not 
thoughtfully resolved, we run a risk of causing 
serious damage to the basic cooperative 
nature of credit unionism and accelerating 
its metamorphosis into a not-for-profit 
banking system. 

I understand and respect that there are 
some who sincerely believe that competition 
among credit unions is good for the credit 
union member and therefore should not be 
restrained. While there is certainly some validity 
to that argument, it tends to downplay 
the fact that credit unions are 
quintessentially cooperatives. They are cooperatives 
both in their internal structures 
and in their inter-credit union operations. 
Unrestrained competition is by definition 
the antithesis of cooperation. After all, the 
legitimate objective of free market competition 
is to destroy competitors and steal their 
customers. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1883 

Certainly a mild level of competition is 
not harmful, but unrestrained free market 
competition among credit unions is destructive 
and might encourage predatory practices. 
That would make it very difficult if 
not impossible for credit unions large or 
small to maintain the trust needed to effectively 
pool their assets, liquidity, operational 
skills and expertise. The breakdown 
of this inter-credit union trust and cooperation 
and the opening of unrestrained free 
market competition could especially hurt 
small and mid-sized credit unions. It could 
result in the cherry-picking of their more affluent 
members and a loss of mentoring and 
other benefits. An important effect of this 
could be the drying up of the liquidity pools 
smaller credit unions need access to in order 
to meet the needs of their members of small 
means. 

And there is yet another vexing question 
lurking in the background with regard to 
this issue of overlaps and unrestrained free 
market competition. If community expansions 
will permit the capturing of overlapped 
occupational or associational credit union 
members on the basis of a member’s right to 
the best level of services available, then why 
should not charter applications by new or existing 
occupational or associational credit 
unions be allowed to identify the exact same 
membership field as an existing credit union, 
so long as their purpose is to provide better 
or more services to the members of the existing 
credit union? Is that where you want to 
go? This possibility is not a frivolous one. It 
is supported by the exact same logic that has 
recently caused a change in our approach to 
overlaps. And the NCUA Board has recently 
been denying exclusionary clauses even when 
the involved credit unions mutually and voluntarily 
agree to the exclusionary clause. 

If credit union field of membership overlap 
and exclusionary policies are going to be 
driven by the single goal of improving the 
quality and quantity of member services, 
then we must prepare for a bank-like survival 
of the fittest culture. 

In my view, the key ingredient needed for 
a proper resolution of these and other issues 
is a greater involvement by volunteers. The 
credit union movement has become much 
too thoroughly professionalized. Much too 
driven by economic interests and the profit 
of individuals. Volunteers need to reassert 
their proper roles and authority. 

How can this be done? Clearly, one possible 
means to that end is through volunteer organization. 
The object could be to give volunteers 
an equal voice by creating active, well 
funded organizations of credit union volunteers 
at the state and/or national levels. Professionals 
who believe in the social mission 
of credit unions and who are willing to work 
in full partnership with volunteers would be 
recruited and retained. 

Or perhaps true volunteers should insist on 
having a strong voice on the boards of all 
credit union trade groups. Any groups or associations 
of professionals that might exist 
independently might be required to interface 
with boards on which volunteers have a 
strong voice. 

Moreover, volunteers should insist on significantly 
increasing the amount of education 
and training they have access to. Volunteer 
education and training has not been 
given the overall attention it deserves. That 
maybe the result of volunteers not being sufficiently 
involved in the decision-making of 
trade groups that should be better focused on 
this issue. 

Those of you volunteers and professionals 
who can see over the horizon and who wish 
to avoid the bank-like destiny that has befallen 
credit union movements in other 
countries need to ponder these issues. I raise 
them today only to stir discussion and colle


gial cooperative action, not hostility. If the 
credit union system needs to correct its 
course, someone must act. These are decisions 
that should be made thoughtfully and 
deliberately. Whatever the ultimate fate of 
credit unions will be, it should be the product 
of a conscious choice not aimless drift. 
And volunteers must have an important 
voice in making that choice. 

Your conference theme this year makes 
clear your belief that the credit union movement 
has the ability to mold its own future. 
It is not too late to make the choices that 
will allow you to keep purpose constant. But 
the hour of decision is at hand. The right 
course, I believe, can only be charted with 
the collective wisdom and a proper partnership 
of both volunteers and professionals 
working together. 

To do nothing means a continued drift 
away from your founding principles. How 
will you choose? 

Mr. QUINN. Mr. Speaker, I want to speak 
today about a great American success story. 
I am referring to our nation’s credit union. 
Credit unions are far different from banks. 
Credit unions are democratically owned and 
primarily engaged in consumer loans. It is this 
simplicity that is the secret to their success. 
Credit unions aren’t in business to buy banks, 
or sell insurance, or acquire commercial affiliates. 
More importantly, credit unions are not-
for-profit. All revenues are funneled back into 
its members in the form of low-cost loans. 

I am a very proud sponsor of the Credit 
Union Membership Access Act. This bill will 
preserve credit unions in their current status. 
Credit unions will be able to continue to expand 
their membership outside the original 
group, as long as new members share a common 
bond with each other. This bill will stop 
the incessant attacks by bankers and protect 
all current credit union members. 

The many differences between credit unions 
and banks are what make credit unions so 
valuable. Even bankers admit that there is a 
certain percentage of the populations that 
can’t be served by banks. Low wage workers 
often times can’t afford high banks fees or 
loan rates. Without credit unions, these people 
would be forced to turn to check-cashers, 
pawnbrokers and loan sharks. 

I know that in my district of Buffalo and 
Western New York, thousands of people rely 
on credit unions for their financial needs. I 
have constituents tell me all the time how 
much they love their credit union. Many claim 
that they wouldn’t have been able to afford 
their home or the loan to start a new business 
without their credit union. It is clear to me that 
credit unions are critically important for thousands 
of Americans. I urge Congress to continue 
to allow credit unions to play a role in 
their lives now and in the future. 

Mrs. CAPPS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of HR 1151, the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act. This bill would overturn a 
recent Supreme Court decision that would 
decimate the credit union industry and deprive 
consumers across this country of a vital banking 
services. 

Credit unions are an incredibly important 
segment of our financial services industry. 
They provide low-cost, convenient banking 
services for some 70 million Americans, including 
over 120,000 members in my district 
on the Central Coast of California. As a member 
of a credit union myself, I can attest to the 
value of these important institutions to our 
communities, large and small. 

Mr. Speaker, since the Supreme Court decision 
last month credit union members in my 
district have written or called my office by the 
hundreds to express their very real concern 
that the Congress act quickly on this legislation. 
And today the House has answered that 
call. 

My husband was an early cosponsor of HR 
1151 and I made sure that one of my first actions 
was to put my support behind this legislation 
as well. I am very pleased that the 
House has brought this legislation to the floor 
and I hope that the Senate will act quickly so 
we can put our constituents’ fears to rest. 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, February’s Supreme 
Court decision presented the Congress 
with a difficult policy decision—whether to uphold 
the original intent of the 60-year-old Federal 
Credit Union Act, and possibly deprive up 
to 20 million Americans of their credit union 
membership, or expand the scope of the Act 
to authorize credit unions to serve a broader 
segment of the American public in competition 
with other financial institutions. 

While it is clear that a majority in Congress, 
and the public generally, have rejected this 
first option, the alternative presents a far more 
difficult policy question—How do we permit 
credit unions to expand their membership and 
compete broadly in the marketplace while justifying 
their special treatment and tax exemption 
to competing financial institutions and to 
taxpayers? 

The Banking Committee took on this broader 
policy question, proceeding on a collegial 
and nonpartisan basis to craft a compromise 
bill that addresses not only the issues raised 
by the Court, but many other issues as well. 
The bill incorporates basic principles of a proposal 
which I circulated in November to encourage 
discussion of a compromise on the 
field of membership issue. But it also does 
much more. 

First and foremost, it protects the membership 
of every current credit union member and 
every group within a credit union. It would also 
permit common bond credit unions to continue 
to expand their field of membership by including 
new occupation and association-based 
groups. This expansion is limited, however— 
first by requiring the creation of new, separate 
common-bond credit unions wherever feasible 
and, second, by requiring that smaller groups 
be included within another credit union that is 
located in the same general area as the 
group—thereby reinforcing a broader geographic 
‘‘common bond.’’ 

The bill would also limit the size of new 
common bond groups that can be included 
within an existing credit union to no more than 
3,000 persons. While I would have preferred a 
smaller limit, possibly only 1,000 persons, I 
supported this compromise with the understanding 
that the requirements to charter separate 
credit unions and to include groups within 
local credit unions would be strictly implemented 
by NCUA. 

This latter requirement—to include new 
groups only within credit unions that are located 
in reasonable proximity to the group—is 
extremely important in reinforcing the crucial 
concept of a common bond among credit 
union members. While many credit unions 
need to go beyond their original membership 
group to grow and to continue to provide affordable 
financial services, it is the Committee’s 
view that other groups that reside, work 
and regularly interact with one another in 


H1884 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

close geographic proximity are more likely to 
share a common sense of identity, a common 
sense of affinity and, thus, a broader ‘‘geographic’’ 
common bond. 

This should not mean, however, that a credit 
union can incorporate every group in sight or 
expand over broad regions. It was my intent in 
offering this provision to the bill that NCUA 
give a conservative interpretation to the terms 
‘‘reasonable proximity’’, allowing credit unions 
located in a larger city to incorporate new 
groups located in nearby sections of that city. 
It should not permit, for example in my Congressional 
district, a credit union located in 
one city, such as Rochester, to include common 
bond groups located in another city, such 
as Buffalo. And credit unions located in smaller 
cities or towns, like Lockport or Niagara 
Falls in my district, should be permitted to incorporate 
new groups within or in the vicinity 
of those jurisdictions. 

H.R. 1151 also reinforces and strengthens 
the credit unions’ mission to serve people of 
modest means. It defines, for the first time, the 
credit unions’ obligation to meet the financial 
services needs of persons of modest means, 
and establishes a regulatory structure for monitoring 
and evaluating compliance. 
In addition, the bill resolves a number of 
other controversial credit union issues. It requires 
NCUA to issue regulations defining permissible 
membership and boundaries for community 
credit unions. It freezes current NCUA 
policy on business lending, allowing time for 
the Banking Committee to study the issue. 
And it provides a framework of safety and 
soundness regulation for credit unions that is 
comparable to that for banks and thrift institutions. 


Mr. Speaker, the bill is clearly a compromise. 
There are some provisions that are 
not as strong as I would have liked; there are 
others I would not have included. But that is 
the art of compromise. H.R. 1151 is not only 
a fair compromise, it is good public policy. 

I believe this legislation is a winner for everyone. 
It’s a clear winner for the credit 
unions, since it resolves the issues raised by 
the Supreme Court and earlier court decisions. 
It’s a winner for the banks, since it addresses 
several controversial NCUA practices and policies. 
And, most important, it’s a clear winner 
for America’s consumers. 

I urge my House colleagues to suspend the 
rules and pass H.R. 1151 by a unanimous 
vote. 

Ms. VELA ´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of H.R. 1151, the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act and the millions of Americans 
who are members of federal credit 
unions. Access to financial services and opportunity 
is important to low and moderate income 
communities like the one I represent. 

H.R. 1151 ensures that the greatest number of 
people can enjoy the benefits offered by the 
credit union system. I urge all of you to support 
this important legislation. 
Crest unions are the main source of capital 
in many communities. In New York more than 
3 million people rely on credit unions and the 
credit union system for their basic financial 
services. The hopes and dreams of families 
from the Lower East Side of Manhattan to 
Greenpoint in Brooklyn are built with the help 
of their local credit union. H.R. 1151 allows 
those hope and dreams to be realized. 

Federally chartered credit unions date back 
to the Depression when the financial services 

industry was not able to make small loans to 
workers. Whether it is buying a new house or 
sending children to college, credit unions are 
still often able to meet their customers’ needs 
at a lower cost than other financial services institutions. 
In fact, millions of customers are still 
attracted to credit unions because of low fees 
and good rates on loans and savings. Consumers 
must continue to have that viable 
choice. 

Yet, after a Supreme Court ruling that narrowed 
the field of credit union membership, 
the fate of thousands of members hangs in 
the balance. Only by clarifying the definition of 
the membership provisions of the Federal 
Credit Union Act, can we ensure that all credit 
unions continue to serve their customers. Join 
me in passing the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act and make sure that we provide all 
people the right to chose their financial services 
institution. 

On behalf of New York’s 700 credit unions 
and their 3.5 million members I urge all of you 
to support H.R. 1151, the Credit Union Membership 
Access Act. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, since their establishment 
in the early 1990s, credit unions have 
played a critical role in our economy by providing 
their members with a source of affordable 
credit. The value of credit unions is evidenced 
by the millions of American consumers 
who have selected them as their financial institution 
of choice. 

This ability to choose was recently challenged 
by a narrow 5–4 Supreme Court decision, 
which jeopardizes the current membership 
status of millions of credit union members, 
and the right of all consumers to choose 
their financial institution. 

I am committed to preserve and protect this 
right, which is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 
1151, the ‘‘Credit Union Membership Access 
Act.’’ I am pleased that this legislation was favorably 
reported out of the Banking Committee, 
of which I am a member, on March 26, 
1998. I continue to support this legislation and 
urge my colleagues to vote for financial passage 
of H.R. 1151 when it is considered by 
the House of Representatives today. 

Mr. LEACH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
questions is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. LEACH) 
that the House suspend the rules and 
pass the bill, H.R. 1151, as amended. 

The question was taken. 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I object to 
the vote on the ground that a quorum 
is not present and make the point of 
order that a quorum is not present. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evidently 
a quorum is not present. 

The Sergeant at Arms will notify absent 
Members. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 411, nays 8, 
not voting 11, as follows: 

[Roll No. 92] 
YEAS—411 
Abercrombie Baldacci Becerra 
Ackerman Ballenger Bentsen 
Aderholt Barcia Bereuter 
Allen Barr Berman 
Andrews Barrett (NE) Berry 
Archer Barrett (WI) Bilbray 
Armey Bartlett Bilirakis 
Baesler Bass Bishop 
Baker Bateman Blagojevich 

Bliley Frank (MA) Lowey 
Blumenauer Franks (NJ) Lucas 
Blunt Frelinghuysen Luther 
Boehlert Frost Maloney (CT) 
Boehner Furse Maloney (NY) 
Bonilla Gallegly Manton 
Bonior Ganske Manzullo 
Borski Gejdenson Markey 
Boswell Gekas Martinez 
Boucher Gephardt Mascara 
Boyd Gibbons Matsui 
Brady Gilchrest McCarthy (MO) 
Brown (CA) Gilman McCarthy (NY) 
Brown (FL) Goode McCollum 
Brown (OH) Goodlatte McCrery 
Bryant Goodling McDade 
Bunning Gordon McDermott 
Burr Goss McGovern 
Burton Graham McHale 
Buyer Granger McHugh 
Callahan Green McInnis 
Calvert Greenwood McIntosh 
Camp Gutierrez McIntyre 
Campbell Gutknecht McKeon 
Canady Hall (OH) McKinney 
Capps Hall (TX) McNulty 
Cardin Hamilton Meehan 
Carson Hansen Meek (FL) 
Castle Harman Meeks (NY) 
Chabot Hastert Menendez 
Chambliss Hastings (FL) Metcalf 
Chenoweth Hastings (WA) Mica 
Christensen Hayworth Millender-
Clay Hefley McDonald 
Clayton Hefner Miller (CA) 
Clement Herger Miller (FL) 
Clyburn Hill Minge 
Coble Hilleary Mink 
Coburn Hilliard Moakley 
Collins Hinchey Mollohan 
Combest Hinojosa Moran (KS) 
Conyers Hobson Moran (VA) 
Cook Hoekstra Morella 
Cooksey Holden Murtha 
Costello Hooley Myrick 
Cox Horn Nadler 
Coyne Houghton Neal 
Cramer Hoyer Nethercutt 
Crane Hulshof Neumann 
Crapo Hunter Ney 
Cubin Hutchinson Northup 
Cummings Hyde Norwood 
Cunningham Inglis Nussle 
Danner Istook Oberstar 
Davis (FL) Jackson (IL) Obey 
Davis (IL) Jackson-Lee Olver 
Davis (VA) (TX) Ortiz 
Deal Jenkins Owens 
DeFazio John Oxley 
DeGette Johnson (CT) Packard 
Delahunt Johnson (WI) Pallone 
DeLauro Johnson, E. B. Pappas 
DeLay Johnson, Sam Parker 
Deutsch Jones Pascrell 
Diaz-Balart Kanjorski Pastor 
Dickey Kaptur Pease 
Dicks Kasich Pelosi 
Dingell Kelly Peterson (MN) 
Dixon Kennedy (RI) Peterson (PA) 
Doggett Kennelly Petri 
Dooley Kildee Pickering 
Doolittle Kilpatrick Pickett 
Doyle Kim Pitts 
Dreier Kind (WI) Pombo 
Duncan King (NY) Pomeroy 
Dunn Kingston Porter 
Edwards Kleczka Portman 
Ehlers Klink Poshard 
Ehrlich Knollenberg Price (NC) 
Emerson Kolbe Pryce (OH) 
Engel Kucinich Quinn 
English LaFalce Radanovich 
Ensign LaHood Rahall 
Eshoo Lampson Ramstad 
Etheridge Lantos Redmond 
Evans Largent Regula 
Everett Latham Reyes 
Ewing LaTourette Riggs 
Farr Lazio Riley 
Fattah Leach Rivers 
Fawell Levin Rodriguez 
Fazio Lewis (CA) Roemer 
Filner Lewis (GA) Rogan 
Foley Lewis (KY) Rogers 
Forbes Linder Rohrabacher 
Ford Lipinski Ros-Lehtinen 
Fossella Livingston Rothman 
Fowler LoBiondo Roukema 
Fox Lofgren Roybal-Allard 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1885 

Rush Smith (TX) Tierney 
Ryun Smith, Adam Torres 
Sabo Smith, Linda Towns 
Salmon Snowbarger Traficant 
Sanchez Snyder Turner 
Sanders Solomon Upton 
Sandlin Souder Velazquez 
Sanford Spence Vento 
Sawyer Spratt Visclosky 
Saxton Stabenow Walsh 
Scarborough Stark Wamp 
Schaffer, Bob Stearns Watt (NC) 
Schumer Stenholm Watts (OK) 
Scott Stokes Waxman 
Sensenbrenner Strickland Weldon (FL) 
Serrano Stump Weldon (PA) 
Sessions Stupak Weller 
Shadegg Sununu Wexler 
Shaw Talent Weygand 
Shays Tanner White 
Sherman Tauscher Whitfield 
Shimkus Tauzin Wicker 
Shuster Taylor (MS) Wise 
Sisisky Taylor (NC) Wolf 
Skaggs Thomas Woolsey 
Skeen Thompson Wynn 
Skelton Thornberry Yates 
Slaughter Thune Young (AK) 
Smith (MI) Thurman Young (FL) 
Smith (NJ) Tiahrt 

NAYS—8 

Bachus Hostettler Schaefer, Dan 
Barton Paul Watkins 
Gillmor Paxon 

NOT VOTING—11 

Cannon Kennedy (MA) Royce 
Condit Klug Smith (OR) 
Gonzalez Payne Waters 
Jefferson Rangel 

b1336 

Mr. PAXON and Mr. BARTON of 
Texas changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ 
to ‘‘nay.’’ 

Messrs. DOYLE, HEFNER, 
CHRISTENSEN and MEEHAN changed 
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’ 

So (two-thirds having voted in favor 
thereof) the rules were suspended and 
the bill, as amended, was passed. 

The title of the bill was amended so 
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend the Federal 
Credit Union Act to clarify existing 
law with regard to the field of 
membership of Federal credit unions, 
to preserve the integrity and purpose 
of federal credit unions, to enhance supervisory 
oversight of insured credit 
unions, and for other purposes.’’ 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Mr. CONDIT. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidable 
detained for roll call vote 92, The Credit 
Union Membership Access Act. Had I been 
present, I would have voted aye. I would ask 
that this be reflected in the RECORD in the appropriate 
section. 

f 


GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. BEREUTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within 
which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material 
on H.R. 1151, as amended. 

The SPEAKER. Is there objection to 
the request of the gentleman from Nebraska? 


There was no objection. 

LAYING ON THE TABLE HOUSE 
RESOLUTION 309 AND HOUSE 
RESOLUTION 403 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that House Resolution 
309, dealing with the rule on fast 
track, and House Resolution 403, dealing 
with the rule on the bank reform 
bill, be laid on the table. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
HEFLEY). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from New 
York? 

There was no objection. 

f 


BUILDING EFFICIENT SURFACE 

TRANSPORTATION AND EQUITY 

ACT OF 1998 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 405 and rule 
XXIII, the Chair declares the House in 
the Committee of the Whole on the 
State of the Union for the consideration 
of the bill, H.R. 2400. 

b1340 

IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE 

Accordingly, the House resolved 
itself into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the State of the Union for the 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2400) to 
authorize funds for Federal-aid highways, 
highway safety programs, and 
transit programs, and for other purposes, 
with Mr. HASTINGS of Washington 
in the chair. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to the 
rule, the bill is considered as having 
been read the first time. 

Under the rule, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) and the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) 
each will control one hour, and 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. ARCHER) 
and the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. RANGEL) will each control 15 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER). 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

(Mr. SHUSTER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, today 
we bring to the floor of the House historic 
legislation, legislation to rebuild 
America so that we have a 21st Century 
transportation system. In the 21st Century, 
from Seattle to Miami, from New 
York to California, America is growing 
and prospering, but our infrastructure 
is crumbling. 

There are two fundamental principles 
in the bill we bring to the floor today. 
The first is to put the trust back in the 
Transportation Trust Funds. It is to restore 
honesty in budgeting. 

Every time an American drives up to 
the gas pump and pays his or her 18.4cent 
gas tax for every gallon of tax, 
that money goes into the Highway 
Trust Fund and Americans have the 
right to believe that the money in the 
trust fund is going to be spent to improve 
transportation. 

In fact, that is the way it was, until 
in the mid-1960’s President Johnson got 
the idea that by not spending the 
money, he could help fund the Vietnam 
War. 

Indeed, it was Eisenhower and the 
Congress which made a Contract with 
America, and that contract was you 
pay your gas tax, and that money is 
spent to improve highways. Unfortunately, 
in the past several years, we 
have had a fraud perpetrated on the 
American people. It has not happened. 
We have had abate and switch. You pay 
your gas tax, but the money in the 
trust fund does not get spent. To the 
tune, there is $23 billion in that Highway 
Trust Fund today. 

Let me share with Members something 
that a very well-known American 
said when he was Governor of a State 
just a few years ago. He said this on 
television: ‘‘The Congress took that 
money from us under a solemn contract 
to turn right around and give it 
back to the States to be spent on roads 
and highways. Instead, they are hoarding 
that money up there, and the only 
reason is to make the Federal deficit 
look smaller than it is. It is just 
wrong. It is wrong as it can be, and we 
ought to stop it. It is in violation of 
the solemn contract the national government 
has to the people who pay the 
tax.’’ Governor Bill Clinton. 

So I say now to the Clinton Administration, 
join us. Keep your word. Help 
us unlock the trust fund so that money 
can go where it is supposed to go, to 
improve America’s transportation infrastructure. 


We swallowed hard in the committee 
to get where we are today on a couple 
of very, very important compromises. 
We agreed that from this point forward, 
we would not count the interest 
in the trust fund. 

Over the life of this bill, that means 
$15 billion in debt reduction for our 
country. And we swallowed hard and 
said that approximately $10 billion of 
the $23 billion in the balance will be returned. 


b1345 
Put those two figures together and 
you get about $25 billion in reduced 
debt for the Federal Government, an 
amount which approximates the increase 
in spending that this bill proposes. 
We only spend the revenue coming 
into this Trust Fund from this 
point forward. We only spend the 
money paid for by the American people 
in the gas tax and the related transportation 
taxes. Indeed, the projection is 
we come in over the 6-year period 
about $3 billion under the revenue coming 
in. 
I would be quick to say, if there is no 
need to spend this money, we certainly 
should not spend it, nor should we let 
it accumulate. We should reduce the 
taxes. 
So that brings me to, really, the second 
fundamental principle: That is, 
what are the needs for investment in 
infrastructure for America? I suggest 


H1886 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

that the needs are very clear; indeed, 
they are overwhelming. Twenty-seven 
percent of the highways in America are 
in poor condition. The average American 
is stuck 26 hours out of every year 
in traffic. That does not really tell the 
whole story. The average American living 
in one of our big cities is stuck in 
traffic, bumper-to-bumper traffic, over 
50 hours in a year, more than a workweek 
in a year. 

Indeed, on our highways, 42,000 Americans 
are killed every year. Of that 
42,000, 9,000 are kids killed on our highways. 
The experts tell us that 30 percent 
of highway fatalities are caused 
by bad roads. That is 12,000 Americans 
of the 42,000 being killed on our highways. 
Indeed, it is about 2,700 kids 
being killed on our highways as a result 
of bad roads. That is more than a 
commercial airplane crashing every 
day. What outrage we would have in 
this country if we had an airplane 
going down every day. 

In addition to those fatalities, 3.5 
million Americans are injured on our 
highways every year. Get this. For 
every baby born in America today, six 
out of every ten babies born will be injured 
in an automobile accident during 
his lifetime, some of them more than 
once, if we do not change these accident 
rates. 

We can change them. In fact, something 
I do not talk about very much, 
but it is appropriate today, I think. 
Seventeen years ago I had my neck 
broken in an automobile accident. I 
was a passenger in a head-on collision. 
I had my seatbelt on. They tell me I 
would have been a dead duck if I did 
not. But I am one of the lucky ones. 
They put three pins in my neck and a 
bone out of my hip, and I am okay. I 
am here. I am alive. I am lucky. But 
42,000 Americans every year are not so 
lucky. Nine thousand kids every year 
are not so lucky. 

I would wager that there is hardly 
anybody here in the Chamber today, or 
in our viewing audience, who has not 
had a loved one or a friend who has 
been killed or seriously injured in an 
automobile accident. What is the cost 
of a life? We cannot really put a price 
tag on it, but what we do know is that 
with the investment made in this bill 
over the life of this bill, the experts 
tell us we can cut fatalities by 4,000 
people a year. It sounds like a lot. Actually, 
it is less than 10 percent of the 
fatality rate. It is doable. But do we 
want to cut the number in half, 2,000 
lives a year? What is the value we put 
on a life? 

This bill will save lives. This bill will 
give our country a productivity boost, 
an economic boost. This bill will create 
jobs. For every $1 billion invested in 
highways, 42,500 jobs are created. 

Where is the support for this bill? It 
is not just here in the Congress, although 
I must tell the Members how 
thrilled I was to see the overwhelmingly 
positive vote we got just a few 
minutes ago on the rule for this bill. If 
Members would listen to the 

naysayers, we would have thought we 
would have squeaked through, at best. 
Instead, when the vote came, it was six 
to one overwhelmingly in support of 
the rule for this bill. 

Who are the supporters of this bill? It 
is not just us. All 50 governors have endorsed 
this bill. The League of Cities, 
the mayors have endorsed this bill. The 
counties have endorsed this bill. The 
State legislatures have endorsed this 
bill. Environmentalists have endorsed 
this bill. Safety groups have endorsed 
this bill. Labor, the AFL-CIO and the 
Chamber of Commerce, what a pair, 
have both endorsed this legislation. 
And, yes, the AAA, representing millions 
of the motoring public. 

Why have they supported this bill? 
Why do we have this extraordinary, 
broad, bipartisan support across America? 
Here is what the bill does: It 
unlocks the Transportation Trust Fund 
and says, from this point forward the 
revenue coming into the Trust Fund 
can be spent on transportation improvements. 


Do not believe this baloney that we 
somehow break the budget, that we 
somehow create a deficit. Not a penny 
can be spent if, indeed, the money is 
not there in the Trust Fund to be 
spent. Not a penny can be spent if we 
do not come back to this House with 
offsets from conference with the Senate. 
So it cannot bust the budget. Indeed, 
it can only spend the revenues 
flowing into the Trust Fund paid for by 
the motoring public. 

That is not all this does. This revises 
the formulas for the States by which 
they get their money in a much fairer 
way. We throw out the old formula, 
which by the way is based in part on 
some 1919 statistics, if Members can believe 
that. We throw that aside, and we 
create a much fairer formula based on 
transportation need as well as population. 


We raise the minimum allocation for 
each State to 95 percent, including all 
formula funds; and, for the first time, 
we include the projects in the minimum 
calculation. We also say that the 
donor States, since they are the ones 
putting up most of the money, the 
donor States get preference in discretionary 
grants. 

Beyond that, we recognize the need 
for more flexibility. There are those 
who argue we should give the program 
back to the States. We believe that 
goes too far, but we acknowledge the 
States and the cities should have much 
more flexibility, and we put it in this 
bill. In this bill we provide that, in 
every category going back, the States 
and cities can shift up to 50 percent of 
the money in that category into any 
other category, based on the State or 
city need. 

There are two modifications to that. 
We want to protect the environment, 
and so we provide that in CMAQ and 
enhancements the States must spend 
at least as much as they have been previously 
spending, but in the increased 
money, 50 percent of that can be flexed 

to other categories, should the States 
and the localities so choose. 

Beyond that, we recognize the national 
interest. Those who talk about 
just give it all back to the States I 
think must be living in 1920 instead of 
1998. Interestingly, there is a greater 
Federal interest today to tie our country 
together than there has ever been. 
Why? Because we have more interstate 
travel than we have ever had. 

I love to refer to Oklahoma City as 
an example. Out there, you have two 
interstates that cross, 35 and 40. They 
were built to carry 60,000 vehicles a 
day. They are carrying 120,000 vehicles 
a day. But, to me, that is not the most 
interesting figure. To me, the most interesting 
figure is that 60 percent of 
the license plates on those vehicles are 
out-of-State license plates. It is not an 
Oklahoma problem. It is a national 
problem. 

Up in Seattle, coming out of the 
great port of Seattle-Tacoma, over 50 
percent of the product coming in from 
Asia is shipped to Chicago and east. 
With tongue in cheek, I said they 
should change the name from the Port 
of Seattle to the Port of Chicago, the 
point being it is not a Washington 
State problem, it is a national problem. 


Across America today, 64 percent of 
truck traffic is interstate. There is a 
greater need to tie our country together 
to make sure that the national 
interest is protected, as well as State 
and local interest. That is why we 
bring this balanced bill to the floor. 

We also move some general fund 
transportation spending into the Trust 
Fund. We acknowledge that it is the 
Transportation Trust Fund that should 
be spending the money, so we do that. 

We also toughen up safety standards. 
We provide incentives to toughen the 
drunk driving laws. We say that .08 is 
important, and we provide incentives 
to the States to put .08 in their State 
laws. But we do not want to have an 
unfunded mandate. We hope the States 
will do it. We give them an incentive to 
do it. 

On the subject of projects, which it 
seems the media and the opponents, 
few though they are, have focused so 
much on projects, only 5 percent of the 
funds in this bill go to congressional 
high-priority projects. Stop and think 
about it. Eight percent of all the 
money in this bill goes back to the 
States. Seven percent goes downtown 
to the Secretary of Transportation. 

The last time I checked, angels in 
heaven did not make the decisions and 
are not making the decisions as to 
where to build highways and transit 
systems. It is a political process. There 
is nothing wrong with the States, the 
Governors, the legislators having 88 
percent of the money to decide how it 
is going to be spent, or the Secretary 
having 7 percent of the pot. 

We think it is not unreasonable, in 
fact, it is very reasonable, to say that 
the Members of Congress who have to 
cast the tough votes on this legislation 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1887 

should be able to recommend to our 
committee what projects are most important 
in their district, and we limit 
it to only 5 percent of the pot. 

In addition to that, when we hear 
those saying, well, it is the same old 
way it used to be done, that simply is 
not true. We have a 14-point vetting 
process where these projects must meet 
the standard, including support from 
the Secretary of Transportation in 
their home States, or their mayors, if 
it is in an MPO area. 

Let me emphasize that this tough 14point 
vetting program was something 
that was actually proposed and put 
into effect by the gentleman from West 
Virginia (Mr. NICK JOE RAHALL), a 
Democrat. So this is bipartisan. It is 
something that makes a lot of sense; 
and, indeed, it is something that 
should be done. 

Further, let me emphasize, when we 
hear people saying, well, if you eliminate 
the projects you save money, Mr. 
Speaker, we do not save a penny. The 
money, if there are no projects, simply 
goes back to the States or downtown. 
It will be spent, but it will either be 
the faceless, nameless bureaucrats 
downtown or in State government or 
the Governors or the State legislators 
who will be spending the money. 

I do not know how many Members I 
have had come to me and say, for example, 
my State government is all Republican, 
and I am a Democrat. I do 
not get anything in my district, so I 
need a high-priority project. Or, conversely, 
my State is all Democrat; and, 
as a Republican, I do not get anything 
unless I have a high-priority project. 

Who knows better what is most important 
in their district than the Members 
of Congress from that district? In 
fact, I would respectfully suggest there 
is a bit of arrogance in those who say 
that somehow they know better what 
is important in their congressional districts 
than Members know. Indeed, I 
would suggest that if Members do not 
know what is really important to people 
in their congressional district, they 
are not going to be here very long. 

Let me emphasize that, while we 
have some disagreement in this bill, I 
have the greatest respect particularly 
for the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. JOHN 
KASICH), who is not a hypocrite and 
who said he does not want to see tax 
revenue spent on transportation. 

b1400 
I disagree with him. I disagree with 
him fundamentally. But he is straight. 
This is his position. He has a right to 
take that position. And he also, in the 
process, has not sent us letters requesting 
projects for his district while at the 
same time saying he opposes projects. 
He is not a hypocrite. He is an honorable 
person. 
Mr. Chairman, I had to take the well 
last week and to release and put in the 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD letters from 
several Members of Congress who are 
castigating the projects but who have 
asked for multimillion dollar projects 

in their own congressional districts. 
Now, as hard as that is for Members to 
believe, it is in the RECORD. It is there 
for Members to see. 

Last week I challenged any Member 
to come forward and say that I had offered 
a project in exchange for his vote 
or, conversely, had threatened to take 
a project away if he did not vote with 
us. Nobody has responded to that challenge. 
Why? Because nobody can, because 
that is not the way we do business. 
Not only in this bill, but never in 
my career in the Congress have I ever 
made such a threat to a Member of 
Congress. 

So it is very regrettable that the people 
who on the one hand seem so self-
righteous also are dealing very loosely 
with the truth. Maybe there is a little 
inconsistency there that I hope one 
might recognize. In fact, there is a 
great line in the book, ‘‘The Hawaiians’’ 
which I will clean up and paraphrase, 
which is, ‘‘How I envy the 
pious. They can be such hypocrites and 
never even know it.’’ 

Well, the good news is we have dealt 
fairly with every Member in this body. 
I must say I was surprised to see the 
gentleman from Delaware, my good 
friend, last week holding a press conference 
because he does not like our 
bill, calling it highway robbery. He is 
my good friend. We serve together on 
the Select Committee on Intelligence. 
Indeed, we are members of other organizations 
here on the Hill. 

But what short memories we seem to 
have. It was just last year that the 
Delaware delegation pushed through 
$2.3 billion for Amtrak. In fact it was 
described by some as one of the most 
bizarre, backhanded ways of funding a 
program that has ever been witnessed 
around here. 

But I did not take the floor and call 
it the ‘‘great train robbery.’’ No, I supported 
what they were trying to do because 
we were able to reform Amtrak, 
because Amtrak is important, not to 
some Members but to the gentleman 
from Delaware and the Members from 
the Northeast Corridor. Amtrak is important 
to them, so we supported that 
and we supported the reform of Amtrak. 


I must tell my colleagues that the reform 
bill spells out that those reforms 
must be accomplished by June 1, or all 
money for Amtrak stops, ceases, zero. I 
must also tell my colleagues that there 
are indications that those reforms may 
not be met by June 1, which means 
they will have to be back here on the 
floor again asking for forgiveness for 
Amtrak legislation or there will not be 
any money for Amtrak. 

Well, it seems to me that it might be 
a little more difficult next time around 
to get that kind of forgiveness for Amtrak. 
So I hope that those who sometimes 
seem to feel that nobody’s cause 
but their own is worthwhile might take 
a little broader look at the transportation 
needs all across America. 

The Woodrow Wilson Bridge is another 
case in point. A billion dollars. 

We read so much in the local papers 
about the importance of the Woodrow 
Wilson Bridge. Let me tell my colleagues 
there are over 30 interstate reconstruction 
projects, all of which cost 
more than a billion dollars. So while 
the Woodrow Wilson Bridge may well 
be important to the region here, there 
are other projects all across America 
which cost just as much on the interstate 
system, the highest priority system, 
and which are just as important 
to other Americans across this country. 


So I hope that, again, those who 
seem to see nothing of virtue in anything 
but their own particular interest 
might broaden their horizons just a bit. 

Mr. Chairman, my colleagues who 
know me best know I am not exactly a 
raving left-wing liberal spender. In fact 
the American Conservative Union gave 
me a 100 percent rating last year. I 
slipped in my NFIB rating. I only got a 

97. I am not a big spender; I am a fiscal 
conservative. But there is a fundamental 
difference between spending tax 
dollars to build assets and pouring 
money down a rat hole. 
Indeed, Mr. Chairman, I would say to 
my conservative Republican colleagues, 
look at the legacy of our 
party. It was Abraham Lincoln who in 
the midst of the Civil War signed the 
papers to create the first transcontinental 
railroad and who strongly 
supported Henry Clay’s American system 
for capital improvements, for internal 
improvements. 

It was Teddy Roosevelt, the Panama 
Canal. George Will, the wonderful columnist, 
wrote a column a few months 
ago in which he observed that some 
conservatives today, had those same 
conservatives been back there with 
Teddy Roosevelt, probably would have 
voted against the Panama Canal. Well, 
I would like to think not, but it does 
not end with Teddy Roosevelt. 

Eisenhower, the father of the interstate 
system. Mr. Chairman, do my colleagues 
know who Eisenhower’s floor 
manager was in the United States Senate 
to pass the interstate system? 
Prescott Bush, the father of President 
George Bush. 

To my conservative colleagues I say 
we have a legacy here of building 
America and today is the day we have 
the opportunity to do it. Today is the 
day we have the opportunity to put 
honesty back in budgeting. To spend 
only the trust fund money that is coming 
in. To save lives. To remove congestion 
and to increase productivity. 
The revenue exists. 

Let me close by sharing with my colleagues 
something that Stephen Ambrose, 
the historian, wrote in a book 
that just came out recently. It is a 
wonderful book entitled ‘‘Citizen Soldiers.’’ 
It is a book about the soldiers 
of America who in World War II 
slogged their way through Europe to 
win victory for our country and for the 
allies. 

He wrote in the conclusion of his 
wonderful book about those World War 


H1888 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

II veterans when they came home, and 
here is what he said about them: 

These were the men who built modern 
America. They wanted to construct. They 
built the interstate highway system, the St. 
Lawrence Seaway, the suburbs so scorned by 
the sociologists but so successful with the 
people, and much more. 

So let us on a bipartisan basis in this 
Chamber today, let us in our time be 
the builders of a better America as we 
move into a new and exciting 21st century, 
so that our children’s children 50 
years from now might be able to look 
back and say: See, this they did for us. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself 3 minutes. 

Mr. Speaker, 42 years ago in this 
Chamber a Democratic Congress, 
united with a Republican President, 
launched a new experiment in transportation, 
one that would prove to be 
enormously successful in improving 
America’s mobility and expanding its 
economy and moving transportation 
from border to border and coast to 
coast in a way that never had been accomplished 
before. 

Today we stand at the beginning of a 
new century and a new millennium. 
The legislation we bring to the floor 
today takes us beyond the vision of the 
interstate system and beyond the vision 
that was created in ISTEA in 1991 
and to a new century, a new millennium, 
a new investment with renewed 
vigor in a future America. 

Mr. Chairman, I compliment the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Chairman 
SHUSTER) on the extraordinary job he 
has accomplished of leading us through 
the thicket of conflicting issues, values, 
ideas, demands, interests and pressures 
to do the right thing for America. 
He traced the evolution of the transportation 
system, of this legislation, in 
a very heartfelt, deeply sensitive and 
deeply committed way just a moment 
ago. His words are a measure for all 
time. 

What we do in this legislation is not 
just to continue but to extend beyond 
where we have been in our transportation 
mix of the last 42 years. Mr. 
Chairman, we continue the investment 
in America that is the fundamental 
driving force for this transportation 
sector, which is 10 percent of our gross 
domestic product. We continue the programs 
of this country that we initiated 
in ISTEA that have been so enormously 
successful. We continue the environmental 
stewardship. We address 
safety and, indeed, had we not addressed 
safety with the interstate highway 
program in 1956, we would be killing 
110,000 people on America’s highways 
today. 

We provide continued equity in our 
transportation program for minorities 
for labor, for construction labor, and 
for the States through our distribution 
formula. This is a bill that is good for 
all America, for all time, to take us 
into that next century. Not a bridge of 
fiber optic cable, but a bridge built on 

concrete, asphalt, steel and goodwill 
and good vision and a good sense of direction 
for America. 

Transportation means economic 
growth, means mobility, and it means 
opportunity for America. That is what 
this legislation is all about. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
5 minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. PETRI) 
chairman of the Subcommittee on Surface 
Transportation. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, today we 
are considering legislation that, perhaps 
more than any bill we will consider 
this Congress, touches the lives of 
each and every constituent of each and 
every Member of this House. 

Mr. Chairman, until something goes 
wrong, we often overlook the impact 
that transportation has on our daily 
lives. No matter who we are or where 
we live, we rely on an efficient and safe 
transportation network. Whether we 
live in an urban area where transit provides 
a way to get to and from work; 
whether we farm land in a rural area 
and need to get crops to market quickly; 
whether we own a business that 
needs to truck in materials and get finished 
goods out over the roads; whether 
we are a young mother worrying about 
safely driving our young children to 
school each day; or whether we load up 
the family and go down the highway on 
our annual family vacation in Disney 
World or the Grand Canyon, we need a 
good transportation system in the 
United States for daily commutes, to 
transport freight around the country, 
and to provide opportunities for tourism 
and for recreation. 

Transportation is something that we 
use every day, and it provides a safe 
and efficient way of getting around and 
moving goods, and it is something that 
our constituents expect. 

Mr. Chairman, today we have an opportunity 
to pass legislation that truly 
does provide tangible, real benefits for 
all Americans. Some have tried to attack 
the bill before us based on the 
funding levels and budget implications 
of authorizations for projects in various 
Members’ districts. But those critics 
ignore one important fact: all the 
spending in this bill is fully supported 
by the gas taxes paid and collected in 
the Highway Trust Fund. In fact, 
spending is actually below trust fund 
revenues over the next 6 years. Spending 
in this bill is linked to the amount 
of taxes collected in the trust fund, 
taxes collected from the motoring public 
and which can be used only for 
transportation purposes. 

Spending increases in this bill are so 
large in part because we are finally 
using the gas taxes for transportation 
instead of hoarding them in the trust 
fund to subsidize other spending. The 
current trust fund balance is about $23 
billion. Under the budget agreement 
last year it would have grown to $70 
billion. What is fair about that, government 
borrowing from the trust fund to 

spend on all kinds of things, adding to 
the national debt? 

Gas taxes are user fees collected to 
fund transportation. They should either 
be used for that purpose, as 
BESTEA does, or the gas tax should be 
cut. 

b1415 
Now, some have used the term ‘‘hypocrisy’’ 
to describe this bill. Well, the 
true hypocrisy is taxing the American 
public, saying we will use those taxes 
only for transportation, and then not 
living up to our part of the bargain. 
That is why America has become so 
skeptical about Washington. 
We are ending that practice in this 
bill. We should not lose sight of the 
fact that since BESTEA more fully 
spends the new gas taxes coming into 
the trust fund, we have agreed to write 
off a total of $9 billion of the outstanding 
$22 billion cash balance in the 
Highway Trust Fund, and we have 
agreed to forgo interest that would 
otherwise be credited to this trust fund 
saving over $14 billion in national indebtedness. 
No one has been talking 
about that, but it reduces the outstanding 
debt of the United States by 
over $20 billion. 
We have significantly reformed distribution 
formulas to provide for the 
more equitable allocation of funds 
among the States. Funding formulas 
are updated so that we no longer use 
historic shares to distribute funds, and 
instead we use up-to-date transportation 
data that more accurately reflects 
usage and need. 
Minimum allocation for donor States 
is increased to 95 percent. Several 
other donor State funding provisions 
are included. A very significant reform 
is that for the first time projects are 
included in the minimum allocation 
calculation so States cannot be severely 
disadvantaged or advantaged 
whether they have or do not have 
projects. 
Finally, donee States do not lose in 
terms of actual dollars received, but in 
fact increase substantially over the 
amounts received, over the past 6 years 
of ISTEA. Under BESTEA, we are able 
to increase funding for clean air programs. 
We increase by $2 billion funding 
for safety and safety education programs, 
and we have done an increase in 
transit funding by 43 percent. 
It contains significant reforms to 
streamline project delivery and reduce 
red tape, including coordinating environmental 
reviews, reducing project 
approval requirements and eliminating 
programmatic responsibilities of Department 
of Transportation regional 
offices. 
Mr. Chairman, passage of BESTEA 
today means Americans traveling on 
the roads will be safer. It means that 
we will take a step forward in sustaining 
and improving the economic prosperity 
that we as Americans are so fortunate 
to enjoy. And it means that we 
will be competitive in a global economy 
that relies on efficient transportation. 
We quite literally need good 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1889 

highways, bridges and public transit to 
keep us moving ahead into the future. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 4 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LIPINSKI), 
ranking member on the Subcommittee 
on Aviation. 

Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the ranking member, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
for this time. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficiency 
Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act, commonly referred to as 
BESTEA. First, I want to thank our 
chairman and ranking members for all 
of their hard work, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI), the gentleman from West 
Virginia (Mr. RAHALL). They have 
worked together to create a strong bipartisan 
bill that provides the necessary 
funding to maintain and improve 
our Nation’s infrastructure. 

I am sure that during the debate 
today, a few of our colleagues will try 
to say that this important bill busts 
the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. This 
is simply not true. This bill is paid for 
out of the Highway Trust Fund. The 
Highway Trust Fund is supported by 
fuel taxes paid by motorists. Therefore, 
this bill is paid for each time motorists 
go to pay for their gasoline. BESTEA 
does not bust the balanced budget. 
BESTEA simply spends down the large 
unspent surplus in the Highway Trust 
Fund. Under this bill, dedicated gas 
taxes are used for their dedicated purpose, 
to address the transportation 
needs of cities and States throughout 
this Nation. 

This is absolutely necessary because 
America’s transportation needs are 
staggering. Our Nation’s transportation 
infrastructure in many areas is 
crumbling and it is in urgent need of 
repair, mainly because we as a Nation 
have not invested enough to maintain 
and improve our transportation system. 
In fact, in the last 30 years transportation 
spending as a percentage of 
the Federal budget has been cut in 
half. Yet investing in transportation 
means investing in America’s future. 

Economic studies show that every 
dollar invested in the highway system 
yields $2.60 in economic benefit. Other 
countries are already investing billions 
in their core infrastructure. Fortunately, 
BESTEA does the same for 
America. 

Mr. Chairman, as I said this morning, 
BESTEA is a good bipartisan bill. It 
will provide better, safer roads. It will 
provide new and improved public transportation 
systems. It will improve air 
quality by reducing traffic congestion 
and by promoting public transit. It will 
provide good jobs for middle-class 
Americans. It will ensure America’s future 
as a world leader by maintaining 
and improving our world class surface 
transportation system. I strongly urge 
all my colleagues to vote to invest in 

America’s future and vote in favor of 
H.R. 2400. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I almost find myself uncontrollable 
here in recognizing and giving 5 minutes 
to the Honorable John Paul Hammerschmidt, 
a former member of Congress 
and a former ranking member of 
our committee, the man who would be 
chairman if he were still here, so I 
want to acknowledge he is in the 
Chamber and wish him well. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself 30 seconds to join in the 
acknowledgment of our colleague, one 
of the architects of ISTEA that brings 
us to the floor today, and an extraordinarily 
distinguished Member of this 
House and of our committee for so 
very, very many years. We owe him a 
great debt of gratitude. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. ROGERS) 
chairman of one of the important appropriations 
subcommittees. 

Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the chairman for yielding the time and 
join in welcoming our friend, Mr. Hammerschmidt, 
back to this Chamber. 

Mr. Chairman, the highway bill before 
us today opens doors for the Nation 
and the people of Kentucky. First, 
it unlocks the Highway Trust Fund, 
providing the money needed to invest 
in our national highway system and to 
boost spending in donor States like 
Kentucky. BESTEA gives Kentucky 90 
cents back on every dollar that we send 
in to the trust fund as opposed to 77 
cents they received under ISTEA. 

Overall, Kentucky will receive on average 
approximately $479 million per 
year in highway funding. That is 70 
percent more than our share over the 
last 5 years. 

Second, it launches the I–66 project 
in Kentucky, making the first major 
dollar investment toward construction. 
I–66 will open up southern and eastern 
Kentucky to the rest of the Nation, 
creating thousands of jobs. 

Third, monies included in the House 
and Senate version of this bill virtually 
guarantee that we will make substantial 
progress on the unfinished sections 
of the Appalachian development road 
system, which is vital to our region. 

Of special importance is that this bill 
will save lives. BESTEA gives States 
the ability to improve the safety of 
many poorly designed roads and 
bridges. This will save hundreds of 
lives in Kentucky alone. 

Simply put, BESTEA is the best deal 
for Kentucky, the best deal for donor 
States and the best deal for our Nation. 
I congratulate the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) and the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) 
and the other members of the 
committee for a great job on a great 
bill. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL), 
ranking member on the Sub


committee on Surface Transportation, 
who has contributed so vigorously and 
so many dedicated, devoted hours to 
the shaping of this legislation. 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me this 
time. 

I commend the gentleman as well as 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER) and the subcommittee chairman, 
the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI), for their excellent work on 
this legislation. As we begin debate on 
this legislation, we are indeed at a 
crossroads in this country. We can decide 
whether we want to retreat from 
the transportation needs of the new 
century and fail to make the necessary 
investments in our highway and transit 
infrastructure, or we can rise to the 
challenge and dedicate the necessary 
resources to these endeavors. 

Those of us who bring this legislation 
forth today are seeking to rise to that 
challenge, to keep faith with the American 
public, to restore integrity and restore 
trust back into the Highway 
Trust Fund and to make the necessary 
investments in America. To be clear, 
this is not just about an investment in 
concrete and asphalt, but one about investment 
into our children, one about 
investment into our environment, and 
an investment into the very social fabric 
of this Nation. 

This legislation involves the very 
standard of living we in this country 
wish to enjoy, and it entails the type of 
legacy we wish to leave to future generations, 
our children. Poor road pavement, 
outdated design standards, and 
the lack of safety enhancement present 
a very real threat to the motoring pub


lic. In parts of my district, school 
buses have collided with trucks for 
these very reasons, prematurely extinguishing 
the innocent lives of our 
younger generation. I know tragedies 
like this have happened elsewhere 
around the country. 
This bill makes an investment into 
improving those roads and providing 
more safety features so that we can 
better ensure the well-being of our 
children. 

Our environment, let us look at what 
this bill does. Congestion plagues our 
cities, both large and small. Air quality 
deteriorates as vehicles stack up 
behind each other with motors idling. 
And tempers flare erupting into road 
rage affecting so many parts of this 
country. 

This bill makes an investment into 
improving our environment by advancing 
alternative means of transportation 
such as transit, bicycle and pedestrian 
pathways, and innovative new 
intelligent transportation systems. 

Our very standard of living, let us 
look at what this bill does. In order to 
compete globally, companies are demanding 
production efficiency. It is estimated 
that more than one-half of 

U.S. manufacturers are using just-intime 
inventory systems. This approach 
requires an efficient transportation 
system. 

H1890 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

This legislation makes a fundamental 
investment into improving our 
transportation systems, not just highways, 
but transportation links that are 
intermodal in nature, to better ensure 
the smooth flow of goods, both domestic 
and international markets. 

It has been said that ISTEA represented 
a revolution in how we viewed 
our surface transportation needs. Over 
the course of the last 6 years ISTEA, as 
implemented, has produced some fundamental 
changes in the Federal role 
in transportation. It empowered our 
local communities. 

If ISTEA was indeed a revolution, 
then this bill known as BESTEA is a 
revelation; a revelation because it exposes 
the Highway Trust Fund for what 
it truly is, not an account to be used to 
mask the true size of the Federal deficit, 
or make our budget look brighter. 
Not a pot of funds to be held hostage to 
the whims and the caprices of our 
budgeteers, but rather as a trust fund, 
a trust fund paid into by the American 
motorists for the express purpose of receiving 
a better return in building our 
road and bridges in this country. 

I urge adoption of this entire bill. I 
think it is what the American public 
wants. It is what our children and future 
generations want. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 

minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. 
COBLE). 

Mr. COBLE. Mr. Chairman, I think it 
is important to recognize the tremendous 
steps the committee is taking to 
significantly to improve donor States 
rate of return in this bill. BESTEA distributes 
funds equitably among the 
States by reforming the highway funding 
formulas so that they are based 
upon relevant transportation factors. 

Specifically, there are provisions in 
this bill which will guarantee that no 
State will fall below a 90 percent return 
on its contributions to the Highway 
Trust Fund. In addition, the committee 
repealed the penalty on discretionary 
grants for States that receive 
minimum allocation funding. While 
BESTEA is not perfect, Mr. Chairman, 
it certainly goes a long way to address 
the critical need of donor States, and I 
hope we can continue to work together 
to that end. 

This bill is not only about saving 
lives, it is about being honest with the 
American people. Many Members in 
the Chamber today will claim that this 
is a budget buster. I am a fiscal conservative, 
Mr. Chairman. This charge is 
simply not true. 

When Congress set up the Highway 
Trust Fund, it created a contract with 
the American people by instituting a 
gas tax with the promise that these 
taxes would only be used for transportation 
improvements. When these taxes 
are used to mask the size of the deficit 
or to increase welfare spending or foreign 
aid, the contract is broken and 
American lives are put at risk. Using 
the gas tax for other social spending is 
wrong and dishonest. 

We must, in fact, spend these taxes 
on what we promised we would spend 
them on. It is an honesty question and 
it is time to be honest with the American 
people. If we are not going to expend 
these monies for the purpose that 
was intended, then let us repeal the 
tax. 

Mr. Chairman, it is time to spend the 
Highway Trust Fund where it is supposed 
to be spent: Improving roads and 
enhancing the safety of the American 
motorists who use those roads. 

b1430 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. BORSKI), the ranking 
member on our Subcommittee on 
Water Resources and Environment. 
(Mr. BORSKI asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. BORSKI. Mr. Chairman, let me 
first thank the distinguished gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) 
for yielding me this time. 
I also want to commend and congratulate 
both he and our distinguished 
Chairman for bringing this 
truly bipartisan and truly historic bill 
to the floor of the House of Representatives. 
I also want to commend the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. PETRI) 
and, of course, our ranking member on 
the subcommittee, the gentleman from 
West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL). 
Mr. Chairman, I think it is important 
to understand that this is not just a 
highway bill. By establishing funding 
levels that are fiscally sound, it provides 
necessary resources to meet 
America’s diverse transportation infrastructure 
needs. 
BESTEA maintains the enhancement 
and CMAQ provisions set forth in 
ISTEA. It provides for an equitable distribution 
of funds among States, it improves 
safety on our highways, provides 
flexibility for States and local 
areas, and it benefits urban and rural 
America. 
Mr. Chairman, it is important to 
point out that these varied and critical 
goals can only be met because of a provision 
in the bill that calls for phasing 
in spending the 4.3 cents fuel tax recently 
returned to the Trust Fund and 
taking the Trust Fund, itself, off budget 
beginning in 1999. 
The monies that are actually spent 
on our country’s infrastructure have 
been consistently and substantially 
less than what is collected. To call this 
money a dedicated tax and then disregard 
its intended use is a fraud. 
Clearly, our country has enormous 
transportation infrastructure needs. 
We cannot afford to look the other way 
while revenues committed to address 
these needs go elsewhere or sit fallow. 
That money is desperately needed, and 
it exists in a Trust Fund. We do not 
need to find the money to pay for our 
infrastructure. We simply have to stop 
others from spending it for unintended 
purposes. 
Mr. Chairman, I must tell my colleagues, 
as a Representative from an 

urban community, I am greatly encouraged 
by the increase in transit 
funding provided for in BESTEA. Ridership 
on computer and light rail has 
grown steadily and significantly. New 
transit starts are exploding. And as 
such, in each of the last 4 years of the 
bill, $6.4 billion is spent on transit, 
nearly a 50-percent increase above current 
funding levels. 

In the current political climate of decreased 
Federal spending, committing 
such revenues speaks to the recognition 
of the pivotal role mass transit 
must play if we are to best utilize our 
resources, transportation and otherwise. 


Perhaps the best illustration of the 
innumerable benefits investments in 
our Nation’s infrastructure and, more 
specifically, in transit can yield is 
found in the welfare-to-work provisions 
of the bill. This critically important 
program helps restore our cities and return 
our people to productive use by 
providing them with the ability to 
physically get to where the jobs are. 

People in my city of Philadelphia 
know all too well that, as companies 
abandon our cities for the suburbs, 
they take their jobs and opportunities 
with them, leaving unemployed city 
dwellers. In fact, two-thirds of all new 
jobs created are in the suburbs. Furthermore, 
less than 6 percent of families 
receiving benefits from the Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Family 
program own cars. This means that 94 
percent must rely on transit systems 
to get them to work. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today to offer my 
wholehearted support for H.R. 2400, the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1997. Let me first congratulate Chairman 
SHUSTER, Ranking Member OBERSTAR, 
Chairman PETRI, and Ranking Member RAHALL 
for the truly remarkable job that they 
have done. Reauthorization of any bill of this 
magnitude is always an arduous and delicate 
task. But the validity of some of the inherently 
competing interests associated with this program, 
and the need for those interests to be 
both acknowledged and reconciled, created a 
monumental assignment for those charged 
with the reauthorization of ISTEA. What they 
bring to the floor today, surpasses any reasonable 
expectations held by those of us all too 
familiar with the scope and complexity of the 
bill. In BESTEA, the enormous needs of our 
nation’s infrastructure have been addressed, 
while maintaining the integrity of the program 
itself. The result is a bipartisan product the 
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, 
and the whole House, should be proud to endorse. 
Finally, with this bill, we can do what 
we have promised every American that we 
would do when we asked them to pay into the 
Highway Trust Fund at the gas pump- adequately 
build and maintain our nation’s crumbling 
infrastructure. 

This is not just a highway bill. By establishing 
funding levels that are fiscally sound it provides 
the necessary resources to meet America’s 
diverse infrastructure needs. BESTEA 
maintains the enhancement and CMAQ provisions 
set forth in ISTEA. It provides for an equitable 
distribution of funds among states, improves 
safety on our highways, focuses on national 
priorities, streamlines program delivery, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1891 

and reinvents the DOT. The bill provides flexibility 
for states and local areas, benefits urban 
and rural America and supports technology 
development needed as we enter the 21st 
century. 

Mr. Chairman, it is important to point out 
that these varied and critical goals can only be 
met because of a provision in the bill that calls 
for phasing-in spending the 4.3 cents fuel tax 
recently returned to the Trust fund and taking 
the Trust fund, itself, off-budget, beginning in 
1999. When Congress established the Highway 
Trust Fund in 1956, it was a deliberate 
policy decision to impose a user fee funding 
mechanism and a trust fund, rather than continuing 
to support transportation infrastructure 
programs out of general revenues. The Highway 
Trust fund ensured that the money was 
collected from those benefitting from the improvements 
by taxing gasoline, diesel and 
special fuels as well as heavy trucks and tires. 
By creating a trust fund, Congress was presumably 
guaranteeing a promise to those contributing 
to the fund that the money would be 
dedicated to transportation infrastructure improvements. 
This promise has blatantly been 
ignored for far too long. The monies that are 
actually spent on our country’s infrastructure 
are consistently, and substantially, less than 
what is collected. As a result, an enormous 
surplus has been allowed to accumulate in the 
Trust Fund, much to the delight of our Nation’s 
bookkeepers. This practice of locking up billion 
of dollars in treasury notes that should rightfully 
be stimulating our economy has been likened 
to a shell game, and amounts to nothing 
more than fraud on the taxpayer. To call this 
money a dedicated tax and then disregard its 
intended use is fraudulent. I can tell you as a 
sixteen year veteran of the Transportation and 
Infrastructure Committee that our nation’s infrastructure 
can no longer afford to pay the 
price for dishonest bookkeeping. 

The Department of Transportation estimates 
that simply maintaining current conditions on 
our highway, bridge, and transit systems will 
require annual investments of $57 billion, an 
increase of 41%. These conditions are indisputably 
unacceptable and unsafe. In my home 
state of Pennsylvania for example, more than 
70% of our roads were rated fair to poor. Over 
40% of our bridges were deemed deficient. 
These statistics are not inconsequential. Inadequate 
roads and bridges are a factor in traffic 
accidents that result annually in over 12,000 
highway deaths nationwide. Metropolitan congestion 
alone costs our nation more than $40 
million annually. 

Transit needs are at least as critical. One-
third of rail maintenance yards, stations, and 
bridges, and almost one-half of transit buildings 
are still in poor or fair condition. Rolling 
stock needs immediate replacement as the average 
fleet age for all classes of bus and 
paratransit vehicles has exceeded the useful 
life of the vehicles. Additionally, 51% of rural 
buses are overage and more than 9,000 urban 
buses need immediate replacement. According 
to the DOT, to improve the condition of our 
nation’s infrastructure to optimal levels, would 
require annual investments of $80 billion. 
Clearly, our country has enormous needs. We 
cannot afford to look the other way while revenues 
committed to address these needs go 
elsewhere or sit fallow. Perhaps, if our nation’s 
roads and bridges weren’t crumbling we could 
indulge our colleagues as they continued to 
steal money dedicated to infrastructure so that 

they could claim, and take credit for, a balanced 
budget. But we can’t. That money is 
desperately needed, and it exists in the trust 
fund. We don’t need to find the money to pay 
for our infrastructure, we simply have to stop 
others from spending it for unintended purposes. 
If that results in a budget that is not 
balanced, I would suggest that my colleagues 
who serve on the appropriate committee 
should take a closer look and find offsets that 
would make up for the money they planned to 
divert from this user fee. 

Mr. Chairman, I must tell you that, as a 
Representative from an urban community, I 
am greatly encouraged by the increase in 
transit funding provided for in BESTEA. Ridership 
on commuter and light rail has grown 
steadily and significantly. New transit starts 
are exploding. In fact, our committee received 
over 150 requests for these type of projects 
just this year, totaling over $25 billion. As 
such, in each of the last four years of the bill, 
$6.4 billion is spent on transit, nearly a fifty 
percent increase above current funding levels. 
In the current political climate of decreased 
federal spending, committing such revenue 
speaks to the recognition of the pivotal role 
mass transit must play if we are to best utilize 
our resources-transportation and otherwise. 

Perhaps the best illustration of the innumerable 
benefits investment in our nation’s infrastructure—
and more specifically, in transit, can 
yield, is found in the Welfare-to-Work provision 
of the bill. This critically important program, 
helps restore our cities—and return our people—
to productive use, by providing them with 
the ability to physically get to where the jobs 
are. People in my city of Philadelphia know all 
too well that, as companies abandon our cities 
for the suburbs, they take their jobs and opportunities 
with them, leaving unemployed city 
dwellers. In fact, two-thirds of all new jobs created 
are in the suburbs. Furthermore, research 
by the U.S. Department of Transportation 
found that less than 6% of families receiving 
benefits from the Temporary Assistance 
for Needy Families program own cars. 
This means that 94% must rely on transit systems 
to get them to work. In the past, those 
of us who represent cities, have watched, with 
great frustration, the impact on our community 
as these companies leave for the suburbs. We 
have focused a great deal of energy on convincing 
companies to stay in or come to our 
city. While this is important, it is not always 
possible and, perhaps in our zealousness, we 
have not recognized the benefits of any other 
alternatives. If a company can or will not stay 
in the city, there is still an enormous economic 
benefit to be had, should people be able to 
commute out to the suburbs. This is the impetus 
behind the welfare-to-work program. And 
we have seen it work in cities like Chicago. 
Suburban Job-Link, working with Chicago’s 
PACE bus company, began serving the needs 
of unemployed Chicago residents in 1971. The 
program has proven to yield economic rewards. 
For every 1,000 workers employed at 
suburban manufacturing jobs, $25 million in 
pay and benefits annually flow back into inner-
city neighborhoods. 

Mr. Chairman, again, I would like to applaud 
the leadership of our committee for their truly 
remarkable and Historic accomplishment. A 
year ago, it seemed a nearly impossible task 
to meet the very real, diverse, and often competing 
needs of our nation’s infrastructure. But 
Chairman SHUSTER and Ranking Member 

OBERSTAR held firm to their principles, arguing 
tirelessly that integrity be restored to the Trust 
Fund. It is with admiration that I acknowledge 
their achievement and without any hesitation 
that I offer my support for the BESTEA bill. 
This bipartisan effort and product represents 
the very best our committee has to offer, and 
reinforces both the pleasure and pride with 
which I have served on it for the past sixteen 
years. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. 
METCALF). 

Mr. METCALF. Mr. Chairman, 
would like to take this opportunity to 
congratulate the Chairman on an outstanding 
bill and ask if the Chairman 
will enter into a colloquy? 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, if the 
gentleman will yield, I will be pleased 
to. 

Mr. METCALF. Mr. Chairman, as the 
Chairman has noted, the volume of 
international trade passing through 
Washington State’s ports has snarled 
traffic at dozens of at-grade rail-highway 
crossing in the Puget Sound region. 
As the Chairman knows, public 
and private interests have come together 
to propose a series of grade-
crossing projects and port-access 
projects that we refer to as the ‘‘fast 
corridor’’ program. 

Does the Chairman agree that section 
115 of the bill, the National Corridor 
Planning and Development Program, 
was designed to help projects 
like the fast corridor? 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming 
my time, I would certainly 
agree with the gentleman. I have seen 
the problem firsthand there. 

As the gentleman from Washington has observed, 
I have first-hand knowledge of the 
special mobility problems in the Puget Sound 
region. The Fast Corridor Program was developed 
to address that problem. 

Section 136 of the bill designates the ‘‘Everett-
Tacoma Fast Corridor’’ as a ‘‘high-priority 
corridor.’’ With this designation, the fast corridor 
would be eligible for funding under section 
115, as you have already pointed out. 

Section 115 was designed with projects like 
the fast corridor in mind and I am certain that 
it would be an ideal candidate. 

I commend the gentleman for his initiative 
on this matter and for the leadership he brings 
to transportation issues in the region. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 11/2 minutes to 
the gentleman from California (Mr. 
KIM), a distinguished member of the 
committee. 

Mr. KIM. Mr. Chairman, I thank the 
gentleman for yielding to me. 

Mr. Chairman, I have heard critics 
saying today that we are stealing 
money from other programs to rebuild 
our highways and bridges. Now, come 
on. Let us be honest with the American 
people. The money is already there. 
The American people pay for it with 
the gas tax money. 

In 1956, Congress made a simple contract 
with the American people that 
gas taxes would be used for highways 
and bridges. Seven years ago, Congress 
broke the promise and diverted gas tax 


H1892 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

money to foreign aid and other programs. 


Southern Californians have paid 
dearly for that ever since. Southern 
Californians spend more time stuck in 
traffic than anyone else in the country. 

And there is another argument. I am 
tired of hearing this bill is full of pork. 
It is not about pork. It is about saving 
people’s lives. Every year 14,000 people 
are killed in roads that are too narrow, 
too congested, or simply too dangerous 
for existing traffic. None of these people 
have to die. 

In my district, there is a road known 
as ‘‘Blood Alley.’’ Eight lanes of freeway 
are crammed into a two-lane country 
road when it crosses the county 
line. About 10 people die each year on 
this three-mile stretch of road because 
the counties do not want each other’s 
traffic. 

Our bill includes $13 million to widen 
this Blood Alley and save lives. Fixing 
Blood Alley is our responsibility. It is 
not pork. Our bill saves lives and restores 
our promise to the American 
people. This bill forces Washington to 
keep its promise and fix highways with 
the gas and tax money. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
bill. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. TRAFICANT), the ranking 
member on the Subcommittee on Public 
Buildings and Economic Development, 
a valiant, vigorous member of 
our committee and advocate for Buy 
America. 

Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Speaker, $217 
billion is being invested in America, 
not overseas. To put some perspective 
on it, our trade deficits with China in 
the next 6 years will exceed $300 billion. 


Now let us call it like it is. Everybody 
is talking about pork. I was called 
the king of pork on ISTEA because I 
got five bridges funded. One of those 
bridges collapsed last week. One of my 
constituents almost got killed. Thank 
God, no one got killed in my district. 
They do not call that bridge pork 
today. 

Now let us put the hay where the 
goats can reach it. To all of these political 
purists in the Congress, here is 
how they would have it: We would fight 
to get the money for the States. The 
local politicians would have press conferences 
and announce the projects. 
Then they would brag how they got the 
money and that there was no Federal 
money in it. And then they will run 
against us. Beam me up. I do not apologize. 


In 1986, I passed the amendment that 
increased the minimum allocation to 
donor States. And last year in Ohio, 28 
major projects, I did not get one of 
them; and we are the most deserving. 

I do not apologize for any damn 
thing. They can call me anything they 
want on this House floor, but if we do 
not take care of our district, no one is 
going to take care of our district. 
Stand up today, and you fight for your 

district. That is what it is about. This 
is not the Rotary, my colleagues. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. BOEHLERT). 

(Mr. BOEHLERT asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BOEHLERT. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in strong support of BESTEA, 
the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act. 

I would like to point out to all of my 
colleagues and to the American people 
that BESTEA is green tea. The reason 
I have attached the label of ‘‘green 
tea’’ to the bill before us this afternoon 
is because the legislation provides 
more funding to improve the quality of 
America’s environment than any approved 
by this body in the last decade. 

This is an environmentally sensitive 
and an environmentally friendly bill. 
And that is good for the American people, 
because they expect us to protect 
the air we breathe and the water we 
drink and the food we eat. Nothing is 
more important than that in terms of 
our assignment. 

Green tea contains over $40 billion 
for the transit program, the Congestion 
Mitigation Air Quality program, commonly 
known as CMAQ; the Transportation 
Enhancement Program; the Recreational 
Trails Program; and the National 
Scenic Byways Program. 

The gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER), the Chairman, and the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
the ranking member, are to be 
applauded for their obvious concerns 
about America’s transportation policy 
and how they have incorporated a sensitivity 
to the environment in this 
measure. 

In fact, the environmental community 
strongly endorses BESTEA. Let 
me repeat this point. The environmental 
community strongly endorses 
BESTEA because they, too, know it is 
green tea. The Environmental Defense 
Fund, the League of American 
Bicyclists, the National Trust of Historic 
Preservation, the National Parks 
and Conservation Association, the Natural 
Resources Defense Council, the 
Rails to Trails Program, Scenic America 
and the Sierra Club all strongly 
support BESTEA because they, too, 
know it is green tea. 

Green tea provides nearly $4 billion 
for the transportation enhancement 
program. This program provides needed 
funding to communities to build bicycle 
and pedestrian facilities and renovate 
historic transportation facilities. 
Green tea provides nearly $10 billion 
for the Congestion and Mitigation Air 
Quality Program over a 6-year period. 

This is a good bill. It deserves support. 
It has earned the support of the 
environmental community. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Tennessee (Mr. CLEMENT), the distinguished 
ranking member of the Subcommittee 
on Coast Guard and Maritime 
Transportation. 

Mr. CLEMENT. Mr. Chairman, my 
colleagues, this is a great day for all of 
us when it comes to transportation and 
the future of transportation needs. We 
know what they are doing in Europe, 
we know what they are doing in Asia, 
we know what they are doing in other 
countries around the world when it 
comes to infrastructure; and we are 
falling further and further behind. 

As one of the so-called donor States, 
I do know that we have been under-
served, short-changed in the past. And 
I am pleased to hear what the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) 
said so well and so eloquently a 
while ago, that this outdated formula 
goes back all the way to 1991 and now 
it is time, because of the shifts in population, 
that we need to realize that we 
need to make some major adjustments 
in the formula in order to be fair to all 
States involved. This is a great day. I 
strongly support this transportation 
bill. It is truly in our best interest. 

Mr. Chairman, at this time, I would 
like to have a colloquy with the Chairman 
on a matter. 

I would like to thank the Chairman 
for his willingness to extend the Coast 
Guard’s boating safety program in H.R. 
2400. Mr. Chairman, H.R. 2400 also extends 
the transfer of the gasoline tax 
attributable to motorboats from the 
Highway Trust Fund to the Boating 
Safety Account. Does this mean that 
the Boating Safety Account will have 
the same budgetary treatment as the 
Highway Trust Fund in section 701 
since this is a disbursement from the 
Highway Trust Fund? 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, if the 
gentleman would yield, the gentleman 
from Tennessee is correct. Since the 
Boating Safety Account receives its 
money from the Trust Fund, it would 
have the same budgetary treatment as 
the Highway Trust Fund under section 
101. 

Mr. CLEMENT. Mr. Chairman, let us 
all get behind this most important 
transportation bill for the 21st century. 
We need it, and we need it now. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. FOX). 

Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise in strong support of H.R. 
2400, this outstanding bipartisan measure 
to reauthorize our Federal surface 
transportation programs. A great deal 
of credit goes to the leadership of our 
Chairman, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER); the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR); and 
members of staff. 

We have far too many roads, bridges, 
and transit systems which have been 
neglected and have fallen into disrepair. 
They are leading to highway fatalities, 
congestion, in addition to 
wasted time, energy and money. We 
must restore the trust of the American 
people and spend the federal gas taxes 
they already pay to restore our Nation’s 
infrastructure. 

Take roads such as Route 309 in 
Pennsylvania, right in my district, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1893 

where the accident rate is double that 
of the State-wide average. We can stop 
these deaths by making sure we pass 
BESTEA. Save our roads, improve 
mass transit, job creation and environmental 
preservation. That is what this 
bill is all about. 

The Transportation needs of the 
country are at stake, and we need to 
take care of what is best for our constituents. 
I urge all my colleagues here 
in this room and those listening to 
please vote ‘‘yes’’ on BESTEA. This is 
the best investment in America, the 
best investment in our communities, 
and the best investment for our people. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia (Ms. 
NORTON), the voice of our Nation’s capital 
in this body. 

b1445 
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for his generosity in 
yielding. 
Mr. Chairman, I have come to the 
floor to take head-on this notion that 
transportation and infrastructure 
money in today’s America is pork. This 
is displaced rhetoric from prior decades 
before our infrastructure declined dangerously. 
There are two ingredients that make 
the United States a world class power. 
One is human capital. The other is our 
infrastructure. We cannot maintain 
our place in the world if we continue to 
allow our infrastructure to rot. 
Go to India. Enormous investment in 
human capital, but not in infrastructure, 
and so they are exporting their 
human capital, sending their people, 
their technicians and their scientists, 
around the world. A great power must 
have balanced investment. 
I am still a tenured law professor at 
Georgetown. Human capital advantage, 
I understand. That is why I support 
education so strongly. But neither 
must we lose the huge advantage infrastructure 
gives us in world markets. 
Instead of maintaining that advantage, 
we have been disinvesting in our 
infrastructure. There is no excuse for 
continuing to do so, because this bill is 
fully paid for out of transportation 
trust funds. Nor are the earmarked 
projects pork. Each and every one of 
mine came from my transportation department, 
prioritized for vital projects 
for the economy of my city. 
Yet, the Washington Post this morning, 
under a headline about, ‘‘Record 
Pork’’ goes on to say the following: 
‘‘Among these earmarked projects are 
$24 million to replace the crumbling 61year-
old Missisquoi Bay Bridge in 
northwestern Vermont, which local officials 
described as an accident waiting 
to happen.’’ If that is so, how could it 
be pork? 
Mr. Speaker, this is not pork. This is 
steak. If we want to continue to be a 
prime rib country, we better pass this 
bill quick. 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ). 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding. 

Mr. Chairman, when the President 
talks about building a bridge to the 
21st Century, this is the bill that lays 
the infrastructure that makes that 
bridge a reality. This bill saves and 
creates well-paying American jobs by 
making sure we have the means to efficiently 
move the goods and products 
we produce. 

But transportation is not just about 
moving goods and people from one 
place to another. It is about economic 
opportunity, new business, expanding 
commerce, a cleaner environment, 
safety for our children, and a higher 
quality of life. 

Better infrastructure means more 
time with our families. How many 
hours do we waste sitting in traffic because 
our roads are inadequate. Too 
many, Mr. Chairman. Too many. This 
is the bill that does something about 
that. 

Mass transit and road improvements 
may not be glamorous work, but it is 
important work. The success of almost 
everything else we do depends on our 
transit and infrastructure. At a time 
when most of our major trading competitors 
are making large investments 
in new infrastructure, we cannot afford 
to lag behind. 

The solution we need is a national 
one. Our commerce is no longer confined 
or constrained to national, much 
less State boundaries, so our system is 
only as strong as its weakest link. 

If one State has a great system, and 
the next State has an outdated one, 
both States suffer. In the next century, 
we will lose crucial economic ground if 
we allow these gaps to remain. 

Close to my home, traffic on the 
bridges and roads that connect New 
York and New Jersey is reaching the 
breaking point. Ironically, the reason 
is a good one. Our ports are bringing in 
businesses and jobs and trade. But if we 
do not improve and innovate these connections, 
our growth will literally be 
held back by our inability to handle 
the flow of people and goods. 

So we are using ferries to get people 
back and forth, 6 million people annually. 
And by 2005, we will need ferry 
service for 8 million or more. By making 
that investment today, we are able 
to handle the growth of tomorrow. 

This is a cost reduction measure. It 
saves money. Ferries do not require the 
construction of costly infrastructure. 
They reduce single occupancy vehicle 
use. They are more energy-efficient. 

This bill was put together with creative 
solutions like this one in mind. 
Yes, it is a bill of many individual 
projects, but it is a national plan. The 
projects in the bill make up that national 
plan, and we deserve to be supportive 
of it. 

I want to commend the chairman and 
the ranking member for their vision in 
putting this in before the House. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. QUINN), an 
important member of our committee. 

Mr. QUINN. Mr. Chairman, this is 
truly a historic day for the United 
States. H.R. 2400 is a magnificent work 
which addresses many transportation-
related concerns of our country. 

For example, section 205 contains the 
most comprehensive antidrinking and 
driving measures ever put into legislation. 
The bill also reauthorizes the Discretionary 
Bridge Program that gives 
our State the tools to repair and replace 
crumbling bridges. 

It also, though, Mr. Chairman, talks 
about safety. If I can particularly 
make a point in my district, there was 
an accident in 1992 where a car was trying 
to swerve around another truck. 
Steel coils fell off, and people were 
killed. More recently, another truck 
carrier swerved to avoid a disabled vehicle 
on the same stretch of road. Just 
last month, six people lost their lives. 

H.R. 2400 provides us with the opportunity 
to fix that stretch of road and 
other roads all across the country 
where safety is a concern. Can anybody 
in the Chamber tell the families of 
these victims and others that these are 
unnecessary projects? Can anybody tell 
the New York State Thruway Authority 
that this is not a worthy project or 
a pork project? 
Mr. Chairman, this is a good bill. It 
deserves our attention, and it deserves 
passage today. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. 
CLYBURN). 

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding me 
this time. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong 
support of H.R. 2400. I want to begin by 
thanking my Chairman, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), and 
my ranking member, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) for 
their leadership and tenacity in bringing 
this bill to the floor today. 

The Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act of 1998 
is desperately needed and a long time 
and coming. 

Mr. Chairman, I suggest there is not 
a single Member of this House who cannot 
appreciate the tremendous needs of 
this Nation’s infrastructure. I know 
there are Members who will vote 
against this measure, and I fully appreciate 
the sincerity of their convictions. 
But I believe they are being a wee bit 
shortsighted. 

Transportation is the engine driving 
this Nation’s economy. To the extent 
transportation fails, our economy fails. 
We cannot ignore these needs any 
longer. 

Mr. Chairman, this bill is important 
for other reasons as well. There are 
areas of this country which have 
unique needs, and this bill addresses 
those needs. There are areas for which, 
for whatever reason, have historically 
been shortchanged in the distribution 
of trust fund revenue. H.R. 2400 brings 
fairness to this process, and I strongly 
support it. 


H1894 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. Chairman, we have heard a lot of 
rhetoric and histrionics about demonstration 
projects. A great many 
headlines of today highlight this frenzy. 
But I take a different view. I came 
to Washington to represent the people 
of South Carolina’s Sixth District. I 
was eager to request funding for 
projects my district needs. But I resent 
the implication from anyone who 
thinks otherwise. My requests represent 
the views of the local officials of 
the towns and communities I represent. 


Finally, Mr. Chairman, I want to address 
the provision of this bill which 
provides for opportunity for owners of 
small businesses to participate in the 
American dream. The DBE program is 
not a set-aside program, nor is it a 
quota. It sets reasonable goals for full 
participation in a highly competitive 
process, and I believe this bill, with all 
it contains, deserves passage. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from South Dakota (Mr. 
THUNE), a very important member of 
our committee. 

Mr. THUNE. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate 
the opportunity to speak today in 
support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation Equity 
Act. There has been a lot of talk about 
the budget issues surrounding the highway 
bill, but there are some things 
that I think that people are forgetting 
to mention. 

First of all, the fact that the American 
people have already paid for this 
bill. We paid for it this morning. We 
filled our cars; came to work. We will 
pay for it this evening on the way 
home when we stop at the gas station 
to top off the tank. 

It makes no sense to impose a national 
highway gas tax, collect the 
money from this tax, then use that 
money to fund wasteful Washington 
spending. That is exactly what has 
been happening here for years. 

Finally, thanks to the work of the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER) and others, we are doing the 
right thing, and we are returning honesty 
to the budgeting process by using 
the motor fuels tax for the purpose for 
which it was created, intended, and 
that is the Highway Trust Fund. 

I want to credit the chairman again 
for the work that he has done in seeing 
that we spend more fuel taxes on roads, 
bridges, and highways in keeping our 
promise to the American people. It returns 
honesty to the budgeting process, 
and it forces Washington to keep its 
word on transportation funding. For 
that reason, I urge my colleagues to 
support H.R. 2400. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. Under the rule, the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. ARCHER) 
and the gentleman from California (Mr. 
STARK) each will control 15 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. ARCHER). 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield myself such time as I 
may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I bring to the attention 
of the House the provisions of title 
XI, the revenue title H.R. 2400. 

The revenue title provides the necessary 
financing for our Nation’s surface 
transportation needs by extending 
for 6 years current law excise taxes on 
gasoline, diesel, and other transportation 
taxes which flow into the Highway 
Trust Fund. 

By continuing the dedication of these 
monies to the Highway Trust Fund, we 
fulfill the expectations of the American 
people as the highway user 
charges they pay are reinvested in our 
country’s infrastructure. 

Furthermore, I am pleased to inform 
my colleague that the Ways and Means 
revenue title would transfer 6.8 cents 
per gallon tax on motorboat gasoline 
from the general fund to the Aquatic 
Resources Trust Fund. This is very, 
very important to those who use boats 
and the fishermen, because the money 
spent out of that fund enhances boater 
safety and protects the environment 
for millions of Americans who fish in 
the great outdoors. 

In addition, title XI would repeal the 

4.3 cents per gallon tax on railroad diesel 
fuel, which now goes to the general 
fund. I believe that the Nation’s railroads 
have been unfairly penalized with 
a tax which has no relationship to railroads 
or to transportation. This will 
tend to level the playing field between 
the way that we tax various forms of 
transportation. 
Finally, the Committee on Ways and 
Means revenue title would repeal after 
the year 2000 the excise tax on truck 
tires and tread rubber, which is generally 
perceived as a nuisance by 
truckers and the IRS. 

I believe that this is a good package 
that addresses our Nation’s critical 
transportation needs while providing 
appropriate tax relief. I urge support 
for the Committee on Ways and Means 
revenue title. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 
Mr. STARK. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
Mr. Chairman, I rise to praise the 
work that the committee has done on 

H.R. 2400 and to thank the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. ARCHER), chairman, 
for the work that the Committee on 
Ways and Means did, be it ever such a 
small part of an otherwise Herculean 
undertaking. 
The 6-year extension of the Highway 
Trust Fund will provide much-needed 
infrastructure, maintenance, and expansion 
for this country’s economic future. 
It does an important job. It will 
create jobs, ease bottlenecks, and will 
help the traffic flow in the Bay area of 
California, which is of particular local 
interest to me, as the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. ARCHER) has explained. 

It is paid for in a variety of ways. But 
I have one small reservation with the 
bill. That redounds not to the leader


ship of the committee of jurisdiction, 
but I am afraid to the leadership, budget 
leadership on the other side of the 
aisle, and that is that the bill is not 
paid for. 

I would be a much happier and more 
enthusiastic supporter if I knew that 
other items were off the table. I am led 
to understand that the 24 or $25 billion 
shortfall in this bill is not going to be 
taken out of veterans programs. Well, 
great for old veterans like me. 

b1500 

But I would like some assurance that 
that will not leave children at risk, and 
that will not mean that the $24 or 5 billion 
is going to come out of education, 
or that is not going to come out of programs 
to improve public safety or 
housing for the homeless. There are 
many programs in this country that 
will be competing for that $24 billion, 
and I would be much more comfortable 
and feel that we were doing the more 
responsible job if the leadership of this 
House had told us just exactly how 
they intend to come up with that 
shortfall. 

I do not like legislating in the blind, 
and it is very nice to tell my constituents 
that I am bringing home all kinds 
of worthy projects to the San Francisco 
Bay area and to the East Bay. I 
am afraid that perhaps later this summer 
I am going to have to deliver the 
bad news, which is how we are going to 
pay for this wonderful Easter present. 

Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent 
to yield the balance of my time to 
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
OBERSTAR). 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
California? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from South Dakota (Mr. 
THUNE) for a colloquy. 

Mr. THUNE. Mr. Chairman, I would 
like to thank the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. ARCHER), the distinguished 
chairman of the Committee on Ways 
and Means, for yielding to me for a 
question. 

I have worked closely with the chairman 
for several months to amend H.R. 
2400, and would like to thank him for 
his willingness to work with me and 
our colleagues from other States who 
are not served by Amtrak. Those 
States include Alaska, Hawaii, Maine, 
Oklahoma and Wyoming. What I would 
like to have offered in amendment, the 
gentleman from Texas expressed, in 
conversations we have had, his concerns 
about doing so. 

As my colleague knows, I attempted 
to attach the same amendment to H.R. 
2477, the Amtrak Privatization and Reform 
Act, but ran into jurisdictional 
and revenue questions at that time. 
The provision would amend the Taxpayer 
Relief Act of 1997 relating to tax 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1895 

refunds for the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation, Amtrak. Therefore, 
a revenue estimate of the amendment 
was necessary prior to enactment. 
At my request, the Joint Committee 
on Taxation conducted a revenue 
estimate of the amendment and determined 
it would have no revenue impact. 


The 1997 tax provisions specifically 
would provide Amtrak with access to 
$2.3 billion. Of that $2.3 billion, the law 
also sets aside a portion of the fund for 
non-Amtrak States. However, the allowable 
uses are very limited. In fact, 
the law would allow those funds to be 
used only for intercity passenger rail 
service and for intercity bus services. 

While my State, the State of South 
Dakota, does not have intercity passenger 
rail service, the State has been 
clear in stating that it would put available 
funds to use for intercity bus service. 
In fact, the State already is putting 
some of those funds to use. All the 
same, the State would like to have 
more flexibility in how it uses those 
funds. 

For that reason I drafted an amendment 
that would allow non-Amtrak 
States to use the funds for other transportation 
priorities such as State-
owned rail operations, rural transit 
and transit services for the elderly and 
disabled, rural air service, and high-
way-rail grade crossing projects. These 
are common sense and necessary uses. 
In fact, the Senate earlier saw the 
value of this amendment, and during 
consideration of Senate Bill 1173 adopted 
a similar amendment. 

I nonetheless appreciate the concerns 
expressed by the gentleman from Texas 
regarding authorizing jurisdiction of 
the amendment. At the same time I understand 
the gentleman from Texas 
would not object to this provision in 
conference. Is my understanding correct? 


Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. THUNE. I yield to the gentleman 
from Texas. 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Chairman, let me 
say to the gentleman from South Dakota 
that it is not normal procedure 
for us to announce a negotiating position 
on the floor of the House where 
there is a difference between a Senate 
provision and a House provision. Let 
me simply say that we will try to work 
this out equitably in the conference, 
that I have talked with the gentleman 
from South Dakota a number of times 
about this and I personally do not have 
any objection to his request, and I 
think it is appropriate and we will do 
the best that we can in the conference. 

Mr. THUNE. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. ARCHER), 
and would say that for States 
that do not have rail passenger service, 
each of these transportation needs are 
appropriate and important alternatives 
to rail passenger service. The amendment 
in my view represents sound, 
common sense policy that simply allows 
non-Amtrak States to make the 

best, most worthwhile use of the funds 
that are provided for transportation 
needs. 

Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman 
from Texas for his hard work and commitment 
to work with me to address 
the concerns of my State of South Dakota 
and the other States that are not 
served by Amtrak. He, our colleagues 
in the House, the taxpayers of this Nation 
should have every assurance that 
the funds provided to non-Amtrak 
States will address important transportation 
needs in each of those States. 

And I also add that I would like to 
thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER), the chairman of 
the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure, for his assistance. He 
expressed his support of this measure 
in the past, and as a result, both he and 
his staff on the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure have been 
extremely helpful in this effort to see 
that these funds are put to the best 
possible use. I would like to say as well 
that I thank the gentlewoman from 
Wyoming (Mrs. CUBIN) for her support 
and assistance, as well as support from 
the gentleman from Alaska (Mr. 
YOUNG) and the gentleman from Hawaii 
(Mr. ABERCROMBIE) and the gentlewoman 
from Hawaii (Mrs. MINK). 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. 
MCCRERY), a respected member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
colloquy. 

Mr. MCCRERY. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding this 
time to me. 

Mr. Chairman, as I review the tax 
portion of the bill that we are voting 
on today, I note that we are considering 
the elimination of the 4.3 cent per 
gallon deficit reduction tax on railroad 
fuel. As you know, Mr. Chairman, this 
tax was imposed on the railroad industry 
in a 1993 reconciliation act, and it 
was put as well on other modes of 
transportation, including the inland 
barge industry. 

As we head toward the conference on 
this bill, Mr. Chairman, I would appreciate 
it if the gentleman would work 
with me and others to explore the extension 
of this repeal to the barge industry, 
to make sure that we maintain 
a level playing field between competing 
modes of transportation. It is my understanding 
that the tax on inland 
barge traffic generates a rather modest 
contribution to the Treasury, and paying 
for it is not going to be extremely 
costly. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS) for 
a comment from another member of 
our committee and the former chairman 
of the Transportation Task Force 
of the Committee on Ways and Means. 

Mr. COLLINS. Mr. Chairman, I would 
like to offer comments in support of 
the gentleman from Louisiana. Last 
year members of the Transportation 
Task Force studied the waterway tax 
and trust fund structure with regard to 

equity. In light of the fact the current 
tax that applies to waterway uses has 
generated a surplus to the trust fund, 
and since the legislation before us 
today will eliminate the deficit reduction 
tax as it applies to the rail industry, 
I join in the request that we work 
toward an equitable elimination of the 
deficit reduction tax as it applies to 
the barge industry. 

Mr. MCCRERY. Mr. Chairman, 
thank the gentleman for his comments. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. ARCHER) chairman 
of the committee. 

Mr. ARCHER. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate 
the important role that the barge 
industry plays in the economies both of 
Louisiana and Texas and other States 
in this country, and I appreciate the 
comments from the chairman of the 
Transportation Task Force, our colleague 
from Georgia. Accordingly, I 
will be pleased to work with my colleagues, 
subject to budgetary constraints 
of course, to ensure that we 
maintain tax equity among the various 
modes of transportation, and I thank 
my colleague for bringing this up and 
asserting this point. 

Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent 
to yield the balance of my time to 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER), chairman of the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 

The CHAIRMAN pro tempore (Mr. 
UPTON). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO), a very vigorous 
advocate for transportation and a distinguished 
member of our committee. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Minnesota for the 
time. 

Mr. Chairman, I have heard a few 
Members come to the floor and seen 
some press accounts that there is too 
much in this bill. Now the question 
will be, too much? Is it that we are 
meeting and overfulfilling the transportation 
and infrastructure needs in 
the United States? No, not at all. In 
fact, this bill will still leave us with a 
$30 billion per year deficit in transportation, 
$16 billion for highways and $14 
billion for transit, 254,000 miles of pavement 
in poor condition, one out of 
three highway bridges structurally deficient 
or obsolete, one out of every 
two transit yard stations and bridges 
for mass transit in poor condition. 

In my own State we need an additional 
$244 million a year to meet our 
needs for preservation and maintenance 
and $351 million for capital improvements. 
It is not too much in 
terms of the needs of the country. 

Now is it too much in terms of what 
we have to pay for transportation? No. 
In fact this bill will not spend all the 
money which the American people are 
paying in taxes dedicated to transportation. 
Every time an American drives 
to the pump they pay 18.4 cents a gallon 
gas tax, and this bill, as good as it 


H1896 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

is, as robust as it is, will only spend 
about 14 to 15 cents of that tax, and the 
rest will go elsewhere in the Federal 
budget. It will go to deficit reduction, 
or it will go to pay for secret programs 
at the CIA, or over to the Pentagon or 
somewhere else, maybe for tax cuts for 
the wealthy. 

That is not why Americans pay a gas 
tax, and there should be no diversion of 
the gas tax money until every infrastructure 
need of this country is met 
and up to date. So it is not too much to 
ask that we fulfill the needs, and it is 
not too much to ask that we spend 
every penny of that dedicated regressive 
tax on the transportation needs of 
this country. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. POSHARD), a distinguished 
member of our committee. 

Mr. POSHARD. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman from Minnesota 
for yielding this time to me. 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to reference 
some parts of this bill that perhaps 
other Members have not spoken 
about. In addition to the core programs 
of ISTEA, BESTEA offers two other 
important programs that I think are 
extremely important. The high risk 
road safety construction program will 
give States incentives to address their 
worst safety problems, and the high 
cost interstate rehabilitation program 
will provide additional funds for major 
projects that are extremely important 
in cost in our interstate system. Moreover, 
BESTEA permits continued flexibility 
to allow for a productive relationship 
between all levels of government 
when it comes to transportation 
spending. 

Another important provision in this 
bill is language that would benefit 
rural areas by guaranteeing relief for 
Illinois farmers from Department of 
Transportation regulations concerning 
the local transport of agricultural materials, 
including pesticides, fertilizers 
and fuel. States have traditionally 
been allowed to set their own exceptions 
to Federal regulations for these 
farming necessities when involved in 
farm-to-farm, field-to-farm and retail-
to-farm activities. 

b1515 
However, Federal standards proposed 
in 1996 would force farmers to comply 
with costly and burdensome documentation 
rules meant for over-theroad 
trucks that regularly haul hazardous 
materials on a regular basis. 
The language in BESTEA allows 
States to retain the ability to regulate 
these matters on a regular basis. This 
will save farmers and retailers hundreds 
of thousands of dollars in compliance 
costs and save valuable time for 
our farm community. I greatly appreciate 
the efforts of my colleagues, the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. EWING), 
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
BARCIA), and the gentleman from Indiana 
(Mr. BUYER), who join me for fighting 
for inclusion of this language. 

I want to thank the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER) and 
the gentleman from Minnesota, the 
ranking member (Mr. OBERSTAR), for 
their tireless efforts on behalf of this 
legislation. I think the passage of 
BESTEA will benefit the entire Nation 
and ensure that the transportation 
needs of America are met, and I am 
proud to have been a part of this historic 
process. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Montana, (Mr. HILL). 

Mr. HILL. Mr. Chairman, I thank the 
gentleman for yielding me this time. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to applaud the 
chairman for his efforts with regard to 
this bill. I support the chairman’s efforts 
to take the Highway Trust Fund 
off budget and share his commitment 
to infrastructure. Unfortunately, I cannot 
support this bill and that is because 
it is not fair to Montana and 
Western States. 

Mr. Chairman, Montanans pay the 
highest gas taxes in the Nation, 27.5 
cents per gallon. In fact, on a per capita 
basis, they pay the highest State 
gas taxes, and are fourth in the Nation 
in how much they pay in Federal gas 
taxes. We have 31,950 lane miles of 
roads in Montana. That is 1.5 percent 
of the Nation’s roads, and we are trying 
to pay for it with three-tenths of 1 percent 
of the population. 

This bill is unfair to Montana because 
it reduces the funding formula 
for Montana by about 26 percent while 
increasing the formula for the funding 
in most States by factors of 40 to 50 
percent. In addition, it reduces the 
funding for places like Montana that 
have high portions of Federal lands by 
changing that formula, and, even 
worse, the congestion mitigation air 
quality changes also hurt Montana. 

I would urge the chairman to join 
with the Senate in adopting the Senate 
versions of the bill. Enough is enough. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I would like to respond 
to my good friend from Montana 
and point out that Montana gets back 
$1.35 for every dollar it sends into the 
trust fund from this bill, and, indeed, 
there are only four States out of the 50 
States which get a better return. I do 
not begrudge that money to Montana. 

I understand it is a rural State, has a 
low population, but I think Montana 
does extremely well, and I think everybody 
should understand that. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Pennsylvania, (Mr. 
MASCARA), the gentleman from the 
Mon Valley. 

Mr. MASCARA. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the ranking member from Minnesota 
for yielding me time. 

Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (BUD 
SHUSTER), our committee chairman; 
the gentleman from Minnesota (JIM 
OBERSTAR), the ranking member, as 
well as our leaders from the Sub


committee on Surface Transportation, 
the gentleman from California (TOM 
PETRI) and the gentleman from West 
Virginia (NICK RAHALL), for their 
strong leadership in bringing this legislation 
to the floor. 

Without their firm bipartisan resolve, 
none of this would have been 
possible. As a former local official 
deeply committed to economic development 
projects, I truly appreciate the 
significance of this transportation bill. 

America’s economy depends heavily 
on the interstate highway system. For 
example, nearly $6 trillion worth of 
goods are transported over our Nation’s 
highways, yet we are allowing 
our roads to deteriorate. Over the past 
25 years, road use has grown more than 
15 times the highway capacity. 

This has left many of our roads and 
bridges in need of serious repair. In 
fact, the Department of Transportation 
has determined that 12,000 accidents 
occur each year as a result of poor 
highway conditions. Thirty percent end 
up in fatalities. 

Furthermore, 59 percent of all roads 
and 31 percent of all bridges in America 
are in need of repair, or are structurally 
deficient. We must begin investing 
now to improve the quality and 
safety of our roads. BESTEA will allow 
us to make these improvements, providing 
funding for highway projects 
across America, such as the Mon-Fayette 
Expressway in my district, but we 
must begin now. We cannot delay completion 
of this bill, because many 
States have already begun their road 
building projects. If we do not finish 
our job here, States could lose an entire 
construction season. 

I urge all Members to join me in support 
of this bill to fix our Nation’s 
interstates, to improve highway safety, 
to promote economic development in 
our communities, and, as all of you 
have said, to build America. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman 
from Florida, Mrs. FOWLER. 

Mrs. FOWLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in strong support of H.R. 2400. 
This bill has been falsely accused of 
many things, but perhaps the most 
egregious falsehood is that this bill signals 
an end to the Republican revolution. 
Nothing could be further from the 
truth. 

When Republicans took control of 
Congress, we promised to change the 
way we do business. We made a Contract 
with America and followed 
through on it. BESTEA fulfills another 
contract by ending the practice of misusing 
gas tax revenues. 

For every gallon of gas we put in our 
tanks, we pay 18.3 cents to the Federal 
Government. Frankly, that is a pretty 
high rate of taxation. But we pay the 
tax because the revenues are supposed 
to be used so we do not have to sit in 
traffic, incur the wrath of crumbling 
roads, damage our cars or lose a friend 
to unsafe highways. 

The tax is a contract between American 
motorists and the Federal Government, 
but for many years now Congress 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1897 

has simply failed to live up to our part 
of the contract. 

BESTEA fulfills our deal with the 
American taxpayer. It spends the gas 
tax revenue on roads and takes the 
Highway Trust Fund off budget, ending 
the practice of spending the revenues 
on nonhighway-related needs. 

This bill also restores faith to taxpayers 
in States like Florida who have 
been forced to fund the infrastructure 
priorities of other States, receiving 
only 77 cents on every dollar citizens in 
Florida pay. Under BESTEA, States 
will get at least 90 cents of every dollar 
allocated by formula, a tremendous improvement. 


I want to thank the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER), 
who has fought for these gains and listened 
to the concerns of States like 
Florida. Today we have a chance to 
vote for honest budgeting, funding equity, 
economic growth and safer highways. 
I encourage my colleagues to do 
the same. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from California (Mr. FILNER). 


(Mr. FILNER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
OBERSTAR) and the gentleman from 
West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL) for their 
leadership, and the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER) for 
his courage and steadfastness throughout 
this struggle, which has been an inspiration 
to all of us on both sides of 
the aisle. 

We thank the gentleman and his 
staff, and the staff of the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR). They 
have had to deal with a lot of issues, 
and they worked hard for a long period 
of time. We thank them profusely. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise on behalf of the 
people of California’s 50th Congressional 
District in strong support of 
BESTEA, because BESTEA is best for 
jobs. My constituents have many interests, 
but their most important ones 
can be summarized in three words: 
Jobs, jobs, jobs. Jobs, so they can support 
themselves and their families; 
jobs, so they can raise and educate 
their kids; jobs, so they can contribute 
to our community; jobs, so they can 
enjoy their recreation; and jobs, so 
they can provide for their retirement. 

This legislation addresses these concerns 
in an equitable manner, renews 
important transportation programs 
and creates these much-needed jobs. 

Contrary to all the hype and 
hysteria, this bill is not a budget buster. 
It restores the truth in the budgeting 
process by accessing the Nation’s 
Transportation Trust Funds. 

As everyone has said before me, this 
bill will restore the trust the American 
people place in their trust funds. This 
is an investment in our infrastructure. 
It is desperately needed. We have created 
the strongest economy in the 

world through our transportation infrastructure, 
and this continues that 
policy and guarantees our future. It 
provides us with the opportunity to 
again demonstrate that we have an investment 
policy on a national scale. 
We must take this opportunity now. 

Mr. Chairman, I will vote for my constituents’ 
interests and vote for 
BESTEA. I encourage my colleagues to 
do likewise. Remember, it is about 
jobs, jobs, jobs. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Missouri (Mrs. EMERSON). 


Mrs. EMERSON. Mr. Chairman, I 
want to thank the gentleman for the 
terrific job he has done on this bill. It 
is not about pork, it is not about politics, 
but it is about saving lives. Since 
I come from a rural area that does not 
have a four-lane highway all the way 
across it, I am particularly pleased 
that we will be able to make significant 
improvements in our infrastructure. 


I am also very pleased that the bill 
includes a significant increase in funding 
for the Highway Bridge Program 
and does promote the innovative seismic 
retrofit technologies such as carbon 
fiber composites for bridges located 
in regions like mine, which lie 
along the New Madrid Fault, and which 
potentially faces catastrophic infrastructure 
damage due to earthquakes. 

I am also pleased that this bill includes 
a provision that expresses the 
sense of Congress that offsets to the 
spending in the bill should not be derived 
through any change in Veterans 
Administration programs or benefits. 
Just as this bill reaffirms our commitment 
to the American public to use 
their gas tax dollars to ensure safe 
highways, roads and bridges, we also 
must reaffirm our commitment to our 
Nation’s veterans. 

Now, while I believe this bill is a tremendous 
step forward, I do want to say 
I am extremely dismayed that the ethanol 
tax incentive is not extended in 
the bill, Mr. Chairman. This incentive 
is a vital boost to farm income, decreases 
our dependence on foreign oil, 
provides consumers with a cleaner 
burning fuel and creates good jobs. 

Ethanol is a proven industry that 
benefits our local farmers in southeast 
Missouri and others around the country. 
It provides clear advantages to the 
broader American public, and the tax 
incentives should be extended. I strongly 
urge that during the conference negotiations 
on H.R. 2400, the House 
adopt the Senate language which authorizes 
the ethanol tax incentive 
through the year 2007. 

With that said, I fully support this 
legislation, and commend the chairman 
for the terrific job he has done. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. 
BLUMENAUER), the distinguished voice 
of the great outdoors and of livable cities. 


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the ranking member for yielding 
me time. 

Mr. Chairman, there has been much 
talk about America’s future and fiscal 
stability in the course of this debate. I 
rise to support H.R. 2400 because it 
gives the tools for America’s communities 
to control their own destinies. 

You have heard and will hear more 
from the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Chairman SHUSTER), and the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
and others about how this bill is 
good for the safety of the American 
public, how it provides important resources 
to improve vital transit programs. 
It is good for the environment, 
for rail passengers and freight. It is 
good for bicyclists. It is good for the 
motoring public, because it promotes 
the free flow of a balanced transportation 
system and, for those people 
who do drive their cars, makes it safer 
for them, more convenient, less congested. 


But I want to focus, if I could, on 
what difference this bill makes by 
making America’s citizens and their 
local governments full partners in our 
transportation system, because 
BESTEA gives the tools for livable 
communities to stop sprawl and revitalize 
existing communities. 

Every year we spend billions of dollars 
dealing with the symptoms of dysfunctional 
communities. The Congress 
spends money on economic development, 
on crime, on education that is 
largely attempting to deal with what 
has happened after communities go 
over the brink. 

What is critical about BESTEA and 
the resources that are directed is that 
it gives communities unprecedented 
abilities to manage those resources in 
conjunction with State and local communities 
to strengthen them before 
they deteriorate. 

I posit, Mr. Chairman, that any careful 
analysis of the economic benefit 
that we will derive as a Nation revitalizing 
these central cities, preventing 
the deterioration of the first ring of 
suburbs and so on throughout the metropolitan 
areas, conservatively it is 
going to return far more money than 
any modest increase. 

b1530 
When we couple that with the economic 
benefits from cleaner air, less 
congestion, and a wide range of important 
economic infrastructure investments 
for the next century, I think any 
short-term increase in funding is going 
to be dwarfed. BESTEA is good for the 
fiscal health of America. It is good for 
the health of American communities. 
I, too, add my thanks to the bipartisan 
leadership of this committee that 
has given this Congress the most important 
environmental legislation we 
are going to see for the remainder of 
this century and on into the next millennium. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Virginia 


H1898 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(Mr. DAVIS), a valued member of our 
committee. 

(Mr. DAVIS of Virginia asked and 
was given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. DAVIS of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, 
I would like to point out some of 
the provisions in section 140 of the bill 
entitled ‘‘Quality through competition.’’ 


As I understand the provisions, it reflects 
the following important points: 

First, it is going to provide for substantial 
savings to States by providing 
for a single, consistent rule for the administration 
and accounting of costs 
for engineering and design contracts 
that are funded with Federal-aid highway 
funds. 

Second, it acknowledges and permits 
the use of the expedited process in the 
existing FAR, which is applicable to 
qualifications-based selection procedures 
for architect, engineering, and 
related services of smaller projects 
which fall below the threshold of 
$100,000. 

Third, by using the term ‘‘simplified 
acquisition procedures,’’ it does not 
change or authorize the avoidance of 
the contract administration and audit 
requirements specified in the section. 

Fourth, this section provides no authority 
for a contracting authority to 
waive the requirements of the contract 
administration or single audit provisions 
provided in this section. 

Mr. Chairman, I would ask the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania, is my understanding 
correct? 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, will 
the gentleman yield? 

Mr. DAVIS of Virginia. I yield to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, the 
gentleman is absolutely correct in his 
observation of the effects of section 140 
of the bill. 

Mr. DAVIS of Virginia. Just to continue, 
Mr. Chairman, in support of this 
bill, the Trust Fund dollars are like 
user fees people pay at the gas pumps 
to come back and improve our Nation’s 
transportation system. This bill, instead 
of spending Highway Trust Fund 
dollars collected at the gas pumps on 
defense or health care, deficit reduction, 
or some other worthy endeavor, 
simply spends the Trust Fund user fees 
for their intended use. 

In local government, when I was in 
Fairfax County, if we had raided a 
trust fund and used it to spend the dollars 
for water or sewer or another use, 
we would have gone to jail; but at the 
Federal level it is perfectly legal to do 
that. But this starts to straighten that 
and bring some fiscal accountability to 
the Trust Fund dollars for our taxpayers. 


Secondly, there have been some comments 
about demonstration projects or 
earmarking. In my region, Northern 
Virginia, over the last 25 years we have 
been consistently shortchanged from 
the State government. Money that 
goes through Richmond does not come 
back to Northern Virginia in any way, 

shape or form to our proportion of 
highway use, population, vehicle miles 
or anything else. Yet we have the 
greatest need for transportation dollars. 
We have historically been shortchanged 
by the State. 

This legislation contains over $10 
million for the completion of the Fairfax 
County Parkway through Reston, 
$25 million for road widening of Route 
123, $10 million for the Virginia Railway 
Express, a transit alternative 
down the 95 corridor. 

These projects are not my projects, 
they are not political projects, they 
were requested and coordinated with 
the local governments in that region, 
who knew that if they had to wait for 
Richmond to deliver, they may be 
waiting a decade. We are putting them 
out on top. 

I applaud the Chairman and the 
Ranking Member, the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. JIM OBERSTAR), for addressing 
these needs for our region, 
which has had traffic jams and is probably 
the traffic jam capital of the 
country. This legislation will go a long 
way to alleviate that. 

I strongly support this measure and 
ask my colleagues to support it. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. EDDIE 
BERNICE JOHNSON). 

Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas. Mr. Chairman, I am delighted to 
stand in favor of BESTEA today. I owe 
a lot of gratitude to our leaders on this 
committee, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER) and the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
and the rest. 

This bill provides resources to meet 
America’s infrastructure needs, not 
frivolous, but needs that have been expressed 
by persons throughout this Nation, 
and not just by Members here, 
but all the people that we represent. 

This bill provides an unprecedented 
commitment to improve safety on 
America’s highways and to help reduce 
the 40,000 annual deaths from motor vehicles. 
It improves the safety for commercial 
motor vehicles. The Motor 
Carrier Safety Assistance Program has 
been refined to focus on performance-
based goals, and funding for this program 
has been significantly increased. 
That is important. It strengthens and 
emphasizes our Federal commitment 
to the national systems of transportation 
that facilitate interstate travel. 

Being from Texas, a border State, it 
creates a new border infrastructure 
program to ensure that needs from 
NAFTA-related trade and safety issues 
are addressed. These are very important 
components for the State of Texas 
and for our Nation. 

It significantly increases funding for 
the Congestion Mitigation and Air 
Quality Program, while making some 
minor adjustments to the program’s 
eligibility. All of these areas help the 
entire Nation, but especially does it 
help Texas, a very large State with lots 
of people with lots of cars that they 

hate to give up. There are elements of 
this bill that will address that area. 

Not only is it a big State, it is one of 
the fastest-growing States. We have so 
many people on the highways every 
day and on our streets and roads getting 
to work. It is this bill that addresses 
those issues and helps to solve 
our problem. It is our responsibility as 
legislators to make sure that our 
transportation system is as safe and 
accessible as possible. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
DELAY), the Majority Whip. 

Mr. DELAY. Mr. Chairman, I am very 
pleased to finally get this bill to the 
floor. I rise in support of this bill. If 
the Nation’s infrastructure is its circulatory 
system, then BESTEA keeps 
our Nation very healthy. 

I commend the Chairman and the 
Ranking Member for their yeoman efforts 
in putting this bill together; and, 
in particular, I would like to thank the 
Chairman for addressing the concerns 
of our Nation’s donor States, whose 
taxpayers for years have been shortchanged 
when it comes to meeting 
their transportation needs. 

For nearly 2 years, I have lamented 
the lack of fairness and logic when it 
comes to how transportation dollars 
are allocated. Based on such outdated 
factors as the 1980 census, States like 
Texas have been receiving an average 
return of 76 cents on the dollar. As a 
result, only one out of every three 
projects of critical need has been able 
to be met in my own State of Texas. So 
I introduced the bill called Step 21 to 
streamline the transportation program 
and bring equity to funding formulas. 

While I did not get as much as I 
wanted in this bill in the way of 
streamlining, I am very pleased to note 
that BESTEA incorporates many of 
our formula recommendations. The 
most important element is that 
BESTEA guarantees States the 95 percent 
minimal allocation on all formula 
programs and highway projects, which 
works out to about a 90 percent minimum 
return. 

I am also extremely pleased with the 
creation of a national corridor program 
in this bill. This means we are finally 
on the road to completing I–69, a multi-
State trade corridor of national and 
international significance, extending 
from Michigan’s border with Canada all 
the way through Texas, where it connects 
to the Mexican highway system. 
I–69 corridor States are vital to international 
trade, as they carry 52 percent 
of the U.S. truck-borne trade with 
Mexico and 33 percent of U.S. truck-
borne trade with Canada. 

Another issue I am deeply involved in 
is in the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
Program, which has been at 
the center of a lawsuit affecting the 
transit agency in my district, Houston 
Metro. Metro was prohibited from implementing 
its DBE program by Federal 
court order, and for some 18 
months FTA cut off Federal funds that 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1899 

it had pledged to Metro as part of a full 
funding grant agreement. Metro was 
caught between two branches of the 
Federal Government. I am very pleased 
that this committee has recognized 
this problem and taken care of it. 

In conclusion, I just urge the committee 
to maintain these provisions in 
conference. I know it is tough being in 
conference with the Senate, but, in 
particular, it is vital that the conference 
report include a guaranteed 
rate of return that is no less than those 
included in this House bill. Donor 
States will not stand for another 6 
years of funding inequity. 

I once again congratulate the Chairman 
and the Ranking Member, and 
say, just quickly, a job well done. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself 10 seconds. 

I would say to the distinguished Majority 
Whip that I can assure him that 
we will stand, on a bipartisan basis, in 
support of the principles that we have 
crafted so vigorously and, as the gentleman 
pointed out, so astutely in this 
legislation. We appreciate his support. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to 
the distinguished gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. BARCIA). 

Mr. BARCIA. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. 

It is a pleasure to offer a few remarks 
in support of this tremendous transportation 
bill, and I want to compliment 
all of our distinguished members in the 
Chamber who worked on drafting what 
I believe is to be a very equitable and 
reasonable bill regarding transportation 
spending at the Federal level for 
the next 6 years. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support 
of H.R. 2400 and urge my colleagues to 
make a strong showing in support of 
this landmark legislation. This bill 
means a lot to the citizens of my Fifth 
District of Michigan, to our State, and 
to the Nation as a whole. 

I want to thank the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER) and 
the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. 
PETRI) and the ranking minority members, 
the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) and the gentleman 
from West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL), for 
their leadership on this critical issue. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to focus on two 
aspects of the legislation which have 
drawn unwarranted criticism. First, 
the budgetary effects of the bill have 
been completely misrepresented. 

Some claim to be outraged at the 
levels of spending in this bill. I would 
suggest, Mr. Chairman, that the American 
people should be outraged that 
this bill represents an increase at all. 
Our government has for far too long ignored 
the future health of our economy 
by disinvesting in our infrastructure. 

The safe and efficient movement of 
goods and people makes this country 
great and our economy strong. But 
over the past 2 decades, we have fallen 
far behind our global competitors in 
our commitment to our transportation 
system. 

This bill is about tax fairness. To my 
Democratic colleagues, I say, they are 
concerned about tax cuts which benefit 
the wealthy members of our society. 
This bill is a tax return to our Nation’s 
working families. Those who use our 
transportation system pay for our 
transportation system, but it is not 
fair to withhold those taxes to mask 
spending in other areas. 

The Congress has not followed 
through on its promise to use those 
taxes exclusively for transportation. 
Instead, the money in the Trust Fund 
has been allowed to grow while our 
citizens’ repair bills rise. That is inexcusable. 
This bill will reverse that 
practice. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 11/2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Florida 
(Mr. WELDON). 

Mr. WELDON of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the Chairman for yielding 
time to me, and I commend him and 
the Ranking Member on this legislation 
and, in particular, for including 
funds for the widening of U.S. Highway 
192. 

Mr. Chairman, U.S. Highway 192 is a 
dangerous two-lane road that connects 
the south Orlando-Kissimmee-St. Cloud 
area with the coastal communities of 
Palm Bay and Melbourne, communities 
of about 250,000 combined. 

I became interested in the widening 
of this road when a physician colleague 
of mine lost his wife on this road when 
a truck crossed the midline and she 
was killed. Ever since then, my wife 
will not allow me to drive on this road 
with her at any time. 

Just last week, a truck crossed the 
midline. The driver was killed, closing 
the road, a major highway connecting 
two major areas in Florida, closing the 
road for a week because of herbicide 
that was spilled all over the road. 

Widening U.S. 192 is not pork. Widening 
U.S. 192 will save lives. Closing a 
road for a week because of a midline 
crossing accident involving a truck 
hurts our economies. It will save lives. 
It will be good for our communities. It 
will be good for the economy. 

I challenge those who would call this 
pork to come to my district and talk to 
the people who have to travel on this 
road, a road that should have been widened 
10 years ago. 

Again, I thank both the Chairman 
and the Ranking Member. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentlewoman from Los Angeles, 
California (Ms. MILLENDERMCDONALD), 
the voice of Southern California. 


Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding me the time. 

Mr. Chairman, over the last 2 years I 
have heard a lot of talk about building 
bridges to the 21st century. Let us talk 
about building roads and bridges for 
America’s future, real roads and real 
bridges that are traveled on by real 
Americans. BESTEA builds those roads 

and builds those bridges and provides 
the infrastructure that will allow our 
Nation to move into the 21st century. 

I come from the most populous State 
in the Nation, the great State of California, 
with 32 million people, 25 million 
registered vehicles, and moves 30 
percent of our Nation’s freight traffic 
on our highways. Clearly, we have the 
most traveled roads and bridges of any 
State represented in this House and 
contribute more in gas taxes to the 
Highway Trust Fund. 

As one of the cochairs of the California 
ISTEA Task Force, I, along its 
founder, my friend, the gentleman from 
California (Mr. JAY KIM), held a number 
of hearings throughout our great 
State. In those hearings our State and 
local elected officials, municipal planning 
organizations and citizens at large 
told us one thing: Pass BESTEA. It is 
a good bill for California, and we all 
know that what is good for California 
is good for the Nation. 

Transportation provides substantial 
economic benefit to our country. According 
to the study by the Department 
of Transportation, 42,000 jobs are 
created for every $1 billion we invest in 
highways, transit, and bridges. 

b1545 
How can we expect to compete in today’s 
global economy without a world 
class highway and transit system? 
I would like to congratulate both my 
chairman and my ranking member on 
doing a yeoman’s job on bringing this 
bipartisan bill to the floor. I will urge 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
dismiss the empty rhetoric about demonstration 
projects and focus on our 
Nation’s infrastructure needs to compete 
in this global economy. Let us 
move America. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. EHLERS). 
(Mr. EHLERS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. EHLERS. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Chairman SHUSTER) for yielding me 
this time. 
Mr. Chairman, I wish to speak about 
honesty and integrity, and this bill is a 
bill of integrity. I have been concerned, 
unhappy, and upset for almost 30 years 
now, since transportation funding was 
placed on budget, surpluses were allowed 
to accumulate, and the money 
was used to shield the size of the national 
deficit from the American taxpayers. 
That is wrong, and I am pleased 
that this bill ends that practice. 
Mr. Chairman, the money that the 
public pays for gas taxes, under this 
bill will be used for the purpose for 
which it was intended, and that is 
transportation funding. No longer will 
it be used to disguise the size of the 
deficit. 
Some people have called this bill a 
budget buster. If it were a budget buster, 
then we should reduce the tax. 
But, Mr. Chairman, there is a good 
reason it is not a budget buster. Section 
1001 makes it very clear that if the 


H1900 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

expenditures in this bill exceed the 
budget guidelines, spending will have 
to be cut back or offsets will have to be 
found, and we will take care of that 
through the budget process. 

One other important issue of equity. 
I come from a donor State. That is a 
polite way of saying that Michigan has 
contributed more to road funding in 
this country than it has received back. 
In fact, under ISTEA, 76 cents of every 
dollar we sent to Washington came 
back to Michigan. Under this bill we 
will be treated much better. This bill 
achieves equity in funding, equity in 
taxation, and is an honest bill that 
serves the people well. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues 
to vote for the bill. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from West Virginia (Mr. 
WISE), the ranking member of our Subcommittee 
on Railroads and a strong 
advocate for transportation. 

Mr. WISE. Mr. Chairman, I want to 
thank very much, and I think the 
country owes a vote of thanks, to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Chairman 
SHUSTER) for his tireless efforts to 
bring this bill to the floor, as well as to 
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
OBERSTAR), the ranking member, for 
all he has done and for the bipartisan 
effort, Republicans and Democrats 
working together. This is going to be 
the major economic growth package 
that passes this Congress this year. 
And, indeed, it is going to be one of the 
most significant growth packages to 
pass the Congress in many a year. 

It does not do all that it could or 
should, but it sure does a lot and begins 
to redress an imbalance that has 
been there for many years: the fact 
that we are not investing significantly 
and not investing enough in our infrastructure. 


Mr. Chairman, some have called this, 
yes, a budget buster, and so I look at 
the $4 billion to $5 billion to maybe $6 
billion over what was projected initially 
per year that this could cost. I 
estimate that that is roughly .003 of 
the total Federal budget in a year, and 
my guess is that we are going to be 
able to find that money some place 
pretty quickly, particularly because 
this bill brings about the economic 
growth that we need to make sure that 
the economy keeps growing. 

There is an imbalance that needs to 
be corrected. Fifty-nine percent of the 
roads in this country need work of 
some significant amount. Thirty-one 
percent nationally of all bridges, 47 
percent in my State, are in some way 
structurally deficient or functionally 
obsolete. Think about that: One out of 
three bridges that we cross is functionally 
obsolete or structurally deficient. 
This bill begins to address that. 

Mr. Chairman, it begins to finally invest 
in our infrastructure. I do not 
mind standing in line behind orange 
barrels in rush hour if the orange barrel 
is about construction. I hate it 
when they are just about ordinary 

maintenance and nothing is being improved 
to speed commerce and the flow 
of traffic. 

Mr. Chairman, this is the kind of bill 
that we all want to be supporting. This 
is a bill that grows America. This is a 
bill that leads to a lot of other things 
that we want our country to be. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Indiana (Mr. PEASE). 

Mr. PEASE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act. America’s roads, bridges and 
related infrastructure are in critical 
need of repair. Heightened congestion 
and the deterioration of many of our 
major highways, bridges and roads can 
and must be repaired. 

Many hours have been spent by many 
people on this bill. I commend the efforts 
of the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Chairman SHUSTER), the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. PETRI), the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
the gentleman from West Virginia 
(Mr. RAHALL), the Indiana delegation, 
the Governor of Indiana, and others 
both in the public and private sectors 
throughout my congressional district, 
the Seventh of Indiana, for their 
part in making this bill a reality. 
Through their hard work, H.R. 2400 is a 
fairer bill for Indiana and other donor 
States. 

When Congress started the Highway 
Trust Fund, a gas tax was instituted 
and a promise was made to Hoosiers 
and all Americans that the dollars in 
this trust fund would be used for transportation 
improvements. I believe this 
promise must be kept. 

I also believe it would be wrong for 
me to return to Indiana for the district 
work period without doing everything 
in my power do ensure that this bill is 
fairly considered and adopted. Thousands 
of jobs in Indiana and across 
America are at stake. 

Mr. Chairman, with this bill we take 
a giant step toward that objective and 
toward fairness in the distribution of 
taxpayer dollars. I urge my colleagues 
to support this tremendously important 
legislation. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. SANDLIN), a 
very valuable member of our committee. 


(Mr. SANDLIN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SANDLIN. Mr. Chairman, first 
let me say ‘‘thank you’’ to the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
the ranking member, and to the 
leadership on both sides of the aisle. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support 
of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act. This bill is the single most important 
piece of legislation that this Congress 
has considered this year. 

For too long the infrastructure has 
taken a back seat in this country while 
the hard-earned dollars of our constitu


ents have been used and paid into the 
trust fund for the highways and we 
have used it to mask the size of the 
deficit. With BESTEA we can say no 
more. No more. 

Mr. Chairman, our constituents pay 
the gas tax with the expectation that 
the money they pay will be spent to 
improve and enhance the roads on 
which they drive. BESTEA meets their 
expectation. For the first time in 29 
years, the Highway Trust Fund will be 
moved off budget. This important provision 
ensures these funds are used for 
their original purpose, to repair and rebuild 
our Nation’s roads and highways. 

Our transportation system is in dire 
need of improvement and new construction 
to meet the needs of the traveling 
public and business in the future. 
Today more than ever we must begin 
the modernization of our roads and 
bridges if we are to be able to handle 
our increasing traffic. 

Today, some will argue that BESTEA 
busts the budget. This argument is 
clearly a weak attempt to make political 
points, and it is an argument that 
is easily dismantled. All the new spending 
in BESTEA is more than paid for 
by gas taxes. In fact, over the next 6 
years the Highway Trust Fund will collect 
about $2 billion more in taxes than 
it will pay under BESTEA. 

While I share the belief that the 
House should have completed its budget 
negotiations prior to consideration 
of the bill, I do not believe that local 
communities should be punished for 
this body’s inaction. Passing this bill 
now so our States can continue to receive 
transportation funds is the right 
thing to do. 

Mr. Chairman, I am especially 
pleased that BESTEA has improved 
upon our current illogical funding formulas. 
Under the current formula, 
Texas receives approximately 77 cents 
for each dollar that we contribute to 
the Highway Trust Fund. Thanks to 
the efforts of the leadership on both 
sides of the aisle in this committee, 
BESTEA includes important language 
to guarantee that Texas and other 
donor States receive at least 90 cents. 

Finally, for those who would argue 
that this bill is ‘‘pork,’’ I would say 
that any bill that creates tens of thousands 
of new jobs and increases investments 
in the economy is not pork in 
my book. Indeed, according to a 1993 
CRS report, for every dollar spent 
building new highways, the economy is 
estimated to rise by about $2.43. For 
every $1 billion of new highway construction 
spending, employment is estimated 
to rise by 24,300 workers. 

Mr. Chairman, we have put off the 
needs of our Nation’s infrastructure 
long enough. This is good for our constituents 
and good for the economy. I 
urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this important legislation. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. UPTON), my good friend. 

Mr. UPTON. Mr. Chairman, a couple 
of weeks ago Lake Champlain was 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1901 

added as a sixth Great Lake over in the 
Senate, and it was added primarily to 
take money away from the Sea Grant 
College Fund. There are many of us 
here that thought it was highway robbery 
and are delighted that the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), 
the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. SOLOMON), as well as 
Mr. ABRAHAM and Mr. LEAHY in the 
Senate, agreed to language that removed 
it from the Great Lakes status. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to commend 
our two Michigan Members for their 
work on this highway bill, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. BARCIA) 
and the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
EHLERS). For many years we have been 
a donor State, and as one that believes 
in trust funds, we ought to use the 
money in the trust funds for the purposes 
that they were intended for, 
whether it is the Coast Guard or the 
Airport Trust Fund and certainly the 
Highway Trust Fund. 

I have said from the beginning that 
the money that we pay needs to be 
used as it was intended instead of financing 
other parts of the government. 
Either spend the money on our roads or 
give it back to us in reducing our gas 
tax. This bill ensures that our gas tax 
dollars go from the pump to the pavement. 
This is a good bill. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL), a vigorous 
advocate for transportation and a valuable 
member of our committee. 

Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chairman, there 
is one overriding fact in here that I 
would like to stress, if I may, to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER) and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), the ranking 
member, who have done such a marvelous 
job. This bill, this legislation 
would spend $18 billion less than the 
Federal Government will collect in 
highway user taxes, not including the 
interest, over the next 3 years. Over 
the next 6-year life of the legislation 
we are about to vote on, it will spend 
$12 billion less than highway tax receipts. 


The facts are clear, Mr. Chairman, 
that there is within our domain the facility 
to pay for what we are voting on 
here today. New Jersey is a perfect example 
of a State that will be helped. It 
ranks fiftieth of all the States in the 
Union in terms of return on our tax 
dollar, the very basis of Federalism 
upon which the Constitution was written. 


This legislation is going to help us 
correct the major deficiencies we have 
in 44 percent of our bridges. Who will 
we turn to when another bridge is shut 
down in New Jersey? In just a short 6 
years, there have been 230,000 new jobs 
in New Jersey as a result of the original 
transportation legislation, which 
my predecessor, Bob Roe, of good memory, 
was able to bring to this floor 
many, many times. We need a little 
history here once in a while to keep us 
on track. 

So, Mr. Chairman, we thank you for 
allowing us the time here today. This 
is critical legislation. Let us get on 
with it and get it passed to help America. 


Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Nebraska 
(Mr. BEREUTER), my good 
friend. 

(Mr. BEREUTER asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. BEREUTER. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in strong support of H.R. 2400. I 
commend the distinguished gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER) 
and the distinguished gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), as 
well as the distinguished chairman 
(Mr. PETRI) and the distinguished ranking 
member (Mr. RAHALL) of the Subcommittee 
on Surface Transportation, 
for their extraordinary work. 

Mr. Chairman, I think this legislation 
lives up to its name. It will improve 
the lives of all Americans by 
helping to create a more efficient and 
safer highway system. I am pleased we 
are restoring integrity to the trust 
fund. 

Finally, we are returning to the principles 
that were established by President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower for the 
Highway Trust Fund. When Americans 
pay their Federal gasoline tax at the 
gas pump, they have every right to expect 
that their money actually will be 
used for transportation and not diverted 
to other purposes. Those funds 
do not belong to OMB or the House 
Budget Committee. They belong to the 
American people who pay those gasoline 
taxes to be used for transportation, 
primarily highway construction 
and maintenance. 

Mr. Chairman, this bill ensures that 
the taxes paid at the gas pump will go 
toward constructing and improving our 
Nation’s highways. Our infrastructure 
is in desperate need of additional resources. 
The gentleman from West Virginia 
a few minutes ago told us of the 
situation with the country’s obsolete 
bridges, functionally and structurally 
deficient. This bill addresses these and 
other crying needs in our infrastructure. 
I urge my colleagues to support 
this outstanding and, I would say, very 
responsible legislation. 

b1600 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON), 
representative of Green Bay. 
Mr. JOHNSON of Wisconsin. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding me the time. I rise today in 
strong support of this bipartisan historic 
investment, and I repeat the word 
‘‘investment,’’ in our Nation’s infrastructure 
and transportation. I also 
join many others today who salute not 
only the chairman, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) and the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
ranking member, for their leadership, 
but also the subcommittee 

chairman, the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI) and the ranking member, 
the gentleman from West Virginia 
(Mr. RAHALL), for great leadership on 
this bill. 

For too many years when the people 
of northeast Wisconsin fueled their 
cars, they watched the numbers on the 
pumps turn and they watched their fair 
share of the gas taxes we all pay at the 
pump to travel to Washington only to 
be rerouted to another State. Our 
State saw only 87 cents in transportation 
funding for every dollar paid at 
the pump. Now, with the passage of 
BESTEA, this approach, Wisconsin will 
know fairness and equity. 

This transportation bill guarantees 
Wisconsin at least 95 cents on the dollar, 
and we may even see much more 
than that. In total, Wisconsin hopes to 
see a 60 percent increase in Federal 
transportation dollars. More importantly, 
the next time the people of 
northeast Wisconsin are at the gas 
pumps, they will know they are investing 
in Wisconsin’s future and the safety 
of our highways. 

I am pleased to see this priority on 
safety. Safe roads save lives. Under 
this bill, northeast Wisconsin will see 
$40 million to improve Highway 41, 
bloody Highway 29 and Highway 10. It 
is an investment that we can be proud 
of, and I join in the praise of the chairman 
and the members of this committee 
that have brought this to the floor 
today. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the distinguished gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. GRANGER). 

Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in strong support of H.R. 2400. By 
funding important transportation 
projects, H.R. 2400 paves the way to 
economic growth. This bill is the right 
way to move our Nation forward by 
providing safer roads for our citizens. 
It puts trust back into the Highway 
Trust Fund. It helps restore fairness 
and equity to donor States like my 
own State of Texas, whose citizens pay 
more in gasoline taxes to Washington 
than they get back. 

It is forward-thinking legislation 
that addresses our Nation’s evolving 
transportation and roadway safety 
needs as we advance in the 21st Century. 
Mr. Chairman, transportation is 
more than just planes, trains and automobiles. 
It is also about people, 
progress and public safety. Transportation 
is the only item that physically 
links our Nation together, and the 
American public has accepted Federal 
user taxes to pay the cost of keeping 
our Nation’s highways and bridges 
sound. 

As a strong proponent of a balanced 
budget, I believe it is dishonest to tax 
the American public for the express 
purpose of improving our Nation’s 
highways only to have the Federal 
Government redirect some of the taxes 
in the Highway Trust Fund to pay for 
other spending. H.R. 2400 provides fairness 
by introducing much greater funding 
equity to donor States and to the 


H1902 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Federal highway funding formula. Like 
under current law, my home State of 
Texas receives only 76 cents back for 
every dollar in Federal fuel taxes that 
are sent to Washington. This bill will 
give 90 cents back for every dollar 
funded. I support H.R. 2400. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. LAMPSON), 
a valuable member of this committee. 

Mr. LAMPSON. Mr. Chairman, as the 
only Houston area member of the 
House Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, I am pleased to 
have played a role in moving the 
BESTEA out of committee and to this 
floor. I applaud the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI) and the gentleman from 
West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL) for the fine 
work that the big four produced. 

BESTEA sets funding formulas to determine 
percentages for States to receive 
Federal Highway Trust Fund 
monies. Texas, for the past 6 years, has 
received only 77 cents for every dollar 
we pay into the trust fund. Our needs 
are too great to give our dollars to 
other States. This new legislation will 
make a significant increase in Texas’ 
share of highway funds and bring us 
closer to equity. 

For over two decades, Congress and 
the White House have used unobligated 
funds in the four transportation trust 
funds to make the Federal deficit look 
smaller. It is a sham that has kept billions 
of dollars locked up in Treasury 
notes that should be in our economy 
matching local and State transportation 
dollars continuing the process of 
building this country. There are plenty 
of uses for any funds that we can secure. 


I also do not need to tell this House 
how important improving infrastructure 
is to promoting economic growth. 
Over the last 6 years, this Nation has 
dedicated $155 billion to its transportation 
infrastructure. Compare that to 
the $2.1 trillion spent by Germany and 
the $3.2 trillion spent by Japan over a 
decade to develop their respective 
transportation networks. 

Our national transportation economy 
in 1994 accounted for 10.8 percent of our 
gross domestic product, employing 
over 3.2 million Americans, but at the 
same time congestion on our highways 
has risen to such a level that traffic 
costs American businesses $40 billion a 
year. 

Americans waste 1.6 million hours 
every day sitting in traffic. We cannot 
allow our Nation’s transportation infrastructure 
to erode any further. Our 
highways and railways must be shored 
up to keep transportation costs as low 
as possible for the sake of commerce. 
For the sake of our economy, now is 
the proper time to act. If we allow the 
situation to get worse, we will have to 
make a choice down the road to expand 
or repair. I do not believe that is a 
choice we can make. Let us pass H.R. 
2400. 

As the only Houston-area member of the 
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, 
I am pleased to have played a role in 
moving the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act, or BESTEA, out of 
Committee and to this Floor. I applaud Chairman 
SHUSTER, Ranking Member OBERSTAR, 
Chairman PETRI and Congressman RAHALL for 
the fine work the ‘‘Big Four’’ produced. 

BESTEA sets funding formulas to determine 
percentages for states to receive federal highway 
trust fund monies. Texas, for the past six 
years, has received only 77 cents for every 
dollar we pay into the trust fund. Our needs 
are too great to give our dollars to other 
states. This new legislation will make a significant 
increase in Texas’ share at highway 
funds and bring us closer to equity. 

The House Transportation and Infrastructure 
Committee has taken steps to significantly improve 
donor states’ rate-of-return by including 
the $9.3 billion High Priority Projects category 
within the Minimum Allocation program. While 
BESTEA currently includes a 90% rate-of-return, 
I am of the hope that as the process continues, 
donor states will see a 95% rate-of-return 
on 100% of the funds distributed to the 
states. 

For over two decades Congress and the 
White House have used unobligated funds in 
the four transportation trust funds to make the 
federal deficit look smaller. It is a sham that 
has kept billions of dollars locked up in Treasury 
notes that should be in our economy, 
matching local and state transportation dollars, 
continuing the process of building this country. 
There are plenty of uses for any funds we can 
secure. I also don’t need to tell this House 
how important improving infrastructure is to 
promoting economic growth. 

Over the last six years, this nation dedicated 
$155 billion to restoring its transportation infrastructure. 
Compare that to the $2.1 trillion 
spent by Germany and $3.2 trillion spent by 
Japan over a decade to develop their respective 
transportation networks. Our national 
transportation economy in 1994 accounted for 

10.8 percent of our Gross Domestic Product, 
employing over 3.2 million Americans. But at 
the same time, congestion on our highways 
has risen to such a level that traffic costs 
American businesses $40 billion each year. 
Americans waste 1.6 million hours every day 
sitting in traffic. 
We cannot allow our nation’s transportation 
infrastructure to erode any further. Our highways 
and railways must be shored up to keep 
transportation costs as low as possible for the 
sake of commerce. Our products compete on 
a worldwide basis now, and products from 
countries with strong and efficient infrastructure 
will cost less on the market and allows 
producers to spend more on quality. That’s the 
bottom line. For the sake of our economy, now 
is the proper time to act. If we allow the situation 
to get worse, we will have to make a 
choice down the road to expand or repair the 
existing infrastructure. That’s a choice I don’t 
believe this nation can afford to make. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. COBLE), a distinguished 
member of our committee. 

Mr. COBLE. Mr. Chairman, I want to 
engage in a colloquy regarding implementation 
of the unified motor carrier 
registration system with the chairman 
and the ranking member. 

In 1995, when the Congress enacted 
the ICC Termination Act, we instructed 
the Secretary of Transportation 
to establish a single, on-line 
Federal system for the registration of 
all interstate motor carriers. The purpose 
of the system was to enhance the 
monitoring of safety and insurance 
compliance. 

We required the DOT to promulgate 
final rules by January 1, 1998, but little 
has been done to accomplish that. The 
State program, it seems to me, needlessly 
cost the industry about $90 million 
a year and ought to be replaced by 
a single national system as this body 
intended in 1995. 

I ask the chairman or the ranking 
member, is there any optimism to resolve 
this? 

Mr. Chairman, I would like to engage the bill 
managers in a colloquy regarding implementation 
of a unified motor carrier registration system. 


Mr. Chairman, in 1995, when Congress enacted 
the Interstate Commerce Commission 
Termination Act, we instructed the Secretary 
of Transportation to establish a single, on-line 
federal system for the registration of all interstate 
motor carriers. The purpose of the system 
was to enhance the monitoring of safety 
and insurance compliance. We required DOT 
to promulgate final rules by January, 1998. 
That date has come and gone with little 
progress. This is largely because, I am advised, 
the DOT is uncertain what to do with 
state-operated insurance registration programs 
that duplicate the anticipated federal program. 

This House had given DOT clear authority 
to replace the state programs, while providing 
the states with free access to the safety and 
insurance data contained in the federal system. 
Unfortunately, the House bill was amended 
in conference to require DOT to preserve 
the revenues from these fees if DOT replaces 
the state programs. This change greatly complicated 
the development of a simplified, uniform 
federal program. 

The state programs needlessly cost the industry 
about $90 million annually. They should 
be replaced with a single, national system as 
this body intended in 1995. 

We need to rectify this problem which has 
needlessly delayed implementation of the uniform, 
on-line federal system to cover all interstate 
motor carriers. (I would greatly prefer 
that we resolve this issue in conference on 
this bill. If that proves not to be possible, we 
must see that we resolve it in some other bill 
before we adjourn this year.) 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, will 
the gentleman yield? 

Mr. COBLE. I yield to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, 
would respond to the gentleman that I 
agree with him. We do need corrective 
legislation. I want to assure him that 
we will continue to work with him to 
bring this about. 

The gentleman raises a valid point. 

The House passed legislation in 1995 that 
was amended in conference. 

DOT is prevented from establishing a universal 
and accessible register of motor carriers 
for safety and insurance compliance. 

We need corrective legislation, and we need 
it this year if possible. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1903 

We have been working with motor carriers 
and with the States to resolve this. I want to 
assure the gentleman that we will continue to 
work with the gentleman and the affected parties 
to address this issue at the earliest possible 
date. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. DAVIS). 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the gentleman for yielding me 
the time. 

Later today, I will offer an amendment 
to this bill which will expand the 
Access to Jobs Program. The Access to 
Jobs Program assists welfare recipients 
in making the transition from welfare 
to work. The amendment seeks to increase 
the current authorization from 
$42 million to $150 million. The additional 
$108 million authorized for this 
vital program does not take money 
from any other projects, nor does it 
raid the Highway Trust Fund. It is a 
simple authorization subject to the appropriations 
process. Therefore, I urge 
all of my colleagues to support the 
amendment which I will offer later 
today and to support this bill. 

I also take the opportunity to commend 
and congratulate the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) and 
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. 
OBERSTAR) for their outstanding leadership 
in bringing this measure before 
us today. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. GILCHREST). 

Mr. GILCHREST. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the chairman for yielding me 
the time. I thank the chairman and 
ranking member for the bipartisan nature 
in which we have put forth this 
bill. I would like to say basically every 
time you cross a bridge, ride a train, 
light rail, subway, ride on a bus, commute 
to work, et cetera, et cetera, et 
cetera, who do you assume assures 
your safety? Well, Mr. Chairman, that 
is us. More accurately, that is the government. 
And more accurately than 
that, that is individuals on the House 
floor and the Senate side who take 
their role very responsibly. 

I want to give one example of a problem 
that would be fixed by this bill, 
and it is Highway 113 in my district. 
That is a single-lane highway, and in 
the last 20 years, over 70 people have 
been tragically killed on this highway. 
This bill corrects that problem. I once 
again commend the bipartisan nature 
with which this bill has come forth, the 
ranking member and the chairman of 
the committee. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Florida (Ms. BROWN), a valuable 
member of the committee. 

Ms. BROWN of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I want to indicate my strong support 
for H.R. 2400 and thank the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) 
and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) for working 
hard on the donor State issue, and 
making this day possible. As the gen


tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) 
and the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) said, this is 
money for transportation from those 
who use transportation and pay for it 
in gasoline taxes. It is a common-sense 
approach to funding infrastructure. 

Much has been said about the high 
priority projects, and I just want to say 
that these projects ensure safe travel 
for millions of Americans and help 
stimulate the economy. As the chairman 
has said, sometimes money going 
to States does not trickle down to all 
parts of the State. Poor and rural communities 
are not always represented, 
and a high priority project from a 
Member of Congress is the only way 
some of these needy projects can be 
funded. 

I also want to say that I work very 
closely with the local mayors, city 
councils and commissioners and citizens 
when it comes to determining necessary 
projects. It is a true partnership 
between all levels of government. This 
is not pork, Mr. Chairman, it is bringing 
the transportation infrastructure 
of this country up to a world class 
level. Safety for all Americans and 
good for our economy. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Maine (Mr. 
BALDACCI). 

Mr. BALDACCI. Mr. Chairman, 
Maine is currently at a critical crossroads. 
Projected public investment for 
Maine’s highways and bridges fall far 
short of the level of funding needed to 
maintain the system in its current condition 
and address the significant backlog 
of needs. In bridges alone, we are 
looking at work that is estimated to be 
a shortfall of over $5 million. We are 
looking at the road system. We are 
looking at shortages of $32.2 million. 
Maine is a very large rural State. 

The district I represent is the largest 
physical district east of the Mississippi. 
We are trying to repair the existing 
road work and the shortages 
that we have experienced through the 
last reauthorization which have left 
some pot holes along the way. 

This funding measure will go to significantly 
repairing the damaged 
roads, bridges, ports and airports. I ask 
for Members’ support. This funding 
that we were under, the Federal levels 
have not been increased and the money 
that would be available under this program 
in these alternatives will certainly 
go to enhancing Maine’s balanced 
transportation network. I encourage 
all of the Members to support 
this measure and to be able to move 
forward on reauthorization in a timely 
fashion. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield such time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. KILDEE). 


(Mr. KILDEE asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
strong support of H.R. 2400 and the 

manager’s amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER). 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 
2400 and the manager’s amendment offered 
by my distinguished colleague, Mr. SHUSTER. 
As Co-chairman of the Congressional Native 
American Caucus, I want to speak briefly on 
the condition of roads in Indian country and on 
two amendments that Mr. SHUSTER has included 
in the manager’s amendment. 

There are more than 50,000 miles of roads 
that serve hundreds of Indian reservations 
throughout the United States. Indian reservation 
roads make up 2.63% of all existing roads 
eligible for ISTEA funding. However, tribes receive 
less than 1% of ISTEA funding for these 
roads. 

If Indian country were to receive its full prorata 
share of the billions included in this bill, 
Indian reservations would receive $4.7 billion 
over six years, or $793 million per year. Mr. 
Chairman, when you compare this amount 
with the recommended funding level for Indian 
roads, $212 million per year in H.R. 2400 and 
$250 million per year in S. 1173, the recommended 
amount hardly seems adequate. 

The condition of roads in Indian country endangers 
the health and safety of those living 
on Indian reservations and inhibits economic 
development. In inclement weather, over 
30,000 miles of roads serving Indian reservations 
are impassable. Things that most of us 
take for granted like access to emergency 
services, or availability of heating fuel and groceries, 
are not available on many reservations 
for several months of the year. No business is 
going to locate on an Indian reservation that 
cannot offer a basic transportation infrastructure. 


The condition of bridges on Indian reservations 
is even more dire. A recent survey by 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs counted 4,000 of 
these bridges and found 190 to be deficient to 
the point of needing replacing or undergo 
major repairs. The estimated cost to replace 
or repair bridges are more than $40 million. 
Under H.R. 2400 and S. 1173, the requested 
amount for the reservation bridge program is 
$9 million. While I support funding for the 
bridge program, this amount still falls short of 
addressing the need in Indian country. 

Two amendments that Mr. SHUSTER includes 
in the manager’s amendments will encourage 
tribes to be more self-sufficient. 
These amendments would allow certain tribal 
governments to receive transportation funds 
and directly administer them. They would also 
require that the Secretary allocate funds to 
tribes according to a negotiated rulemaking 
process. 

While I agree with the idea of the current 
language in the manager’s amendment, I disagree 
with the recommended process that will 
be used to accomplish these goals. It is my 
hope that when this bill goes to Conference, 
the conferees will agree that tribal governments 
should manage their funds according to 
the authority of Public Law 93–638, the Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act of 1975. 

Each year, under P.L. 93–638, the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service 
directly transfers hundreds of millions of dollars 
to tribal governments so they can administer 
governmental services and construction 
projects. P.L. 93–638 provides for streamlined 
administrative efficiencies while preserving 
program and financial accountability. 


H1904 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

In closing, I strongly urge the House conferees 
to support the recommended amount in 

S. 1173 that provides $250 million per year for 
the Indian Reservation Roads program, and to 
allow tribes to receive funds and directly administer 
them under P.L. 93–638. 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. SANCHEZ). 

Ms. SANCHEZ. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the chairman and ranking member. 
I rise today in support of H.R. 2400. 

Think about this. In the next 5 years 
in central Orange County, that is Anaheim, 
Gardon Grove and Santa Ana, we 
will be spending over $5 billion in new 
construction and modernization. That 
is the private sector and that is the 
public sector; the public sector in our 
infrastructure needs for all of this new 
construction and modernization going 
on. 

b1615 
It is the rising economy of Orange 
County. It requires local dollars, State 
dollars and, yes, the dollars that we 
from Orange County send here to be returned 
back to help our crumbling infrastructure. 
That is why I am proud to 
say that I am part of this responsible 
bipartisan initiative that was written 
with the support of diverse transportation 
communities from business to 
labor, contractors to environmentalists, 
from engineers to safety advocates 
and to cyclists. 
These groups see that America is 
growing and prospering, but our transportation 
infrastructure is lagging behind. 
And this bill picks up the pace 
and our highways. I believe that this 
bill will improve America, will improve 
our futures. The projects included are 
important and very cost-effective, in 
particular in Orange County. 
Our Nation’s networks of road and 
transit systems are the arteries that 
keep the economic heart of our country 
beating. Without this blood supply, our 
country’s economic body would suffer 
an irreversible financial heart attack. 
Please join me in supporting this important 
piece of legislation. 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, may 
I inquire of the Chair, how much time 
remains on our side? 
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) has 
161/2 minutes remaining. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) has 5 
minutes remaining. 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS). 
Mr. SANDERS. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding. 
I want to congratulate the Chairman, 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER); and the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), the Ranking 
Member; and others for the very 
fine work they have done on this important 
bill. 
Mr. Chairman, the truth of the matter 
is that the infrastructure of the 
United States of America is rotting. It 

is falling apart right under us. And our 
roads, our bridges, our mass transportation, 
which is our rail system, our 
rural bus system, our bicycle paths, are 
in major need of repair; and it is high 
time that we paid attention to those 
needs. 

In the State of Vermont, we have a 
major infrastructure problem which 
has been made worse in recent years by 
flooding, flooding which is occurring 
today in the State of Vermont, further 
damaging our infrastructure. All over 
Vermont bridges are in serious need of 
repair, and this bill begins to address 
that problem. 

Sixteen million from this legislation 
is going to the Missisquoi Bay Bridge 
in Franklin County, Vermont. This 
bridge in the northern part of our 
State serves as a vital transportation 
link for New York, Canadian, and other 
New England traffic and would have 
been virtually impossible to rebuild 
without help from the Federal Government. 


What we now have is a deteriorating 
two-lane bridge, which, in light of its 
high level of truck traffic, poses a significant 
hazard to the traveling public 
and is a serious deterrent to interstate 
and international commerce. 

The State of Vermont’s Agency of 
Transportation regarded this project as 
the State’s highest transportation priority, 
and this $16 million will be a significant 
step forward in helping to rebuild 
that bridge. 

Mr. Chairman, we hear about budget 
busting. In my view, tax breaks for the 
wealthy are budget busting, corporate 
welfare is budget busting, spending 
money that the military does not need 
is budget busting. But rebuilding the 
infrastructure of this country and putting 
our workers to work at decent-
paying jobs is doing exactly the right 
thing. It is improving the economic 
well-being of this country, and it is 
long overdue. I congratulate our 
friends for the work that they have 
done. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
as much time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. 
BUYER). 

(Mr. BUYER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BUYER. Mr. Chairman, I would 
like to compliment the Chairman for 
his hard work. It is truly good work, a 
good product. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today to thank Chairman 
SHUSTER and Ranking Member OBERSTAR 
for their dedication to bringing H.R. 2400, 
the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act, to the House Floor. The 
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee 
has taken positive steps to significantly 
improve donor states’ rate-of-return. 

Indiana is and has been a donor state. For 
years now, Indiana has received only 77 cents 
for every $1 generated in federal gas tax revenues 
in Indiana. Now that the National Highway 
System has been completed, the time 
has arrived for Congress to bring fairness and 
equity back into transportation funding and 
spending. 

BESTEA includes a 90% rate-of-return. The 
Senate-passed version contains a 91% rateof-
return. As the process continues, donor 
states continue to seek a 95% rate-of-return. 

Both versions have made great strides to 
bringing fairness and equity to the funding. It 
would not only be unfair, but also an injustice 
for the Conference Committee to not support 
the great strides that both Chambers have 
made. I encourage Mr. SHUSTER and Mr. 
OBERSTAR to continue the fine work they have 
begun with this bill as it moves to conference. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. VISCLOSKY). 

(Mr. VISCLOSKY asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Chairman, I 
would like to engage in a colloquy with 
the Chairman of the committee. 

Mr. Chairman, I thank you for the 
opportunity to discuss one of ISTEA’s 
most vital safety initiatives, the rail-
crossing safety program. 

Last year, I testified before the Subcommittee 
on Surface Transportation 
in support of legislation which I have 
introduced to change the formula for 
ISTEA’s rail-crossing safety program 
which allocates funds to States based 
on a number of rail-crossing accidents 
and fatalities. 

Although BESTEA does not change 
the formula by which these funds are 
distributed, I do want to commend my 
colleague for increasing by 41 percent 
funds allocated to the highway rail-
crossing safety program in BESTEA. 
As this bill moves to conference, I ask 
my colleague to ensure that that priority 
funding be maintained. 

Several hundred people are killed, 
and thousands more injured, every year 
in the United States as a result of vehicle-
train collisions at highway-rail 
grade crossings. Just last week, a resident 
of Lake Station, Indiana died 
when a train struck his car at a rail 
crossing without gates, marked only by 
stop signs. 

Although BESTEA does not change 
the formula by which these funds are 
distributed, I do want to commend you 
for increasing, by 41%, the funds allocated 
to the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing 
Safety Program in BESTEA. As 
this bill moves to conference, I ask you 
to ensure that this priority funding is 
maintained. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, if the 
gentleman will yield, I would say that 
the gentleman has accurately pointed 
out the importance of this provision, 
and he certainly has my assurance that 
we will do everything we can to defend 
this provision, as we will with every 
House provision as we go to conference. 

Mr. VISCLOSKY. I appreciate the 
gentleman’s concern. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. ROEMER). 

Mr. ROEMER. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding. 

Mr. Chairman, Indiana is known as 
the crossroad of America. It is nicknamed 
the crossroad of America not 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1905 

only because it connects the people to 
their communities, but because it is in 
central America and it connects the 
east to the west. This bill is an investment 
in Indiana’s connection to its 
people, it is an investment to its communities, 
and it is an investment to 
the rest of America. 

This bill is important because it is 
about public safety, it is about an investment 
in our economy, it is about 
our security. These are very, very important 
measures that we consider 
today. 

People in La Porte and Michigan 
City and Rolling Prairie, Indiana, tell 
me that roads are the single most important 
issue to many of them; and we 
must spend money to repair our roads 
before we spend more and more and 
more money to repair our cars and our 
automobiles. This is a prudent investment. 


Now, I would say, as complimentary 
as I am to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER) and the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
they have been fair and judicious, 
I would encourage them to continue 
to be fair and judicious in conference; 
and as we look for offsets in 
conference, I strongly encourage them 
not to go into public education. 

As shootings go up in our public 
schools and test scores come down, it is 
cutting our nose off to spite our face, it 
is hurting our businesses if we take 
money out of public education for our 
children. 

Secondly, I want to commend the 
Chairmen for their addressing the 
donor State issue for Indiana. Indiana 
will get close to a billion extra dollars 
under the 6-year provisions of this bill 
because of the way the Chairmen have 
treated donor-state issues. I hope and 
pray that they continue to hold to 
those areas and those concerns in conference 
with respect to Indiana. 

Finally, there is some criticism 
about the expenditure. China will 
spend $1 trillion on public investment 
over a 3-year period. The United States 
will spend one-third of that over a 6year 
period. We need to invest in public 
safety. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself 15 seconds to inform the body 
that, this being April 1, somebody has 
sent out a bogus press release from my 
office saying that I oppose high-priority 
congressional projects. I just want 
to make sure that everybody understands 
this is in the good spirit of April 
Fool’s Day, and it is not accurate. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself 10 seconds to say that is 
absolutely astonishing. This is April 
Fool’s Day, but this is not the time for 
that sort of thing. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
DOGGETT). 

Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Chairman, the 
most congested and the most dangerous 
section of Interstate 35 anywhere 
between Canada and Mexico is in 
my hometown of Austin, Texas. Cor


recting the gridlock on Interstate 35 is 
vital not only for the Central Texas 
economy but for everyone in this Nation 
that relies on this vital transportation 
artery. I commend the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), 
the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI), and all of the Members 
that have worked so hard to produce 
this bill. 

We have followed their example with 
a broad regional bipartisan coalition to 
build a bypass to I–35 in Texas known 
as State Highway 130. Our work on SH– 
130 demonstrates the wisdom of the 
Chairman’s support of demonstration 
projects. These high-priority projects 
like SH–130 are a way of assuring that 
our priorities are addressed by both 
State and Federal transportation bureaucracies. 


These bureaucracies are not the 
know-all and the be-all on planning 
transportation. Sometimes the bureaucratic 
number-crunchers forget that 
their actions can crunch people and 
can crunch neighborhoods as well as 
numbers. 

In the case of SH–130, we have required 
in this bill a specific route endorsed 
unanimously by City Council 
members and commissioners as well as 
some State legislators. We have also 
specified that that money must be expended 
solely for the construction of 
that portion of SH–130 within Travis 
County and south of U.S. 290. 

From the outset, I have supported a 
bypass for traffic, not a bypass of local 
community concerns by an unresponsive 
bureaucracy. Now is the time for 
the Texas Department of Public Transportation 
to apply some of the $101/2 
billion that it is receiving in this bill 
to build SH–130, build it now, build it 
in the right way to the east of Decker 
Lake in Travis County, Texas. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. BOSWELL), a very distinguished 
member of our committee. 

Mr. BOSWELL. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) and the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER). 

I really appreciate, being a newcomer, 
and inquired about coming to 
this committee. I knew a lot of important 
work was to take place there. So 
I inquired about the Chairman, and I 
inquired about the Ranking Member. I 
was informed and it has been proven 
out that they have worked together 
and that the committee is open. So I 
come as a newcomer, realizing that 
commerce has got to move across this 
country in order for us to compete, to 
compete with the elements of the Pacific 
Rim and European Union and we 
have got to do it. 

My colleagues, I really appreciated it 
when they pointed out that some of 
this increase is giving up the interest 
and other aspects that they pointed 
out, not to repeat them. So this is a doable 
thing, and this country will benefit 
from it. 

I often wonder what it would be 
like—the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. 

ROEMER) said it is the heartland, and 
we claim the heartland. So I will just 
claim the belt buckle, if I can, for 
Iowa. But I can imagine the embarrassment 
if commerce is moving back and 
forth across this country and they got 
to Iowa and we had to put up a sign 
that said, ‘‘Excuse me. Slow down to 35 
or 40 miles an hour because we cannot 
repair our bridges and fill in the potholes 
and make those improvements.’’ 

We cannot do that. We are not 50 separate 
countries; we are 50 United 
States. So I think this is pointing that 
out, and it is going to help our country 
as a whole. Some things we just got to 
do to keep up. And we do not want to 
get behind. We are already behind, and 
we will never catch up if we do not 
keep up. 

So I am very pleased to be supporting 
this very important thing. It is probably 
the most important thing we do in 
the entire 2 years we are in this assembly. 
Thank you for your efforts. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN). 

(Mr. GREEN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GREEN. Mr. Chairman, like a lot 
of my colleagues today, I would like to 
thank both the Chairman and our 
Ranking Member and the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure 
for the fine work on H.R. 2400. I believe 
it is good not only for our Nation but 
also for the State of Texas that I represent 
and also for the district and the 
community I represent of Houston. 

BESTEA is the fairest and best bill 
for donor States such as Texas because 
it guarantees that each State receives 
back at least 95 percent of the amount 
it pays out in gasoline taxes. Transportation 
funds are imperative for a State 
as large as Texas, and we need a transportation 
funding bill that makes sure 
we receive adequate funds just to maintain 
the safety on our roads and highways. 


As a border State, Texas is impacted 
by large amounts of traffic resulting 
from trade with Mexico. This high volume 
of traffic passes through I–69, 
which runs through the middle of my 
district. We must make sure that funds 
are included for trade corridors such as 
I–69 because NAFTA has so dramatically 
increased the traffic through 
Texas. Also, ISTEA originally was 
based on intermodal. With the Port of 
Houston and I–69, it makes that inter-
modal transportation work. 

In addition, I support BESTEA because 
it recognizes the importance of 
demonstration projects to solve local 
transportation problems. 

For 5 years, as a Member of Congress, 
I have worked with the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure on a 
grade separation project; and I am glad 
to see it is in this bill. This project protects 
the lives of not only the residents 
and people who work in the Manchester 
community in East Houston but, again, 
it is the definitive reason we need demonstration 
projects on intermodal 


H1906 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

transportation, a grade separation over 
nine tracks that will be great for the 
business community but also for the 
residents there. Funding these demonstration 
projects such as this is long 
overdue and must be protected in 
BESTEA authorization. 

b1630 
Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON-LEE). 
(Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas asked 
and was given permission to revise and 
extend her remarks.). 
Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the Chairman and 
the Ranking Member for his leadership, 
and I thank the committee as well. I 
rise to support H.R. 2400. 
Let me point out that, in the 18th 
congressional an urban district, this 
legislation will bring our communities 
together with the funding of hike and 
bike trails, many constituents in my 
district have long asked for such transportation 
tools. 
It is also very important to note that 
we will be rebuilding our Nation’s infrastructure, 
the highways, and roads 
so badly needed. But what is very important 
to the city of Houston, is the 
understanding that H.R. 2400 authorizes 
not only a Houston regional bus 
plan for final design and construction, 
and the Houston Advanced Transit program 
for planning activities, and preliminary 
engineering. 
This allows Houston to look into the 
options of bus and/or rail. The City of 
Houston is the fourth largest city in 
the Nation, with over 1.4 million residents 
and, as such, must be able to explore 
all of the transportation options 
to its residents. 
The City experiences frequent traffic 
congestion. Currently, Houston receives 
a certain amount for its Better 
Bus Program and has received such 
funds for approximately 6 years. Houston 
does not at this time receive any 
funds for a rail system. 
My Democratic colleagues in the 
Houston area support this option. I 
hope the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
ARCHER) will work with me to make 
sure that this option comes to the City 
of Houston. The City of Houston is preparing 
and has announced a Transportation 
2000 study that will include consideration 
and review of options such 
as commuter rail and other forms of 
urban rail systems for Houston. 
I am delighted that this bill in its 
wisdom will allow the City of Houston 
to consider the options of bus and/or 
rail. I believe rail is needed in our community. 
In fact several transportation 
options are needed for our city, which 
is the fourth largest city in the Nation. 
And or well, it is needed for inner city 
Houston. This legislation will support 
such options as rail to be pursued by 
Houston as the city may desire. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 
2400 as a modernization of America’s highway 
and transportation systems for the 21st century. 
This bill provides for developing the infra


structure that our economy needs to continue 
its miraculous growth well into the next century. 
Transportation is clearly a factor in the 
development of our economy and will be an 
element for our continuing economic success 
in this ever-changing new world order. The 
modernization and technological advancement 
of our transportation systems that are contained 
in this bill are essential to our nation. 
Mr. SHUSTER and Mr. OBERSTAR as well as all 
of the members of the committee should be 
commended for their excellent work. 

Our large and complex transportation system 
unites us and connects even the smallest 
town with the rest of the world. Transportation 
and our highways touch every person in this 
country, it comprises 11 percent of our Gross 
Domestic Product and makes up one-fifth of 
the typical American household budget. 

However, there are some fundamental problems 
with how BESTEA will be funded. The 
ground-breaking balanced budget agreement 
of last year gave us the guidelines and caps 
necessary to keep our spending within our 
means. Many of our vital social programs 
were asked to sacrifice their monies in the 
name of fiscal restraint. Now we are asked to 
vote on a bill that exceeds the budget caps by 
$26 billion. 

Mr. Speaker, I am concerned as to which 
programs the Republicans will cut in order to 
make way for the $26 billion we are asked to 
spend today. It is imperative that these cuts 
will not be made by the conference committee 
at the expense of the disadvantaged, our children 
and those citizens who do not have the 
resources to have a lobbying group pressuring 
that committee. 

Another troubling aspect of this bill is the 
possible amendment to end the Department of 
Transportation’s Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
Program. This is a program that for 
over two decades has been providing equal 
opportunities for women and minorities competing 
for highway and transit contracts. 

Since its inception, small businesses as well 
as women and minority-owned construction 
firms are now participating in building our nation’s 
highways. Their participation has increased 
from 1.9 percent in 1978 to 14.8 percent 
in 1996. By reaching out to and fostering 
new business relationships, this program has 
countered the effects of discrimination and 
good old boy networks which had been road 
blocks for many years. 

These facts were recognized by the Senate 
as it voted to preserve this 15-year-old program 
as we should also. We all wish that we 
lived in a world that was free from discrimination, 
but we don’t. But, this program is not 
about quotas or set-asides as some members 
want to characterize it. The statute only relies 
on flexible goals. 

The program also complies completely within 
the ‘‘strict scrutiny’’ standard of the Supreme 
Court decision in Adarand. The Department 
of Transportation has recently published 
proposed rule changes in response to that 
standard. There is clearly a compelling governmental 
interest in redressing past discrimination 
in DOT-assisted contracting. Minority-
owned construction firms represent about 9 
percent of all such firms and receive only 
about 5 percent of construction receipts. The 
10 percent national goal is constitutional, good 
policy and still necessary. BESTEA with it is 
unacceptable. 

Mr. Speaker, I am a part of a state delegation 
that will be getting back less than they will 

be paying in our taxes. Texas will be getting 
more than $1.7 billion in formula distributions 
and over $216 million in demonstration 
projects with this bill. However, Texans will be 
getting back only about 90 cents on the dollar, 
but I understand the needs of the other states. 
For my own part, Houston will benefit from a 
new ‘‘Hike and Bike’’ path, new buses and rebuilt 
roads. I am also advocating a study on 
the use of light rail for Houston. As the fourth 
largest city in the country, it is appropriate that 
we consider light rail as a substitute for using 
our streets and highways. 

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill with these 
exceptions. We need to continue the effective 
and efficient transportation system that this bill 
provides for the betterment of all Americans. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, may 
I inquire of the Chair how much time 
remains on both sides? 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) has 31/2 
minutes remaining, and the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) has 5 
minutes remaining. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota is recognized for 31/2 
minutes. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, this 
brings us to the end of a very long and 
productive general debate period when 
we have heard fulsome praise for this 
legislation from all sectors of this 
country, all spectrums of our society, 
from urban and suburban and exurban 
and rural America, from coastal and 
border America, from all spectrums, all 
aspects of the economic slices of our 
country. 

It has been very encouraging to see 
the enormous outpouring of support 
from Members across the body for a 
truly visionary piece of legislation. It 
does, indeed, do all these things that 
all of our colleagues have praised the 
legislation for. 

I have a few things of my own that 
are very special to me. We continue the 
Rails to Trails Program, continue the 
Bicycling and Pedestrian Walkways 
Program that has made it possible for 
more than 10 million Americans to buy 
bicycles, become bicyclists. 

I am an avid cyclist myself. I have 
pedaled over 2,100 miles on the open 
road last year. I want to see more people 
using bike to commute from home 
to work, as is done in Chicago. 

We preserve and continue the Congestion 
Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement 
Program which, in Chicago, 
has enabled that city with wise use and 
wise investment of those dollars to improve 
its Air Quality Index over 15 percent 
in the 6 years of ISTEA. 

We continue the Scenic America Program 
with the Scenic Byways Program 
that was initiated in ISTEA, again 
stimulating the tourism travel sector 
of our economy, which is nearly a $400 
billion sector of our economy, one that 
generates a $20 billion surplus balance 
of payments for this country, inbound 
tourism expenditures here over what 
Americans spend traveling abroad. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1907 

We will initiate in this legislation 
when it is finally enacted a very important 
part of our Welfare to Work Program 
that was passed in the last Congress. 
It is very hard to get people to 
jobs if they do not have the means to 
get there. 

My middle daughter, Annie, works in 
Jubilee Jobs in the Adams Morgan area 
of Washington, D.C., trying to place 
people from the homeless shelters, 
those who have fallen from the welfare 
net in the Hispanic and black community 
of Northeast/Northwest Washington. 
The biggest single problem she 
faces with her clients is getting them 
to and from their job. 

This innovative experimental program, 
pilot program, will help cities 
across this country do there what Chicago 
has done in its city with a program 
of welfare to work, provide means 
of transportation for those who need to 
get to the places where the jobs are located. 


All in all, all told, this is the bill 
that the visionaries of 1956 could not 
have foreseen. This is a bill that the 
Members of this Congress who stand on 
their shoulders, who look into the future 
have said to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER), this bill 
will be an everlasting legacy of his 
service in this Congress. I hope he will 
serve many more years. But whatever 
those years, this will be his greatest 
achievement and the greatest legacy 
that we could leave to future generations. 


The CHAIRMAN. The time of the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) 
has expired. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Chairman, I certainly thank my 
good friend, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), and all our colleagues 
on both sides of the aisle for 
making this a truly bipartisan team effort 
for the good of America. 

In closing, I want to particularly recognize 
our staff, which has done such 
an outstanding job, particularly the 
Subcommittee on Surface Transportation 
and Committee on Budget staff, 
and most of all Jack Schenendorf, the 
Chief of Staff of our Committee on 
Transportation, the largest committee 
in the Congress, indeed the largest 
committee in the history of the United 
States with 75 members. 

Jack Schenendorf is truly a leader of 
extraordinary capability. Without his 
dedication and perseverance, intelligence 
and experience, the staff would 
not have been able to accomplish everything 
they did. 

That staff and those who have contributed 
so much include Roger Nober, 
Debbie Gebhardt, Chris Bertram, Susan 
Lent, Adam Tsao, Darrell Wilson, Bill 
Hughes, Linda Scott, Patricia Law, and 
Mary Beth Will. 

Certainly, the Members on the other 
side of the aisle equally stand shoulder 
to shoulder with me to recognize the 
staff on both sides, because, indeed, 
this is a joint staff working together 
for the betterment of our country. 

Let me close by focusing on the two 
fundamental principles that we started 
out with in this debate today, the first 
fundamental principle being that this 
legislation puts the trust back in the 
Transportation Trust Fund. It is honest 
budgeting. 

It says that the 18.4 cents gasoline 
tax that the Americans pay in the related 
transportation taxes, the revenue, 
and only that revenue, will be 
spent from the Trust Fund to rebuild 
America’s infrastructure. 

Indeed, there can be no deficit financing 
here. The money must be 
there. It is the most fiscally responsible 
kind of Federal spending we can 
have. We only spend the revenue that 
comes in. Indeed, as part of our agreement, 
we have agreed to forgo the interest 
on the balance in the Trust 
Fund, which means the national debt 
will be reduced by close to $15 billion 
over the life of this bill. 

Beyond that, we have agreed to turn 
back $9 billion in the Transportation 
Trust Fund. So between the foregone 
interest and the $10 billion that we will 
turn back, it adds up to approximately 
$25 billion, a reduction in the national 
debt, real dollars, real reduction in the 
national debt. That $25 billion approximates 
the increased spending in this 
legislation. 

The second fundamental principle is 
that we begin to meet the transportation 
needs of America. Our highways 
are in poor condition. There are 42,000 
people killed on them every year, and 
9,000 of those being killed are kids. In 
fact, of those fatalities, about 12,000 to 
13,000 are attributed to bad roads, 
which means we will be saving lives. I 
am told, over the life of this bill, we 
will be able to reduce fatalities by 
about 4,000 lives a year. 

Beyond that, we provide an economic 
stimulus, increase productivity, jobs, 
have tremendous support from all sectors 
of the country. The 50 governors, 
the cities, the counties, the environmentalists, 
safety leaders, labor, 
Chamber of Commerce, triple AAAs, 
this bill has extraordinarily broad support. 
It is good for America. It puts 
honesty in budgeting. We spend only 
the revenue that comes into the bill. 

For all those reasons, I urge my colleagues 
to support this legislation that 
we are bringing to the floor, because 
we will rebuild America as we move 
into the 21st Century. 

Mrs. MORELLA. Mr. Chairman, I would like 
to thank Chairmen SHUSTER and PETRI as well 
as Ranking Democratic Members OBERSTAR 
and RAHALL for their cooperation in bringing a 
Research Title to the floor which incorporates 
most of the significant research and development 
provisions from H.R. 860 as reported by 
the House Committee on Science. I believe 
our cooperative efforts of the past have contributed 
significantly to strengthening the Department 
of Transportation’s surface transportation 
research and development portfolio, and 
I am equally convinced that our efforts during 
1997 and 1998 will take these research programs 
to the next level. 

I also appreciate the Transportation Committee’s 
willingness to keep the dialog going in 

the areas in which we could not reach final 
agreement and their willingness to consider 
our few remaining concerns in the context of 
the upcoming conference with the Senate. I 
am convinced that this approach will lead to a 
unified House position in these negotiations 
and a stronger final product for the President 
to sign. 

At this point, I would like to point out a number 
of the provisions of H.R. 860 which can be 
found in the Manager’s Amendment. The provisions 
were crafted in a cooperative and bipartisan 
fashion by members of the Science 
Committee. First, the amendment includes 

H.R. 860’s ‘‘Sense of Congress’’ that the Department 
of Transportation should place a high 
priority on addressing the Year 2000 problem 
in all of its computer and information systems. 
The amendment includes provisions from H.R. 
860 to expand the Department’s Research 
and Technology program to include: testing 
and evaluation of bridge, concrete and pavement 
structures; environmental research; 
human factors research; research on the use 
of recycled materials such as paper and plastic 
fiber reinforcement systems; knowledge of 
implementing life-cycle cost assessment; and 
standardized estimates of useful life for advanced 
materials. 
Provisions from H.R. 860 are included in the 
amendment to commission a study by the National 
Academy of Sciences regarding the 
need for a new Strategic Highway Research 
Program or similar effort and to require the 
Department to establish a strategic planning 
process for surface transportation R&D. The 
Amendment further requires the plan to be 
consistent with the provisions of the Government 
Performance and Results Act of 1993. A 
surface Transportation-Environment Cooperative 
Research Program designed to provide 
State and local transportation officials with the 
tools and knowledge necessary to better understand 
the impacts of transportation decisions 
is also included in the amendment. Finally, 
the amendment includes small changes 
to the Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) 
provisions of the bill to expand the goals of 
the program and to extend the research activities 
of the program to include human factors 
research on the science of the driving process; 
the effects of cold climates on ITS; and 
magnetics. 

Again, I wish to thank my colleagues on the 
Transportation Committee for their cooperation 
and I look forward to working with them in 
Conference. The remainder of my statement 
reflects the views of the Committee on 
Science on the legislation. 

The Committee on Science, for almost 
twenty years, has worked closely with the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
to craft transportation research and development 
authorizing legislation. Our tradition, 
rather than to enact separate transportation 
research and development legislation, has 
been to write our own legislation and then to 
work out our differences with the other Committee 
prior to House floor consideration of 
transportation measures. In 1991, Congressman 
Norman Mineta, who was both a member 
of our Committee and Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Subcommittee, offered our 
compromise legislation during the Transportation 
Committee markup. This year our Committees 
agreed that the Managers Amendment 
on the House Floor would be the appropriate 
time to merge our work product, H.R. 860— 


H1908 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

the Surface Transportation Research and Development 
Act of 1997 as reported by the 
Committee on Science, with the bill HR 
2400—the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
Equity Act of 1998 which is before us 
today. 

The Science Committee is pleased the Manager’s 
Amendment to H.R. 2400 includes a 
provision from H.R. 860 expressing the sense 
of Congress that the Department of Transportation 
should give high priority to correcting 
the Year 2000 problem in all of its computer 
systems to ensure effective operation in the 
Year 2000 and beyond. The Department 
needs to develop a plan and a budget to correct 
the problem for its mission-critical programs. 
Currently, the Department has only 
fixed 23 percent of its mission critical systems. 
The Department also needs to begin consideration 
of contingency plans, in the event that 
certain systems are unable to be corrected in 
time. The Committee believes Congress 
should continue to take a leadership role in 
raising awareness about the issue with both 
government and the private sector. The potential 
impact on the Department’s programs, if 
the Year 2000 problem is not corrected in an 
effective and timely manner, is substantial and 
potentially serious. It is imperative that such 
corrective action be taken to avert disruption 
to critical programs. 

The Committee is pleased the Amendment 
includes important provisions from H.R. 860 
which seeks to improve the performance of 
the federal investment in surface transportation 
research by requiring the Secretary to 
establish a performance-based strategic planning 
process consistent with the Government 
Performance and Results Act of 1993. The 
strategic planning process will address deficiencies 
in the current program, as identified 
by the General Accounting Office, Transportation 
Research Board, and other transportation 
research and development stakeholders, 
by setting a strategic direction, defining national 
priorities, coordinating federal efforts 
and evaluating the impact of the federal investment 
in surface transportation R&D. As 
envisioned by the Results Act, a strategic plan 
will be developed and include review and 
comment from industry, the National Research 
Council and other advisory boards. The plan 
will be submitted to Congress within one year 
after enactment and updated as required by 
the Results Act. 

H.R. 2400, as amended by the Manager’s 
Amendment, includes language to reauthorize 
the Department’s Highway Research and 
Technology (R&T) Program which is very similar 
to the provisions of H.R. 860. There is wide 
agreement on the need to allow the Department 
to engage in research, development and 
technology transfer activities designed to improve 
the safety, efficiency, and effectiveness 
of the surface transportation system. The 
amendment includes provisions from H.R. 860 
requiring the Department to include in the advanced 
research program: diagnostics for the 
evaluation of the condition of bridge and pavement 
structures to enable the assessment of 
risks of failure, including from seismic activity, 
vibration and weather; environmental research 
which may include among other things development 
of environmentally safe coatings for 
surface transportation infrastructure; and 
human factors research including the prediction 
of the response of current and future 
travelers to new technologies. In addition, the 
Committee believes that destructive testing 
simulating seismic activity, vibration and 
weather on certain bridges and pavement 
structures that are in the process of being replaced 
offers the potential to improve methods 
of structure design, construction and rehabilitation. 


The Amendment further requires the Department’s 
Highway R&T Program to include a 
program to strengthen and expand surface 
transportation infrastructure research and development. 
The program is required to include 
testing to improve the life of bridge structures, 
including tests simulating seismic activity, vibration 
and weather; research on the use of 
recycled materials, such as paper and plastic 
fiber reinforcement systems; expansion of 
knowledge of implementing life cycle cost assessment, 
including establishing the appropriate 
analysis period and discount rates, 
learning how to value and properly consider 
user costs, determining trade-off between reconstruction 
and rehabilitation, and establishing 
methodologies for balancing higher initial 
costs of new technologies and improved or 
advanced materials against lower maintenance 
costs; and standardizing estimates of 
useful life under various conditions for advanced 
materials of use in surface transportation, 
developed in conjunction with the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology 
and other appropriate organizations. 

The Committee on Science was especially 
interested in utilizing the R&T program to both 
save money and make sure that innovations 
penetrated the marketplace. Similarly, the 
Committee notes that there has been very little 
follow-on to the experiments to date in alternatives 
to low-cost bidder contracting and 
feels the more that can be done to increase 
the knowledge base associated with contracting 
alternatives, the easier it will be to justify 
innovations in highway construction. In addition, 
the Committee supports research on the 
use of recycled materials such as paper and 
plastic fiber reinforcement systems. Research 
in this area indicates that technically equivalent 
recycled plastics are potentially much 
cheaper than the expensive welded fabric, 
which traditionally has been added to standard 
concrete for crack control. 

The Science Committee is pleased the 
Amendment includes a provision from H.R. 
860 to commission a study to be conducted by 
the National Academy of Sciences regarding 
the need for a new Strategic Highway Research 
Program (SHRP) or similar effort. The 
original SHRP program has yielded over 100 
pavement products that combines to save our 
nation over $690 million per year in highway 
operations and maintenance costs. The legislation 
directs the Secretary to work with the 
transportation community to study and specify 
the goals, purposes, needs, agenda and structure 
for a new SHRP program or similar effort. 
The study will help to ensure that the Department 
continues its strong partnership role with 
States, the Transportation Research Board 
and industry to move technology and innovation 
into common practice. 

Under the State Research Program, the 
amendment includes a provision from H.R. 
860 asking each state to report annually to the 
Secretary on the level of its funding for research 
and development provided through this 
program. A state may provide such information 
as part of existing reports that the state 
provides to the Secretary. This provision is not 

intended to require any additional reporting 
from the States. Its purpose is simply to provide 
a more accurate accounting of each 
state’s surface transportation research and development 
activities. Currently, it is difficult to 
track research or to separate it from other permitted 
uses of funding under this section. 

The Science Committee concurs with H.R. 
2400’s provisions to reauthorize the Local 
Technical Assistance Program (LTAP). LTAP 
improves access to surface transportation 
technology and serves as the primary channel 
through which innovative transportation technology 
and training are delivered to both 
urban and rural communities. The Manager’s 
Amendment includes language from H.R. 860 
to add concrete to the road and transportation 
areas of which the LTAP is to expand the 
knowledge and expertise of rural and local 
transportation agencies. Concrete is an area 
where substantial knowledge in the research 
community has not adequately filtered down to 
the working level and where universities who 
train the engineers and other experts involved 
in highway construction have a major contribution 
to make in solving the technology transfer 
problem. For instance, the Committee would 
like to see the development of partnerships 
among state Departments of Transportation, 
industry, and associations to address educational 
and training needs, to provide testing 
services and cooperative applied research, to 
demonstrate new technologies and product 
applications, and to link architects, engineers, 
and contractors to speed adoption of industry 
advancements for commercial benefit to the 
surface transportation industry, including the 
area of concrete management. 

Other provisions from H.R. 860 have also 
been included in the amendment to expand 
LTAP’s modern highway technology to include 
implementing life-cycle costs assessment and 
standardized assessments of useful life under 
various conditions for advanced materials. The 
Committee understands that one of the impediments 
to rapid deployment of advanced 
materials in local high construction projects is 
the difficulty of estimating the contributions 
these materials can make to reducing life 
cycle costs of roads, bridges, and other highway 
structures. The Committee feels a research 
program geared to understanding the 
likely useful life of these materials under a variety 
of conditions will decrease uncertainties 
associated with innovation and increase the 
comfort level of local officials as well as their 
willingness to buy new products. 

The Committee is pleased H.R. 2400 includes 
provisions from H.R. 860 reauthorizing 
both The Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation 
Fellowship Program and the National 
Highway Institute. The Eisenhower Fellowship 
Program continues to attract qualified students 
to the field of transportation research to assist 
in developing the professional workforce necessary 
to face future transportation challenges. 
The National Highway Institute (NHI) 
continues to provide education and training to 
Federal, State and local transportation agencies 
in proactive effort to apply state of the art 
transportation technologies emanating from 
the Department’s R&D programs. The NHI is 
the leading resource within the Department for 
providing high quality comprehensive education 
and training programs tailored to meet 
the needs of transportation professionals at all 
levels of the Federal, State and local government, 
as well as industry. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1909 

H.R. 2400’s National Technology Deployment 
Initiative is very similar to H.R. 860’s 
Technology Partnerships Program in that it will 
encourage new transportation technology partnerships 
between the Department and State, 
local, private, academic, and other entities. 
The Committee believes it is essential that the 
Department continue its strong partnership 
role with government and the private sector to 
move technology and innovation into common 
practice. In selecting projects under this program, 
the Committee supports giving preference 
to projects that leverage federal funds 
with other significant public or private resources. 
The University Transportation Centers 
(UTC) Program is one of the few areas where 
the Science Committee and the Transportation 
Committee failed to reach complete agreement 
on the provisions of the legislation. The 
Committee recognizes the UTC Program has 
been shown to be an effective means of advancing 
transportation technology and expertise 
and believes that one of the program’s 
strengths is directly related to the fact that 
most UTCs had to compete to participate, 
stimulating a high degree of continuous improvement 
raising the quality of the entire program. 
H.R. 860 requires participation in the 
UTC program on a peer-reviewed, competitive 
basis. H.R. 2400 allows all participants that received 
grants during Fiscal Year 1997 automatically 
to be awarded participation in the 
UTC program for Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999. 
However, the Science Committee is pleased 
that, beginning in Fiscal Year 2000, participation 
in the UTC program will be based on a 
competitive process for most of the institutions 
participating in the program. 

The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
did not decide to include specific legislative 
authority for awarding grants to researchers 
at primarily undergraduate institutions 
which involve undergraduate students in 
their transportation research. These schools 
are a major source of professional capacity for 
the surface transportation industry and we feel 
that when these engineers are acquainted with 
the purposes and practice of research during 
their university training that they will be more 
sensitive to innovative ideas throughout their 
careers. We note that it is within the power of 
the Department of Transportation to increase 
its efforts to promote undergraduate research 
and we urge the Department to do so. 

The Science Committee is pleased that the 
Manager’s Amendment includes the Surface 
Transportation-Environment Cooperative Research 
Program (STECRP). This program was 
included to address the need for information 
which will assist transportation planners at the 
Federal, State, and local level in their efforts 
to design an intermodal transportation system 
that meets the needs of our citizens for a safe, 
clean environment and for access to economic 
goods and services. 

Transportation projects must meet a 
widerange of criteria under a host of laws at 
the Federal, State, and local levels. Our state 
and local transportation planners are charged 
with the responsibility to assess the environmental 
and community impacts of proposed 
transportation projects. These assessments 
require more than engineering specifications 
and new technologies. They require information 
about the interrelationships between factors 
such as demographic change, land-use 
planning, and transportation system design 

that influence the demand for transportation. 
By creating the STECRP, the Committee ensures 
there will be a program in place to gather 
and disseminate this information to the individuals 
charged with the responsibility for 
making these decisions. 

The Committee recognizes there is a perception 
by low-income and minority communities 
that they are disproportionately impacted 
by some transportation projects and that they 
derive fewer benefits from transportation expenditures. 
Federal and state laws currently 
require the social and economic impacts of 
transportation projects be assessed. The 
Committee feels these debates can best be 
resolved by doing rigorous studies designed to 
examine the nature of the relationship between 
transportation investments and community 
development. Research in this area, which 
is sometimes referred to as environmental justice, 
is eligible for funding under the STECRP. 

The Committee recognizes that many communities 
have utilized funds available under 
the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Program 
to improve or construct pedestrian and 
bicycle trails. We expect that some research 
will be allocated to collecting information about 
the use of these trails that can be used to assess 
their effectiveness in addressing air quality 
and congestion problems, and to identify 
factors which can improve overall trail design 
to ensure maximum benefits are obtained 
through their use. 

The Committee recognizes that there is a 
need to conduct research and development on 
energy use and air quality as it relates to surface 
transportation efficiency. Research in this 
area may include new and innovative fuel 
technologies, such as biodiesel fuel, that enables 
recycled and renewable resources to be 
used as fuel. Biodiesel fuel, a renewable fuel 
product made using virgin soybean oil, may 
potentially help the U.S. achieve cleaner air 
and greater energy independence. 

The Committee expects the advisory board 
to build upon the preliminary work done by the 
participants in the two conferences held to 
identify critical transportation environmental research 
needs in 1991 and 1996 published in 
Transportation Research Board Circulars 389 
and 469 in developing their recommendations. 
These documents identify the type of research 
needs this program is intended to fulfill. 

The Intelligent Transportation Systems program 
is an area where the Committee on 
Science and the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure did not have time before 
floor consideration to work out all of our differences. 
Therefore, the Committee on 
Science was willing to yield to the suggested 
text of the Transportation and Infrastructure 
Committee for purposes of floor consideration 
on the assurance that the provisions of H.R. 
860 would be given due consideration as our 
Committees jointly conference with the Senate 
and work on a final version of the ITS section 
of this legislation. 

The Committee’s concerns regarding ITS 
are straight-forward. There are already examples 
of orphan ITS systems across the country 
paid for at taxpayer expense using protocols 
which are incompatible with other systems and 
with standards which were developed after the 
ITS system was deployed. There are also 
metropolitan areas where some of the ITS 
systems already installed are not compatible 
with others. We are concerned that this is a 
growing problem. The Administration’s pro


posal for ITS takes a sharp swing towards 
demonstrations and implementation of ITS 
systems and away from research and standardization. 
This approach places the cart before 
the horse. Further haste in deployment 
will waste even more tax dollars. We would 
rather defer the deployment of systems a little 
while longer than ask taxpayers to pay for 
both initial deployment and the subsequent 
retrofit of these systems to permit interoperability 
with future systems built subsequently 
in conformance with national standards. 

The ITS principles of the final bill should include: 


The development and promulgation of the 
standards and protocols needed for a national 
ITS architecture and for compatibility of all ITS 
systems subsequently deployed must be 
made the number one priority in this program 
if we are to avoid widespread waste. Furthermore, 
the program must comply with the recently 
revised OMB Circular A–119 which requires 
all Federal agencies to make use of private 
sector standards developed through a 
voluntary consensus process whenever possible. 


Deployments of ITS systems funded under 
this Act should be conditioned on compatibility 
with ITS final and provisional standards. The 
ITS program has instituted a model standards 
development program that is well underway. 
For the initial generations of ITS systems, it is 
clear which standards are needed and the Department 
has provided substantial assistance 
to standards development organizations to 
make sure they are developed on a priority 
basis. Therefore, the Committee feels that 
conditioning further deployments of ITS systems 
on their use of final and provisional 
standards proposed by standard development 
organization’s subcommittees will accelerate 
the development process even further by making 
it in all parties’ interest to have standards 
in place at the earliest possible date. If standards 
are not in place, funds should be spent 
on operational tests which will provide information 
needed to finalize the standards rather 
than on deployments which may later be incompatible 
with the standard. 

We feel that, given the limited funds available 
and the importance of national deployment 
of ITS, that all operational tests and deployments 
carried out in compliance with this 
Act must be designed and carried out with 
subsequent purchasers of similar systems in 
mind. The government needs to use them as 
test beds. Operational tests need to be designed 
for the collection of data and the preparation 
of reports to permit objective evaluation 
of the success of the tests and the derivation 
of cost-benefit information and life-cycle 
costs that will be useful to other contemplating 
the purchase of similar systems. Recipients of 
funds for either operational tests or deployments 
should be asked to help increase the 
understanding of what skills workers must 
possess to successfully operate ITS systems; 
of what similarly situated governments should 
consider before commitment to purchasing an 
ITS system including legal, technological, and 
institutional barriers to deployment; and of how 
to improve procurement of these systems. 

We also feel that a portion of ITS funding 
should look to future ITS systems. At least 15 
percent of funding available for ITS systems 
should be spent on basic research or longterm 
research. The Committee is especially 
concerned that adequate emphasis be placed 


H1910 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

on human factors research, including research 
into the science of the driving process, to improve 
the operational efficiency and safety of 
intelligent transportation systems; research 
conducted on environmental, weather, and 
natural conditions that impact intelligent transportation 
systems, including effects of cold climates. 
We feel that ITS advanced systems 
will be such a fundamental shift in the use of 
motor vehicles that basic research to increase 
our understanding of the driving process, is in 
order. We are concerned that the ITS needs 
of cold climates, will be significantly different 
than needs in other regions of the country and 
that the potential impact on ITS of natural phenomena 
such as earthquakes needs to be understood 
better. We also feel that magnetics 
will have major roles to play in advanced systems 
where cars will travel at rapid rates of 
speed at close differences. 

Additionally, although not specifically referenced 
in H.R. 2400, the Committee supports 
research on new advanced ITS systems designed 
to reduce congestion, enhance safety 
and improve cost effectiveness. The Committee 
does not support reviving the Automated 
Highway Systems, but endorses continuing 
advanced research on traffic technologies 
which may include information technologies 
such as Active Response Geographical Information 
Systems used to facilitate effective 
transportation system decision-making; and 
advanced traffic management technologies, including 
the use of fiber optic cable and video, 
to monitor and control traffic control and volume. 


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, given 
all the stories in the papers about ‘‘pork’’ in 
the transportation bill, I rise today to tell you 
about a transportation project that I believe will 
benefit hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren 
and adults alike in the great State of 
Illinois and which I am proud to sponsor. 

The Museum Campus Chicago, which is in 
my district, is made up of three world-famous 
institutions: the Adler Planetarium and Astronomy 
Museum, the Field Museum of Natural 
History, and the John G. Shedd Aquarium. 
The Museum Campus has a plan to transport 
visitors to its three institutions and others 
along the lake in Chicago on free trolleys powered 
by ethanol. This is a worthy, environmentally 
beneficial project that will be enjoyed 
by literally millions of people. And I and others 
in the Illinois delegation believe it is exactly 
the type of local project that merits Federal 
‘‘BESTEA’’ start-up funding in order to get it 
off the ground. 

The Chicago Museum Campus was just created 
through the $92 million relocation of Lake 
Shore Drive, a major thoroughfare running 
along Lake Michigan in downtown Chicago. 
The Museum Campus, which is on Park District 
land, opens officially this June. It totals 57 
acres, including 10 new acres of public parkland 
that allow a continuous link between the 
three museums, which, Mr. Speaker, already 
draw nearly 4 million visitors a year. The Museum 
Campus will offer outdoor collaborative 
programming and is expected to attract an additional 
1 million visitors a year to the Chicago 
lakefront. It is expected to be one of the country’s 
most popular destinations. 

Still, while the museums are excited about 
the rerouting of Lake Shore Drive, they came 
to me because they have serious access 
problems that could reduce visitorship. I am 
speaking of problems like the loss of several 

hundred parking spaces due to the Lake 
Shore Drive relocation, the long distances between 
the three institutions and to area parking 
lots, competition for parking with Soldier 
Field patrons, and inadequate links to local 
public transportation. All these obstacles make 
visits by the elderly, by the handicapped and 
by families with young children very difficult 
and frustrating. 

It is for these reasons, that I and several of 
my colleagues in the Chicago delegation—and 
our colleagues in the Senate—hope to secure 
BESTEA funds for the Museum Campus 
Transportation Project, which would largely 
eliminate the access problems while increasing 
public awareness of ethanol as a fuel 
choice. The project has two components. The 
first—free Museum Campus and Chicago 
Lakefront shuttle service—was recommended 
in a recent Lakefront Transportation Study 
prepared for the City of Chicago Department 
of Transportation. The Museum Campus took 
the report’s advice and launched a free trolley 
service last summer on a pilot basis. The trolleys 
were very popular—they shuttled more 
than 300,,000 visitors, up to 6,000 people a 
day, between the museums and parking lots! 
Besides being free and reducing people’s 
stress levels, the trolleys also reduced traffic 
congestion, and noise and air pollution. I think 
there’s no argument about the benefits of 
these trolleys. 

I am pleased to join with several of my colleagues 
to seek BESTEA funds for the Museum 
Campus Transportation Project to establish 
a permanent Museum Campus shuttle 
system using ethanol-powered trolleys and to 
extend shuttle service along the lakefront to 
other cultural destinations. Stops along the 
Lakefront Shuttle route would include the Art 
Institute, the Museum of Contemporary Art, 
the Chicago Cultural Center, the Spertus Museum, 
the Grant Park Festival Center, the 
Children’s Museum at Navy Pier, Columbia 
College, and Roosevelt and DePaul universities. 


The second component of the Museum 
Campus Transportation Project is the creation 
of an intermodal transportation center at the 
intersection of Indiana Avenue and Roosevelt 
Road, which also is endorsed by the City’s 
Lakefront Transportation Study. This center 
would connect the trolley route to bus routes, 
the CTA and Metra stations—the local elevated 
train and subway—and to pedestrian 
walkways. It would also include construction of 
an 850-car decked parking garage nearby. Mr. 
Speaker, the intermodal transportation center 
will provide easier access to the Museum 
Campus and to other lakefront offerings for all 
visitors using all forms of transportation. 

The Museum Campus and its City and private 
partners intend to run the shuttle systems 
in the future. They will raise the necessary 
funds through private contributions, increased 
museum entrance fees, projected parking fees 
and City funds. 

Mr. Speaker, I hope that you will agree that 
this project is the type of project that we at the 
Federal level are happy to lend a helping hand 
to. It makes good economic sense, good environmental 
sense, and is an investment in the 
thousands of children and others who want to 
experience and learn from Chicago’s many 
cultural institutions. This Sunday afternoon, 
the Museum Campus is holding an open 
house for members of the Illinois delegation. I 
invite you and others in this Body to come visit 

the Field, the Shedd and the Adler and see 
why I believe in this project. 

Mr. CRANE. Mr. Chairman, three years ago, 
when the Contract with America was being debated, 
had somebody told me that this Congress 
would seriously consider, much less 
adopt, legislation calling for a 40% increase in 
highway spending, I would have said ‘‘only on 
April Fools Day.’’ Well, here it is, April 1, 1998, 
and what do we have on the Floor but a bill 
fitting that description that stands a good 
chance of being approved. 

Is it a joke? No indeed. Whatever people 
may think of it, the Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act (BESTEA) we 
are considering today is a very real and a very 
attractive proposal for a number of reasons. 

First of all, BESTEA meets a clear need, the 
need for better roads, safer bridges and relief 
from the incessant traffic congestion that 
plagues Chicago and many other urban areas 
of this country. Second, the legislation deals 
with several rather obvious inequities, one 
being the expenditure of federal gas taxes for 
purposes other than those intended and another 
being that not all states receive a fair return 
on their gas tax contributions. Third, the 
bill addresses these inequities in a way that is 
not only generous but is designed to prevent 
their recurrence. And fourth, almost every 
state and four congressional districts out of 
every five stand to benefit from that generosity 
and from the inclusion of nearly 1,800 demonstration 
projects in the legislation. 

So what is the problem? 

Put simply, the problem is the way 
BESTEA, or H.R. 2400 as it is otherwise 
known, goes about those tasks. 

Yes, BESTEA meets a need, but that need 
can be met without shattering the balanced 
budget agreement by a $26 billion margin. 

Yes, BESTEA corrects several inequities, 
but there are other ways those can be addressed 
besides setting a spending increase 
precedent so monumental that many other 
special interest groups will be tempted to seek 
similar treatment. 

Yes, BESTEA is generous, but is being so 
generous to ourselves fair to future generations 
who will have to pay the bill for any deficits 
that may result? 

Yes, BESTEA calls for budget cuts to offset 
those spending increases, but it does not 
specify what they are or guarantee that they 
will be in the bill when it is enacted into law. 

Yes, BESTEA has state and local appeal 
but, at the same time, it is so expensive and 
so replete with demonstration projects that it 
threatens the nation’s fiscal interests. 

And yes, it may be easier to pass a bill like 
BESTEA that increases spending enough to 
make everybody happy in the short term than 
it is to adopt a measure that develops priorities, 
makes choices and promotes fiscal year 
responsibility over the long run. 

But expediency should not be the determining 
factor when it comes to surface transportation 
legislation. Instead, our decisions should 
be primarily based on the very same need for 
fiscal restraint and responsibility that caused 
many of us to seek, and be elected to, public 
office in the first place. Otherwise put, that 
means taking into account the fact that Uncle 
Sam has been running in the red for 30 years, 
may continue to run in the red if we are not 
careful, and has accumulated a $5.5 trillion 
national debt that should be reduced if its forbidding 
consequences are not to hang like the 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1911 

Sword of Damocles over the heads of our children 
and grandchildren. 

Like many other Members, I cannot help but 
be impressed by what H.R. 2400 could do in 
the short term for my state and locality. Not 
only that but I like the idea of taking the Highway 
Trust Fund off budget, which BESTEA 
would accomplish. However, last year’s balanced 
budget agreement, which BESTEA 
would shred, provides for a 20% increase in 
surface transportation spending which should 
be sufficient to fund the most pressing infrastructure 
needs and the most deserving of the 
demonstration projects. Moreover, the sanctity 
of the Highway Trust Fund can be restored by 
reducing gas taxes to the level of annual appropriations 
rather than by increasing spending 
so as to consume all of those revenues. 
Furthermore, enactment of H.R. 2400 would 
appear to be entirely inconsistent with the tenets 
of fiscal responsibility and restraint to 
which the majority in this Congress has heretofore 
adhered. To many, it might smack of 
hypocrisy. 

For all those reasons, I find myself obliged 
to oppose this edition of BESTEA. While it is 
possible that some of its excesses might be 
addressed in conference, there is no assurance 
that they will be corrected or that others 
will not be added. Worse yet, approval of this 
bill by the House of Representatives would 
send absolutely the wrong message about our 
future fiscal intentions. Accordingly, we should 
return this bill to committee so that it can be 
scaled back to a level that allows necessary 
infrastructure improvements to be made but is 
in keeping with the balanced budget agreement. 
Granted, that will not be easy and could 
take some time, but far better that than the alternative. 
Believe me, our children and grandchildren 
will thank us for looking beyond our 
immediate interests to their prospects as well. 

Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma. I rise today in 
support of H.R. 2400. I commend Chairman 
SHUSTER for his hard work in constructing a 
bill that recognizes that the nation’s transportation 
infrastructure is in severe disrepair and 
that public safety is at equally severe risk. 

The statistics speak for themselves. The 
number of people killed on our nation’s highways 
has risen to 42,000 a year. Every 13 
minutes someone loses their life on our nation’s 
highways. Many of these deaths are the 
result of road and bridge conditions that are 
shameful. 

We have a perfect example of this in my 
home state of Oklahoma. There is a crosstown 
bridge in Oklahoma City that is in a serious 
state of deterioation—so serious, in fact, 
that the Oklahoma Department of Transportation 
has to examine the structure every 6 
months and has to spend over $300,000 a 
year in patch-work repairs. 

Now, don’t be mistaken. This is not a local 
highway. This is a stretch of Interstate 40—a 
major, national East-West corridor that connects 
in Oklahoma City with two other Interstates 
which connect traffic from Mexico to 
Canada and from coast to coast. This crosstown 
bridge carries more than 100,000 vehicles 
a day, and over 60% of the truck traffic 
is from outside of Oklahoma. 

With H.R. 2400, the critical repairs can finally 
begin on this important national highway. 
An accident-waiting-to-happen can be reconstructed 
into a safe, modern highway, and as 
a public official who is responsible for public 
safety, I can tell you that this gives me a great 
sense of relief. 

I also want to commend the Chairman for 
returning ‘‘trust’’ to the ‘‘trust fund’’ in this legislation. 
It is time that the gas taxes paid by 
our constituents for highway maintenance and 
construction be directed to repairing and building 
safer highways for American families. This 
bill achieves that long overdue goal. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote 
in favor of H.R. 2400 and yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support 
of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act. I do so because 
it is imperative that Congress rectify the 
longstanding shortfall in transportation funds 
received by Michigan. 

For as long as I’ve served in the House and 
longer, my state of Michigan has been a donor 
state. Along with other donor states, Michigan 
has received far less than our fair share of 
transportation funding, averaging just 85 cents 
for every dollar we send to the federal government. 
Over the last 15 months, I have worked 
with the Michigan Delegation, Chairman SHUSTER, 
Representative OBERSTAR and others to 
address this longstanding injustice. I believe 
the bill before us today represents the only 
available vehicle to bring about a fairer deal 
for donor states like Michigan. Under this bill, 
Michigan’s annual highway funding would rise 
to $872.3 million a year. That’s an increase of 
$358 million a year over what Michigan received 
under the 1991 ISTEA law. The basic 
formula remains inequitable; Michigan would 
remain a donor state, but at least this legislation 
is a step in the right direction. 

At the same time, I want to reiterate my 
chagrin over the failure of the Majority in the 
House to put together a budget resolution 
which would make clear how this bill would fit 
into the overall budget. Where is the Majority’s 
budget resolution? Simply put, this process 
puts the cart before the horse. This bill is silent 
on the issue of spending offsets to pay for 
the increased funding of transportation needs. 
We cannot just pave over the commitment we 
made last year to live within the framework of 
a balanced budget. When 214 of us voted last 
year to support the Shuster/Oberstar amendment, 
we were saying: Yes, we need to spend 
more on infrastructure. Yes, more money has 
to be made available to donor states. The difference 
is that we were willing to pay for it. 

The Republican Leadership in the House is 
abdicating fiscal responsibility by continuing to 
delay a vote on the budget resolution. Unless 
the House Leadership intends to completely 
abandon fiscal discipline, sooner or later—and 
the sooner the better—we’re going to have to 
come up with the budget offsets to pay for increased 
transportation spending. I regret we 
have not done so before today. 

My vote today in support of the transportation 
bill is a vote to continue the process of 
addressing the longstanding inequities of the 
current highway funding formulas. The next 
step is for this bill to go to conference with the 
Senate. I want to make it clear that my vote 
on the final conference report will depend on 
two factors. First, fair treatment for donor 
states like Michigan. I will not support any bill 
that does not address the longstanding funding 
inequities borne by Michigan and other 
donor states. Second, my vote on the conference 
report will depend on concrete actions 
by the conferees and the Budget Committee 
to bring this bill into line with last year’s balanced 
budget agreement, including appropriate, 
sound offsets. 

Mrs. CHENOWETH. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in strong support of H.R. 2400, a bill to 
authorize funds for Federal-aid highways, 
highway safety programs, and transit programs. 


H.R. 2400 is extremely important to the 
State of Idaho and its citizens. This legislation 
provides a significantly higher level of funding 
for surface transportation programs as compared 
to the level provided under the short 
term Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
1997 which expires on May 1, 1998. 
Although the highway program formula used 
to apportion funds to the states under H.R. 
2400 fails to fairly and equitably address the 
needs of rural states, such as Idaho, it is important 
that Congress pass, and the President 
sign, a new surface transportation act. 

The State of Idaho support H.R. 2400 albeit 
with some concerns. I include the letter from 
the Idaho Transportation Department with this 
statement. 

TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT, 

March 31, 1998. 

Hon. HELEN CHENOWETH, 

U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 
Re: House Vote on H.R. 2400 (BESTEA) 

DEAR CONGRESSMAN CHENOWETH: As you 
know, the House will vote this week on H.R. 
2400, the ‘‘Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1997’’ (BESTEA). 
The passage of a new surface transportation 
act is extremely important to the State of 
Idaho and its citizens and I wanted to convey 
to you our thoughts on this critical vote. 

First, we believe you should vote for the 
passage of BESTEA for two reasons: 

BESTEA provides a significantly higher 
level of funding for surface transportation program 
as compared to the level provided under 
the now expired Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act (ISTEA). The House 
bill authorizes $218.3 billion in transportation 
funding over a six-year period, an increase 
of more than 40% over the ISTEA levels. 


It is very important that Congress passes a 
new surface transportation act as soon as possible. 
States are now operating under the 
short-term ‘‘Surface Transportation Extension 
Act’’ which expires on May 1, 1998. After 
that date there will be no federal-aid funding 
available to the states. Most transportation 
programs will be completely shut down or severely 
curtailed. In northern states like 
Idaho and entire highway construction season 
may be missed entirely. 

Secondly, we have the following major objection 
to the content of the House bill 
which should be corrected in Conference 
Committee with the Senate: 

The highway program formulas used to apportion 
funds to the states under BESTEA do not 
fairly and equitably address the needs or characteristics 
of rural states. An overemphasis is 
placed on factors that favor urbanized states 
such as population, contributions to the 
Highway Trust Fund and total public road 
mileage. Urban highway miles and vehicle 
miles-of-travel are double counted while 
those in rural areas are not. Local road mileage 
and traffic are used as factors in determining 
the distribution of funds for the 
Interstate and National Highway System 
programs, which are both strictly national 
and federal in character and use. 

If you have any questions concerning the 
Transportation Department’s position on 

H.R. 2400, please don’t hesitate to call me at 
(208) 334–8807. 
Sincerely, 
DWIGHT M. BOWER, 

Director. 

Mr. DAVIS of Florida. Mr. Chairman, today 
I rise in reluctant opposition to HR 2400, the 


H1912 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Building Efficient Surface Transportation and 
Equity Act (BESTEA). Quite simply, this bill is 
too much of a good thing. Infrastructure funding 
is critical for the economic future of our nation, 
but this bill goes too far and in doing so 
breaks the bi-partisan balanced budget agreement 
of last year. We should be debating an 
increase in transportation funding, but we 
should be having this debate first within the 
context of a budget resolution where we can 
analyze transportation needs relative to other 
critical domestic priorities. Above all, I believe 
we must keep to the spirit of the balanced 
budget agreement we passed last year. This 
year, we have a balanced budget for the first 
time in 30 years and today the House is being 
asked to pass a spending bill which blows a 
$40 billion hole in the budget. 

Clearly, our states have transportation 
needs that are significantly underfunded and I 
agree that we should be increasing federal 
funding for transportation. For my home state 
of Florida, this bill does help address the fundamental 
inequities in the current funding formula. 
Under current law, Florida receives an 
average of 77 cents for every dollar sent to 
Washington in gasoline taxes. BESTEA would 
increase this return to roughly 87 cents on the 
dollar. I commend the Chairman and Ranking 
Member for their commitment to addressing 
this issue and I urge them to continue to work 
on a fairer funding formula to ensuring that 
every state receives its fair share of transportation 
dollars. 

Mr. Chairman, despite this improvement in 
the funding formula and the fact that this bill 
funds many worthwhile and important transportation 
projects, I must oppose it based on 
the overall levels of funding. I believe we can 
and must find a way to increase transportation 
funding without abandoning fiscal responsibility. 
This bill does not offset the increases in 
spending, leaving it only to a promise of future, 
unidentified cuts in other programs. Furthermore, 
the overall levels of funding under 
this bill set up a fiscal train wreck in the coming 
years as Congress will have to make massive 
cuts in other domestic priorities to maintain 
a balanced budget. 

When I was elected to Congress, I was 
skeptical that this body had the fiscal restraint 
to balance the budget. This past year, I had 
hope that things had changed. We worked together 
to pass a tough balanced budget act in 
a bi-partisan manner and proved to the American 
people that we were serious about ending 
decades of deficit spending. Now, no sooner 
than the Congressional Budget Office has certified 
that we have balanced the budget with 
the possibility of surpluses for the near future, 
Congress is rushing out to spend tens of billions 
of dollars that we simply do not have. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to reaffirm 
this Congress’s commitment to fiscal responsibility 
and vote no on HR 2400. 

Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in 
support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficiency 
and Surface Transportation and Equity Act 
(BESTEA). This legislation provides a total of 
over $218.3 billion over six years for federal 
highway and transit programs. This funding is 
much needed and overdue, and will provide 
Americans with a stronger transportation infrastructure. 


The effects of BESTEA are clear. It will 
save lives by improving the safety of our highways, 
and will improve the environment by 
emphasizing mass transit, the Congestion Miti


gation Air Quality Program (CMAQ), and non-
motorized uses such as bike trails. 

The First Congressional District of Colorado 
is one of the top ten fastest growing metropolitan 
area in the country and has witnessed unprecedented 
demands on its transportation 
system. The need for wise and creative investment 
in transportation has never been greater 
for Denver metropolitan area. This legislation 
will address these needs, laying a sound foundation 
for federal-local partnership. 

However, I believe that the offsets for 
BESTEA must not come from important domestic 
programs, such as education, environment 
or health care. Therefore, I will oppose 
efforts which seek to sacrifice the progress 
this country has made to improve the quality 
of life. Congress needs to work in a bipartisan 
manner to ensure that these offsets are fair 
and appropriate. 

Mr. BILBRAY. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to 
express my appreciation to Chairman BUD 
SHUSTER and express my strong support for 
the provisions in H.R. 2400 that promote the 
use of clean fuel vehicles and technology in 
public transit, and the incentives it provides 
which allow consumers greater opportunity to 
travel in environmentally sound modes of 
transportation. 

The CMAQ, research and development, bus 
and bus facility grant provisions of H.R. 2400 
are examples of the Committee’s effort to 
begin coordinating federal transportation policy 
with federal environmental policy. Giving 
states the opportunity to allow an electric vehicle 
with fewer than two occupants to operate 
in an high occupancy vehicle lane is yet another 
example. 

Mr. Speaker, as you know, promoting policies 
which improve our air quality is a subject 
near and dear to my heart. As a former 
mayor, county supervisor, member of my regional 
air resources board, and member of our 
county mass transit authority, I understand the 
difficulties local governments and the private 
sector face in meeting federal mandates. I 
saw first hand how the federal government 
subsidized polluting fuels, while at the same 
time heavily regulating small businesses over 
their emissions levels. Small businesses, local 
governments, and consumer vehicles have 
stepped up to the plate. It’s time the Federal 
government do its share. 

How many times have you been driving 
down the street and saw black smoke belching 
out of a bus and that black soot entering 
into the air? Ninety percent of all bus purchases 
are paid for with federal dollars. While 
the federal government has been paying for 
these polluting vehicles, small companies, 
local governments and the private sector have 
been reducing their emissions levels, oftentimes 
under the threat of severe punitive action. 
It’s time that the federal government lead 
by example and operate under the same set 
of clean air rules we require of everyone else. 

Yesterday, I testified before the Rules Committee 
in order to offer an amendment which 
would have phased out the spending of federal 
dollars in this bill on polluting fuels in 
mass transit. This amendment would have 
simply required that any federal funds in the 
bill which were to be spent on mass transit vehicles 
must be spent on technologies which 
meet EPA’s definition of clean fuel technology. 
This amendment would not have been retroactive, 
and would have only applied to future 
vehicle purchases. Unfortunately this amend


ment was not ruled in order, but I was heartened 
by the positive response I received from 
my colleagues on this subject. In fact, I plan 
on introducing a bill later this Spring that 
would help accomplish this goal. 

Chairman SHUSTER has been very helpful in 
assisting me with moving this proposal along. 
In fact, we worked together to add Section 
340 in the Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 
2400. Section 340 directs the Comptroller 
General to conduct a study to examine the 
current status of clean fuels technology, which 
is to be completed by the end of 1999. This 
study will be reported to the Congress by January 
1, 2000. 

I am confident that this study will demonstrate 
what numerous major cities in non-attainment 
zones already know. The technology 
exists to move our mass transit systems to 
cleaner burning fuels. These cities are already 
accomplishing much in this area. San Diego 
County made the herculean effort to begin 
phasing out its diesel burning buses to natural 
gas buses. By the year 2000, 26% of its bus 
fleet will be using clean fuel technology that 
already exists. 

Again, I thank Chairman SHUSTER in working 
with me on this vital matter, as well as 
Chairman BLILEY of the Commerce Committee, 
who has always given me the opportunity 
to pursue new methods of improving our air 
quality. 

Mr. EVERETT. Mr. Chairman, I am proud to 
speak today in support of H.R. 2400, the 
Transportation Authorization bill. Our nation’s 
infrastructure has been overlooked and treated 
as a low priority for far too long. It is time to 
re-invest in our nation’s roads, bridges, and 
other surface transportation needs. By improving 
and properly maintaining our infrastructure, 
we will enhance new growth opportunities, 
commerce, and safety. I believe this legislation 
meets many of these goals. 

In addition, the regional distribution of gas 
tax and user fees are more properly allocated 
among all 50 states in this bill than in the past. 
As a member of the Donor State Coalition, 
this represents a hard fought victory for those 
states, like Alabama, that have been paying in 
more in gas taxes than they have received in 
federal highway funds. I pledge to continue in 
my efforts to see that donor states ultimately 
receive a 95% overall rate-of-return and further 
that these states receive a rate-of-return 
of 100% of the fund distributed to states. 

Perhaps most importantly, H.R. 2400 addresses 
the infrastructure priorities of the 
State of Alabama. Of our Governor’s top highway 
priorities, I am pleased to say that two of 
these projects are located in my district in 
Southeast Alabama. The bill provides additional 
funding, at my request, for both the 
Montgomery Outer Loop project and the 
Dothan I–10 Connector. 

Once completed, the Outer Loop will link I– 
85 with I–65 and U.S. 80. This will allow for 
more orderly growth in and around Montgomery, 
our state capital. The eastern side of 
Montgomery is experiencing the most rapid 
growth of the area, so construction of this 
outer loop project will ease the burdens currently 
placed on our existing transportation 
routes. 

The Dothan project will connect Dothan with 
Interstate 10 in northwest Florida. Additionally, 
this freeway will serve as an important link between 
Fort Rucker, home of the U.S. Army 
Aviation Warfighting Center, and the interstate 
system. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1913 

Both of these projects are essential in meeting 
the increasing demands in these rapidly 
growing and developing areas. Further, as priorities 
of the state transportation officials, 
these projects are in the state’s long range 
plan and are thereby assured of receiving the 
requisite state matching funds. 

Mr. Chairman, this legislation represents a 
balanced blue print for renewing American’s 
highway infrastructure and safety needs over 
the next six years. I am confident that the 
funding commitments of the bill will remain 
within our balanced budget structure, and I 
urge its adoption. 

Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act. I commend 
Chairman SHUSTER and Ranking Member 
OBERSTAR for their work in crafting legislation 
that meets the transportation needs of this 
nation. 

For the last six years Alabama has received 
an average of $330 billion per year for transportation. 
When this bill becomes law Alabama 
will receive $552 billion per year. This 
will mean a 67% increase and brings a level 
of fairness for Alabama since we have been 
getting the short end of the stick on transportation 
funding. Fairness in this process is crucial 
to ensure our roads and bridges are as 
we move into the 21st Century. 

However, I am most pleased with the creation 
of a specific category for the Appalachian 
Development Highway System (ADHS) for 
the first time. The Fourth Congressional District 
of Alabama contains very few miles of 
four lane highways. Unfortunately, the Interstate 
Highway System did not include a route 
to connect Birmingham, Alabama with Memphis, 
Tennessee. This is an unacceptable 
omission from the Interstate Highway System 

Thankfully, the Appalachian Development 
Highway System includes Corridor X which 
will connect these two cities, and runs through 
North Alabama, In addition, the system includes 
Corridor V which connects with Corridor 
X in Alabama and runs through North 
Alabama to Chattanooga, Tennessee is part of 
the Appalachian Development Highway System. 


Category funding for the Appalachian Development 
Highway System is crucial to expedite 
completion of these two highways. Traditionally, 
the Appalachian Development Highway 
System has had to rely on the annual appropriations 
process. Corridor X and Corridor V 
fared well in some years, but other years they 
received little, if any funds. 

This made it difficult for long term planning 
and has needlessly delayed completion of 
both highways. In fact the Appalachian Development 
Highway System is only 78% complete 
while the Interstate Highway System is 
99% complete. 

Category funding ensures a stable source of 
funding that will complete the corridors in Alabama 
and throughout the thirteen states of 
Appalachia. I urge all Members to move this 
bill to Conference so we can complete this 
process before we lose additional time during 
the annual construction season. 

Mr. COSTELLO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
strong support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act. 
This bill reauthorizes highway, mass transit 
and highway safety programs for six years. By 
passing this legislation we will be renewing 
our commitment to investing in America’s infrastructure. 


Our infrastructure is crumbling around us. In 
my home State of Illinois, for example, a quarter 
of all the bridges are structurally deficient. 
Forty-three percent of road in Illinois are in 
poor or mediocre condition. Driving on these 
roads costs Illinois motorists $1 billion a year 
in extra vehicle operating costs. That is $144 
per driver. These statistics are shameful. As 
we enter the next millennium, we cannot allow 
our nation’s infrastructure to languish in the 
past. We have ignored these problems for too 
long. 

As a Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure 
Committee which crafted this bill, 
I know this bill is a solid piece of legislation. 

H.R. 2400 will enable us to bring our transportation 
needs into the 21st Century. Under this 
bill, highways and transit systems will operate 
more efficiently. People and goods will travel 
more safely because of the highway safety 
programs and initiatives under this bill. I will 
promote a cleaner environment and decrease 
the red tape associated with environmental 
regulations. 
I realize that many have criticized the high 
priority projects included in this bill. They call 
these projects ‘‘pork.’’ However, I would like to 
clarify that these projects are included only 
after consulting with local elected officials, 
local highway departments and state departments 
of transportation about the transportation 
needs of communities. Republicans 
espouse the need to give control back to the 
localities. That is exactly what these high priority 
projects are all about. The local governments 
know what their transportation priorities 
and needs are. By including funding for local 
projects in H.R. 2400 we are allowing local 
and regional officials to decide on and meet 
their own transportation needs. Further, the 
authorization for high priority projects is only 5 
percent of the total funding in the bill. No programs 
in the bill are compromised at the expense 
of including high priority projects. 

In my district in Southwestern Illinois these 
projects are critical to meet the transportation 
needs of many communities. For example, the 
MetroLink light rail system provides a vital 
transportation link for commuters and travelers 
in the St. Louis-MetroEast area. Under this 
bill, MetroLink will be expanded from East St. 
Louis to Belleville Area College and then to 
MidAmerica Airport. When this extension is 
complete, the region’s two airports, St. Louis-
Lambert International in St. Louis, MO and 
MidAmerica Airport in St. Clair County, Illinois 
will be linked by one light rail line. MetroLink, 
whose ridership has surpassed all expectations, 
has had an enormous impact on the environment, 
transportation efficiency and economic 
development in my district and the entire 
St. Louis metropolitan region. It is precisely 
projects like these that are so important 
in this bill. These projects are vital to communities. 


Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. We must 
pass this bill so critical infrastructure funding 
can get to our states. This bill is not about 
pork! It is about improving our transportation 
policies so that Americans and our goods can 
travel efficiently and safely throughout our nation. 


Let’s pass this bill today so we can get it to 
the President before funding expires on May 

1. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting in 
favor of H.R. 2400. 
Ms. CHRISTIAN-GREEN. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise today to join my colleagues in strong sup


port of the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act. I want to thank the 
Chairman of the Transportation Committee, 
Mr. SHUSTER and the Ranking Democrat Mr. 
OBERSTAR for their strong leadership in getting 
this bill to the floor today. BESTEA as the bill 
is also known, will authorize $218 billion over 
six years for federal highways and mass transit 
programs. It would also modify highway 
funding formulas to ensure that each state receives 
90% of the amount it pays to the federal 
government in gas taxes. 

I also want to strongly urge my colleagues 
to support continuation of the Department of 
Transportation’s Disadvantage Enterprise Program, 
(DBE). This is an issue that is of the utmost 
importance to the President. And it is a 
program that was first enacted for highway 
transit construction projects under President 
Reagan. 

It is an equal opportunity program which 
uses flexible goals established by state and 
local transportation programs to ensure that 
small businesses owned by women, minorities 
and other disadvantaged individuals have a 
fair chance to compete for federal transportation 
contracts. 

Whether we believe so or not, it is a fact 
that minorities and women continue to face 
discrimination on a daily basis. We must not 
turn the clock back on this segment of our 
population by eliminating a program that, since 
its inception, has significantly increased the 
percentage of women and minority-owned 
construction firms. 

We must defeat the Roukema amendment 
and protect economic opportunity for women 
and minorities. 

In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank 
the Chairman of the Surface Transportation 
Subcommittee for his willingness to support 
the transportation needs of my constituents. I 
also want to especially thank my colleague the 
Ranking Member of the Surface Transportation 
Subcommittee Mr. RAHALL, for his help 
as well. 

I urge my colleagues to support this bill 
which will serve as the engine to further drive 
our nation’s economy into the 21st century 
and beyond. 

Mr. PACKARD. Mr. Chairman, H.R. 2400, 
the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1997 (BESTEA), provides 
much-needed funding for the improvement 
and renewal of highways across the country. 
I support this legislation because, as I see it, 
it is the first step towards improving our infrastructure. 
However, I would like to share my 
concerns that this legislation does not provide 
taxpayers in states like California with a fair 
share in federal transportation funding. This is 
an issue that we cannot ignore and must address 
in the near future. 

Under BESTEA, Californians will pay $22 
billion towards federal highway funding, but 
will only be guaranteed $19 billion in return. 
We must stop asking California taxpayers to 
pay for highway and infrastructure improvements 
that they may never see. They should 
not constantly be forced to sacrifice their hard-
earned money to projects in some other town, 
in some other state. 

As it stands, communities throughout California 
are struggling to maintain their infrastructure. 
For many quickly growing communities, 
it is nearly impossible to keep up, and 
this is not only unfair for taxpayers, it is becoming 
unsafe. 


H1914 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. Chairman, while I support BESTEA, I 
urge my colleagues to keep California and 
other ‘‘donor states’’ across the country in 
mind when voting on this and related legislation. 
Let’s not wait to address this dilemma 
and find a funding formula that is fair for California 
taxpayers. 

Mr. PASTOR. Mr. Chairman, I rise today to 
express my strong support for the Indian Reservation 
Roads program (IRR). As the House 
considers BESTEA, I urge the conferees to 
fully support the Senate amount of $250 million 
annually for the program. 

The needs of the Native American community 
are often overlooked and under funded. 
The conditions of reservation roads are the 
worst in this country and immediate attention 
and funding is badly needed in order for tribes 
to attract economic development. We must not 
ignore these needs. 

In the bill under consideration today, the 
House has authorized up to $212 million annually 
for the IRR program. While I am 
pleased that the Committee recognized the 
need for an increase in the program, I am 
hopeful that the Committee will recede to the 
Senate’s amount of $250 million annually for 
the IRR program. I believe that this modest increase 
is essential to the continued economic 
progress and improvement of our nation’s tribal 
communities. 

Again, I urge the conferees to support this 
vital program for Indian reservations. 

Mr. POMEROY. Mr. Chairman, I rise today 
in reluctant opposition to H.R. 2400, the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act (BESTEA) which reauthorizes federal 
highway spending. States desperately need 
adequate resources to keep pace with the 
stresses placed on their transportation infrastructure. 
While I am supportive of increased 
funding for transportation infrastructure, I believe 
the bill before us today contains a flawed 
funding formula which leaves rural states without 
the resources to address their transportation 
needs. 

Highway funding is vitally important to every 
state in America, especially my state of North 
Dakota since we have more miles of road per 
capita than any state in the nation. Highways 
are the lifeline of our economy, providing a 
means to transport commodities to market and 
linking the distance between our cities and 
towns. 

This bill unfortunately short changes several 
rural states. Large rural states face unique 
challenges in maintaining, repairing and building 
their transportation network. However, the 
funding distribution formula contained in the 
bill results in a drop in total spending for North 
Dakota and other rural states from the existing 
formula. Under BESTEA, North Dakota would 
receive $34 million a year less than what it 
would receive if the bill were enacted using 
the existing formula. Maintaining a sound and 
efficient transportation network across the 
country depends on adequate funding for both 
urban/suburban and rural areas. 

The transportation bill which passed the 
Senate contained a funding formula which 
strikes a balance between the competing interests 
of urban/suburban and rural areas. I am 
hopeful that as the conference committee begins 
work on the two bills that we can reach 
a funding formula that recognizes the unique 
aspects of rural states. 

Mr. EWING. Mr. Chairman, I would like to 
commend the Chairman for the highway bill 

we are voting on today, which is truly bipartisan 
and reflects a commitment to ensuring the 
continued viability of our national highway infrastructure. 


I want to take a few moments to express my 
support for an important domestic renewable 
energy program that, unfortunately, is not included 
in this bill, but which I hope to see included 
in the final ISTEA reauthorization conference 
report. This program is the Federal 
Ethanol Program. 

Ethanol is a very important, value-added 
market for agriculture, providing a critical economic 
stimulus throughout the Midwest. 
Today, the third largest use of corn is for ethanol 
production, behind only feed and export 
uses. Ethanol production utilizes approximately 
7 percent of the nation’s corn corp, increasing 
farm income and generating tremendous 
economic activity both within rural America 
and nationwide. 

The use of ethanol also lessens our dependence 
on foreign oil. Today, we depend on 
oil imports to meet more than 54% of our consumption. 
Using ethanol decreases the demand 
for oil, thus increasing our energy independence 
and safeguarding against problems 
in the volatile Middle East. 

Ethanol provides tremendous environmental 
benefits, including a reduction of harmful emissions 
of carbon monoxide, ozone, and 
toxicities. Ethanol can also alleviate concerns 
about climate change and rising greenhouse 
gases. A recent study completed by the Argonne 
National Laboratory found that use of 
corn-ethanol results in a 50–60 percent reduction 
in fossil energy use and a 35 to 46 percent 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. 

The benefits of Ethanol are well documented, 
and I believe it is crucial for the federal 
government to maintain a strong ethanol 
policy. Mr. Chairman, I hope that, as this bill 
moves forward, you can support the Senate 
language on ethanol. 

Additionally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to 
take this opportunity to discuss the ramifications 
of a rule, finalized by the U.S. Department 
of Transportation last year, known as 
HM–200. This rule needlessly imposes the will 
of the federal government upon states with regard 
to the regulations governing the transport 
of Hazardous Materials in the agriculture industry. 
Mr. Chairman, this Committee and this 
Congress are right to take action to prevent 
the usurpation of state’s rights and the resulting 
effect to commerce and safety of a rule 
which is not supported in its conclusions by 
any evidence of improved safety, or any consideration 
of its impact on the community it 
seeks to protect. 

The farmers who produce the many crops 
that form the basis of the American agricultural 
economy rely on agricultural production 
materials to aid in the development of a 
healthy and robust harvest that is the safest 
and most abundant in the world. These materials 
are sold by, delivered and applied by agricultural 
retailers who are among the most experienced 
men and women in the country in 
handling these types of materials. The rigors 
of continuous training and a lifetime of experience 
have taught them how to safety store, 
transport, and apply hazardous agricultural inputs. 


As a result, some states with a large agricultural 
economy have given the retail community 
an exception to complying with Hazardous 
Materials (HAZMAT) transport regulations for 

the intrastate transport of hazardous agriculture 
inputs from retail facility to farm, farm 
to farm, and from farm to facility. My own 
home state of Illinois is one of these states, 
and despite having such an exception, the Illinois 
Department of Transportation (IDOT) has 
closely monitored the agricultural community 
to ensure its safety. In nearly fifteen years, 
IDOT has yet to find a reason to revoke these 
exceptions. 

In early 1997, the Research and Special 
Programs Administration (RSPA) of the U.S. 
Department of Transportation finalized its HM– 
200 rule. This rule forces states to implement 
the same standards for all intrastate HAZMAT 
transport as they do for federally regulated 
interstate transport. As a result, states which 
already have exceptions in place would lose 
them, as HM–200 would preempt their existence. 
Other states which do not already have 
exceptions in place would lose the ability to 
provide one to their retailer community. Despite 
a petition signed by a 48 member coalition 
asking the U.S. Department of Transportation 
(DOT) to reconsider this aspect of its 
HM–200 rule, and numerous letters to RSPA 
expressing industry sentiment, the administration 
refused to re-examine its position of the 
HM–200 rule. 

Included within H.R. 2400 is language which 
would preserve the rights of states to provide 
HAZMAT transport exceptions for retailers and 
farming communities. This language by no 
means mandates nationwide exceptions, it 
only provides the option for states to provide 
them. Supporting this language are a wide bipartisan 
array of House members from across 
the country, as well as a 57 member industry 
coalition representing every aspect of the agricultural 
community. 

Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that you have 
joined me in supporting this language which 
will prevent the federal government from imposing 
yet another onerous burden on states. 
The US DOT has produced no studies or accident 
reports to substantiate the policy of denying 
exceptions to retailers. In fact, the US 
DOT has joined several other public interest 
groups to counter our efforts with respect to 
HM–200. The Agency has consistently attempted 
to substantiate this position by using 
the results of accident reports for interstate 
commerce. 

This agriculture industry and the large, long-
haul vehicles carrying thousands of gallons/ 
lbs. of hazardous agents at high rates of 
speed down interstate highways have virtually 
nothing in common, and therefore accident 
statistics for one do not relate to the other. 
Under HAZMAT rules, placarding, shipping papers 
and toll-free 800 emergency response 
phone numbers are to be utilized as a measure 
to help in responding to a spill or fire. 
However, within agricultural communities, 
emergency responders are typically volunteers 
who are intimately familiar with the types of 
materials involved with production agriculture 
and who would have few problems in identifying 
the agents involved in this type of incident. 

Mr. Chairman, this language within H.R. 
2400 is sorely needed. It is estimated that 
compliance with HM–200 could cost the average 
retail facility $12,300. In addition to being 
an out-of-pocket cost to the retailer, this is 
going to be yet another expense that is 
passed along to the American farmer, who 
every year, sees his or her margins continue 
to shrink as the result of increased costs and 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1915 

government intervention. I appreciate and 
gladly thank the Chairman and the other members 
of this committee for the inclusion of this 
language in H.R. 2400, and would hope that 
as this legislation moves into conference that 
we would all endeavor to ensure its inclusion 
in the conference report. 

Ms. VELA ´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today on behalf of myself and my distinguished 
colleague from New York, Mr. TOWNS. 
Today is a very significant day for the residents 
of my congressional district and for the 
constituents of Congressman TOWNS. We 
have worked tirelessly for years with the communities 
in Brooklyn surrounding the Gowanus 
Expressway to find the best solution to the 
congestion and dilapidated condition of this 
major highway and key component in the New 
York area’s transportation network. These 
residents have patiently asked that a full study 
of alternatives to the planned reconstruction of 
the Gowanus Expressway be conducted. 

For the economic viability of the area and 
the environment health of the families living 
near this planned reconstruction, it is crucial 
that the impact on the surrounding communities 
be adequately assessed. For these reasons, 
I thank the Transportation and Infrastructure 
Committee, particularly Chairman 
SHUSTER, Chairman PETRI, Ranking Member 
OBERSTAR, and Ranking Member RAHALL, for 
understanding these concerns and supporting 
our proposal. 

The Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act finally responds to the 
pleas of these New York neighborhoods. H.R. 
2400 authorizes $24 million dollars for New 
York State to conduct a Major Investment 
Study (MIS) of the Gowanus Expressway Corridor. 
None of these funds may be used to 
supplement or finance any part of the currently 
proposed rehabilitation and reconstruction of 
the highway. The intent of the funding is to 
provide for an MIS to determine the short and 
long term social, economic and environmental 
benefits and costs of different alternatives to 
rebuilding the current elevated highway—including 
a tunnel. 

The MIS will include Phase I to IV civil engineering 
and design documents so as to accurately 
determine the initial and long term fiscal, 
environmental, social and economic costs of 
replacing the current elevated structure of the 
Gowanus with a tunnel. This analysis will include 
a complete engineering study, including 
hydro-geologic study and the cost of tunnel 
connectivity with bridges and tunnels adjacent 
to the corridor. 

Using the methodology devised in the ‘‘West 
Brooklyn Traffic Calming Study’’ CMAQ proposal, 
the MIS will devise mitigation measures 
to reduce current and future traffic diversions 
from the Gowanus Expressway in adjacent 
neighborhoods. Additionally, the MIS will include 
an assessment of service improvements 
to all subway lines needed to produce an increase 
in ridership and reduction in motor vehicle 
traffic in the Gowanus corridor before, 
during and after the reconstruction of the highway. 
Upon completion of the MIS and tunnel 
alternative study, any remaining authorized 
funds should be held for the future planning 
and design phase of the Gowanus project. 

The Gowanus MIS Project is part of a 
sound national and regional transportation policy. 
With this transportation proposal, the 
Gowanus neighborhoods are one step closer 
to real answers to this long-standing local 

transportation problem. This proposal is not 
only about transportation—it is also about the 
economic development and empowerment future 
of our communities. 

Mr. LAHOOD. Mr. Chairman, funding levels: 
$217 billion total over the next six years; $181 
million for highways and highway safety; and 
$36 billion for transit. 

Illinois will receive nearly 36 percent more 
per year under BESTEA. 

Illinois received $684 million per year under 
ISTEA and will now receive over $1 billion per 
year under BESTEA. 

Illinois needs: According to IDOT, more than 
98 percent of highway and bridge funding will 
have to be allocated to the repair of existing 
roads and bridges over the next five years. 

For the first time in 14 years, the number of 
road miles considered to be in poor condition 
will increase from 2,300 miles to 4,300 miles. 

10,681 miles are considered to be in poor or 
mediocre condition—this is roughly 1/3 of the 
total federal aid miles for Illinois (i.e., 1/3 of Illinois’ 
federal aid highway miles are in poor or 
mediocre condition). 

Illinois Citizens for Better Highways released 
a report that concluded that rural road repairs, 
upgrades and bridge replacements are underfunded 
b7 $227 million annually. 

For example, Tazewell County, alone, will 
need $8.3 million over the next five years for 
highway and bridge rehabilitation. 

IDOT estimates that 42 percent of county 
roads and 51 percent of township roads are 
substandard. 

Special additional federal funding is needed 
so that Illinois can restore and maintain such 
important roadways as the Stevenson Expressway 
and I–74 running through Peoria. 

Stevenson Expressway repairs are expected 
to cost $567 million; I–74 rehabilitation and reconstruction 
is expected to cost $193.6 million. 

National needs: The demand for high cost 
interstate highway reconstruction funds has 
outpaced the money available by more than 9 
to 1. 

In FY ’96 alone, 18 states requested $687 
million in project work, while only six states 
were awarded a total of $66 million in funding. 

Limited funds meant that $621 million in requests 
went unfunded in 1996. The current 
ISTEA I–4R (reconstruction, rehabilitation, resurfacing 
and repair program) level is averaging 
only $63 million per year. 

In 1993, almost 32 percent of the Interstate 
pavement was in poor or mediocre condition, 
and 60% of the nation’s major roads are considered 
by the federal government to be substandard 
and in need of repair. 

The FHWA estimated that $202.6 billion 
($10.1 billion annually) is needed over the 
next 20 years to maintain the 1993 conditions 
and performance of the Interstate system. Of 
that amount, 40 percent would be needed just 
for system preservation. 

In order to preserve today’s pavement quality, 
100,000 miles of roads would have to be 
restored every year. 

Safety hazards caused by poor roads and 
highways: According to the Keep America 
Moving Coalition, ‘‘Substandard designs, outdated 
safety features, poor pavement quality 
and other road conditions are a factor in 30% 
of all fatal highway accidents.’’ 

FHWA has found that converting two-lane 
roads to four-lane roads with a median decreased 
traffic deaths by 71%. Widening a 
two-lane road by just two feet reduces accidents 
by 23%. 

Economic costs to motorists caused by poor 
roads and highways: American motorists suffer 
expenses of $21.5 billion annually in vehicle 
operating and maintenance costs due to 
damage caused by driving on poor roads. This 
translates to costs of $122 per driver. 

General economic benefits of road and 
highway investments: FHWA estimates that for 
every $1 billion in highway investment, 42,100 
jobs are created. Every dollar invested in the 
Interstate Highway System generates $6 in 
economic returns. 

BESTEA solutions to poor quality roads: 
Section 113 of BESTEA provides a formula 
and discretionary grant program that will provide 
significant amounts of money over the 
next 6 years to repair and resurface high cost 
interstate highways: $165 million for FY ’98; 
$412.5 million for FY ’99; $670 million for FY 
’2000 through 2003. 

These funds would be available to fund 
‘‘major reconstruction or improvement projects 
on the Interstate system. In order to be eligible, 
a project must cost over $200 million or 
cost more than 50% of a State’s Federal-aid 
highway apportionments.’’ The project must 
also be ready to go to construction. 

Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Chairman, this 
historic bipartisan legislation restores the word 
trust to the Highway Trust Fund. For years the 
Congress has spent money dedicated to Highway 
Trust Fund on wasteful government programs, 
at the expense of our National transportation 
infrastructure. A trust fund is exactly 
that, a trust fund. Whether it is the Transportation 
Trust Fund or the Social Security Trust 
Fund, we need to restore the trust. 

In addition, BESTEA, goes a long way towards 
restoring funding equity to donor states 
like Indiana. The historic shortfall and inequity 
in Federal transportation funding in Indiana 
has left Hoosiers with an old, congested, and 
inadequate infrastructure. Allowing the gasoline 
taxes paid by Hoosiers to be spent in Indiana 
will allow Indiana to modernize our transportation 
infrastructure for the 21st century. 
This legislation distributes funds more equitably 
among States under the revised funding 
formulas. I want to thank and commend Chairman 
SHUSTER, Ranking Member OBERSTAR 
and the Members of the Committee for their 
hard work and encourage them to fight to 
maintain the equity levels in this bill when this 
legislation is debated in conference. 

Mrs. CAPPS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support 
of this important legislation. The bill before us 
provides much needed funding for critical 
transportation projects across the country. 

For a long time now, many of us here today 
have spoken about the need to rebuild critical 
parts of our transportation infrastructure. Pothole-
filled roads, crumbling and dangerous 
bridges, and inefficient and outdated transportation 
systems have crippled the economy of 
many parts of our country. We must continually 
rebuild our infrastructure if we are to ensure 
that our economy remains strong into the 
next century. 

In addition, this bill maintains several critical 
programs to ensure that we are doing more 
than just paving roads. In particular, I am 
pleased that the bill contains the ‘‘enhancement 
set-aside’’ provision which allows states 
to use these funds for pedestrian walkways, 
bike lanes, scenic easements and other preservation 
activities. In addition, this bill continues 
the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality 
Improvement program, which provides funding 


H1916 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

to areas with air pollution problems for reducing 
traffic congestion. It is critically important 
that this legislation continues to support alternative 
transportation systems that address 
quality of life issues and will help preserve our 
environment. 

Mr. Chairman, a lot has been said about the 
special projects in this bill. I believe strongly 
that any Federal spending—be it for transportation, 
education or health care—has to be an 
efficient and responsible use of our tax dollars. 
I know that the projects I have requested and 
received funding for in this bill meet that test. 
All of these projects are widely supported in 
my district and address critical local needs 
such as safety and promoting alternative 
transportation. 

For example, this bill provides $8 million for 
the widening of dangerous Highway 46 in the 
northern part of my district, as my husband 
had requested last year. This road is most infamously 
known as the road that James Dean 
was killed on some 40 years ago, but to my 
constituents it is known as the road that is 
dangerous for them today. Since 1992, 48 
people have died on this road and nearly 700 
have been injured due to the volatile mix of 
traffic that uses this road, which includes 
school buses, trucks going back and forth 
from the coast to the Central Valley, farm and 
ranch traffic, and daily commuters. 

This road has been such a problem a local 
citizens group, called ‘‘Fix 46,’’ was formed to 
advocate for improvements. Through their efforts 
some progress has been made on Route 
46, such as implanting rumble strips and an 
enhanced Highway Patrol presence. But as it 
has been pointed out to me by everyone from 
the leaders of ‘‘Fix 46,’’ Mary Chambers and 
Tom Rusch, to the California Highway Patrol, 
these are only short-term fixes and widening 
the road is a necessity. 

The funding for this road is going to the type 
of community that is too often forgotten in 
Washington—small, rural and out of the way— 
and I am very proud that I have been able to 
help them help build a safer and more productive 
community. 

In addition to the Hwy 46 funding, this bill 
also provides targeted funds for locally supported, 
fully vetted and important local transportation 
projects such as the installation of 
emergency call boxes on secluded Highway 
166 near Santa Maria and the upgrade of the 
332 call boxes throughout Santa Barbara 
County to make them all handicapped and accessible. 
This legislation will also allow the city 
of Guadalupe and the county of Santa Barbara 
to undertake some much needed repaving 
work, and the city of Santa Maria to fund 
three new bikeway segments. 

In addition, this bill also will provide funds 
for a traffic calming project and pedestrian 
boardwalks in the coastal cities of Grover 
Beach and Pismo Beach, and for road reconstruction 
in Arroye Grande. Finally, funds are 
included for a street widening project in San 
Luis Obispo and for road widening and bike 
lane installation south of the city. 

I am strongly in support of this legislation as 
it responds to needs across the country and to 
specific transportation needs on the Central 
Coast. I urge my colleagues to support this 
important bill. 

Mr. EVERETT. Mr. Chairman, I am proud to 
speak today in support of H.R. 2400, the 
Transportation Authorization bill. Our nation’s 
infrastructure has been overlooked and treated 

as a low priority for far too long. It is time to 
re-invest in our nation’s roads, bridges, and 
other surface transportation needs. By improving 
and properly maintaining our infrastructure, 
we will enhance new growth opportunities, 
commerce, and safety. I believe this legislation 
meets many of these goals. 

In addition, the regional distribution of gas 
tax and user fees are more properly allocated 
among all 50 states in this bill than in the past. 
As a member of the Donor State Coalition, 
this represents a hard fought victory for those 
states, like Alabama, that have been paying 
more in gas taxes then they have received in 
federal highway funds. I pledge to continue my 
efforts to see that donor states ultimately receive 
a 95 percent overall rate-of-return and, 
further, that these states receive a rate-of-return 
of 100 percent of the funds distributed to 
states. 

Perhaps most importantly, H.R. 2400 addresses 
the infrastructure priorities of the 
State of Alabama. Of our Governor’s top highway 
priorities, I am pleased to say that two of 
these projects are located in my district in 
Southeast Alabama. The bill provides additional 
funding, at my request, for both the 
Montgomery Outer Loop project and the 
Dothan I–10 Connector. 

Once completed, the Outer Loop will link I– 
85 with I–65 and US 80. This will improve traffic 
safety and allow for more orderly growth in 
and around Montgomery, our state capital. 
The eastern side of Montgomery and surrounding 
area represent one of the most rapidly 
growing regions in the state, so construction 
of this outer loop project will ease the burdens 
currently placed on our existing transportation 
routes. 

The Dothan project will connect Dothan with 
Interstate 10 in northwest Florida. Additionally, 
this freeway will serve as an important link between 
Fort Rucker, home of the U.S. Army 
Aviation Warfighting Center, and the interstate 
system. 

Both of these projects are essential in meeting 
the increasing demands in these rapidly 
growing and developing areas. Further, as priorities 
of the state transportation officials, 
these projects are in the state’s long range 
plan and are thereby assured of receiving the 
requisite state matching funds. 

Mr. Chairman, this legislation represents a 
balanced blue print for renewing America’s 
highway infrastructure and safety needs over 
the next six years. I am confident that the 
funding commitments of the bill will remain 
within our balanced budget structure, and I 
urge it’s adoption. 

Mr. ENSIGN. Mr. Chairman, I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank Chairman Shuster 
and Chairman Petri for their leadership in 
bringing the needed reauthorization of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act to the floor. The efficient movement of 
commerce and people is among the keys to a 
successful free market economy. 

This bill transcends simple infrastructure development 
and advocates innovative strategies 
to fight air pollution caused by congestion. I 
am pleased that my Nevada colleague, Mr. 
Gibbons, and I were able to include language 
that will provide states with more flexibility in 
the use of their CMAQ allocations. Our proposal 
will afford states the opportunity to leverage 
Federal funding with private dollars 
through the establishment of public-private 
partnerships—joint ventures that will release 

innovations in the private sector to develop 
breakthrough technologies that substantially 
reduce air pollution. With dwindling Federal resources, 
states need this vital option to meet 
clean air requirements. 

The CMAQ program is intended to promote 
projects and strategies that will assist states in 
the attainment of ambient air quality standards 
for ozone and carbon monoxide. Cars and 
other transportation account for one-third of 
greenhouse gas emissions. Because of this, 
we have a responsibility to aggressively promote 
technologies—such as non-traditional 
fuels—that can combat some of the negative 
effects of our progress. States must find new 
and innovative means of attacking their air 
quality problems associated with congestion 
and transportation. Our amendment would energize 
community stakeholders to promote cooperative 
efforts with the scientific, industrial, 
and other such organizations that can bring 
unique capabilities to the table that develop 
new ways to reduce emissions. 

I am proud to say that one such innovative 
non-traditional fuel has been developed in Nevada. 
This small startup company—A–55 
Clean Fuels—has developed a water-phased 
hydrocarbon fuel emulsion, which, because of 
its unparalleled ability to fight the pervasive air 
pollutant NOX, warrants special consideration. 
Tests of this innovative fuel are being performed 
around the country on a wide-range of 
applications including cars, trucks, and buses 
to confirm performance and environmental 
benefits. EPA has verified these tests. The potential 
of this fuel to reduce dangerous air pollution 
is enormous. Therefore, it is important to 
include this fuel as an eligible activity for 
CMAQ funding because: 

NOX, one of the major building blocks of 
ozone and particulate matter, is reduced from 
50% to 80% by using the fuel. Soot and 
smoke are also reduced. 

It is market driven, offering consumers a 
fuel that is cost competitive and often less expensive 
than diesel and gasoline. 

The fuel is safer than traditional fuels. It 
does not readily ignite outside the combustion 
chamber making it ideal for school buses, 
trucks and all vehicles that traverse our nation’s 
roadways. 

Decision-makers need every possible alternative 
in their tool kit to address air pollution. 
Non-traditional fuels must play a critical role in 
the CMAQ program so that states can meet 
their clean air responsibilities and at the same 
time, allow their citizens and their economy 
the freedom to grow. Our amendment would 
capitalize on the power of the private sector to 
provide innovations, like A–55, that both same 
money and reduce emissions. 

Mr. OXLEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in 
strong support of H.R. 2400, the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act 
(BESTEA). 

In my district, and in the districts of many of 
my colleagues, the rural highways that have 
served our nation since the mid-fifties are no 
longer capable of serving the growing number 
of cars and trucks that use them everyday. 
Additionally, many of these highways often 
prove to be hazardous, and unable to meet 
the needs of the small towns and growing 
economies that they serve. Adding to this 
problem is the fact that more often than not 
rural highways are overlooked when upgrade 
decisions are made in favor of major interstate 
projects that serve large metropolitan cities 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1917 

and constituencies. U.S. Rt. 30 that runs 
through my district is a perfect example of this 
growing problem. 

As a major east-west thoroughfare U.S. 30 
is a integral trucking route serving the northern 
half of Ohio between I–70 and the Ohio Turnpike. 
Over the years this narrow two-lane 
stretch of highway has logged a disturbing 
number of automotive accidents, which, when 
combined with the increase in truck traffic and 
lack of sufficient shoulder room, has all too 
often led to fatalities. With truck traffic on this 
route up 11 percent since 1994, much of 
which can be attributed to an increase state 
tolls elsewhere that forced many trucks to reroute 
to rural thoroughfares like US 30, the 
need for a four-lane upgrade has never been 
more critical. I support BESTEA because it will 
give Ohio the needed resources and flexibility 
to bring much needed relief to those who live 
along and drive U.S. Rt. 30. 

Of great importance to me is the fact that 
Chairman Shuster’ bill finally provides equity 
for donor states like Ohio that have long provided 
more revenue than they have received 
back in federal-aid highway funds. By providing 
a true 95 percent return on contributions to 
the Highway Trust Fund Ohio will be able to 
complete many projects that have long been 
shelves due to lack of federal funding. Moreover, 
by taking the Highway Trust Fund off-
budget, BESTEA will restore the integrity of 
the fund and provide all states with the transportation 
funding their citizens have already 
contributed through gas taxes. While in 1991 
we made great strides in improving our transportation 
system by passing ISTEA, in fact increasing 
Ohio’s return from a meager 79 cents 
on the dollar to 87 cents, Today’s BESTEA 
legislation will significantly strengthen this 
commitment to our nations infrastructure that 
we began many years ago. 

Mr. Chairman, I applaud the Chairman of 
the Transportation Committee for his leadership 
in bringing this important piece of legislation 
to the House floor. I plan to support it and 
I look forward to its passage so we can ensure 
that our nation has the best and most 
modern transportation system in the world. 

Mr. DOYLE. Mr. Chairman, roads, bridges, 
transit, and trails all play an important part in 
meeting the challenge of continuing to use 
transportation to benefit the economy, environment, 
and quality of life in all of our communities. 
Today’s passage of H.R. 2400, the 
Building Efficient Surface Transportation and 
Equity Act (BESTEA), means that the critical 
infrastructure needs of the people in the 18th 
Congressional District of Pennsylvania will be 
addressed in a comprehensive manner. 

The success of BESTEA is its preservation 
of the most progressive components of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (ISTEA). BESTEA continues to 
recognize and pay attention to, creating and 
maintaining transportation systems which reflect 
both environmental concerns and the 
needs of residents. BESTEA is a balanced bill 
which meets the needs of road repair, bridge 
rehabilitation, transit access, safety research, 
and pollution reduction. 

Pennsylvania’s overall network of 116,000 
miles of highways and streets is the largest of 
any eastern state with 44% of the state’s 
22,327 bridges in disrepair. The support provided 
by BESTEA not only stimulates economic 
activity, but meets important safety concerns. 
BESTEA also provides critical assist


ance in improving other aspects of transportation 
that enhance the aesthetic of our local 
landscapes and improve the quality of our air. 
I am pleased that CMAQ and Recreational 
Trail Program funds were included in 
BESTEA. 

It is important to note that BESTEA provides 
this critical assistance to cities, towns, and 
neighborhoods across our country in a fiscally 
responsible manner. As a strong balanced 
budget advocate, I am supportive of the requirement 
that any spending increases in 
BESTEA must be off-set. As a cosponsor of 
the Truth in Budgeting Act in both the 104th 
and 105th Congress, I am pleased that 
BESTEA addresses a tax fairness issue by 
moving the Highway Trust Fund ‘‘off-budget’’ 
beginning in FY 1999. Currently, with this fund 
‘‘on-budget’’ the surpluses are used to mask a 
portion of our true budget deficit and prevents 
the funds from being used in the manner they 
were intended. 

Without the critical support that BESTEA 
provides, countless communities in the 18th 
Congressional District would have to stave off 
undesirable consequences of poor infrastructure, 
rather than plan for future development 
and growth. By improving our communities’ 
mobility we can directly benefit the quality of 
life and economic competitiveness of our 
country. I am pleased to support H.R. 2400. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Chairman, I rise today 
in strong support of the Indian Reservation 
Roads (IRR) program. While the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act 
(BESTEA ) increases current IRR funding levels 
to $212 million, I would urge the conferees 
to recede to the Senate funding level for IRR 
of $250 million. 

Funding for the IRR program is critical to 
the safety and, ultimately, the health and welfare 
of Native American communities. The current 
state of tribal infrastructure often consists 
of dirt roads over which community members 
must travel for hundreds of miles to reach the 
nearest hospital or school. Crumbling infrastructure 
does nothing to induce safe travel to 
and from community resources, and speaks 
poorly of our nation’s regard for the treaties, 
relationships, and prioritization of Native Americans 
needs. 

The Senate funding level for IRR of $250 
million is a modest but necessary increase, 
and I urge my colleagues to respect the call 
for desperately needed resources. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. All time for general 
debate has expired. 

Pursuant to the rule, the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute recommended 
by the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure printed in 
the bill, modified by the amendment 
recommended by the Committee on 
Ways and Means printed in the bill, 
and the amendment printed in Part I of 
House Report 105–476, shall be considered 
as an original bill for the purpose 
of amendment under the 5-minute rule 
and shall be considered read. 

The text of the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute, 
modified by the amendment recommended 
by the Committee on Ways 
and Means now printed in the bill and 
the amendment printed in Part I of 
House Report 105–476 is as follows: 

H.R. 2400 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998’’. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.— 
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 
Sec. 2. Definitions. 
Sec. 3. Savings clause. 
TITLE I—FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS 
Sec. 101. Amendments to title 23, United States 
Code. 
Sec. 102. Authorization of appropriations. 
Sec. 103. Obligation ceiling. 
Sec. 104. Apportionments. 
Sec. 105. Interstate maintenance program. 
Sec. 106. National Highway System. 
Sec. 107. Highway bridge program. 
Sec. 108. Surface transportation program. 
Sec. 109. Congestion mitigation and air quality 
improvement program. 
Sec. 110. High risk road safety improvement 
program. 
Sec. 111. Minimum allocation. 
Sec. 112. Appalachian Development Highway 
System. 
Sec. 113. High cost Interstate System reconstruction 
and improvement program. 
Sec. 114. Recreational trails program. 
Sec. 115. National corridor planning and development 
program. 
Sec. 116. Coordinated border infrastructure and 
safety program. 
Sec. 117. Federal lands highways program. 
Sec. 118. National scenic byways program. 
Sec. 119. Variable pricing pilot program. 
Sec. 120. Toll roads, bridges, and tunnels. 
Sec. 121. Construction of ferry boats and ferry 
terminal facilities. 
Sec. 122. Highway use tax evasion projects. 
Sec. 123. Performance bonus program. 
Sec. 124. Metropolitan planning. 
Sec. 125. Statewide planning. 
Sec. 126. Roadside safety technologies. 
Sec. 127. Discretionary program authorizations. 
Sec. 128. Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge. 
Sec. 129. Training. 
Sec. 130. Transportation assistance for Olympic 
cities. 
Sec. 131. National Defense Highways. 
Sec. 132. Miscellaneous surface transportation 
programs. 
Sec. 133. Eligibility. 
Sec. 134. Fiscal, administrative, and other 
amendments. 
Sec. 135. Access of motorcycles. 
Sec. 136. Amendments to prior surface transportation 
authorization laws. 
Sec. 137. Bicycle transportation and pedestrian 
walkways. 
Sec. 138. Hazard elimination program. 
Sec. 139. Project administration. 
Sec. 140. Contracting for engineering and design 
services. 
Sec. 141. Commercial motor vehicle study. 
Sec. 142. New York Avenue Transportation Development 
Authority. 
Sec. 143. Definitions. 
TITLE II—HIGHWAY SAFETY 
Sec. 201. Amendments to title 23, United States 
Code. 
Sec. 202. Highway safety programs. 
Sec. 203. Highway safety research and development. 
Sec. 204. Occupant protection incentive grants. 
Sec. 205. Alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures. 
Sec. 206. State highway safety data improvements. 
Sec. 207. National Driver Register. 
Sec. 208. Safety studies. 
Sec. 209. Effectiveness of laws establishing maximum 
blood alcohol concentrations. 



H1918 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Sec. 210. Authorizations of appropriations. 

Sec. 211. Transportation injury research. 
TITLE III—FEDERAL TRANSIT 
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS 

Sec. 301. Amendments to title 49, United States 
Code. 

Sec. 302. Definitions. 

Sec. 303. Metropolitan planning. 

Sec. 304. Transportation improvement program. 

Sec. 305. Transportation management areas. 

Sec. 306. Urbanized area formula grants. 

Sec. 307. Mass Transit Account block grants. 

Sec. 308. Capital program grants and loans. 

Sec. 309. Dollar value of mobility improvements. 

Sec. 310. Formula grants and loans for special 
needs of elderly individuals and 
individuals with disabilities. 

Sec. 311. Formula program for other than urbanized 
areas. 

Sec. 312. Research, development, demonstration, 
and training projects. 

Sec. 313. National planning and research programs. 


Sec. 314. National transit institute. 

Sec. 315. University research institutes. 

Sec. 316. Transportation centers. 

Sec. 317. Bus testing facilities. 

Sec. 318. Bicycle facilities. 

Sec. 319. General provisions on assistance. 

Sec. 320. Contract requirements. 

Sec. 321. Special procurements. 

Sec. 322. Project management oversight and review. 


Sec. 323. Study on alcohol and controlled substances 
random testing rate calculation. 


Sec. 324. Administrative procedures. 

Sec. 325. Reports and audits. 

Sec. 326. Apportionment of appropriations for 
formula grants. 

Sec. 327. Apportionment of appropriations for 
fixed guideway modernization. 

Sec. 328. Authorizations. 

Sec. 329. Obligation ceiling. 

Sec. 330. Access to jobs challenge grant pilot 
program. 

Sec. 331. Adjustments for the Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 1997. 

Sec. 332. Projects for new fixed guideway systems 
and extensions to existing 
systems. 

Sec. 333. Projects for bus and bus-related facilities. 


Sec. 334. Project management oversight. 

Sec. 335. Privatization. 

Sec. 336. School transportation safety. 

Sec. 337. Urbanized area formula study. 

Sec. 338. Coordinated transportation services. 

Sec. 339. Final assembly of buses. 

TITLE IV—MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY 
Sec. 401. Amendments to title 49, United States 
Code. 
Sec. 402. State grants. 
Sec. 403. Information systems. 
Sec. 404. Automobile transporter defined. 
Sec. 405. Inspections and reports. 
Sec. 406. Exemptions and pilot programs. 
Sec. 407. Safety regulation. 
Sec. 408. Improved interstate school bus safety. 
Sec. 409. Repeal of certain obsolete miscellaneous 
authorities. 
Sec. 410. Commercial vehicle operators. 
Sec. 411. Interim border safety improvement 
program. 
Sec. 412. Vehicle weight enforcement. 
Sec. 413. Participation in international registration 
plan and international fuel 
tax agreement. 
Sec. 414. Telephone hotline for reporting safety 
violations. 
Sec. 415. Insulin treated diabetes mellitus. 
Sec. 416. Performance-based CDL testing. 
Sec. 417. Postaccident alcohol testing. 
Sec. 418. Driver fatigue. 
Sec. 419. Safety fitness. 
Sec. 420. Hazardous materials transportation 
regulation and farm service vehicles. 


Sec. 421. Truck trailer conspicuity. 

Sec. 422. DOT implementation plan. 
TITLE V—PROGRAMMATIC REFORMS AND 
STREAMLINING 

Sec. 501. Project approval and oversight. 

Sec. 502. Environmental streamlining. 

Sec. 503. Major investment study integration. 

Sec. 504. Financial plan. 

Sec. 505. Uniform transferability of Federal-aid 
highway funds. 

Sec. 506. Discretionary grant selection criteria 
and process. 

Sec. 507. Elimination of regional office responsibilities. 


Sec. 508. Authority for Congress to make mid-
course corrections to the highway 
and transit programs. 

TITLE VI—TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH 
Sec. 601. Amendments to title 23, United States 
Code. 
Sec. 602. Applicability of title 23. 
Sec. 603. Transfers of funds. 

Subtitle A—Surface Transportation Research, 
Technology, and Education 
PART I—HIGHWAY RESEARCH 

Sec. 611. Research. 
Sec. 612. State planning and research. 
Sec. 613. International highway transportation 
outreach program. 
PART II—TRANSPORTATION EDUCATION, PROFESSIONAL 
TRAINING, AND TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT 


Sec. 621. National Highway Institute. 

Sec. 622. National technology deployment initiative. 


Sec. 623. Education and training programs. 

Sec. 624. University transportation research. 

Sec. 625. Funding allocations. 

PART III—BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION 

STATISTICS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROGRAMS 

Sec. 631. Bureau of Transportation Statistics. 

Sec. 632. Transportation technology innovation 

and demonstration program. 
Subtitle B—Intelligent Transportation Systems 
Sec. 651. Definitions. 
Sec. 652. Scope of program. 
Sec. 653. General authorities and requirements. 
Sec. 654. National ITS program plan. 
Sec. 655. Technical assistance, planning, research, 
and operational tests. 
Sec. 656. ITS deployment. 
Sec. 657. Funding allocations. 
Sec. 658. Global positioning satellite data. 
Sec. 659. Repeal. 
TITLE VII—TRUTH IN BUDGETING 
Sec. 701. Budgetary treatment of Highway 
Trust Fund. 
Sec. 702. Applicability. 
TITLE VIII—RECREATIONAL BOATING 
SAFETY PROGRAM 
Sec. 801. Short title. 
Sec. 802. Amendments relating to recreational 
boating safety program. 
TITLE IX—RAILROADS 
Sec. 901. High-speed rail. 
Sec. 902. Light density rail line pilot projects. 
Sec. 903. Miami-Orlando-Tampa corridor 
project. 
Sec. 904. Alaska Railroad. 
Sec. 905. Railway-highway crossing hazard 
elimination in high speed rail corridors. 
Sec. 906. Railroad rehabilitation and improvement 
financing. 

TITLE X—CONDITIONS FOR 
IMPLEMENTATION OF FUNDING 
Sec. 1001. Conditions for implementation of 

funding. 
TITLE XI—REVENUES 

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. 

In this Act, the following definitions apply: 

(1) INTERSTATE SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘Interstate 
System’’ has the meaning such term has under 
section 101 of title 23, United States Code. 
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means 
the Secretary of Transportation. 
SEC. 3. SAVINGS CLAUSE. 

Except as otherwise provided in this Act, an 
amendment made by this Act shall not affect 
any funds apportioned or allocated before the 
date of the enactment of this Act. 

TITLE I—FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS 

SEC. 101. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 23, UNITED 
STATES CODE. 

Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
whenever in this title and title V an amendment 
or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment 
to, or repeal of, a section or other provision of 
law, the reference shall be considered to be made 
to a section or other provision of title 23, United 
States Code. 

SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The following sums are authorized 
to be appropriated out of the Highway 
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account): 
(1) INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.—For 
the Interstate maintenance program under section 
119 of title 23, United States Code, 
$4,019,500,000 for fiscal year 1998, $4,462,600,000 
for fiscal year 1999, and $5,006,200,000 for each 
of fiscal years 2000 through 2003. 
(2) NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM.—For the National 
Highway System under section 103 of 
such title $4,978,500,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$5,520,500,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$6,186,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
(3) BRIDGE PROGRAM.—For the bridge program 
under section 144 of such title $3,777,600,000 for 
fiscal year 1998, $4,194,000,000 for fiscal year 
1999, and $4,704,800,000 for each of fiscal years 
2000 through 2003. 
(4) SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM.—For 
the surface transportation program under section 
133 of such title $5,601,400,000 for fiscal year 
1998, $6,218,900,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$6,976,300,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
(5) CONGESTION MITIGATION AND AIR QUALITY 
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.—For the congestion 
mitigation and air quality improvement program 
under section 149 of such title $1,406,800,000 for 
fiscal year 1998, $1,561,900,000 for fiscal year 
1999, and $1,752,200,000 for each of fiscal years 
2000 through 2003. 
(6) HIGH RISK ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM.—For the high risk road safety improvement 
program under section 154 of such 
title $750,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$1,000,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
(7) HIGH COST INTERSTATE SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION 
AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.—For 
the high cost Interstate System reconstruction 
and improvement program under section 160 of 
such title $265,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$512,500,000 for fiscal year 1999, $920,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2000, $923,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, 
$922,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, and 
$1,067,000,000 for fiscal year 2003. 
(8) DISCRETIONARY PROGRAMS.—For executive 
and legislative branch discretionary programs 
referred to in section 127 of this Act (including 
amendments made by such section) 
$1,622,400,000 for fiscal year 1998, $2,215,300,000 
for fiscal year 1999, $2,563,600,000 for fiscal year 
2000, $2,563,600,000 for fiscal year 2001, 
$2,657,600,000 for fiscal year 2002, and 
$2,657,600,000 for fiscal year 2003. 

(9) APPALACHIAN DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY SYSTEM 
PROGRAM.—For the Appalachian development 
highway system program under section 201 
of the Appalachian Regional Development Act 
of 1965 (40 U.S.C. App.) $250,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, $400,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$400,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003. 
(10) RECREATIONAL TRAILS PROGRAM.—For the 
recreational trails program under section 206 of 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1919 

such title $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$40,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and $50,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2000 through 2003. 

(11) FEDERAL LANDS HIGHWAYS PROGRAM.— 
(A) INDIAN RESERVATION ROADS.—For Indian 
reservation roads under section 204 of such title 
$194,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, $200,000,000 for 
fiscal year 1999, and $212,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2000 through 2003. 
(B) PUBLIC LANDS HIGHWAYS.—For public 
lands highways under section 204 of such title 
$58,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, $60,000,000 for 
fiscal year 1999, and $60,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2000 through 2003. 
(C) PARKWAYS AND PARK HIGHWAYS.—For 
parkways and park highways under section 204 
of such title $85,300,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$86,200,000 for fiscal year 1999, and $99,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2000 through 2003. 
(D) FOREST HIGHWAYS.—For forest highways 
under section 204 of such title $113,500,000 for 
fiscal year 1998, $130,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
and $130,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
(12) HIGHWAY USE TAX EVASION PROJECTS.— 
For highway use tax evasion projects under section 
1040 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 101 note; 
105 Stat. 1992) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1998 and 
$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003. 
(b) DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES.— 
(1) GENERAL RULE.—Except to the extent that 
the Secretary determines otherwise, not less 
than 10 percent of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under titles I, III, and VI of this 
Act shall be expended with small business concerns 
owned and controlled by socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals. 
(2) COMPLIANCE WITH COURT ORDERS.—Nothing 
in this section limits the eligibility of an entity 
or person to receive funds made available 
under titles I, III, and VI of this Act, if the entity 
or person is prevented, in whole or in part, 
from complying with paragraph (1) because a 
Federal court issues a final order in which the 
court finds that the requirement of paragraph 
(1), or the program established under paragraph 
(1), is unconstitutional. 
(3) REVIEW BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL.—Not 
later than 3 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall conduct a review of, and publish 
and report to Congress findings and conclusions 
on, the impact throughout the United States of 
administering the requirement of paragraph (1), 
including an analysis of— 
(A) in the case of small business concerns 
owned and controlled by socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals— 
(i) the number of the small business concerns; 
and 
(ii) the participation rates of the small business 
concerns in prime contracts and subcontracts 
funded under titles I, III, and VI of 
this Act; 
(B) in the case of small business concerns described 
in subparagraph (A) that receive prime 
contracts and subcontracts funded under titles 
I, III, and VI of this Act— 
(i) the number of the small business concerns; 
(ii) the annual gross receipts of the small business 
concerns; and 
(iii) the net worth of socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals that own and 
control the small business concerns; 
(C) in the case of small business concerns described 
in subparagraph (A) that do not receive 
prime contracts and subcontracts funded under 
titles I, III, and VI of this Act— 
(i) the annual gross receipts of the small business 
concerns; and 
(ii) the net worth of socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals that own and control 
the small business concerns; 
(D) in the case of business concerns that receive 
prime contracts and subcontracts funded 
under titles I, III, and VI of this Act, other than 
small business concerns described in subparagraph 
(B)— 

(i) the annual gross receipts of the business 
concerns; and 
(ii) the net worth of individuals that own and 
control the business concerns; 
(E) the rate of graduation from any programs 
carried out to comply with the requirement of 
paragraph (1) for small business concerns owned 
and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
individuals; 
(F) the overall cost of administering the requirement 
of paragraph (1), including administrative 
costs, certification costs, additional construction 
costs, and litigation costs; 
(G) any discrimination, on the basis of race, 
color, national origin, or sex, against small business 
concerns owned and controlled by socially 
and economically disadvantaged individuals; 
(H)(i) any other factors limiting the ability of 
small business concerns owned and controlled 
by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals 
to compete for prime contracts and 
subcontracts funded under titles I, III, and VI 
of this Act; and 

(ii) the extent to which any of those factors 
are caused, in whole or in part, by discrimination 
based on race, color, national origin, or sex; 
(I) any discrimination, on the basis of race, 
color, national origin, or sex, against construction 
companies owned and controlled by socially 
and economically disadvantaged individuals in 
public and private transportation contracting 
and the financial, credit, insurance, and bond 
markets; 
(J) the impact on small business concerns 
owned and controlled by socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals of— 
(i) the issuance of a final order described in 
paragraph (2) by a Federal court that suspends 
a program established under paragraph (1); or 
(ii) the repeal or suspension of State or local 
disadvantaged business enterprise programs; 
and 
(K) the impact of the requirement of paragraph 
(1), and any program carried out to comply 
with paragraph (1), on competition and the 
creation of jobs, including the creation of jobs 
for socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. 
(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, 
the following definitions apply: 
(A) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN.—The term 
‘‘small business concern’’ has the meaning such 
term has under section 3 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 632); except that such term shall 
not include any concern or group of concerns 
controlled by the same socially and economically 
disadvantaged individual or individuals 
which has average annual gross receipts over 
the preceding 3 fiscal years in excess of 
$16,600,000, as adjusted by the Secretary for inflation. 
(B) SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED 
INDIVIDUALS.—The term ‘‘socially and 
economically disadvantaged individuals’’ has 
the meaning such term has under section 8(d) of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) and 
relevant subcontracting regulations promulgated 
pursuant thereto; except that women shall 
be presumed to be socially and economically disadvantaged 
individuals for purposes of this subsection. 
SEC. 103. OBLIGATION CEILING. 

(a) GENERAL LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the total of all obligations 
for Federal-aid highway programs shall 
not exceed— 
(1) $21,500,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; 
(2) $25,300,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; and 
(3) $28,400,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations under subsection 
(a) shall not apply to obligations— 
(1) under section 125 of title 23, United States 
Code; 
(2) under section 157 of such title; 
(3) under section 147 of the Surface Transportation 
Assistance Act of 1978; 
(4) under section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway 
Act of 1981; 
(5) under sections 131(b) and 131(j) of the Surface 
Transportation Assistance Act of 1982; 
(6) under sections 149(b) and 149(c) of the Surface 
Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance 
Act of 1987; 
(7) under sections 1103 through 1108 of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991; and 
(8) under section 104(j) of title 23, United 
States Code, relating to high priority projects. 
(c) DISTRIBUTION OF OBLIGATION AUTHOR-
ITY.—For each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003, 
the Secretary shall— 
(1) not distribute amounts authorized for administrative 
expenses and programs funded from 
the administrative takedown authorized by section 
104(a) of title 23, United States Code, and 
amounts authorized for the highway use tax 
evasion program and the Bureau of Transportation 
Statistics; 
(2) determine the ratio that— 
(A) the obligation limitation imposed by subsection 
(a) for such fiscal year less the aggregate 
of amounts not distributed under paragraph (1), 
bears to 
(B) the total of the sums authorized to be appropriated 
for Federal-aid highway programs 
(other than sums authorized to be appropriated 
for sections referred to in subsection (b)) for 
such fiscal year less the aggregate of amounts 
not distributed under paragraph (1); 
(3)(A) multiply the ratio determined under 
paragraph (2) by the sums authorized to be appropriated 
for such fiscal year for each of the 
programs that are allocated by the Secretary 
under this Act and title 23, United States Code 
(other than the recreational trails program and 
programs to which paragraph (1) applies); 

(B) not distribute such amount for each such 
program (other than the recreational trails program 
and programs to which paragraph (1) applies); 
and 
(C) in administering such program, allocate 
such amount for such program; 
(4) distribute the obligation limitation imposed 
by subsection (a) less the aggregate of amounts 
not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (3) 
and less amounts distributed under paragraph 
(5) by allocation in the ratio which sums authorized 
to be appropriated for Federal-aid 
highway programs that are apportioned or allocated 
to each State for such fiscal year and that 
are subject to the limitation imposed by subsection 
(a) bear to the total of the sums authorized 
to be appropriated for Federal-aid highway 
programs that are apportioned or allocated for 
such fiscal year and that are subject to the limitation 
imposed by subsection (a); and 
(5) distribute any amount determined under 
paragraph (3) for the recreational trails program 
in accordance with the formula set forth 
in section 104(h) of title 23, United States Code, 
for such program. 
(d) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED OBLIGATION 
AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding subsection (c), 
the Secretary shall— 
(1) provide all States with authority sufficient 
to prevent lapses of sums authorized to be appropriated 
for Federal-aid highway programs 
that have been apportioned to a State; and 
(2) after August 1 of each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2003 revise a distribution of the obligation 
authority made available under subsection 
(c) if a State will not obligate the amount distributed 
during that fiscal year and redistribute 
sufficient amounts to those States able to obligate 
amounts in addition to those previously 
distributed during that fiscal year giving priority 
to those States having large unobligated balances 
of funds apportioned under sections 104 
and 144 of title 23, United States Code, under 
section 160 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
of this Act), and under section 1015 of the 

H1920 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Intermodal Surface Transportation Act of 1991 
(105 Stat. 1943–1945). 

(e) APPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITATIONS 
TO TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH PROGRAMS.—
Obligation limitations for Federal-aid 
highways programs established by subsection (a) 
shall apply to transportation research programs 
carried out under chapter 3 of title 23, United 
States Code, and under title VI of this Act. 
(f) REDISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZED 
FUNDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days after 
the date of the distribution of obligation authority 
under subsection (a) for each of fiscal years 
1998 through 2003, the Secretary shall distribute 
to the States any funds (A) that are authorized 
to be appropriated for such fiscal year for Federal-
aid highway programs (other than the program 
under section 160 of title 23, United States 
Code) and for carrying out subchapter I of 
chapter 311 of title 49, United States Code, and 
chapter 4 of title 23, United States Code, and (B) 
that the Secretary determines will not be allocated 
to the States, and will not be available for 
obligation, in such fiscal year due to the imposition 
of any obligation limitation for such fiscal 
year. Such distribution to the States shall be 
made in the same ratio as the distribution of obligation 
authority under subsection (c)(5). The 
funds so distributed shall be available for any 
purposes described in section 133(b) of title 23, 
United States Code. 
(2) HIGH COST INTERSTATE SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION 
AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 
FUNDS.—Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the distribution of obligation authority under 
subsection (c) for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2003, the Secretary shall distribute to 
the States any funds that are authorized to be 
appropriated for such fiscal year to carry out 
the high cost Interstate System reconstruction 
and improvement program under section 160 of 
title 23, United States Code, and that will not be 
available for obligation in such fiscal year due 
to the imposition of any obligation limitation for 
such fiscal year. Such distribution to the States 
shall be made in the same ratio as funds are apportioned 
under section 104(b)(5) of such title. 
The funds so distributed to a State shall be credited 
to the State’s apportionment under such 
section 104(b)(5). 
SEC. 104. APPORTIONMENTS. 

(a) ADMINISTRATIVE TAKEDOWN.—Section 
104(a) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) ADMINISTRATIVE TAKEDOWN.—Whenever 
an apportionment is made of the sums authorized 
to be appropriated for expenditure on Interstate 
maintenance, the National Highway System, 
the bridge program, the surface transportation 
program, the congestion mitigation and 
air quality improvement program, the high risk 
road safety program, the high cost Interstate 
System reconstruction and improvement program, 
the national corridor planning and development 
program, the border infrastructure and 
safety program, and the Federal lands highways 
program, the Secretary shall deduct a sum, in 
such amount not to exceed 1 percent of all sums 
so authorized, as the Secretary may deem necessary 
for administering the provisions of law to 
be financed from appropriations for the Federal-
aid highway program. In making such determination, 
the Secretary shall take into account 
the unobligated balance of any sums deducted 
for such purposes in prior years. The sums so 
deducted shall remain available until expended. 
The Secretary may not transfer any of such 
sums to a Federal entity other than the Federal 
Highway Administration.’’. 

(b) APPORTIONMENTS.—Section 104(b) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) APPORTIONMENTS.—On October 1 of each 
fiscal year, the Secretary, after making the deduction 
authorized by subsection (a) and the 
set-aside authorized by subsection (f), shall apportion 
the remainder of the sums authorized to 
be appropriated for expenditure on Interstate 

maintenance, the National Highway System, the 
surface transportation program, the congestion 
mitigation and air quality improvement program, 
and the high risk road safety program for 
that fiscal year, among the several States in the 
following manner: 

‘‘(1) NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM.—For the National 
Highway System, 1 percent to the Virgin 
Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth 
of the Northern Mariana Islands 
and the remaining 99 percent apportioned as 
follows: 

‘‘(A) In the case of a State with an average 
population density of 20 persons or fewer per 
square mile, and in the case of a State with a 
population of 1,500,000 persons or fewer and 
with a land area of 10,000 square miles or less, 
the greater of— 

‘‘(i) a percentage share of the remaining apportionments 
equal to the percentage specified 
for the State in section 104(h)(1) of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998; or 

‘‘(ii) a share determined under subparagraph 
(B). 

‘‘(B) Subject to subparagraph (A), in the case 
of any State for which the apportionment is not 
determined under subparagraph (A)(i), a share 
of the remaining apportionments determined in 
accordance with the following formula: 

‘‘(i) 1/9 of the remaining apportionments in the 
ratio that the total rural lane miles in each 
State bears to the total rural lane miles in all 
States for which the apportionment is not determined 
under subparagraph (A)(i). 

‘‘(ii) 1/9 of the remaining apportionments in 
the ratio that the total rural vehicle miles traveled 
in each State bears to the total rural vehicle 
miles traveled in all States for which the apportionment 
is not determined under subparagraph 
(A)(i). 

‘‘(iii) 2/9 of the remaining apportionments in 
the ratio that the total urban lane miles in each 
State bears to the total urban lane miles in all 
States for which the apportionment is not determined 
under subparagraph (A)(i). 

‘‘(iv) 2/9 of the remaining apportionments in 
the ratio that the total urban vehicle miles traveled 
in each State bears to the total urban vehicle 
miles traveled in all States for which the apportionment 
is not determined under subparagraph 
(A)(i). 

‘‘(v) 3/9 of the remaining apportionments in the 
ratio that each State’s annual contributions to 
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account) attributable to commercial vehicles 
bear to the total of such annual contributions 
by all States for which the apportionment 
is not determined under subparagraph (A)(i). 

‘‘(2) CONGESTION MITIGATION AND AIR QUALITY 
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(A) FORMULA.—For the congestion mitigation 
and air quality improvement program, in 
the ratio which the weighted nonattainment 
and maintenance area populations of each State 
bear to the total weighted nonattainment and 
maintenance area population of all States. 

‘‘(B) CALCULATION OF WEIGHTED POPULATION.—
Such weighted population shall be calculated 
by multiplying the population of each 
area within any State that was a nonattainment 
or maintenance area as described in subsection 
149(b) for ozone, carbon monoxide, or 
particulate matter by a factor of— 

‘‘(i) 1.0 if, at the time of the apportionment, 
the area has been redesignated as an attainment 
(maintenance) area under section 107(d) of the 
Clean Air Act; 

‘‘(ii) 1.1 if, at the time of apportionment, the 
area is classified as a marginal ozone nonattainment 
area under subpart 2 of part D of title I of 
the Clean Air Act; 

‘‘(iii) 1.2 if, at the time of apportionment, the 
area is classified as a moderate ozone non-
attainment area under such subpart; 

‘‘(iv) 1.3 if, at the time of apportionment, the 
area is classified as a serious ozone nonattainment 
area under such subpart; 

‘‘(v) 1.4 if, at the time of apportionment, the 
area is classified as a severe ozone nonattainment 
area under such subpart; 

‘‘(vi) 1.5 if, at the time of apportionment, the 
area is classified as an extreme ozone nonattainment 
area under such subpart; or 

‘‘(vii) 1.2. if, at the time of apportionment, the 
area is not a nonattainment or maintenance 
area as described in subsection 149(b) of this 
title for ozone, but is a nonattainment area for 
carbon monoxide or particulate matter. 

‘‘(C) ADDITIONAL FACTORS.—If the area was 
also classified under subpart 3 or 4 of part D of 
title I of the Clean Air Act as a nonattainment 
area described in section 149(b) for carbon monoxide 
or particulate matter or both, the weighted 
nonattainment area population of the area, as 
determined under clauses (i) through (vi) of subparagraph 
(B), shall be further multiplied by a 
factor of 1.2. For an area that is a nonattainment 
area for both carbon monoxide and for 
particulate matter and the area’s weighted population 
was determined under clause (vii) of 
subparagraph (B), the area’s weighted population 
shall be further multiplied by a factor of 

1.2. For such areas, the population to which this 
factor is applied shall be the larger of the carbon 
monoxide and the particulate matter non-
attainment area populations. 
‘‘(D) MINIMUM APPORTIONMENT.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this paragraph, 
each State shall receive a minimum of 1/2 of 1 
percent of the funds apportioned under this 
paragraph. The Secretary shall use annual estimates 
prepared by the Secretary of Commerce 
when determining population figures. 

‘‘(3) SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For the surface transportation 
program, 2 percent to the State of Alaska 
for any purpose described in section 133(b) and 
the remaining 98 percent apportioned as follows: 

‘‘(i) 1/3 in the ratio that each State’s total population 
bears to the total population of all 
States, using the latest available annual updates 
to the Federal decennial census, as prepared 
by the Secretary of Commerce. 

‘‘(ii) 1/3 in the ratio that each State’s annual 
contributions to the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) attributable to 
commercial vehicles bear to the total of such annual 
contributions by all States. 

‘‘(iii) 1/3 in the ratio that each State’s annual 
contributions to the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) bear to the 
total of such annual contributions by all States. 

‘‘(B) ADJUSTMENT.—The amount of funds 
which, but for this subparagraph, would be apportioned 
to each State for each fiscal year 
under subparagraph (A) shall be increased or 
decreased by an amount which, when added to 
or subtracted from the aggregate amount of 
funds apportioned or allocated to such State for 
such fiscal year for Interstate maintenance, National 
Highway System, surface transportation 
program, bridge program, congestion mitigation 
and air quality improvement program, high risk 
road safety program, recreational trails program, 
Appalachian Development Highway System 
program, and metropolitan planning will 
ensure that the aggregate of such apportionments 
to any State that does not contribute to 
the Highway Trust Fund does not exceed the 
aggregate of such apportionments to any State 
that does contribute to the Highway Trust 
Fund. 

‘‘(4) HIGH RISK ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM.—For the high risk road safety improvement 
program— 

‘‘(A) 1/3 in the ratio that each State’s total 
population bears to the total population of all 
States, using the latest available annual updates 
to the Federal decennial census, as prepared 
by the Secretary of Commerce; 

‘‘(B) 1/3 in the ratio that each State’s total 
public road mileage bears to the total public 
road mileage of all States; and 

‘‘(C) 1/3 in the ratio that the total vehicle miles 
traveled on public roads in each State bear to 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1921 

the total vehicle miles traveled on public roads 
in all States. 

‘‘(5) INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE.—For resurfacing, 
restoring, rehabilitating, and reconstructing 
the Interstate System— 

‘‘(A) 1/3 in the ratio that each State’s annual 
contributions to the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) attributable to 
commercial vehicles bear to the total of such annual 
contributions by all States; 

‘‘(B) 1/3 in the ratio that the total vehicle miles 
traveled on Interstate routes open to traffic in 
each State bear to the total vehicle miles traveled 
on such routes in all States; and 

‘‘(C) 1/3 in the ratio that the total lane miles 
on such routes in each State bear to the total 
lane miles on such routes in all States.’’. 

(c) OPERATION LIFESAVER AND HIGH SPEED 
RAIL CORRIDORS.—Section 104(d) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘$300,000’’ 
and inserting ‘‘$500,000’’; 
(2) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking 
‘‘$5,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$5,250,000’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(A) 
the following: ‘‘Not less than $250,000 of such 
set-aside shall be available per fiscal year for eligible 
improvements to the Minneapolis/St. Paul-
Chicago segment of the Midwest High Speed 
Rail Corridor.’’. 
(d) CERTIFICATION OF APPORTIONMENTS.—Section 
104(e) is amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘CERTIFICATION OF APPORTIONMENTS.—’’ 
after ‘‘(e)’’; 
(2) by inserting ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—’’ before 
‘‘On October 1’’; 
(3) by striking the first parenthetical phrase; 
(4) by striking ‘‘and research’’ the first place 
it appears; 
(5) by striking the second sentence; 
(6) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) NOTICE TO STATES.—If the Secretary has 
not made an apportionment under section 104, 
144, or 157 of title 23, United States Code, on or 
before the 21st of a fiscal year, then the Secretary 
shall transmit, on or before such 21st 
day, to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works of the Senate a written statement of the 
reason for not making such apportionment in a 
timely manner.’’; and 

(7) by indenting paragraph (1), as designated 
by paragraph (2) of this subsection, and aligning 
such paragraph (1) with paragraph (2) of 
such section, as added by paragraph (6) of this 
subsection. 
(e) METROPOLITAN PLANNING SET-ASIDE.—Section 
104(f) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘Interstate 
construction and Interstate substitute programs’’ 
and inserting ‘‘recreational trails program’’; 
and 
(2) in paragraph (3) by striking ‘‘120(j) of this 
title’’ and inserting ‘‘120(b)’’. 
(f) RECREATIONAL TRAILS PROGRAM.—Section 
104(h) of such title is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(h) RECREATIONAL TRAILS PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Whenever an 
apportionment is made of the sums authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out the recreational 
trails program under section 206, the Secretary 
shall deduct an amount, not to exceed 3 percent 
of the sums authorized, to cover the cost to the 
Secretary for administration of and research 
and technical assistance under the recreational 
trails program and for administration of the National 
Recreational Trails Advisory Committee. 
The Secretary may enter into contracts with for-
profit organizations or contracts, partnerships, 
or cooperative agreements with other government 
agencies, institutions of higher learning, 
or nonprofit organizations to perform these 
tasks. 

‘‘(2) APPORTIONMENT TO THE STATES.—After 
making the deduction authorized by paragraph 

(1) of this subsection, the Secretary shall apportion 
the remainder of the sums authorized to be 
appropriated for expenditure on the recreational 

trails program for each fiscal year, among the 

States in the following manner: 
‘‘(A) 50 percent of that amount shall be appor


tioned equally among eligible States. 
‘‘(B) 50 percent of that amount shall be appor


tioned among eligible States in amounts propor


tionate to the degree of non-highway rec


reational fuel use in each of those States during 

the preceding year.’’. 

(g) CROSS REFERENCE CORRECTIONS.— 
(1) INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.—Subsections 
(a), (d), and (f) of section 119 are each 
amended by striking ‘‘104(b)(5)(B)’’ each place it 
appears and inserting ‘‘104(b)(5)’’. 
(2) FRINGE AND CORRIDOR PARKING FACILITIES.—
Section 137(f)(1) is amended by striking 
‘‘section 104(b)(5)(B) of this title’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 104(b)(5)’’. 
(3) ADDITIONS TO INTERSTATE SYSTEM.—Section 
139 is amended by striking ‘‘section 
104(b)(5)(B) of this title’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘section 104(b)(5)’’. 
(4) ACCOMMODATION OF OTHER MODES.—Section 
142(c) is amended by striking ‘‘section 
104(b)(5)(A)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 104(b)(5)’’. 
(5) MINIMUM DRINKING AGES.—Section 158 is 
amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘104(b)(2), 104(b)(5), and 
104(b)(6)’’ each place it appears in subsection 
(a) and inserting ‘‘104(b)(3), and 104(b)(5)’’; 
(B) in the heading to subsection (b) is amended 
by striking ‘‘PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY;’’; and 
(C) in subsection (b)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘(1)’’ the first place it appears 
and all that follows through ‘‘No funds’’ and 
inserting ‘‘No funds’’; and 
(ii) by striking paragraphs (2), (3), and (4). 
(6) SUSPENSION OF LICENSES OF INDIVIDUALS 
CONVICTED OF DRUG OFFENSES.—Section 159(b) is 
amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY;’’ in 
the subsection heading; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(1)’’ the first place it appears 
and all that follows through ‘‘No funds’’ and 
inserting ‘‘No funds’’; and 
(C) by striking paragraphs (2), (3), and (4). 
(7) OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES BY INTOXICATED 
MINORS.—Section 161(a) is amended by 
striking ‘‘(B)’’ each place it appears. 
(h) STATE PERCENTAGES FOR NATIONAL HIGHWAY 
SYSTEM APPORTIONMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The percentage referred to in 
section 104(b)(1) of title 23, United States Code, 
for each State shall be determined in accordance 
with the following table: 
States: Adjustment percentage 
Alabama .................................... 2.02 
Alaska ....................................... 1.24 
Arizona ...................................... 1.68 
Arkansas .................................... 1.32 
California .................................. 9.81 
Colorado .................................... 1.23 
Connecticut ................................ 1.64 
Delaware .................................... 0.40 
District of Columbia .................... 0.52 
Florida ....................................... 4.77 
Georgia ...................................... 3.60 
Hawaii ....................................... 0.70 
Idaho ......................................... 0.70 
Illinois ....................................... 3.71 
Indiana ...................................... 2.63 
Iowa .......................................... 1.13 
Kansas ....................................... 1.10 
Kentucky ................................... 1.91 
Louisiana ................................... 1.63 
Maine ........................................ 0.50 
Maryland ................................... 1.64 
Massachusetts ............................ 1.68 
Michigan ................................... 3.34 
Minnesota .................................. 1.56 
Mississippi ................................. 1.23 
Missouri ..................................... 2.45 
Montana .................................... 0.95 
Nebraska .................................... 0.73 
Nevada ...................................... 0.67 
New Hampshire .......................... 0.48 

States: Adjustment percentage 
New Jersey ................................. 2.28 
New Mexico ................................ 1.05 
New York ................................... 4.27 
North Carolina ........................... 2.83 
North Dakota ............................. 0.76 
Ohio .......................................... 3.77 
Oklahoma .................................. 1.55 
Oregon ....................................... 1.23 
Pennsylvania ............................. 4.12 
Puerto Rico ................................ 0.50 
Rhode Island .............................. 0.55 
South Carolina ........................... 1.63 
South Dakota ............................. 0.70 
Tennessee ................................... 2.30 
Texas ......................................... 7.21 
Utah .......................................... 0.71 
Vermont ..................................... 0.43 
Virginia ..................................... 2.61 
Washington ................................ 1.75 
West Virginia ............................. 0.76 
Wisconsin ................................... 1.91 
Wyoming .................................... 0.66. 

(2) ADDITIONAL RULE.—Any State with lane 
miles on the National Highway System totaling 
between 3,500 and 4,000 miles shall be treated as 
a State meeting the requirements of section 
104(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code, for 
purposes of such section. 
(i) USE OF MOST UP-TO-DATE DATA.—The Secretary 
shall use the most up-to-date data available 
for the latest fiscal year for the purposes of 
making apportionments under this section and 
section 157 of title 23, United States Code. 
(j) ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
EXTENSION ACT OF 1997.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law and subject to section 2(c) of 
the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
1997, the Secretary shall ensure that the total 
apportionments for a State for fiscal year 1998 
made under the Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act of 1998 (including 
amendments made by such Act) shall be reduced 
by the amount apportioned to such State 
under section 1003(d)(1) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. 
(2) REPAYMENT OF TRANSFERRED FUNDS.—The 
Secretary shall ensure that any apportionments 
made to a State for fiscal year 1998 and adjusted 
under paragraph (1) shall first be used to restore 
in accordance with section 3(c) of the Surface 
Transportation Extension Act of 1997 any funds 
that a State transferred under section 3 of such 
Act. 
(3) INSUFFICIENT FUNDS FOR REPAYMENT.—If a 
State has insufficient funds apportioned in fiscal 
year 1998 under the Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act of 1998 (including 
amendments made by such Act) to make 
the adjustment required by paragraph (1), then 
the Secretary shall make an adjustment to any 
funds apportioned to such State in fiscal year 
1999. 
(4) ALLOCATED PROGRAMS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, amounts made available 
for fiscal year 1998 by the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act of 
1998 (including amendments made by such Act) 
for a program that is continued by both of sections 
4, 5, 6, and 7 of the Surface Transportation 
Extension Act of 1997 (including amendments 
made by such sections) and the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998 (including amendments made by 
such Act) shall be reduced by the amount made 
available by such sections 4, 5, 6, and 7 for such 
programs. 
SEC. 105. INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM. 

Section 119 is further amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and rehabilitating’’ and inserting 
‘‘, rehabilitating, and reconstructing’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘of this title and’’ and inserting 
a comma; 
(C) by striking ‘‘this sentence’’ and inserting 
‘‘the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998’’; 

H1922 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(D) by striking ‘‘of this title;’’ and inserting ‘‘, 
and any segments that become part of the Interstate 
System under section 1105(e)(5) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991;’’; and 
(E) by striking ‘‘subsection (e)’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 129 or continued in effect by section 
1012(d) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 and not voided by 
the Secretary under section 120(c) of the Surface 
Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance 
Act of 1987 (101 Stat. 159)’’; 
(2) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (e); 
and 
(3) by redesignating subsections (d), (f), and 
(g) as subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively. 
SEC. 106. NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM. 

(a) COMPONENTS.—Section 103(b) is amended— 
(1) by striking the last 4 sentences of paragraph 
(2)(B); 
(2) in paragraph (2)(C) by striking ‘‘and be 
subject to approval by Congress in accordance 
with paragraph (3)’’; and 
(3) in paragraph (2)(D) by striking ‘‘and subject 
to approval by Congress in accordance with 
paragraph (3)’’. 
(b) MAXIMUM MILEAGE.—Section 103(b) is 
amended— 
(1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) MAXIMUM MILEAGE.—The mileage of 
highways on the National Highway System 
shall not exceed 155,000 miles; except that the 
Secretary may increase or decrease such maximum 
mileage by not to exceed 15 percent.’’; and 

(2) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as 
paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively. 
(c) DESIGNATION.—Section 103(b)(4), as so re-
designated by subsection (b)(2) of this section, is 
amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘(A) BASIC SYSTEM.—’’ before 
‘‘The National’’; 
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (A), as so 
designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection, 
the following: 
‘‘(B) INTERMODAL CONNECTORS.—The modifications 
to the National Highway System that 
consist of highway connections to major ports, 
airports, international border crossings, public 
transportation and transit facilities, interstate 
bus terminals, and rail and other intermodal 
transportation facilities, as submitted to Congress 
by the Secretary on the map dated May 24, 
1996, are designated within the United States, 
including the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico.’’; and 

(3) by indenting such subparagraph (A) and 
aligning it with subparagraph (B), as inserted 
by paragraph (2) of this subsection. 
(d) MODIFICATIONS.—Section 103(b)(5)(A), as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(2) of this section, 
is amended by inserting ‘‘or, in the case of the 
strategic highway network, that are proposed by 
the Secretary in consultation with appropriate 
Federal agencies and the States’’ before ‘‘if the 
Secretary’’. 
(e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 103(b) 
is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by subsection 
(b)(2) of this section, by striking ‘‘Subject 
to paragraph (7), the’’ and inserting ‘‘The’’; 
(2) by striking paragraph (7); 
(3) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph 
(6); and 
(4) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘paragraph (5)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph 
(4)’’. 
(f) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 103 is 
amended— 
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), 
and (C) of subsection (i)(3) as clauses (i), (ii), 
and (iii), respectively; 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through 
(13) of subsection (i) as subparagraphs (A) 
through (M), respectively; 
(3) by redesignating subsection (i) as paragraph 
(7); 
(4) by moving such paragraph (7) (including 
such subparagraphs and clauses) to the end of 
subsection (b); and 
(5) by moving such paragraph (7) (including 
such subparagraphs and clauses) 2 ems to the 
right. 
(g) EFFECT ON EXISTING APPORTIONMENTS.— 
The amendments made by this section shall not 
affect funds apportioned or allocated under title 
23, United States Code, before the date of the 
enactment of this Act. 
(h) INTERMODAL FREIGHT CONNECTORS 
STUDY.— 
(1) REPORT.—Not later than 24 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall review the condition of and improvements 
made to connectors on the National 
Highway System approved by this Act that serve 
seaports, airports, and other intermodal freight 
transportation facilities since the designation of 
the National Highway System and shall report 
to Congress on the results of such review. 
(2) REVIEW.—In preparing the report, the Secretary 
shall review the connectors designated by 
this Act as part of the National Highway System 
and identify projects carried out on those connectors 
which were intended to provide and improve 
service to an intermodal facility referred 
to in paragraph (1) and to facilitate the efficient 
movement of freight, including movements of 
freight between modes. 
(3) IDENTIFICATION OF IMPEDIMENTS.—If the 
Secretary determines on the basis of the review 
that there are impediments to improving the 
connectors serving intermodal facilities referred 
to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify 
such impediments, including any funding for 
such connectors, and make any appropriate recommendations 
as part of the Secretary’s report 
to Congress. 
(i) HIGHWAY SIGNS ON THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY 
SYSTEM.— 
(1) COMPETITION.—The Secretary shall conduct 
in accordance with this subsection a national 
children’s competition to design a national 
logo sign for the routes comprising the 
National Highway System. Children 14 years of 
age and under shall be eligible for such competition. 
(2) PANEL OF JUDGES.—The Secretary shall appoint 
a panel of not less than 6 persons to 
evaluate all designs submitted under the competition 
and select a winning design. The panel 
shall be composed of— 
(A) a representative of the Department of 
Transportation; 
(B) a representative designated by the American 
Association of State Highway and Transportation 
Officials; 
(C) a representative of the motor carrier industry; 
(D) a representative of private organizations 
dedicated to advancement of the arts; and 
(E) a representative of the motoring public. 
(3) REPORT AND PLAN.—Not later than 24 
months after the date of the enactment of this 
section, the Secretary shall initiate and complete 
the competition and submit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate a 
report on the results of the competition, a plan 
for the placement of logo signs on the National 
Highway System, and an estimate of the cost of 
implementing such plan. 
(j) WEST VIRGINIA CORRIDOR 10.—The Secretary 
shall designate in the State of West Virginia 
Route 73 between Route 10 and United 
States Route 119, Route 10 between Route 80 and 
Route 73, and Route 80 between United States 
Route 52 and Route 10 as part of the National 
Highway System. 
SEC. 107. HIGHWAY BRIDGE PROGRAM. 

(a) APPORTIONMENT FORMULA.—Section 144(e) 
is amended by inserting before the period at the 
end of the fourth sentence the following: ‘‘, and, 
if a State transfers funds apportioned to it 
under this section in a fiscal year beginning 
after September 30, 1997, to any other apportionment 
of funds to such State under this title, the 
total cost of deficient bridges in such State and 
in all States to be determined for the succeeding 
fiscal year shall be reduced by the amount of 
such transferred funds’’. 

(b) DISCRETIONARY BRIDGE SET-ASIDE.—Section 
144(g)(1) is amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘(A) FISCAL YEARS 1992 
THROUGH 1997.—’’ before ‘‘Of the amounts’’; 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) FISCAL YEAR 1998.—The amounts authorized 
for fiscal year 1998 by section 127(a)(1) of 
the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998 shall be at the discretion 
of the Secretary. 25 percent of such amount 
shall be available only for projects for the seismic 
retrofit of a bridge described in subsection 
(l). 

‘‘(C) FISCAL YEARS 1999 THROUGH 2003.—The 
amounts authorized for each of fiscal years 1999 
through 2003 by section 127(a)(1) of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998 shall be at the discretion of the Secretary. 
Not to exceed 25 percent of such amount 
shall be available only for projects for the seismic 
retrofit of bridges, including projects in the 
New Madrid fault region.’’; and 

(3) by indenting subparagraph (A), as so designated 
by paragraph (1) of this subsection, and 
aligning such subparagraph (A) with subparagraphs 
(B) and (C), as inserted by paragraph (2) 
of this subsection. 
(c) OFF SYSTEM BRIDGE-SET ASIDE.—Section 
144(g)(3) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘, 1988’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘1997,’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2003,’’; 
and 
(2) by striking ‘‘system’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘highway’’. 
(d) ELIGIBILITY.—Section 144 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (d) by inserting after ‘‘magnesium 
acetate’’ the following: ‘‘, sodium ace-
tate/formate, or agriculturally derived, environmentally 
acceptable, minimally corrosive anti-
icing and de-icing compositions or installing 
scour countermeasures’’; 
(2) in subsection (d) by inserting after ‘‘such 
acetate’’ each place it appears the following: 
‘‘or sodium acetate/formate or such anti-icing or 
de-icing composition or installation of such 
countermeasures’’; and 
(3) in subsection (g)(3) by inserting after 
‘‘magnesium acetate’’ the following: ‘‘, sodium 
acetate/formate, or agriculturally derived, environmentally 
acceptable, minimally corrosive 
anti-icing and de-icing compositions or install 
scour countermeasures’’. 
(e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 144(n) 
is amended by striking ‘‘system’’ and inserting 
‘‘highway’’. 
SEC. 108. SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—Section 
133(a) is amended by inserting after ‘‘establish’’ 
the following: ‘‘and implement’’. 
(b) APPLICATION OF ANTI-ICING AND DE-ICING 
COMPOSITIONS TO BRIDGES.—Section 133(b)(1) is 
amended by inserting after ‘‘magnesium acetate’’ 
the following: ‘‘, sodium acetate/formate, 
or agriculturally derived, environmentally acceptable, 
minimally corrosive anti-icing and deicing 
compositions’’. 
(c) TRANSPORTATION CONTROL MEASURES.— 
Section 133(b)(9) is amended by striking ‘‘clauses 
(xii) and’’ and inserting ‘‘clause’’. 
(d) ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AND POLLUTION 
ABATEMENT PROJECTS.—Section 133(b) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(12) Environmental restoration and pollution 
abatement projects, including the retrofit or 
construction of storm water treatment systems, 
to address water pollution or environmental 
degradation caused or contributed to by existing 
transportation facilities at the time such transportation 
facilities are undergoing reconstruction, 
rehabilitation, resurfacing, or restoration; 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1923 

except that the expenditure of funds under this 
section for any such environmental restoration 
or pollution abatement project shall not exceed 
20 percent of the total cost of the reconstruction, 
rehabilitation, resurfacing, or restoration 
project.’’. 

(e) DIVISION OF FUNDS.—Section 133(d)(3)(B) 
is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Notwithstanding subsection (c), up to 15 percent 
of the amounts required to be obligated 
under this subparagraph may be obligated on 
roads functionally classified as minor collectors.’’. 
(f) PROGRAM APPROVAL.—Section 133(e)(2) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(2) PROGRAM APPROVAL.—Each State shall 
submit a project agreement for each fiscal year, 
certifying that the State will meet all the requirements 
of this section and notifying the Secretary 
of the amount of obligations needed to 
administer the surface transportation program. 
Each State shall request adjustments to the 
amount of obligations as needed. The Secretary’s 
approval of the project agreement shall 
be deemed a contractual obligation of the 
United States for the payment of surface transportation 
program funds provided under this 
title.’’. 

(g) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 133(f) 
is amended by striking ‘‘6-fiscal year period 1992 
through 1997’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years for 
which funds are made available by the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998’’. 
(h) ENCOURAGEMENT OF USE OF YOUTH CONSERVATION 
OR SERVICE CORPS.—The Secretary 
shall encourage the States to enter into contracts 
and cooperative agreements with qualified 
youth conservation or service corps to perform 
appropriate transportation enhancement 
projects under chapter 1 of title 23, United 
States Code. 
SEC. 109. CONGESTION MITIGATION AND AIR 
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—Section 
149(a) is amended by inserting after ‘‘establish’’ 
the following: ‘‘and implement’’. 
(b) CURRENTLY ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—Section 
149(b) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)(A) by striking ‘‘clauses 
(xii) and’’; and inserting ‘‘clause’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of paragraph 
(3); 
(3) by striking ‘‘standard.’’ at the end of paragraph 
(4) and inserting ‘‘standard; or’’; and 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following: 
‘‘(5) if the program or project would have been 
eligible for funding on or before September 30, 
1997, under guidance issued by the Secretary to 
implement this section.’’. 

(c) STUDY OF EFFECTIVENESS OF CMAQ PROGRAM.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall request the 
National Academy of Sciences to study the impact 
of the congestion mitigation and air quality 
improvement program on the air quality of non-
attainment areas. The study shall, at a minimum— 
(A) determine the amount of funds obligated 
under such program in each nonattainment area 
and to make a comprehensive analysis of the 
types of projects funded under such program; 
(B) identify any improvements to or degradations 
of the air quality in each nonattainment 
area; 
(C) measure the impact of the projects funded 
under such program on the air quality of each 
nonattainment area; and 
(D) assess the cost effectiveness of projects 
funded under such program in nonattainment 
areas, including, to the extent possible, the cost 
per ton of reductions of ozone and carbon monoxide 
and reduction of traffic congestion. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than January 1, 2000, 
the National Academy of Sciences shall transmit 
to the Secretary, the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure and the Committee on 
Commerce of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works of the Senate a report on the results of 
the study with recommendations for modifications 
to the congestion mitigation and air quality 
improvement program in light of the results 
of the study. 

(3) FUNDING.—Before making the apportionment 
of funds under section 104(b)(2) for each of 
fiscal years 1998 and 1999, the Secretary shall 
deduct from the amount to be apportioned under 
such section for such fiscal year, and make 
available, $500,000 for such fiscal year to carry 
out this subsection. 
SEC. 110. HIGH RISK ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1 is amended by inserting 
after section 153 the following: 
‘‘§ 154. High risk road safety improvement program 


‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
and implement a high risk road safety 
improvement program in accordance with this 
section. 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—A State may obligate 
funds apportioned to it under section 
104(b)(4) only for construction and operational 
improvement projects, and for pavement marking 
and signing projects, on high risk roads and 
only if the primary purpose of the project is to 
improve highway safety on a high risk road. 

‘‘(c) STATE ALLOCATION SYSTEM.—Each State 
shall establish a system for allocating funds apportioned 
to it under section 104(b)(4) among 
projects eligible for assistance under this section 
that have the highest benefits to highway safety. 
Such system may include a safety management 
system established by the State under section 
303 or a survey established pursuant to section 
152(a). 

‘‘(d) TRANSFERABILITY.—A State may transfer 
not to exceed 50 percent of the amount of funds 
apportioned to it under section 104(b)(4) for any 
fiscal year to the apportionment of such State 
under section 104(b)(1) or 104(b)(3) or both. 

‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY OF PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.—
Programming and expenditure of funds 
for projects under this section shall be consistent 
with the requirements of sections 134 and 
135. 

‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the following 
definitions apply: 

‘‘(1) HIGH RISK ROAD.—The term ‘high risk 
road’ means any Federal-aid highway or segment 
of a Federal-aid highway— 

‘‘(A) on which a significant number of severe 
motor vehicle crashes occur; or 

‘‘(B) which has current, or will likely have, 
increases in traffic volume that are likely to create 
a potential for severe crash consequences in 
a significant number of motor vehicle crashes. 

‘‘(2) SEVERE CRASH.—The term ‘severe crash’ 
means a motor vehicle crash in which a fatality 
or incapacitating injury occurs.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 1 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 153 the following: 
‘‘154. High risk road safety improvement program.’’. 


(c) ROADWAY SAFETY AWARENESS AND IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of identifying 
high-risk roadway hazards and effective countermeasures 
and improving the collection and 
public dissemination of information regarding 
such hazards and their impact on the number 
and severity of motor vehicle crashes, the Secretary 
shall enter into an agreement with a private 
nonprofit national organization that is 
dedicated solely to improving roadway safety. 
(2) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—Under the terms of 
the agreement entered into under this subsection, 
the organization shall— 
(A) develop a pilot program to improve the collection 
of data pertaining to roadway hazards 
and design features that cause or increase the 
severity of motor vehicle crashes; 
(B) develop a public awareness campaign to 
educate State and local transportation officials, 
public safety officials, and motorists regarding 
the extent to which roadway hazards and design 
features are a factor in motor vehicle crashes; 
and 
(C) develop and disseminate information to assist 
State and local transportation officials, 
public safety officials, and motorists in identifying 
roadway hazards and effective countermeasures. 
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 24 months after 
the date of entry into the agreement under this 
subsection, the Secretary shall transmit to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Environment and Public Works of 
the Senate a report on the status of the program 
authorized by this subsection. Such report shall 
be updated each year thereafter, and a final report 
shall be transmitted not later than 5 years 
after the date of entry into the agreement. 
(4) FUNDING.—Before funds are apportioned 
under section 104(b)(4) of title 23, United States 
Code, for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003, 
the Secretary shall deduct a sum not to exceed 
$1,000,000 per fiscal year for carrying out this 
subsection. Such sums shall remain available 
until expended. 
SEC. 111. MINIMUM ALLOCATION. 

(a) GENERAL RULES.—Section 157(a) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (4)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘THEREAFTER’’ and inserting 
‘‘FISCAL YEARS 1992–1997’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 1992 and each fiscal 
year thereafter’’ and inserting ‘‘each of fiscal 
years 1992 through 1997’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(5) THEREAFTER.—In fiscal year 1998 and 
each fiscal year thereafter on October 1, or as 
soon as possible thereafter, the Secretary shall 
allocate among the States amounts sufficient to 
ensure that a State’s percentage of the total apportionments 
in each such fiscal year for Interstate 
maintenance, the National Highway System, 
the bridge program, the surface transportation 
program, the congestion mitigation and 
air quality improvement program, the high priority 
projects program, the high risk road safety 
improvement program, the recreational trails 
program, the Appalachian Development Highway 
System program, and metropolitan planning 
shall not be less than 95 percent of the percentage 
of estimated tax payments attributable 
to highway users in the State paid into the 
Highway Trust Fund, other than the Mass 
Transit Account, in the latest fiscal year for 
which data are available. In determining allocations 
under this paragraph, the Secretary shall 
not take into account the 2 percent set aside 
under section 104(b)(3)(A).’’. 

(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Section 157(b) is 
amended— 
(1) by inserting before ‘‘Amounts allocated’’ 
the following: ‘‘AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘Interstate highway substitute,’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘crossing 
projects’’ and inserting ‘‘any purpose described 
in section 133(b)’’; and 
(3) by inserting before the period at the end 
‘‘and section 103(c) of the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act of 
1998’’. 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 157 is 
further amended— 
(1) in subsection (d) by striking ‘‘154(f) or’’; 
and 
(2) in subsection (e) by inserting before ‘‘In 
order’’ the following: ‘‘AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—’’. 
(d) MINIMUM ALLOCATION ADJUSTMENT.—If 
the Secretary— 
(1) determines that— 
(A) the ratio of— 
(i) the aggregate of funds made available by 
this Act, including any amendments made by 

H1924 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

this Act, that are apportioned to a State for 
Federal-aid highway programs (including funds 
allocated to the State under sections 104(j) and 
157 of title 23, United States Code) for each fiscal 
year beginning after September 30, 1997, to 

(ii) the aggregate of such funds apportioned to 
all States for such programs for such fiscal year, 
is less than 
(B) the ratio of— 
(i) estimated tax payments attributable to 
highway users in the State paid into the Highway 
Trust Fund, other than the Mass Transit 
Account, in the latest fiscal year for which data 
are available, to 
(ii) the estimated tax payments attributable to 
highway users in all States paid into such Trust 
Fund in such latest fiscal year; and 
(2) determines that— 
(A) the ratio determined under paragraph 
(1)(A), is less than 
(B) the ratio of— 
(i) the aggregate of funds made available by 
the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991, including any amendments 
made by such Act, and section 202 of the National 
Highway System Designation Act of 1995 
that are apportioned to the State for Federal-
aid highway programs (other than Federal 
lands highway programs and projects under sections 
1103–1108 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991) for fiscal years 
1992 through 1997, to 
(ii) the aggregate of such funds apportioned to 
all States for such programs for such fiscal 
years; 
the Secretary shall allocate under such section 
157 to the State amounts sufficient to ensure 
that the State’s percentage of total apportionments 
for Federal-aid highway programs under 
this Act (including amendments made by this 
Act and allocations under such sections 104(j) 
and 157) for such fiscal year beginning after 
September 30, 1997, is equal to the State’s percentage 
of total apportionments for Federal-aid 
highway programs (other than Federal lands 
highway programs and projects under sections 
1103–1008 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991) for fiscal year 1997 
under the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991, including any amendments 
made by such Act, and section 202 of the 
National Highway System Designation Act of 
1995. The allocation shall be made on October 1 
of fiscal year 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, or 2003, 
as the case may be, or as soon as possible thereafter 
and shall be in addition to any other allocation 
to the State under such section 157 for 
such fiscal year. 

(e) FINAL ADJUSTMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In fiscal year 1998 and each 
fiscal year thereafter on October 1, or as soon as 
practicable thereafter, the Secretary shall allocate 
under section 157 of title 23, United States 
Code, among the States amounts sufficient to 
ensure that the ratio that— 
(A) each State’s percentage of the total apportionments 
for such fiscal year for Interstate 
maintenance, National Highway System, high 
cost Interstate system reconstruction and improvement 
program, surface transportation program, 
metropolitan planning, congestion mitigation 
and air quality improvement program, high 
risk road safety improvement program, bridge 
program, Appalachian development highway 
system, recreational trails program, high priority 
projects program, the 2 percent set aside 
under section 104(b)(3)(A) of title 23, United 
States Code, and section 157 of such title (including 
subsection (d) of this section and this 
subsection), bears to 
(B) each State’s percentage of estimated tax 
payments attributable to highway users in the 
State paid into the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) in the latest fiscal 
year for which data are available; 
is not less than 0.90. 

(2) TREATMENT.—The allocation required by 
this paragraph shall be in addition to any other 
allocation under section 157 of title 23, United 
States Code, including allocations required by 
subsection (d) of this section. 

SEC. 112. APPALACHIAN DEVELOPMENT HIGHWAY 
SYSTEM. 

(a) APPORTIONMENT.—The Secretary shall apportion 
funds made available by section 102 of 
this Act for fiscal years 1998 through 2003 
among the States based on the latest available 
cost to complete estimate for the Appalachian 
development highway system prepared by the 
Appalachian Regional Commission, unless the 
Appalachian Regional Commission adopts an alternative 
method for distribution. In general, no 
State containing Appalachian development 
highway system routes shall receive an apportionment 
of less than $1,000,000. For fiscal years 
1999 through 2003, any alternative method for 
distribution adopted by the Appalachian Regional 
Commission must be communicated to the 
Secretary at least 30 days prior to the beginning 
of the fiscal year in which the apportionment is 
to be made. Such funds shall be available to 
construct highways and access roads under section 
201 of the Appalachian Regional Development 
Act of 1965. 
(b) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds authorized 
by section 102 of this Act for the Appalachian 
development highway system under section 
201 of the Appalachian Regional Development 
Act of 1965 shall be available for obligation 
in the same manner as if such funds were apportioned 
under chapter 1 of title 23, United 
States Code, except that the Federal share of the 
cost of any project under this section shall be 
determined in accordance with such section 201 
and such funds shall remain available until expended. 
(c) FEDERAL SHARE FOR PRE-FINANCED 
PROJECTS.—Section 201(h)(1) of the Appalachian 
Regional Development Act of 1965 (40 U.S.C. 
App.) is amended by striking ‘‘70’’ and inserting 
‘‘80’’. 
(d) DEDUCTION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—
Section 201 of such Act is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(i) DEDUCTION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EX-
PENSES.—On October 1 of fiscal year 1998 and 
each fiscal year thereafter, or as soon as is practicable 
thereafter, there shall be deducted, for 
the expenses of the Appalachian Regional Commission 
in administering the funds authorized 
under this section for such year, not to exceed 

3.75 percent of the funds made available for 
such year under subsection (g) of this section.’’. 
(e) LOCAL PARTICIPATION IN DEDESIGNATION 
DECISIONS.—Section 201 of such Act is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j) LOCAL PARTICIPATION IN DEDESIGNATION 
DECISIONS.—Before the State of Ohio may request 
the dedesignation of corridor B from the 
Ohio River in Scioto County to the Scioto-
Adams County line, corridor B1 from the Kentucky 
State line to the junction with corridor B 
at Rosemount, corridor C from the junction with 
corridor B at Lucasville to State Route 159 at 
Chillicothe, or corridor D from the Adams County 
line to the Ohio River in Washington County 
as segments of the Appalachian development 
highway system, the State must consult about 
the proposed dedesignation with local elected officials 
having jurisdiction over the area in 
which the segment is located and conduct public 
hearings on the proposed dedesignation in each 
county in which any part of the segment is located.’’. 


(f) ADDITIONS TO APPALACHIAN REGION.—The 
undesignated paragraph relating to Georgia of 
section 403 of such Act is amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘Elbert,’’ after ‘‘Douglas,’’; 
and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘Hart,’’ after ‘‘Haralson,’’. 
SEC. 113. HIGH COST INTERSTATE SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION 
AND IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 160 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 160. High cost interstate system reconstruction 
and improvement program 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
and implement a high cost Interstate 
System reconstruction and improvement program 
in accordance with this section. 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—Funds made available 
to carry out the high cost interstate reconstruction 
and improvement program under this 
section for a fiscal year shall be available for 
obligation by the Secretary for any major reconstruction 
or improvement project to any highway 
designated as part of the Interstate System 
and open to traffic before the date of the enactment 
of the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998. Such funds 
shall be made available by the Secretary to any 
State applying for such funds only if the Secretary 
determines that— 

‘‘(1) the total cost of the project is greater 
than the lesser of $200,000,000 or 50 percent of 
the aggregate amount of funds apportioned to 
the State under this title for such fiscal year; 

‘‘(2) the project is a ready-to-commence 
project; 

‘‘(3) the State agrees that it will not transfer 
funds apportioned to it under section 104(b)(5) 
for such fiscal year to any other program category; 
and 

‘‘(4) the applicant agrees to obligate the funds 
within 1 year of the date the funds are made 
available. 

‘‘(c) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Subject to subsection 
(f)(1), of the funds made available to 
carry out the program under this section, the 
Secretary shall allocate— 

‘‘(1) not less than $165,000,000 for fiscal year 
1998, $412,500,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$670,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003 among States in the ratio that the estimated 
cost of carrying out projects determined 
by the Secretary to be eligible for funding under 
subsection (b) in each State bears to the estimated 
cost of carrying out such projects in all of 
the States; and 

‘‘(2) at the discretion of the Secretary, not 
more than the amounts set forth in section 
127(a)(2) for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003 for projects eligible for assistance under 
this section to— 

‘‘(A) meet an extraordinary need for funding; 
or 

‘‘(B) help expedite completion of a project of 
national significance. 

‘‘(d) UNALLOCATED FUNDS.— 

‘‘(1) APPORTIONMENT.—If, on August 1 of fiscal 
year 1998 and each fiscal year thereafter, the 
Secretary determines that funds authorized to 
be allocated in such fiscal year for the program 
under this section will not be allocated in such 
fiscal year as a result of not enough projects 
being eligible for assistance under this section, 
the Secretary shall apportion under section 
104(b)(5) such funds among the States for the 
Interstate maintenance program. 

‘‘(2) REDISTRIBUTION OF OBLIGATION AUTHOR-
ITY.—The Secretary shall also redistribute on 
such August 1 any obligation authority that is 
allocated for the fiscal year under section 
103(c)(4) of the Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act of 1998 attributable 
to the program under this section and 
that the Secretary determines will not be used 
before September 30 of such fiscal year among 
the States (other than a State from which obligation 
authority for such fiscal year is redistributed 
under section 103(d) of such Act) in the 
same ratio as set forth in section 103(c)(5) of 
such Act. 

‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY OF PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.—
Programming and expenditure of funds 
for projects under this section shall be consistent 
with the requirements of sections 134 and 
135. 

‘‘(f) FUTURE ALLOCATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) FISCAL YEARS 1998–2003.—For fiscal years 
1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, funds to be 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1925 

allocated pursuant to subsection (c)(1) shall be 
allocated in the same manner as funds apportioned 
under section 104(b)(5). Such funds shall 
only be available for projects eligible under subsection 
(b); except that if a State does not have 
a project eligible under subsection (b), funds allocated 
to such State under this paragraph shall 
be available for any project in such State on a 
segment of the Interstate System that is open to 
traffic. 

‘‘(2) DETERMINATIONS.—The Secretary shall, 
in cooperation with States and affected metropolitan 
planning organizations, determine— 

‘‘(A) the expected condition of the Interstate 
System over the next 10 years and the needs of 
States and metropolitan planning organizations 
to reconstruct and improve the Interstate System; 
and 

‘‘(B) a method to allocate funds made available 
under this section that would— 

‘‘(i) address the needs identified in subparagraph 
(A); 

‘‘(ii) provide a fair and equitable distribution 
of such funds; and 

‘‘(iii) allow for States to address any extraordinary 
needs. 

‘‘(3) REPORT.—The determination made under 
paragraph (2) shall be submitted to Congress in 
a report not later than January 1, 2000.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 1 is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 160 and inserting the following: 
‘‘160. High cost interstate system reconstruction 
and improvement program.’’. 

SEC. 114. RECREATIONAL TRAILS PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 2 of title 23, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 
205 the following: 
‘‘§ 206. Recreational trails program 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture, shall administer a national 
program for the purposes of providing 
and maintaining recreational trails. 

‘‘(b) STATEMENT OF INTENT.—Funds made 
available to carry out the recreational trails 
program under this section are to be derived 
from revenues collected through motor fuel taxes 
from nonhighway users and are to be used on 
trails and trail-related projects which have been 
planned and developed under the otherwise existing 
laws, policies, and administrative procedures 
within each State, and which are identified 
in, or which further a specific goal of, a 
trail plan included or referenced in a statewide 
comprehensive outdoor recreation plan required 
by the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act 
of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l–4 et seq.). 

‘‘(c) STATE ELIGIBILITY.—A State shall be eligible 
to obligate funds apportioned to it under 
section 104(h) only if— 

‘‘(1) the Governor of the State has designated 
the State agency or agencies that will be responsible 
for administering funds received under this 
section; and 

‘‘(2) a recreational trail advisory committee on 
which both motorized and nonmotorized recreational 
trail users are fairly represented exists 
within the State. 

‘‘(d) FEDERAL SHARE PAYABLE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraphs 
(2), (3), (4), and (5), the Federal share 
payable on account of a project under this section 
shall not exceed 50 percent. 

‘‘(2) FEDERAL AGENCY PROJECT SPONSOR.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, a Federal 
agency sponsoring a project under this section 
may contribute additional Federal funds toward 
a project’s cost if the share attributable to 
the Secretary does not exceed 50 percent and the 
share attributable to the Secretary and the Federal 
agency jointly does not exceed 80 percent. 

‘‘(3) ALLOWABLE MATCH FROM FEDERAL PROGRAMS.—
The following Federal programs may 
be used to contribute additional Federal funds 
toward a project’s cost and may be accounted 
for as contributing to the non-Federal share: 

‘‘(A) State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 
1972 (Public Law 92–512). 

‘‘(B) HUD Community Development Block 
Grants (Public Law 93–383). 

‘‘(C) Public Works Employment Act of 1976 
(Public Law 94–369). 

‘‘(D) Acts establishing national heritage corridors 
and areas. 

‘‘(E) Job Training Partnership Act of 1982 
(Public Law 97–300). 

‘‘(F) National and Community Service Trust 
Act of 1993 (Public Law 103–82). 

‘‘(G) Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Public 
Law 104–93). 

‘‘(4) PROGRAMMATIC NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—A 
State may allow adjustments of the non-Federal 
share of individual projects in a fiscal year if 
the total Federal share payable for all projects 
within the State carried out under this section 
with funds apportioned to the State under section 
104(h) for such fiscal year does not exceed 
50 percent. For purposes of this paragraph, a 
project funded under paragraph (2) or (3) of this 
subsection may not be included in the calculation 
of the programmatic non-Federal share. 

‘‘(5) STATE ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—The Federal 
share payable on account of the administrative 
costs of a State under subsection 
(e)(1)(A) shall be determined in accordance with 
section 120(b). 

‘‘(e) USE OF FUNDS.— 

‘‘(1) PERMISSIBLE USES.—A State may use 
funds apportioned to it under section 104(h)— 

‘‘(A) in an amount not exceeding 7 percent of 
such funds, for administrative costs of the State; 

‘‘(B) in an amount not exceeding 5 percent of 
such funds, for operation of environmental protection 
education and safety education programs 
relating to the use of recreational trails; 

‘‘(C) for development and rehabilitation of 
urban trail linkages to provide connections to 
and among neighborhoods and community centers 
and between trails; 

‘‘(D) for maintenance of existing recreational 
trails, including the grooming and maintenance 
of trails across snow; 

‘‘(E) for restoration of areas damaged by 
usage of recreational trails, including back 
country terrain; 

‘‘(F) for development and rehabilitation of 
trail-side and trail-head facilities that meet 
goals identified by the National Recreational 
Trails Advisory Committee; 

‘‘(G) for provision of features which facilitate 
the access and use of trails by persons with disabilities; 


‘‘(H) for acquisition of easements for trails, or 
for trail corridors identified in a State trail 
plan; 

‘‘(I) for acquisition of fee simple title to property 
from a willing seller, when the objective of 
the acquisition cannot be accomplished by acquisition 
of an easement or by other means; 

‘‘(J) for construction of new trails on State, 
county, municipal, or private lands, where a 
recreational need for such construction is 
shown; and 

‘‘(K) only as otherwise permissible and where 
necessary and required by a statewide comprehensive 
outdoor recreation plan, for construction 
of new trails crossing Federal lands if 
such construction is approved by the administering 
agency of the State and the Federal 
agency or agencies charged with management of 
all impacted lands and if such approval is contingent 
upon compliance by the Federal agency 
with all applicable laws, including the National 
Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
seq.), the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et 
seq.), and the Federal Land Policy and Management 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.). 

‘‘(2) USE NOT PERMITTED.—A State may not 
use funds apportioned to it under section 
104(h)— 

‘‘(A) for condemnation of any kind of interest 
in property; 

‘‘(B)(i) for construction of any recreational 
trail on National Forest System lands for motorized 
uses unless— 

‘‘(I) such lands have been allocated for uses 
other than wilderness by an approved forest 
land and resource management plan or have 
been released to uses other than wilderness by 
an Act of Congress, and 

‘‘(II) such construction is otherwise consistent 
with the management direction in such approved 
land and resource management plan; or 

‘‘(ii) for construction of any recreational trail 
on Bureau of Land Management lands for motorized 
uses unless— 

‘‘(I) such lands have been allocated for uses 
other than wilderness by an approved Bureau of 
Land Management resource management plan 
or have been released to uses other than wilderness 
by an Act of Congress, and 

‘‘(II) such construction is otherwise consistent 
with the management direction in such approved 
management plans; or 

‘‘(C) for upgrading, expanding, or otherwise 
facilitating motorized use or access to trails predominantly 
used by non-motorized trail users 
and on which, as of May 1, 1991, motorized use 
is either prohibited or has not occurred. 

‘‘(3) GRANTS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A State may provide funds 
apportioned to it under section 104(h) to make 
grants to private individuals, organizations, municipal, 
county, State, and Federal government 
entities, and other government entities as approved 
by the State after considering guidance 
from the recreational trail advisory committee 
satisfying the requirements of subsection (c)(2), 
for uses consistent with this section. 

‘‘(B) COMPLIANCE.—A State that makes grants 
under subparagraph (A) shall establish measures 
to verify that recipients comply with the 
specified conditions for the use of grant moneys. 

‘‘(4) ASSURED ACCESS TO FUNDS.—Except as 
provided under paragraph (7), not less than 30 
percent of the funds apportioned to a State in a 
fiscal year under section 104(h) shall be reserved 
for uses relating to motorized recreation, and 
not less than 30 percent of such funds shall be 
reserved for uses relating to non-motorized 
recreation. 

‘‘(5) ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION.— 

‘‘(A) REQUIREMENT.—To the extent practicable 
and consistent with other requirements 
of this section, in complying with paragraph (4), 
a State should give consideration to project proposals 
that provide for the redesign, reconstruction, 
nonroutine maintenance, or relocation of 
trails in order to mitigate and minimize the impact 
to the natural environment. 

‘‘(B) GUIDANCE.—A recreational trail advisory 
committee satisfying the requirements of subsection 
(c)(2) shall issue guidance to a State for 
the purposes of implementing subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(6) DIVERSIFIED TRAIL USE.— 

‘‘(A) REQUIREMENT.—To the extent practicable 
and consistent with other requirements 
of this section, a State shall expend funds apportioned 
to it under section 104(h) in a manner 
that gives preference to project proposals 
which— 

‘‘(i) provide for the greatest number of compatible 
recreational purposes, including those 
described in subsection (g)(3); or 

‘‘(ii) provide for innovative recreational trail 
corridor sharing to accommodate motorized and 
non-motorized recreational trail use. 

This paragraph shall remain effective with respect 
to a State until such time as the State has 
allocated not less than 40 percent of funds apportioned 
to it under section 104(h) in such 
manner. 

‘‘(B) COMPLIANCE.—The State shall receive 
guidance for determining compliance with subparagraph 
(A) from the recreational trail advisory 
committee satisfying the requirements of 
subsection (c)(2). 

‘‘(7) EXEMPTIONS.— 

‘‘(A) SMALL STATE.—Any State with a total 
land area of less than 3,500,000 acres and in 


H1926 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

which nonhighway recreational fuel use accounts 
for less than 1 percent of all such fuel 
use in the United States shall be exempted from 
the requirements of paragraph (4) upon application 
to the Secretary by the State demonstrating 
that it meets the conditions of this paragraph. 

‘‘(B) STATE RECREATIONAL TRAIL ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE.—If approved by the State recreational 
trail advisory committee satisfying the 
requirements of subsection (c)(2), the State may 
be exempted from the requirements of paragraph 
(4). 

‘‘(8) CONTINUING RECREATIONAL USE.—At the 
option of each State, funds apportioned to it 
under section 104(h) may be treated as Land 
and Water Conservation Fund moneys for the 
purposes of section 6(f)(3) of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act. 

‘‘(9) CREDIT FOR DONATIONS OF FUNDS, MATERIALS, 
SERVICES, OR NEW RIGHT-OF-WAY.—Nothing 
in this title or any other law shall prevent 
a project sponsor from offering to donate funds, 
materials, services, or new right-of-way for the 
purposes of a project eligible for assistance. Any 
funds, or the fair market value of any materials, 
services, or new right-of-way may be donated by 
any project sponsor and shall be credited to the 
non-Federal share in accordance with subsection 
(d). Any funds or the fair market value 
of any materials or services may be provided by 
a Federal project sponsor and shall be credited 
as part of that Federal agency’s share under 
subsection (d)(2). 

‘‘(10) RECREATIONAL PURPOSE.—A project 
funded under this section is intended to enhance 
recreational opportunity and is not subject 
to the provisions of section 303 of title 49 or 
section 138 of this title. 

‘‘(f) COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES.— 

‘‘(1) COOPERATION BY FEDERAL AGENCIES.— 
Each agency of the United States that manages 
land on which a State proposes to construct or 
maintain a recreational trail pursuant to this 
section is encouraged to cooperate with the 
State and the Secretary in planning and carrying 
out the activities described in subsection (e). 
Nothing in this section diminishes or in any way 
alters the land management responsibilities, 
plans, and policies established by such agencies 
pursuant to other applicable laws. 

‘‘(2) COOPERATION BY PRIVATE PERSONS.— 

‘‘(A) WRITTEN ASSURANCES.—As a condition to 
making available funds for work on recreational 
trails that would affect privately owned land, a 
State shall obtain written assurances that the 
owner of the property will cooperate with the 
State and participate as necessary in the activities 
to be conducted. 

‘‘(B) PUBLIC ACCESS.—Any use of funds apportioned 
to a State under section 104(h) on private 
lands must be accompanied by an easement 
or other legally binding agreement that ensures 
public access to the recreational trail improvements 
funded by those funds. 

‘‘(g) APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 1.—Funds 
made available to carry out this section shall be 
available for obligation in the same manner as 
if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1; 
except that the Federal share payable for a 
project using such funds shall be determined in 
accordance with this section and such funds 
shall remain available until expended. 

‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the following 
definitions apply: 

‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE STATE.—The term ‘eligible State’ 
means a State that meets the requirements of 
subsection (c). 

‘‘(2) NONHIGHWAY RECREATIONAL FUEL.—The 
term ‘nonhighway recreational fuel’ has the 
meaning such term has under section 9503(c)(6) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

‘‘(3) RECREATIONAL TRAIL.—The term ‘recreational 
trail’ means a thoroughfare or track 
across land or snow, used for recreational purposes 
such as bicycling, cross-country skiing, 
day hiking, equestrian activities (including carriage 
driving), jogging or similar fitness activities, 
skating or skateboarding, trail biking, over


night or long-distance backpacking, 
snowmobiling, aquatic or water activity, or vehicular 
travel by motorcycle, four-wheel drive or 
all-terrain off-road vehicles, without regard to 
whether it is a ‘National Recreation Trail’ designated 
under section 4 of the National Trails 
System Act (16 U.S.C. 1243). 

‘‘(4) MOTORIZED RECREATION.—The term ‘motorized 
recreation’ means off-road recreation 
using any motor-powered vehicle, except for motorized 
wheelchairs.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The analysis 
for chapter 2 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 205 the following: 
‘‘206. Recreational trails program.’’. 

(c) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISION.—Section 
1302 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (16 U.S.C. 1261) is repealed. 
(d) TERMINATION OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE.— 
Section 1303 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1262) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j) TERMINATION.—The advisory committee 
established by this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2000.’’. 

(e) ENCOURAGEMENT OF USE OF YOUTH CONSERVATION 
OR SERVICE CORPS.—The Secretary 
shall encourage the States to enter into contracts 
and cooperative agreements with qualified 
youth conservation or service corps to perform 
construction and maintenance of recreational 
trails under section 206 of title 23, United States 
Code. 
SEC. 115. NATIONAL CORRIDOR PLANNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish 
and implement a program to make allocations 
to States for coordinated planning, design, 
and construction of corridors of national significance, 
economic growth, and international or 
interregional trade. A State may apply to the 
Secretary for allocations under this section. 
(b) ELIGIBILITY OF CORRIDORS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may make allocations 
under this section only with respect to 
high priority corridors identified in section 
1105(c) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991. 
(2) SPECIAL RULE.—In fiscal years 1998 
through 2000, the Secretary may make, on an interim 
basis pending identification by Congress of 
high priority corridors as part of a law provided 
for in section 508 of this Act, allocations under 
this section for the creation or upgrade of any 
other significant regional or multistate highway 
corridor not described in whole or in part in 
paragraph (1) that the Secretary determines 
would— 
(A) facilitate international or interregional 
trade; or 
(B) encourage or facilitate major multistate or 
regional mobility and economic growth and development 
in areas underserved by existing 
highway infrastructure. 
(c) PURPOSES.—Allocations may be made 
under this section for 1 or more of the following 
purposes: 
(1) Feasibility studies. 
(2) Comprehensive corridor planning and design 
activities. 
(3) Location and routing studies. 
(4) Environmental review. 
(5) Multistate and intrastate coordination for 
corridors described in subsection (b). 
(6) Construction. 
(d) CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT 
PLAN.—A State receiving an allocation 
under this section shall develop, in consultation 
with the Secretary, a development and management 
plan for the corridor with respect to which 
the allocation is being made. Such plan shall include, 
at a minimum, the following elements: 
(1) A complete and comprehensive analysis of 
corridor costs and benefits. 
(2) A coordinated corridor development plan 
and schedule, including a timetable for completion 
of all planning and development activities, 
environmental reviews and permits, and construction 
of all segments. 

(3) A finance plan, including any innovative 
financing methods and, if the corridor is a 
multistate corridor, a State-by-State breakdown 
of corridor finances. 
(4) The results of any environmental reviews 
and mitigation plans. 
(5) The identification of any impediments to 
the development and construction of the corridor, 
including any environmental, social, political 
and economic objections. 
In the case of a multistate corridor, the Secretary 
shall ensure that all States having jurisdiction 
over any portion of such corridor will 
participate in the development of such plan. 

(e) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds made 
available by section 127(a)(3)(B) of this Act shall 
be available for obligation in the same manner 
as if such funds were apportioned under chapter 
1 of title 23, United States Code. 
(f) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the term 
‘‘State’’ has the meaning such term has under 
section 101 of title 23, United States Code. 
SEC. 116. COORDINATED BORDER INFRASTRUCTURE 
AND SAFETY PROGRAM. 

(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary shall 
establish and implement a coordinated border 
infrastructure and safety program under which 
the Secretary may make allocations to any border 
State for projects to improve the safe movement 
of people and goods at or across the border 
between the United States and Canada and the 
border between the United States and Mexico. 
(b) ELIGIBLE USES.—Allocations under this 
section may only be used in a border region 
for— 
(1) improvements to existing transportation 
and supporting infrastructure that facilitate 
cross-border vehicle and cargo movements; 
(2) construction of highways and related safety 
and safety enforcement facilities that will facilitate 
vehicle and cargo movements related to 
international trade; 
(3) operational improvements, including improvements 
relating to electronic data interchange 
and use of telecommunications, to expedite 
cross border vehicle and cargo movement; 
(4) modifications to regulatory procedures to 
expedite cross border vehicle and cargo movements; 
and 
(5) international coordination of planning, 
programming, and border operation with Canada 
and Mexico relating to expediting cross border 
vehicle and cargo movements. 
(c) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary shall 
make allocations under this section on the basis 
of— 
(1) expected reduction in commercial and 
other motor vehicle travel time through an international 
border crossing as a result of the 
project; 
(2) improvements in vehicle and highway safety 
and cargo security related to motor vehicles 
crossing a border with Canada or Mexico; 
(3) strategies to increase the use of existing, 
underutilized border crossing facilities and approaches; 
(4) leveraging of Federal funds provided under 
this section, including use of innovative financing, 
combination of such funds with funding 
provided under other sections of this Act, and 
combination with other sources of Federal, 
State, local, or private funding; 
(5) degree of multinational involvement in the 
project and demonstrated coordination with 
other Federal agencies responsible for the inspection 
of vehicles, cargo, and persons crossing 
international borders and their counterpart 
agencies in Canada and Mexico; 
(6) the extent to which the innovative and 
problem-solving techniques of the proposed 
project would be applicable to other international 
border crossings; 
(7) demonstrated local commitment to implement 
and sustain continuing comprehensive border 
planning processes and improvement programs; 
and 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1927 

(8) such other factors as the Secretary determines 
are appropriate to promote border transportation 
efficiency and safety. 
(d) STATE MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY INSPECTION 
FACILITIES.—Due to the increase in cross-border 
trade as a result of the Northern American Free 
Trade Agreement, of the amounts made available 
to carry out this section for a fiscal year, 
not to exceed $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1998 and 
not to exceed $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1999 through 2003 shall be available for the construction 
of State motor vehicle safety inspection 
facilities for the inspection by State authorities 
of commercial motor vehicles crossing 
the border to ensure the safety of such vehicles. 
(e) ALLOCATIONS.— 
(1) FUNDS.—At least 40 percent of the funds 
made available for carrying out this section 
shall be allocated for projects in the vicinity of 
the border of the United States and Mexico, and 
at least 40 percent of such funds shall be allocated 
for projects in the vicinity of the border of 
the United States and Canada. 
(2) PROJECTS.—At least 2 of the projects in the 
vicinity of the border of the United States with 
Mexico for which allocations are made under 
this section and at least 2 of the projects in the 
vicinity of the border of the United States and 
Canada for which allocations are made under 
this section shall be located at ports of entry 
with high annual volumes of traffic. 
(f) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds authorized 
by section 127(a)(3)(A) of this Act shall 
be available for obligation in the same manner 
as if such funds were apportioned under chapter 
1 of title 23, United States Code. 
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the following 
definitions apply: 
(1) BORDER REGION.—The term ‘‘border region’’ 
means the portion of a border State in the 
vicinity of an international border with Canada 
or Mexico. 
(2) BORDER STATE.—The term ‘‘border State’’ 
means any State that has a boundary in common 
with Canada or Mexico. 
SEC. 117. FEDERAL LANDS HIGHWAYS PROGRAM. 

(a) FEDERAL SHARE PAYABLE.—Section 120 is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (e)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(c)’’ and inserting ‘‘(b)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘90’’ and inserting ‘‘120’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j) FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO A FEDERAL 
LAND MANAGING AGENCY.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the funds appropriated 
to any Federal land managing agency 
may be used as the non-Federal share payable 
on account of any Federal-aid highway project 
the Federal share of which is payable with 
funds apportioned under section 104 or 144 or 
allocated under the Federal scenic byways program. 


‘‘(k) FUNDS APPROPRIATED FOR FEDERAL 
LANDS HIGHWAYS PROGRAM.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, funds appropriated 
for carrying out the Federal lands highways 
program under section 204 may be used as the 
non-Federal share payable on account of any 
project that is carried out with funds apportioned 
under section 104 or 144 or allocated 
under the Federal scenic byways program if the 
project will provide access to, or be carried out 
within, Federal or Indian lands.’’. 

(b) ALLOCATIONS.—Section 202 is amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION OF SUMS AUTHORIZED FOR 
PUBLIC LANDS HIGHWAYS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On October 1 of each fiscal 
year and after making the transfer provided for 
in section 204(i), the Secretary shall allocate the 
sums authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal 
year for public lands highways for transportation 
projects within the boundaries of those 
States having unappropriated or unreserved 
public lands, nontaxable Indian lands, or other 
Federal reservations, on the basis of need in 

such States, respectively, as determined by the 
Secretary from applications for such funds by 
Federal land managing agencies, Indian tribal 
governments, and States. 

‘‘(2) PREFERENCE.—In allocating sums under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference 
to those projects that are significantly 
impacted by Federal land, recreation, or resource 
management activities that are proposed 
within the boundaries of a State in which at 
least 3 percent of the total public lands in the 
United States are located.’’; and 

(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) FOREST HIGHWAYS.— 
‘‘(1) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—On October 1 of 
each fiscal year and after making the transfer 
provided for in section 204(g), the Secretary 
shall allocate the sums authorized to be appropriated 
for such fiscal year for forest highways 
as provided in section 134 of the Federal-Aid 
Highway Act of 1987. 

‘‘(2) PROJECT SELECTION.—With respect to allocations 
under this subsection, the Secretary 
shall give priority to projects that provide access 
to and within the National Forest System, as 
identified by the Secretary of Agriculture 
through renewable resources and land use planning 
and the impact of such planning on existing 
transportation facilities.’’. 

(c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Section 203 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘Funds authorized for,’’ and 
inserting ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Funds authorized 
for forest highways,’’; 
(2) in the fourth sentence by inserting ‘‘forest 
highways’’ after ‘‘any fiscal year for’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b) TIME OF OBLIGATION.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary’s authorization 
of engineering and related work for 
a Federal lands highways program project or 
the Secretary’s approval of plans, specifications, 
and estimates for construction of a Federal 
lands highways program project shall be deemed 
to constitute a contractual obligation of the 
Federal Government for the payment of its contribution 
to such project.’’. 

(d) AWARD OF CONTRACTS; TRANSFERS—Section 
204 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a) to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) Recognizing the need for all Federal 
roads that are public roads to be treated under 
uniform policies similar to those that apply to 
Federal-aid highways, there is established a coordinated 
Federal Lands Highways Program 
which shall consist of forest highways, public 
lands highways, park roads and parkways, and 
Indian reservation roads and bridges. The Secretary, 
in cooperation with the Secretary of the 
appropriate Federal land managing agency, 
shall develop transportation planning procedures 
which are consistent with the metropolitan 
and Statewide planning processes in sections 
134 and 135 of this title. The transportation 
improvement program developed as a part 
of the transportation planning process under 
this section shall be approved by the Secretary. 
All regionally significant Federal Lands Highway 
Program projects shall be developed in cooperation 
with States and metropolitan planning 
organizations and be included in appropriate 
Federal Lands Highways Program, State, 
and metropolitan plans and transportation improvement 
programs. The approved Federal 
Lands Highways Program transportation improvement 
program shall be included in appropriate 
State and metropolitan planning organization 
plans and programs without further action 
thereon. The Secretary and the Secretary of 
the appropriate Federal land managing agency 
shall develop appropriate safety, bridge, and 
pavement management systems for roads funded 
under the Federal Lands Highways Program.’’; 

(2) by striking the first three sentences of subsection 
(b) and inserting ‘‘Funds available for 
forest highways, public lands highways, park 
roads and parkways, and Indian reservation 
roads shall be used by the Secretary and the 
Secretary of the appropriate Federal land managing 
agency to pay for the cost of transportation 
planning, research, engineering, and construction 
thereof. The Secretary and the Secretary 
of the appropriate Federal land managing 
agency, as appropriate, may enter into construction 
contracts and such other contracts 
with a State or civil subdivision thereof or Indian 
tribe to carry out this subsection.’’; 

(3) in the first sentence of subsection (e) by 
striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’ and inserting 
‘‘Secretary of the appropriate Federal land 
managing agency’’; and 
(4) by striking subsection (i) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(i) TRANSFERS TO SECRETARIES OF FEDERAL 
LAND MANAGING AGENCIES.—The Secretary shall 
transfer to the appropriate Federal land managing 
agency from the appropriation for public 
lands highways such amounts as may be needed 
to cover— 

‘‘(1) necessary administrative costs of such 
agency in connection with public lands highways; 
and 

‘‘(2) the cost to such agency of conducting 
necessary transportation planning serving Federal 
lands if funding for such planning is otherwise 
not provided in this section.’’. 

(e) ACCESS TO JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR 
THE PERFORMING ARTS.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary, in cooperation 
with the District of Columbia, the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, and the 
Department of the Interior and in consultation 
with other interested persons, shall conduct a 
study of methods to improve pedestrian and vehicular 
access to the John F. Kennedy Center 
for the Performing Arts. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than September 30, 
1999, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate a 
report containing the results of the study, together 
with an assessment of the impacts (including 
environmental, aesthetic, economic, and 
historic impacts) associated with the implementation 
of each of the methods examined under 
the study. 
(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated out of 
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account) $500,000 for fiscal year 1998 to 
carry out this subsection. 
(4) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23, UNITED STATES 
CODE.—Funds authorized by this subsection 
shall be available for obligation in the same 
manner as if such funds were apportioned under 
chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, except 
that the Federal share of the cost of activities 
conducted using such funds shall be 100 percent 
and such funds shall remain available until expended. 
(f) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRANSPORTATION 
PROGRAM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall allocate 
amounts made available by this subsection for 
obligation at the discretion of the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution, in consultation 
with the Secretary, to carry out projects and activities 
described in paragraph (2). 
(2) ELIGIBLE USES.—Amounts allocated under 
paragraph (1) may be obligated only— 
(A) for transportation-related exhibitions, exhibits, 
and educational outreach programs; 
(B) to enhance the care and protection of the 
Nation’s collection of transportation-related artifacts; 
(C) to acquire historically significant trans-
portation-related artifacts; and 
(D) to support research programs within the 
Smithsonian Institution that document the history 
and evolution of transportation, in cooperation 
with other museums in the United 
States. 
(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated out of 
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 

H1928 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Transit Account) $5,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998 through 2003 to carry out this subsection. 


(4) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds authorized 
by this subsection shall be available for 
obligation in the same manner as if such funds 
were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
United States Code; except that the Federal 
share of the cost of any project or activity under 
this subsection shall be 100 percent and such 
funds shall remain available until expended. 
(g) NEW RIVER PARKWAY.—Of amounts available 
under section 102(a)(11)(C) of this Act, the 
Secretary shall allocate $1,300,000 for fiscal year 
1998, $1,200,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$9,900,000 for fiscal year 2000 to the Secretary of 
the Interior for the planning, design, and construction 
of a visitors center, and such other related 
facilities as may be necessary, to facilitate 
visitor understanding and enjoyment of the scenic, 
historic, cultural, and recreational resources 
accessible by the New River Parkway in 
the State of West Virginia. The center and related 
facilities shall be located at a site for which 
title is held by the United States in the vicinity 
of the intersection of the New River Parkway 
and I–64. Such funds shall remain available 
until expended. 
(h) GETTYSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.— 
(1) RESTORATION OF TRAIN STATION.—The Secretary 
shall allocate amounts made available by 
this subsection for the restoration of the Gettysburg, 
Pennsylvania, train station. 
(2) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
out of the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account) $400,000 
for each of fiscal years 1998 and 1999 to carry 
out this subsection. 
(3) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds made 
available to carry out this subsection shall be 
available for obligation in the same manner as 
if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 
of title 23, United States Code; except that the 
Federal share of the cost of restoration of the 
train station under this subsection shall be 80 
percent and such funds shall remain available 
until expended. 
SEC. 118. NATIONAL SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1 is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘§ 162. National scenic byways program 

‘‘(a) DESIGNATION OF ROADS.—The Secretary 
shall carry out a national scenic byways program 
that recognizes roads having outstanding 
scenic, historic, cultural, natural, recreational, 
and archaeological qualities by designating 
them as ‘National Scenic Byways’ or ‘All-American 
Roads’. The Secretary shall designate 
roads to be recognized under the national scenic 
byways program in accordance with criteria developed 
by the Secretary. To be considered for 
such designation, a road must be nominated by 
a State or Federal land management agency and 
must first be designated as a State scenic byway 
or, for roads on Federal lands, as a Federal 
land management agency byway. 

‘‘(b) ALLOCATIONS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.— 


‘‘(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
shall make allocations and provide technical assistance 
to States to— 

‘‘(A) implement projects on highways designated 
as National Scenic Byways or All-American 
Roads, or as State scenic byways; and 

‘‘(B) plan, design, and develop a State scenic 
byways program. 

‘‘(2) PRIORITY PROJECTS.—In making allocations 
under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
give priority to— 

‘‘(A) eligible projects along highways that are 
designated as National Scenic Byways or All-
American Roads; 

‘‘(B) eligible projects on State-designated scenic 
byways that are undertaken to make them 
eligible for designation as National Scenic Byways 
or All-American Roads; and 

‘‘(C) eligible projects that will assist the development 
of State scenic byways programs. 

‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—The following are 
projects that are eligible for Federal assistance 
under this section: 

‘‘(1) Activities related to planning, design, or 
development of State scenic byway programs. 

‘‘(2) Development of corridor management 
plans for scenic byways. 

‘‘(3) Safety improvements to a scenic byway to 
the extent such improvements are necessary to 
accommodate increased traffic and changes in 
the types of vehicles using the highway due to 
such designation. 

‘‘(4) Construction along a scenic byway of facilities 
for pedestrians and bicyclists, rest areas, 
turnouts, highway shoulder improvements, passing 
lanes, overlooks, and interpretive facilities. 

‘‘(5) Improvements to a scenic byway that will 
enhance access to an area for the purpose of 
recreation, including water-related recreation. 

‘‘(6) Protection of historical, archaeological, 
and cultural resources in areas adjacent to scenic 
byways. 

‘‘(7) Development and provision of tourist information 
to the public, including interpretive 
information about scenic byways. 

‘‘(8) development and implementation of scenic 
byways marketing programs. 

‘‘(d) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share 
payable on account of any project carried out 
under this section shall be determined in accordance 
with section 120(b) of this title. For any 
scenic byways project along a public road that 
provides access to or within Federal or Indian 
lands, a Federal land management agency may 
use funds authorized for its use as the non-Federal 
share of the costs of the project. 

‘‘(e) PROTECTION OF SCENIC INTEGRITY.— 

‘‘(1) SCENIC INTEGRITY.—The Secretary shall 
not make an allocation under this section for 
any project that would not protect the scenic, 
historic, recreational, cultural, natural, and archaeological 
integrity of a highway and adjacent 
areas. 

‘‘(2) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—The Secretary shall not 
make any grant, provide technical assistance, or 
impose any requirement on a State under this 
section that is inconsistent with the authority of 
the State provided in this chapter.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The analysis 
for chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new item: 
‘‘162. National scenic byways program.’’. 

(c) CENTER.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall allocate 
funds made available to carry out this subsection 
to establish a center for national scenic 
byways in Duluth, Minnesota, to provide technical 
communications and network support for 
nationally designated scenic byway routes in 
accordance with paragraph (2). 
(2) COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.—The center for 
national scenic byways shall develop and implement 
communications systems for the support of 
the national scenic byways program. Such communications 
systems shall provide local officials 
and planning groups associated with designated 
National Scenic Byways or All-American Roads 
with proactive, technical, and customized assistance 
through the latest technology which allows 
scenic byway officials to develop and sustain 
their National Scenic Byways or All-American 
Roads. 
(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated out of 
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account) to carry out this subsection 
$1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003. 
(4) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds authorized 
by this subsection shall be available for 
obligation in the same manner as if such funds 
were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
United States Code; except that the Federal 
share of the cost of any project under this subsection 
shall be 100 percent and such funds shall 
remain available until expended. 
SEC. 119. VARIABLE PRICING PILOT PROGRAM. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
and implement a variable pricing program. 
In implementing such program, the Secretary 
shall solicit the participation of State and 
local governments and public authorities for 1 or 
more variable pricing pilot programs. The Secretary 
may enter into cooperative agreements 
with as many as 15 of such governments and 
public authorities to conduct and monitor the 
pilot programs. 

(b) FEDERAL SHARE PAYABLE.—The Federal 
share payable for a pilot program under this 
section shall be 80 percent of the aggregate cost 
of the program and the Federal share payable 
for any portion of a project conducted under the 
program may not exceed 100 percent. 
(c) IMPLEMENTATION COSTS.—The Secretary 
may fund all pre-implementation costs, including 
public education and project design, and all 
of the development and startup costs of a pilot 
project under this section, including salaries 
and expenses, until such time that sufficient 
revenues are being generated by the program to 
fund its operating costs without Federal participation; 
except that the Secretary may not fund 
the pre-implementation, development, and startup 
costs of a pilot project for more than 3 years. 
(d) USE OF REVENUES.—Revenues generated 
by any pilot project under this section must be 
applied to projects eligible for assistance under 
title 23, United States Code. 
(e) COLLECTION OF TOLLS.—Notwithstanding 
sections 129 and 301 of title 23, United States 
Code, the Secretary shall allow the use of tolls 
on the Interstate System as part of a pilot program 
under this section, but not as part of more 
than 3 of such programs. 
(f) FINANCIAL EFFECTS ON LOW-INCOME DRIV-
ERS.—Any pilot program conducted under this 
section shall include an analysis of the potential 
effects of the pilot program on low income 
drivers and may include mitigation measures to 
deal with any potential adverse financial effects 
on low-income drivers. 
(g) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary 
shall monitor the effect of the pilot programs 
conducted for a period of at least 10 years and 
shall report to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives biennially on the 
effects such programs are having on driver behavior, 
traffic volume, transit ridership, air 
quality, drivers of all income levels, and availability 
of funds for transportation programs. 
(h) HOV PASSENGER REQUIREMENTS.—Notwithstanding 
section 102 of title 23, United 
States Code, a State may permit vehicles with 
fewer than 2 occupants to operate in high-occupancy 
vehicle lanes if such vehicles are part of 
a pilot program being conducted under this section. 
(i) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY.—Funds allocated 
by the Secretary under this section shall remain 
available for obligation by the State for a period 
of 3 years after the last day of the fiscal year for 
which such funds are authorized. Any amounts 
allocated under this section that remain unobligated 
at the end of such period and any 
amounts authorized under subsection (i) that remain 
unallocated by the end of such period 
shall be transferred to a State’s apportionment 
under section 104(b)(3) of title 23, United States 
Code, and shall be treated in the same manner 
as other funds apportioned under such section. 
(j) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds made 
available to carry out this section shall be available 
for obligation in the same manner as if 
such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of 
title 23, United States Code; except that the Federal 
share of the cost of any project under this 
section and the availability of such funds shall 
be determined in accordance with this section. 
(k) REPEAL.—Section 1012(b) of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
(23 U.S.C. 149 note; 105 Stat. 1938) is repealed. 
SEC. 120. TOLL ROADS, BRIDGES, AND TUNNELS. 

(a) FEDERAL SHARE PAYABLE.—Section 120 is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1929 

‘‘(l) CREDIT FOR NON-FEDERAL SHARE.— 

‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—A State may use as a credit 
toward the non-Federal matching share requirement 
for any funds made available to carry out 
this title (other than the emergency relief program 
authorized in section 125) or chapter 53 of 
title 49 toll revenues that are generated and 
used by public, quasi-public, and private agencies 
to build, improve, or maintain highways, 
bridges, or tunnels that serve the public purpose 
of interstate commerce. Such public, quasi-public, 
or private agencies shall have built, improved, 
or maintained such facilities without 
Federal funds. 

‘‘(2) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The credit for any non-
Federal share provided under this subsection 
shall not reduce nor replace State funds required 
to match Federal funds for any program 
under this title. 

‘‘(B) AGREEMENTS.—In receiving a credit for 
non-Federal capital expenditures under this 
subsection, a State shall enter into such agreements 
as the Secretary may require to ensure 
that the State will maintain its non-Federal 
transportation capital expenditures at or above 
the average level of such expenditures for the 
preceding 3 fiscal years. 

‘‘(3) TREATMENT.— 

‘‘(A) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—Use of a 
credit for a non-Federal share under this subsection 
that is received from a public, quasi-public, 
or private agency— 

‘‘(i) shall not expose the agency to additional 
liability, additional regulation, or additional 
administrative oversight; and 

‘‘(ii) shall not subject the agency to any additional 
Federal design standards, laws, or regulations 
as a result of providing the non-Federal 
match other than those to which the agency is 
already subject. 

‘‘(B) CHARTERED MULTISTATE AGENCIES.— 
When a credit that is received from a chartered 
multistate agency is applied for a non-Federal 
share under this subsection, such credit shall be 
applied equally to all charter States.’’. 

(b) INTERSTATE SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION AND 
REHABILITATION PILOT PROGRAM.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
and implement an Interstate System reconstruction 
and rehabilitation pilot program 
under which the Secretary, notwithstanding 
sections 129 and 301 of title 23, United States 
Code, may permit a State to collect tolls on a 
highway, bridge, or tunnel on the Interstate 
System for the purpose of reconstructing and rehabilitating 
Interstate highway corridors that 
could not otherwise be adequately maintained 
or functionally improved without the collection 
of tolls. 
(2) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF FACILITIES.— 
The Secretary may permit the collection of tolls 
under this subsection on 3 facilities on the 
Interstate System. Each of such facilities shall 
be located in a different State. 
(3) ELIGIBILITY.—In order to be eligible to participate 
in the pilot program, a State shall submit 
to the Secretary an application that contains, 
at a minimum, the following: 
(A) An identification of the facility on the 
Interstate System proposed to be a toll facility, 
including the age, condition, and intensity of 
use of such facility. 
(B) In the case of a facility that affects a metropolitan 
area, an assurance that the metropolitan 
planning organization established under 
section 134 of title 23, United States Code, for 
the area has been consulted concerning the 
placement and amount of tolls on the facility. 
(C) An analysis demonstrating that such facility 
could not be maintained or improved to meet 
current or future needs from the State’s apportionments 
and allocations made available by 
this Act (including amendments made by this 
Act) and from revenues for highways from any 
other source without toll revenues. 
(D) A facility management plan that includes— 
(i) a plan for implementing the imposition of 
tolls on the facility; 
(ii) a schedule and finance plan for the reconstruction 
or rehabilitation of the facility using 
toll revenues; 
(iii) a description of the public transportation 
agency which will be responsible for implementation 
and administration of the pilot toll reconstruction 
and rehabilitation program; and 
(iv) a description of whether consideration 
will be given to privatizing the maintenance and 
operational aspects of the converted facility, 
while retaining legal and administrative control 
of the Interstate route section. 
(E) Such other information as the Secretary 
may require. 
(4) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary may 
approve the application of a State under paragraph 
(3) only if the Secretary determines the 
following: 
(A) The State is unable to reconstruct or rehabilitate 
the proposed toll facility using existing 
apportionments. 
(B) The facility has a sufficient intensity of 
use, age, or condition to warrant the collection 
of tolls. 
(C) The State plan for implementing tolls on 
the facility takes into account the interests of 
local, regional, and interstate travelers. 
(D) The State plan for reconstruction or rehabilitation 
of the facility using toll revenues is 
reasonable. 
(E) The State has given preference to the use 
of an existing public toll agency with demonstrated 
capability to build, operate, and 
maintain a toll expressway system meeting criteria 
for the Interstate System. 
(5) LIMITATIONS ON USE OF REVENUES; AU-
DITS.—Before the Secretary may permit a State 
to participate in the pilot program, the State 
must enter into an agreement with the Secretary 
that provides that— 
(A) all toll revenues received from operation of 
the toll facility will be used only for debt service, 
for reasonable return on investment of any 
private person financing the project, and for 
any costs necessary for the improvement of and 
the proper operation and maintenance of the 
toll facility, including reconstruction, resurfacing, 
restoration, and rehabilitation of the toll 
facility; and 
(B) regular audits will be conducted to ensure 
compliance with subparagraph (A) and the results 
of such audits will be transmitted to the 
Secretary. 
(6) LIMITATION ON USE OF INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE 
FUNDS.—During the term of the pilot program, 
funds apportioned for Interstate maintenance 
under section 104(b)(5) of title 23, United 
States Code, may not be used on a facility for 
which tolls are being collected under the program. 
(7) PROGRAM TERM.—The Secretary shall conduct 
the pilot program under this section for a 
term to be determined by the Secretary but not 
less than 10 years. 
(8) INTERSTATE SYSTEM DEFINED.—In this subsection, 
the term ‘‘Interstate System’’ has the 
same meaning such term has under section 
101(a) of title 23, United States Code. 
(c) BRIDGE RECONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT.—
Section 129(a)(1)(C) is amended by striking 
‘‘toll-free bridge or tunnel’’ and inserting 
‘‘toll-free major bridge or toll-free tunnel’’. 
SEC. 121. CONSTRUCTION OF FERRY BOATS AND 
FERRY TERMINAL FACILITIES. 

(a) OBLIGATION OF AMOUNTS.—Section 1064(c) 
of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 129 note; 105 Stat. 
2005) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(c) OBLIGATION OF AMOUNTS.—Amounts 
made available out of the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry 
out this section may be obligated at the discretion 
of the Secretary. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.’’. 

(b) STUDY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
a study of ferry transportation in the United 
States and its possessions— 
(A) to identify existing ferry operations, including— 
(i) the locations and routes served; and 
(ii) the source and amount, if any, of funds 
derived from Federal, State, or local government 
sources supporting ferry operations; and 
(B) to identify potential domestic ferry routes 
in the United States and its possessions and to 
develop information on those routes. 
(2) REPORT.—The Secretary shall submit a report 
on the results of the study required under 
paragraph (1) to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate. 
(c) FERRY OPERATING AND LEASING AMENDMENTS.—
Section 129(c) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (3) by striking ‘‘owned.’’ and 
inserting ‘‘owned or operated.’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (6) by striking ‘‘sold, leased, 
or’’ and inserting ‘‘sold or’’. 
SEC. 122. HIGHWAY USE TAX EVASION PROJECTS. 

(a) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Section 
1040(f) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 101 note; 
105 Stat. 1992) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(f) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds made 
available out of the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out 
this section shall be available for obligation in 
the same manner and to the same extent as if 
such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of 
title 23, United States Code; except that the Federal 
share of the cost of any project carried out 
under this section shall be 100 percent and such 
funds shall remain available for obligation for a 
period of 1 year after the last day of the fiscal 
year for which the funds are authorized.’’. 

(b) AUTOMATED FUEL REPORTING SYSTEM.— 
Section 1040 of such Act (23 U.S.C. 101 note; 105 
Stat. 1992) is amended by redesignating subsection 
(g) as subsection (h) and by inserting 
after subsection (f) the following: 
‘‘(g) AUTOMATED FUEL REPORTING SYSTEM.— 
Of the amounts made available to carry out this 
section for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003, the Secretary shall make available sufficient 
funds to the Internal Revenue Service to 
establish and operate an automated fuel reporting 
system.’’. 

(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 1040(a) 
of such Act (23 U.S.C. 101 note; 105 Stat. 1992) 
is amended by striking ‘‘by subsection (e)’’. 
SEC. 123. PERFORMANCE BONUS PROGRAM. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall develop performance-
based criteria for the distribution of 
not to exceed 5 percent of the funds from each 
of the following programs: 
(1) The Interstate maintenance program under 
section 119 of title 23, United States Code. 
(2) The bridge program under section 144 of 
such title. 
(3) The high risk road safety improvement 
program under section 154 of such title. 
(4) The surface transportation program under 
section 133 of such title. 
(5) The congestion mitigation and air quality 
improvement program under section 149 of such 
title. 
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF CRI-
TERIA.—Performance-based criteria developed by 
the Secretary under subsection (a) shall assess 
on a statewide basis the following: 
(1) For the Interstate maintenance program, 
whether pavement conditions on routes on the 
Interstate System in the State have consistently 
been of a high quality or have recently improved. 
(2) For the bridge program, whether the percentage 
of deficient bridges in the State has consistently 
been low or has recently decreased. 
(3) For the high risk road safety improvement 
program, whether the level of safety on highways 
in the State has consistently been high or 
has recently improved. 
(4) For the surface transportation program, 
whether the level of financial effort in State 

H1930 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

funding for highway and transit investments 
has been high or has recently increased. 

(5) For the congestion mitigation and air quality 
improvement program, whether the environmental 
performance of the transportation system 
has been consistently high or has improved. 
(c) REQUIRED SUBMISSION.—Not later than 18 
months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
the performance-based criteria developed under 
subsection (a). 
SEC. 124. METROPOLITAN PLANNING. 

(a) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.—Section 134(a) 
is amended by inserting after ‘‘and goods’’ the 
following: ‘‘and foster economic growth and development’’. 
(b) COORDINATION OF MPOS.—Section 134(e) is 
amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading by striking 
‘‘MPO’S’’ and inserting ‘‘MPOS’’; 
(2) by inserting before ‘‘If’’ the following: ‘‘(1) 
NONATTAINMENT AREAS.—’’; 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) PROJECT LOCATED IN MULTIPLE MPOS.—If 
a project is located within the boundaries of 
more than one metropolitan planning organization, 
the metropolitan planning organizations 
shall coordinate plans regarding the project.’’; 
and 

(4) by indenting paragraph (1), as designated 
by paragraph (2) of this subsection, and aligning 
such paragraph (1) with paragraph (2), as 
added by paragraph (3) of this subsection. 
(c) GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF PLANNING 
PROCESS.—Section 134(f) is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(f) GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF PLANNING 
PROCESS.—To the extent that the metropolitan 
planning organization determines appropriate, 
the metropolitan transportation planning process 
may include consideration of goals and objectives 
that— 

‘‘(1) support the economic vitality of the metropolitan 
area, especially by enabling global 
competitiveness, productivity, and efficiency; 

‘‘(2) increase the safety and security of the 
transportation system for all users; 

‘‘(3) increase the accessibility and mobility for 
people and freight; 

‘‘(4) protect and enhance the environment, 
conserve energy, and enhance quality of life; 

‘‘(5) enhance the integration and connectivity 
of the transportation system, across and between 
modes, for people and freight; 

‘‘(6) promote efficient system utilization and 
operation; and 

‘‘(7) preserve and optimize the existing trans


portation system. 
This subsection shall apply to the development 
of long-range transportation plans and transportation 
improvement programs.’’. 

(d) LONG-RANGE PLAN.—Section 134(g) is 
amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1) by inserting ‘‘transportation’’ 
after ‘‘long-range’’; 
(2) in paragraph (2) by striking ‘‘, at a minimum’’ 
and inserting ‘‘contain, at a minimum, 
the following’’; 
(3) in paragraph (2)(A)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘Identify’’ and inserting ‘‘An 
identification of ’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘shall consider’’ and inserting 
‘‘may consider’’; 
(4) by striking paragraph (2)(B) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(B) A financial plan that demonstrates how 
the adopted transportation plan can be implemented, 
indicates resources from public and private 
sources that are reasonably expected to be 
made available to carry out the plan and recommends 
any additional financing strategies for 
needed projects and programs. The financial 
plan may include, for illustrative purposes, additional 
projects that would be included in the 

adopted transportation plan if reasonable additional 
resources beyond those identified in the 
financial plan were available. For the purpose 
of developing the transportation plan, the metropolitan 
planning organization and State shall 
cooperatively develop estimates of funds that 
will be available to support plan implementation.’’; 


(5) in paragraph (4) by inserting after ‘‘employees,’’ 
the following: ‘‘freight shippers and 
providers of freight transportation services,’’; 
and 
(6) in paragraph (5) by inserting ‘‘transportation’’ 
before ‘‘plan prepared’’. 
(e) TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.—
Section 134(h) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘2 years’’ 
and inserting ‘‘3 years’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end of paragraph (2)(B) 
the following: ‘‘The financial plan may include, 
for illustrative purposes, additional projects 
that would be included in the adopted transportation 
plan if reasonable additional resources 
beyond those identified in the financial plan 
were available.’’. 
(f) TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT AREAS.— 
Section 134(i) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (4) by inserting after ‘‘System’’ 
each place it appears the following: ‘‘, 
under the high risk road safety program,’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (5)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘(A)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘(B)’’. 
SEC. 125. STATEWIDE PLANNING. 

(a) SCOPE OF PLANNING PROCESS.—Section 
135(c) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(c) SCOPE OF THE PLANNING PROCESS.—To 
the extent that a State determines appropriate, 
the State may consider goals and objectives in 
the transportation planning process that— 

‘‘(1) support the economic vitality of the Nation, 
its States and metropolitan areas, especially 
by enabling global competitiveness, productivity 
and efficiency; 

‘‘(2) increase the safety and security of the 
transportation system for all users; 

‘‘(3) increase the accessibility and mobility for 
people and freight; 

‘‘(4) protect and enhance the environment, 
conserve energy, and enhance the quality of 
life; 

‘‘(5) enhance the integration and connectivity 
of the transportation system, across and between 
modes throughout the State for people 
and freight; 

‘‘(6) promote efficient system utilization and 
operation; and 
‘‘(7) preserve and optimize the existing transportation 
system.’’. 

(b) ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.—Section 
135(d) is amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading by striking ‘‘REQUIREMENTS’’ 
and inserting ‘‘CONSIDERATIONS’’; 
and 
(2) by striking ‘‘shall, at a minimum,’’ and inserting 
‘‘may’’. 
(c) LONG-RANGE PLAN.—Section 135(e) is 
amended by inserting after ‘‘representatives,’’ 
the following: ‘‘freight shippers and providers of 
freight transportation services,’’. 
(d) TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.—
Section 135(f) is amended— 
(1) by inserting after the second sentence of 
paragraph (1) the following: ‘‘With respect to 
nonmetropolitan areas of the State (areas with 
less than 50,000 population), the program shall 
be developed by the State, in cooperation with 
elected officials of affected local governments 
and elected officials of subdivisions of affected 
local governments which have jurisdiction over 
transportation planning, through a process developed 
by the State which ensures participation 
by such elected officials.’’; 
(2) in paragraph (1) by inserting after ‘‘representatives,’’ 
the following: ‘‘freight shippers 
and providers of freight transportation services,’’; 
(3) in paragraph (2) by inserting before the 
last sentence the following: ‘‘The program may 
include, for illustrative purposes, additional 
projects that would be included in the program 
if reasonable additional resources were available.’’; 
(4) in paragraph (3) by inserting after ‘‘System’’ 
each place it appears the following: ‘‘, 
under the high risk road safety program,’’; 
(5) in the heading to paragraph (4) by striking 
‘‘BIENNIAL’’ and inserting ‘‘TRIENNIAL’’; and 
(6) in paragraph (4) by striking ‘‘biennially’’ 
and inserting ‘‘triennially’’. 
(e) PARTICIPATION OF LOCAL ELECTED OFFICIALS.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study on the effectiveness of the participation of 
local elected officials in transportation planning 
and programming. In conducting the study, the 
Secretary shall consider the degree of cooperation 
between State, local rural officials, and regional 
planning and development organizations 
in different States. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to Congress a report containing 
the results of the study with any recommendations 
the Secretary determines appropriate as a 
result of the study. 
SEC. 126. ROADSIDE SAFETY TECHNOLOGIES. 

(a) CRASH CUSHIONS.— 
(1) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall initiate and issue a guidance regarding the 
benefits and safety performance of redirective 
and nonredirective crash cushions in different 
road applications, taking into consideration 
roadway conditions, operating speed limits, the 
location of the crash cushion in the right-ofway, 
and any other relevant factors. The guidance 
shall include recommendations on the most 
appropriate circumstances for utilization of re-
directive and nonredirective crash cushions. 
(2) USE OF GUIDANCE.—States shall use the 
guidance issued under this subsection in evaluating 
the safety and cost-effectiveness of utilizing 
different crash cushion designs and determining 
whether directive or nonredirective crash 
cushions or other safety appurtenances should 
be installed at specific highway locations. 
(b) TRAFFIC FLOW AND SAFETY APPLICATIONS 
OF ROAD BARRIERS.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study on the technologies and methods to enhance 
safety, streamline construction, and improve 
capacity by providing positive separation 
at all times between traffic, equipment, and 
workers on highway construction projects. The 
study shall also address how such technologies 
can be used to improve capacity and safety at 
those specific highway, bridge, and other appropriate 
locations where reversible lane, 
contraflow, and high occupancy vehicle lane 
operations are implemented during peak traffic 
periods. 
(2) FACTORS TO CONSIDER.—In conducting the 
study, the Secretary shall consider, at a minimum, 
uses of positive separation technologies related 
to— 
(A) separating workers from traffic flow when 
work is in progress; 
(B) providing additional safe work space by 
utilizing adjacent and available traffic lanes 
during off-peak hours; 
(C) rapid deployment to allow for daily or 
periodic restoring lanes for use by traffic during 
peak hours as needed; 
(D) mitigating congestion caused by construction 
by— 
(i) opening all adjacent and available lanes to 
traffic during peak traffic hours; or 
(ii) use of reversible lanes to optimize capacity 
of the highway by adjusting to directional traffic 
flow; and 
(E) permanent use of positive separation technologies 
to create contraflow or reversible lanes 
to increase the capacity of congested highways, 
bridges, and tunnels. 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1931 

(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secreary 
shall submit a report to Congress on the results 
of the study. The report shall include findings 
and recommendations for the use of the identified 
technologies to provide positive separation 
on appropriate projects and locations. The Secretary 
shall provide the report to the States for 
their use on appropriate projects on the National 
Highway System and other Federal-aid 
highways. 
SEC. 127. DISCRETIONARY PROGRAM AUTHORIZATIONS. 


(a) EXECUTIVE BRANCH DISCRETIONARY PROGRAMS.— 
(1) BRIDGE DISCRETIONARY PROGRAM.—The 
amount set aside by the Secretary under section 
144(g)(2) of title 23, United States Code, shall be 
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003. 
(2) HIGH COST INTERSTATE SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION 
AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.—The 
amount the Secretary shall allocate for the high 
cost Interstate System reconstruction and improvement 
program under section 160(c)(2) of 
title 23, United States Code, shall not be more 
than $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$100,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, $250,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2000, $252,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, 
$252,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, and $397,000,000 
for fiscal year 2003. 
(3) ADDITIONAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH DISCRETIONARY 
PROGRAMS.—Of amounts made available 
by section 102(a)(8) of this Act, the following 
sums shall be available: 
(A) COORDINATED BORDER INFRASTRUCTURE 
AND SAFETY PROGRAM.—For the coordinated 
border infrastructure and safety program under 
section 116 of this Act $70,000,000 for fiscal year 
1998, $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003. 
(B) NATIONAL CORRIDOR PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAM.—For the national corridor 
planning and development program under section 
115 of this Act $50,000,000 for fiscal year 
1998, $200,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003. 
(C) CONSTRUCTION OF FERRY BOATS AND FERRY 
TERMINAL FACILITIES.—For construction of ferry 
boats and ferry terminal facilities under section 
1064 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 129 note; 105 
Stat. 2005) $18,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1998 through 2003. 
(D) NATIONAL SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM.—For 
the national scenic byway program under section 
162 of title 23, United States Code, 
$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003. 
(E) VARIABLE PRICING PILOT PROGRAM.—For 
the variable pricing pilot program under section 
119 of this Act $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1998 
and $14,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 
through 2003. 

(F) HIGHWAY RESEARCH.—For highway research 
under sections 307, 308, and 325 of title 
23, United States Code, $150,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, $185,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$195,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003. 
(G) TRANSPORTATION EDUCATION, PROFESSIONAL 
TRAINING, AND TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT.—
For transportation education, professional 
training, and technology deployment 
under sections 321, 322, and 326 of title 23, 
United States Code, and section 5505 of title 49, 
United States Code, $50,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998 and 1999 and $55,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2000 through 2003. 
(H) TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION 
AND DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.—For Transportation 
technology innovation and demonstration 
program under section 632 of this Act $43,667,000 
for fiscal year 1998, $44,667,000 for fiscal year 
1999, $48,167,000 for fiscal year 2000, $47,717,000 
for fiscal year 2001, $47,967,000 for fiscal year 
2002, and $48,217,000 for fiscal year 2003. 
(I) INTELLIGENCE TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 
PROGRAMS.—For intelligence transportation systems 
programs under subtitle B of title VI of this 
Act $175,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2003. 
(4) TRANSPORTATION ASSISTANCE FOR OLYMPIC 
CITIES.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out section 130 of this Act, relating to 
transportation assistance for Olympic cities, 
such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 
1998 through 2003. 
(b) LEGISLATIVE BRANCH DISCRETIONARY PROGRAMS.—
Section 104 is amended by redesignating 
subsection (j) as subsection (k) and by inserting 
after subsection (i) the following: 
‘‘(j) HIGH PRIORITY PROJECTS PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of amounts made available 
by section 102(a)(8) of the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act of 1998, 
$1,025,695,000 for fiscal year 1998, $1,398,675,000 
for fiscal year 1999, $1,678,410,000 for fiscal year 
2000, $1,678,410,000 for fiscal year 2001, 
$1,771,655,000 for fiscal year 2002, and 
$1,771,655,000 for fiscal year 2003 shall be available 
for high priority projects in accordance 
with this subsection. Such funds shall remain 
available until expended. 

‘‘(2) AUTHORIZATION OF HIGH PRIORITY 
PROJECTS.—The Secretary is authorized to carry 
out high priority projects with funds made 
available by paragraph (1). Of amounts made 
available by paragraph (1), the Secretary, subject 
to paragraph (3), shall make available to 
carry out each project described in section 127(c) 
of such Act the amount listed for such project in 
such section. Any amounts made available by 
this subsection that are not allocated for 

[Dollars in Millions] 

projects described in section 127(c) shall be 
available to the Secretary, subject to paragraph 
(3), to carry out such other high priority 
projects as the Secretary determines appropriate. 


‘‘(3) ALLOCATION PERCENTAGES.—For each 
project to be carried out with funds made available 
by paragraph (1)— 

‘‘(A) 11 percent of the amount allocated by 
such section shall be available for obligation beginning 
in fiscal year 1998; 

‘‘(B) 15 percent of such amount shall be available 
for obligation beginning in fiscal year 1999; 

‘‘(C) 18 percent of such amount shall be available 
for obligation beginning in fiscal year 2000; 

‘‘(D) 18 percent of such amount shall be available 
for obligation beginning in fiscal year 2001; 

‘‘(E) 19 percent of such amount shall be available 
for obligation beginning in fiscal year 2002; 
and 

‘‘(F) 19 percent of such amount shall be available 
for obligation beginning in fiscal year 2003. 

‘‘(4) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
on account of any project carried out with 
funds made available by paragraph (1) shall be 
80 percent of the total cost thereof. 

‘‘(5) DELEGATION TO STATES.—Subject to the 
provisions of title 23, United States Code, the 
Secretary shall delegate responsibility for carrying 
out a project or projects, with funds made 
available by paragraph (1), to the State in 
which such project or projects are located upon 
request of such State. 

‘‘(6) ADVANCE CONSTRUCTION.—When a State 
which has been delegated responsibility for a 
project under this subsection— 

‘‘(A) has obligated all funds allocated under 
this subsection of such Act for such project; and 

‘‘(B) proceeds to construct such project without 
the aid of Federal funds in accordance with 
all procedures and all requirements applicable 
to such project, except insofar as such procedures 
and requirements limit the State to the 
construction of projects with the aid of Federal 
funds previously allocated to it; 

the Secretary, upon the approval of the application 
of a State, shall pay to the State the Federal 
share of the cost of construction of the 
project when additional funds are allocated for 
such project under this subsection and such section 
127(c). 

‘‘(7) NONAPPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITATION.—
Funds made available by paragraph 

(1) shall not be subject to any obligation limitation.’’. 
(c) HIGH PRIORITY PROJECTS.—Subject to section 
104(j)(3) of title 23, United States Code, the 
amount listed for each high priority project in 
the following table shall be available (from 
amounts made available by section 104(j) of such 
title) for fiscal years 1998 through 2003 to carry 
out each such project: 
1. Dist. of Col. ............................................. Implement traffic signalization, freeway management and motor vehicle information systems, 
Washington, D.C. ............................................................................................... 8.000 
2. West Virginia ........................................... Upgrade US 340 between West Virginia/Virginia State line and the Charles Town Bypass .. 6.500 
3. New York ................................................ Construct bridge deck over the Metro North right-of-way along Park Ave. between E. 
188th and 189th Streets ................................................................................................ 0.750 
4. Oregon .................................................... Upgrade access road and related facilities to Port Orford, Port Orford .............................. 1.500 
5. Minnesota ............................................... Upgrade Perpich Memorial from 2 miles south of Biwabik to CSAH 111 ............................. 2.800 
6. Indiana ................................................... Upgrade Route 31 and other roads, St. Joseph and Elkhart Counties ................................ 7.000 
7. Illinois ..................................................... Upgrade Western Ave., Park Forest ................................................................................. 0.126 
8. Washington ............................................. Undertake FAST Corridor improvements with the amounts provided as follows: $16,000,000 
to construct the North Duwamish Intermodal Project, $4,500,000 for the Port of Tacoma 
Road project, $3,000,000 for the SW Third St./BSNF project in Auburn, $2,000,000 ........... 32.000 
9. Dist. of Col. ............................................. Implement Geographical Information System, Washington, D.C. ...................................... 10.000 
10. New York ............................................... Reconstruct Niagara St., Quay St., and 8th St. including realignment of Qual St. and 8th 
Ave. in Niagara Falls .................................................................................................. 3.500 
11. California .............................................. Construct the San Fernando Valley Regional Transportation Hub in Los ......................... 0.500 
12. Washington ............................................ Construct Cross Base Corridor, Fort Lewis-McChord AFB ................................................ 0.500 
13. Illinois ................................................... Rehabilitate 95th Street between 54th Place and 50th Avenue, Oak Lawn ......................... 0.600 
14. Virginia ................................................. Reconstruct SR 168 (Battlefield Blvd.) in Chesapeake ...................................................... 8.000 
15. New York ............................................... Construct interchange and connector road using ITS testbed capabilities at I–90 Exit 8 ..... 13.000 


H1932 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

16. Minnesota .............................................. Trunk Highway 53 DWP railroad bridge replacement, St. Louis Co. .................................. 4.800 
17. Illinois ................................................... Resurface Cicero Ave. between 127th St. and 143rd St., Chicago ........................................ 0.610 
18. Illinois ................................................... Undertake improvements to 127th Street, Cicero Avenue and Route 83 to improve safety 
and facilitate traffic flow, Crestwood ........................................................................... 1.000 
19. Illinois ................................................... Construct I–57 interchange, Coles Co. .............................................................................. 15.000 
20. Connecticut ............................................ Construct Harford Riverwalk South, Hartford ................................................................. 3.520 
21. Virgin Islands ........................................ Upgrade West-East corridor through Charlotte Amalie ..................................................... 8.000 
22. Connecticut ............................................ Improve pedestrian and bicycle connections between Union Station and downtown New 
London ....................................................................................................................... 4.520 
23. North Carolina ....................................... Upgrade US 13 (including Ahoskie bypass) in Bertie and Hertford Counties ...................... 1.000 
24. Wisconsin .............................................. Construct Chippewa Falls Bypass ................................................................................... 6.000 
25. Mississippi ............................................. Upgrade Brister Rd. between Tutwiler and Coahoma County line, Tallahatchie Co. .......... 0.510 
26. Florida .................................................. Construct improvements to JFK Boulevard, Eatonville ..................................................... 1.000 
27. Illinois ................................................... Reconstruct Greenbriar Rd. with construction of new turn lanes in vicinity of John A. 
Logan College in Carterville ........................................................................................ 1.400 
28. Connecticut ............................................ Construct overlook and access to Niantic Bay .................................................................. 3.080 
29. California .............................................. Construct sound walls along SR23 in Thousand Oaks ...................................................... 2.532 
30. Mississippi ............................................. Construct I–20 /Norrell Road interchange, Hinds County .................................................. 5.000 
31. North Carolina ....................................... Upgrade I–85, Mecklenburg and Cabarrus Counties ......................................................... 26.000 
32. New Jersey ............................................. Construct, reconstruct and integrate multi-transportation modes to establish intermodal 
transportation corridor and center between Elizabeth and Newark ................................ 4.000 
33. Texas ..................................................... Road improvements along historic mission trails in San Antonio. ...................................... 2.500 
34. Mississippi ............................................. Construct Lincoln Road extension, Lamar Co. ................................................................. 1.500 
35. Texas ..................................................... Upgrade JFK Causeway, Corpus Christi .......................................................................... 3.000 
36. Florida .................................................. Enhance access to Gateway Marketplace through improvements to access roads, Jacksonville 
............................................................................................................................ 1.200 
37. California .............................................. Implement traffic management improvements, Grover Beach ............................................. 0.500 
38. California .............................................. Construct Chatsworth Depot Bicycle and Pedestrian Access project, Los ........................... 0.492 
39. California .............................................. Reconstruct Palos Verdes Drive, Palos Verdes Estates ...................................................... 0.450 
40. Wisconsin .............................................. Construct freeway conversion project on Highway 41 between Kaukauna and Brown 
County Highway F ...................................................................................................... 20.000 
41. California .............................................. Upgrade Price Canyon Road including construction of bikeway between San Luis Obispo 
and Pismo Beach ........................................................................................................ 1.100 
42. Arkansas ............................................... Upgrade US Rt. 67, Newport to Missouri State line .......................................................... 2.000 
43. Missouri ................................................. Construct extension of bike path between Soulard market area and Riverfront bike trail in 
St. Louis ..................................................................................................................... 1.200 
44. Massachusetts ........................................ Construct Greenfield-Montague Bikeways, Franklin Co. .................................................. 0.900 
45. Vermont ................................................. Replace Missisquoi Bay Bridge ....................................................................................... 16.000 
46. California .............................................. Upgrade Route 4 East in Contra Costa Co. ...................................................................... 10.000 
47. Minnesota .............................................. Construct Phalen Blvd. between I–35E and I94 ................................................................ 13.000 
48. Ohio ...................................................... Upgrade North Road between US 422 and East Market St., Trumbull Co. .......................... 1.200 
49. Michigan ............................................... Construct bike path between Mount Clemens and New Baltimore ..................................... 5.000 
50. Maryland ............................................... Upgrade US 29 interchange with Randolph Road, Montgomery Co. .................................. 12.000 
51. Texas ..................................................... Construct Texas State Highway 49 between FM 1735 to Titus/Morris Co. line .................... 6.400 
52. Wisconsin .............................................. Upgrade Marshfield Blvd., Marshfield ............................................................................ 5.000 
53. California .............................................. Reconstruct the I–710/Firestone Blvd. interchange ........................................................... 16.000 
54. Massachusetts ........................................ Construct I–495/Route 2 interchange east of existing interchange to provide access to commuter 
rail station, Littleton ......................................................................................... 4.200 
55.. 
Maryland .................................................... Undertake transportation infrastructure improvements within Baltimore Empowerment 

Zone ........................................................................................................................... 13.300 

56. West Virginia ......................................... Preliminary engineering, design and construction of the Orgas to Chelayn Road, Boone 
Co. ............................................................................................................................. 2.000 
57. Minnesota .............................................. Upgrade CSAH 1 from CSAH 61 to 0.8 miles north ............................................................ 0.480 
58. South Carolina ....................................... Widen North Main Street, Columbia ................................................................................ 9.750 
59. Texas ..................................................... Construct circumferential freeway loop around Texarkana .............................................. 9.900 
60. Texas ..................................................... Upgrade FM517 between Owens and FM 3346, Galveston ................................................. 3.856 
61. Michigan ............................................... Reconstruct Co.Rd. 612 and Co.Rd. 491, Montmorency Co. ............................................... 0.910 
62. Ohio ...................................................... Construct Chesapeake Bypass, Lawrence Co. .................................................................. 5.000 
63. California .............................................. Construct I–10/Pepper Ave. Interchange .......................................................................... 8.800 
64. Pennsylvania ......................................... Construct safety and capacity improvements to Rt. 309 and Old Packhouse Road including 
widening of Old Packhouse Road between KidsPeace National Hospital to Rt. 309 ......... 8.200 
65. Iowa ...................................................... Relocate US 61 to bypass Fort Madison ........................................................................... 3.000 
66. Rhode Island .......................................... Install directional signs in Newport and surrounding communities ................................... 0.300 
67. Pennsylvania ......................................... Construct access to Tioga Marine Terminal, Ports of Philadelphia and Camden ................ 1.600 
68. New York ............................................... Construct bikeway and pedestrian trail improvements, Rochester ..................................... 2.400 
69. Ohio ...................................................... Upgrade U.S. Route 422 through Girard .......................................................................... 4.720 
70. Tennessee ............................................... State Highway 109 upgrade planning and engineering ..................................................... 1.840 
71. Virginia ................................................. Construct transportation demonstration project utilizing magnetic levitation technology 
along route of ‘Smart Road’ between Blacksburg and Roanoke ...................................... 2.000 
72. Massachusetts ........................................ Construct Nowottuck-Manhan Bike Trail connections, Easthampton, Amherst, Holyoke, 
Williamsburg and Northampton ................................................................................... 4.000 
73. New Jersey ............................................. Reconstruct Essex Street Bridge, Bergen Co. .................................................................... 2.500 
74. Illinois ................................................... Undertake traffic mitigation and circulation enhancements, 57th and Lake Shore Drive .... 1.520 
75. Alabama ................................................ Upgrade County Road 39 between Highway 84 and Silver Creek Park, Clarke Co. ............. 1.000 
76. Virginia ................................................. Construct road improvements, trailhead and related facilities for Birch Knob Trail on 
Cumberland Mountain ................................................................................................ 0.125 
77. Washington ............................................ Construct SR 167 Corridor, Tacoma ................................................................................. 1.500 
78. Pennsylvania ......................................... Construct Johnstown-Cambria County Airport Relocation Road ....................................... 1.600 
79. Mississippi ............................................. Construct connector between US–90 and I–10 in Biloxi ..................................................... 8.500 
80. Alabama ................................................ Upgrade SR 5 in Bibb Co. ............................................................................................... 1.700 
81. Maryland ............................................... Upgrade roads within Leakin Park Intermodal Corridor, Baltimore .................................. 3.200 
82. Illinois ................................................... Construct US Route 67 bypass project around Roseville .................................................... 11.700 
83. Pennsylvania ......................................... Construct California University of Pennsylvania intermodal facility ................................ 1.000 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1933 

[Dollars in Millions] 

84. Virginia ................................................. Planning and design for Coalfields Expressway, Buchanan, Dickenson and Wise Counties 1.200 
85. Oregon ................................................... Design and engineering for Tualatin-Sherwood Bypass .................................................... 0.500 
86. California .............................................. Upgrade Route 4 West in Contra Costa Co. ...................................................................... 10.000 
87. Connecticut ............................................ Construct I–95 interchange, New Haven .......................................................................... 26.000 
88. Illinois ................................................... Replace Lebanon Ave. Bridge and approaches, Belleville ................................................. 1.000 
89. Minnesota .............................................. Upgrade Highway 73 from 4.5 miles north of Floodwood to 22.5 miles north of Floodwood .. 3.700 
90. Illinois ................................................... Reconstruct Mt. Erie Blacktop in Mt. Erie ....................................................................... 5.290 
91. Michigan ............................................... Construct grade separation on Sheldon Road, Plymouth .................................................. 7.000 
92. Connecticut ............................................ Construct the US Rt. 7 bypass project, Brookfield to New Milford town line ...................... 5.000 
93. Mississippi ............................................. Upgrade Cowan-Lorraine Rd. between I–10 and U.S. 90, Harrison Co. .............................. 10.000 
94. Alabama ................................................ Construct repairs to Pratt Highway Bridge, Birmingham ................................................. 0.600 
95. Alabama ................................................ Initiate work on controlled access highway between I–65 and Mississippi State line ........... 8.000 
96. Michigan ............................................... Upgrade Walton Blvd. between Opdyke and Squirrel, Oakland Co. .................................. 2.000 
97. Michigan ............................................... Construct Monroe Rail Consolidation Project, Monroe ..................................................... 6.000 
98. Massachusetts ........................................ Renovate Union Station Intermodal Transportation Center in Worcester .......................... 7.000 
99. Oregon ................................................... Construct bike path paralleling 42nd Street to link with existing bike path, Springfield ..... 0.750 
100. California ............................................. Improve streets and related bicycle lane in Oak Park, Ventura Co. ................................... 0.907 
101. California ............................................. Construct Arbor Vitae Street improvements, Inglewood .................................................... 3.500 
102. Mississippi ............................................ Refurbish Satartia Bridge, Yazoo City ............................................................................ 0.500 
103. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade Route 169 between Smithville and north of I–435, Clay Co. .................................. 14.000 
104. Illinois .................................................. Upgrade U.S. 45 between Eldorado and Harrisburg .......................................................... 5.000 
105. Michigan .............................................. Replace Chevrolet Ave. bridge in Genesee Co. .................................................................. 1.800 
106. Connecticut .......................................... Reconstruct I–84, Hartford .............................................................................................. 9.470 
107. Massachusetts ...................................... Improve safety and traffic operations on Main and Green Streets, Mellrose ...................... 2.600 
108. Michigan .............................................. Design and ROW acquisition for ‘‘Intertown South’’ route of US 31 bypass, ...................... 1.500 
109. Illinois .................................................. Undertake improvements to Campus Transportation System ............................................. 1.000 
110. California ............................................. Improve streets in Canoga Park and Reseda areas, Los Angeles ........................................ 1.100 
111. Texas ................................................... Construct US Rt. 67 Corridor through San Angelo ........................................................... 7.000 
112. Illinois .................................................. Upgrade Bishop Ford Expressway/142nd St. interchange .................................................. 1.500 
113. Texas ................................................... Construct Galveston Island Causeway Expansion project, Galveston ................................ 0.730 
114. California ............................................. Reconstruct Harbor Blvd./SR22 Interchange, City of Garden Grove ................................... 2.000 
115. Michigan .............................................. Undertake capital improvements to facilitate traffic between Lansing and ........................ 10.000 
116. Virginia ................................................ Construct Main Street Station in Richmond .................................................................... 8.000 
117. New York ............................................. Reconstruct Houston Street between Avenue B to the West Side Highway, New York City 2.000 
118. North Carolina ..................................... Upgrade US 158 (including bypasses of Norlina, Macon and Littleton) in Halifax and Warren 
Counties ............................................................................................................... 3.000 
119. New York ............................................. Construct access road and entranceway improvments to airport in Niagara Falls .............. 3.000 
120. New Jersey ............................................ Upgrade Baldwin Ave. intersection to facilitate access to waterfront and ferry, 
Weehawken ................................................................................................................ 4.000 
121. Massachusetts ...................................... Undertake vehicular and pedestrian movement improvments within Central Business District 
of Foxborough ..................................................................................................... 2.080 
122. California ............................................. Construct I–680HOV lanes between Marina Vista toll plaza to North Main Street, Martinez 
to Walnut Creek ................................................................................................. 7.000 
123. Michigan .............................................. Improvements to Card Road between 21 mile road and 23 mile road in Macomb Co. ............ 1.300 
124. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade (all weather) on US 2, US 41, and M 35 .............................................................. 1.700 
125. Oregon ................................................. Relocate and rebuild intersection of Highway 101 and Highway 105, Clatsop Co. ............... 1.600 
126. New York ............................................. Undertake Linden Place reconstruction project, Queens ................................................... 7.000 
127. Texas ................................................... Construct Houston Street Viaduck project in Dallas ......................................................... 5.500 
128. Iowa ..................................................... Improve US 65/IA 5 interchange, Polk Co. ........................................................................ 5.000 
129. Texas ................................................... Construct segment located south of U.S. 209 in Travis County of a bypass to I–35 known as 
SH–130 only on a route running east of Decker Lake .................................................... 16.000 
130. Illinois .................................................. Rehabilitate Timber Bridge over Little Muddy River and approach roadway, Perry Co. ..... 0.140 
131. Connecticut .......................................... Reconstruct cross road over I–95, Waterford .................................................................... 2.000 
132. Minnesota ............................................ Construct pedestrian overpass on Highway 169, Mille Lacs Reservation ............................ 0.600 
133. Hawaii ................................................. Upgrade Kaumualili Highway ........................................................................................ 10.000 
134. Massachusetts ...................................... Undertake improvements to South Station Intermodal Station .......................................... 3.000 
135. Illinois .................................................. Construct Marina Access Road, East Chicago .................................................................. 1.000 
136. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct North Street, Fitchburg ................................................................................ 1.000 
137. Virginia ................................................ Replace Shore Drive Bridge over Petty Lake, Norfolk ....................................................... 4.000 
138. New Jersey ............................................ Upgrade Urban University Heights Connector, Newark .................................................... 9.700 
139. California ............................................. Implement City of Compton traffic signal systems improvements ....................................... 5.800 
140. California ............................................. Undertake San Pedro Bridge project at SR 1, Pacifica ...................................................... 1.500 
141. Texas ................................................... Construct grade separations in Manchester ..................................................................... 16.000 
142. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade TH6 between Talmoon to Bowstring River .......................................................... 1.200 
143. North Carolina ..................................... Construct US Route 17, Elizabeth City Bypass ................................................................. 0.500 
144. Pennsylvania ........................................ Undertake transportation enhancement activities within the Lehigh Landing Area of the 
Delaware and Lehigh Canal National Heritage Corridor ............................................... 7.000 
145. Texas ................................................... Upgrade State Highway 24 from Commerce to State Highway 19 north of Cooper ............... 5.000 
146. California ............................................. Reconstruct I–215 and construct HOV lanes between 2nd Street and 9th Street, San 
Bernardino ................................................................................................................. 2.750 
147. California ............................................. Undertake safety enhancements along Monterey County Railroad highway grade, Monterey 
Co. ....................................................................................................................... 2.800 
148. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade I–94 between M–39 and I–69 ............................................................................... 8.000 
149. Michigan .............................................. Widen and make improvements to Baldwin and Joslyn Roads, Oakland Co. ...................... 5.000 
150. Arkansas .............................................. Construct Geyer Springs RR grade separation, Little Rock ............................................... 1.000 
151. New Jersey ............................................ Construct Route 4/17 interchange in Paramus .................................................................. 8.500 
152. West Virginia ........................................ Upgrade US Rt. 35 between I–64 and South Buffalo Bridge .............................................. 35.000 
153. Alabama ............................................... Construct enhancements along 12th Street between State Highway 11 and Baptist Princeton 
Hospital, Birmingham ........................................................................................... 0.800 
154. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Independence Gateway Transportation Center project, Philadelphia ................. 6.000 
155. Minnesota ............................................ Implement Trunk Highway 8 Corridor projects, Chisago Co. ............................................. 15.300 
156. Missouri ............................................... Construct extension of bike path between Soulard market area and Riverfront bike trail in 
St. Louis ..................................................................................................................... 0.800 
157. Mississippi ............................................ Upgrade Goose Pond Subdivision Roads, Tallahatchie Co. ............................................... 0.200 

H1934 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

158. Iowa ..................................................... Construct controlled access four-lane highway between Des Moines and Burlington ......... 14.925 
159. Maryland ............................................. Construct improvements to Route 50 interchange with Columbia Pike, Prince Georges Co. 3.200 
160. Tennessee ............................................. Construct Landport regional transportation hub, Nashville .............................................. 8.000 
161. California ............................................. Construct San Francisco Regional Intermodal Terminal ................................................... 12.500 
162. Texas ................................................... Relocate railroad tracks to eliminate road crossings, and provide for the rehabilitation of 
secondary roads providing access to various parts of the Port and the construction of 
new connecting roads to access new infrastructure safely and efficiently, Bro ............... 6.000 
163. Massachusetts ...................................... Replace Brightman Street bridge in Fall River ................................................................. 13.640 
164. California ............................................. Construct Alameda Corridor East project ......................................................................... 12.750 
165. Georgia ................................................ Upgrade US Rt. 27 .......................................................................................................... 10.000 
166. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Davison Rd. between Belsay and Irish Roads, Genessee Co. ................................ 4.500 
167. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade PA 228 (Crows Run Corridor) ............................................................................ 7.200 
168. Maine ................................................... Replace Singing Bridge across Taunton Bay ................................................................... 1.000 
169. California ............................................. Roadway improvements to provide access to Hansen Dam Recreation Area in Los Angeles 1.000 
170. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Rt. 819/Rt. 119 interchange between Mt. Pleasant and Scottdale ........................ 14.400 
171. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct Huntington Ave. in Boston .......................................................................... 4.000 
172. Ohio ..................................................... Replace McCuffey Road Bridge, Mahoning Co. ............................................................... 3.360 
173. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Rochester Road between I–75 and Torpsey St. .................................................... 12.300 
174. California ............................................. Rehabilitate Artesia Blvd. .............................................................................................. 4.000 
175. Illinois .................................................. Construct improvements to McKinley Bridge over Mississippi River with terminus points in 
Venice, Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri ....................................................................... 5.200 
176. Maine ................................................... Construct I–295 connector, Portland ................................................................................ 4.500 
177. Maine ................................................... Studies and planning for reconstruction of East-West Highway ........................................ 4.000 
178. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct Claire Blvd., Robbins ................................................................................... 0.330 
179. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade PA Route 21, Fayette and Greene Counties ........................................................ 7.000 
180. California ............................................. Construct VC Campus Parkway Loop System in Merced .................................................. 8.000 
181. Massachusetts ...................................... Replace deck of Chain Bridge over Merrimack River ........................................................ 1.012 
182. New York ............................................. Construct Edgewater Road Dedicated Truck Route .......................................................... 12.000 
183. Illinois .................................................. Construct Raney Street Overpass in Effingham ............................................................... 4.400 
184. Pennsylvania ........................................ Replace Masontown bridge, Fayette and Greene Counties ................................................ 7.000 
185. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade US Rt. 22, Chickory Mountain section ............................................................... 10.200 
186. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Lalie St., Frenchtown Rd., and Penshee Rd., Ironwood ...................................... 0.360 
187. South Carolina ..................................... Upgrade US Highway 301 within Bamberg ....................................................................... 2.950 
188. Arizona ................................................ Construct Veterans’ Memorial overpass in Pima Co. ......................................................... 15.000 
189. Michigan .............................................. Replace Chalk Hills Bridge over Menominee River ........................................................... 0.400 
190. Michigan .............................................. Construct intermodal freight terminal in Wayne Co. ........................................................ 24.000 
191. Oregon ................................................. Replace grade crossing with separated crossing and related improvements, Linn Co. ......... 6.710 
192. California ............................................. Reconstruct State Route 81 (Sierra Ave.) and I–10 Interchange in Fontana ....................... 10.000 
193. California ............................................. Construct four-lane highway facility (Hollister Bypass), San Benito Co. ........................... 3.000 
194. Maine ................................................... Construct new bridge over Kennebee River (Carlton Bridge replacement) .......................... 8.000 
195. Oregon ................................................. Upgrade I–5/Highway 217 interchange, Portland .............................................................. 7.000 
196. American Samoa ................................... Upgrade village roads on Tutilla Island, American Samoa ................................................ 11.000 
197. New Jersey ............................................ Eliminate Berlin Circle and signalize intersection in Camden ........................................... 8.000 
198. New York ............................................. Implement Melrose Commons geographic information system ............................................ 1.000 
199. Pennsylvania ........................................ Reconstruct Lover Interchange on I–70, Washington Co. .................................................. 5.000 
200. Virginia ................................................ Aquire land and construct segment of Daniel Boone Heritage Trail (Kane Gap section), 
Jefferson National Forest ............................................................................................. 0.200 
201. California ............................................. Construct Sacramento Intermodal Station ....................................................................... 4.000 
202. New York ............................................. Construct intermodal facility in New Rochelle, Westchester Co. ........................................ 7.250 
203. New York ............................................. Reconstruct 79th Street Traffic Circle, New York City ...................................................... 9.000 
204. Pennsylvania ........................................ Extend North Delaware Ave. between Lewis St. and Orthodox St., Philadelphia ............... 5.200 
205. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade Route MO291 Connector .................................................................................... 2.000 
206. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade US Rt. 119 between Homer City and Blairsville ................................................... 6.400 
207. West Virginia ........................................ Relocate segment of Route 33 (Scott Miller Bypass), Roane Co. ......................................... 8.000 
208. Missouri ............................................... Construct on intermodal center at Missouri Botanical Garden .......................................... 1.600 
209. Maine ................................................... Rehabilitate Piscataqua River bridges, Kittery ................................................................. 5.250 
210. Wisconsin ............................................. Upgrade STH 29 between IH 94 and Chippewa Falls ........................................................ 6.000 
211. Illinois .................................................. Extend and reconstruct roadways through industrial corridor in Alton ............................. 5.690 
212. New Jersey ............................................ Construct road from the Military Ocean Terminal to the Port Jersey Pier, Bayonne .......... 3.000 
213. Missouri ............................................... Relocate and reconstruct Route 21 between Schenk Rd. to Town of DeSoto ....................... 40.000 
214. Michigan .............................................. Improve drainage on 6th Street in Menominee ................................................................. 0.150 
215. Pennsylvania ........................................ Reconstruct and widen US Rt. 222 to four-lane expressway between Lancaster/Berks 
County line and Grings Mill Rd. and construction of Warren Street extenstion in Reading 
............................................................................................................................. 25.000 
216. New Jersey ............................................ Relocate and complete construction of new multi-modal facility, Weehawken .................... 8.000 
217. Arkansas .............................................. Construct North Belt Freeway ........................................................................................ 7.000 
218. California ............................................. Rehabilitate pavement throughout Santa Barbara Co. ..................................................... 1.500 
219. Virginia ................................................ Repair historic wooden bridges along portion of Virginia Creeper Trail maintained by 
Town of Abingdon ...................................................................................................... 2.050 
220. Arizona ................................................ Reconstruct I–19, East Side Frontage Road, Ruby Road to Rio Rico Drive, Nogales ........... 10.000 
221. Massachusetts ...................................... Conduct planning and engineering for connector route between I–95 and industrial/business 
park, Attleboro .................................................................................................... 0.800 
222. Georgia ................................................ Undertake Perimeter Central Parkway Overpass project and Ashford Dunwoody interchange 
improvements at I–285, DeKalb Co. ................................................................... 0.100 
223. Ohio ..................................................... Construct Wilmington Bypass, Wilmington ...................................................................... 5.000 
224. Illinois .................................................. Construct Western Springs Pedestrian and Tunnel project, Cook Co. ................................ 0.925 
225. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade Cass County Road 105 and Crow Wing County Road 125, East Gull Lake ............ 0.960 
226. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade H-58 within Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore ................................................. 5.600 
227. California ............................................. Reconstruct and widen Mission Road, Alhambra ............................................................. 3.250 
228. Texas ................................................... Reconstruct and widen I–35 between North of Georgetown at Loop 418 to US Rt. 190 ......... 8.000 
229. Florida ................................................. Construct access road to St. Johns Ave. Industrial Park ................................................... 1.000 
230. Illinois .................................................. Intersection improvements at 79th and Stoney Island Blvd., Chicago ................................ 1.740 
231. Michigan .............................................. Construct Tawas Beach Road/US 23 interchange improvements, East Tawas ..................... 2.200 
232. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Lawrenceville Industrial Access Road .............................................................. 10.000 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1935 

[Dollars in Millions] 

233. Maryland ............................................. Construct intersection improvements to facilitate access to NSA facility, Anne Arundel Co. 3.000 
234. California ............................................. Upgrade Del Almo Boulevard at I–405 ............................................................................. 5.000 
235. Minnesota ............................................ Reconstruct and replace I–494 Wakota Bridge from South St. Paul to Newport, and approaches 
..................................................................................................................... 13.000 
236. Tennessee ............................................. Construct separated grade crossing at US 41 and US 231, Murfreesboro ............................. 0.323 
237. Michigan .............................................. Construct four-lane boulevard from Dixie Highway to Walton Blvd., Oakland Co. ............ 3.700 
238. New York ............................................. Reconstruct Mamaroneck Ave., White Plains, Harrison and Mamaroneck ......................... 4.500 
239. Texas ................................................... Upgrade FM 1764 between FM 646 to State Highway 6 ..................................................... 3.000 
240. Texas ................................................... Construct ramp connection between Hammet St. to Highway 54 ramp to provide access to 
I–10 in El Paso ............................................................................................................ 8.000 
241. New York ............................................. Undertake studies, planning, engineering, design and construction of a tunnel alternative 
to reconstruction of existing elvated expressway (Gowanus tunnel project) .................... 32.000 
242. New York ............................................. Rehabilitate segment of Henry Hudson Parkway between Washington Bridge and 
Dyckman St., New York City ....................................................................................... 1.470 
243. Illinois .................................................. Construct bicycle/pedestrian trail parallel to light rail transit system in St. Clair Co. ......... 6.000 
244. Indiana ................................................ Extend SR 149 between SR 130 to US Rt. 30, Valparaiso ................................................... 5.900 
245. Connecticut .......................................... Construct Greenmanville Ave. streetscape extension, including feasibility study, in towns 
of Groton, Stonington and Mystic ................................................................................ 8.400 
246. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct Broad Street between Maple St. to Sixth St., Evansville ................................. 0.350 
247. New York ............................................. Construct Mineola and Hicksville Intermodal Centers in Nassau Co. ................................ 16.000 
248. Colorado ............................................... Construct intermodal center at Stapleton, Denver ............................................................ 3.000 
249. New Jersey ............................................ Undertake improvements associated with the South Amboy Regional Intermodal Center .... 16.000 
250. Michigan .............................................. Extend Trowbridge Road from Harrison Rd. to Red Cedar Rd. .......................................... 2.500 
251. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct improvements to North Main St. in Worcester ................................................... 2.400 
252. Tennessee ............................................. Upgrade SR 96 between Arno Rd. and SR 252, Williamson Co. .......................................... 3.600 
253. Louisiana ............................................. Extend Howard Avenue to Union Passenger Terminal, New Orleans ................................. 8.000 
254. California ............................................. Construct bike path between Sepulveda Basin Recreation Area and Warner Center/Canoga 
Park, Los Angeles ....................................................................................................... 3.000 
255. New York ............................................. Upgrade Route 17 between Five Mile Point and Occanum, Broome Co. ............................. 16.800 
256. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade US Rt. 33 between vicinity of Haydenville to Floodwood (Nelsonville Bypass) ...... 5.000 
257. Oregon ................................................. Construct passing lande on Highway 58 between Kitson Ridge Road and Mile Post 47, 
Lane Co. ..................................................................................................................... 6.800 
258. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade East Jordon Road, Boyne City .......................................................................... 0.170 
259. California ............................................. Reconstruct Tennessee Valley Bridge, Marin Co. ............................................................. 1.000 
260. Illinois .................................................. Improve access to 93rd Street Station, Chicago ................................................................. 3.000 
261. California ............................................. Construct I–580 interchange, Livermore ........................................................................... 13.200 
262. California ............................................. Construct San Diego and Arizona Eastern Intermodal Yard ............................................. 10.000 
263. Michigan .............................................. Apply ITS technologies relating to traffic control, Lansing .............................................. 3.700 
264. California ............................................. Construct Palisades Bluff Stabilization project, Santa Monica ......................................... 8.000 
265. Rhode Island ........................................ Upgrade pedestrian traffic facilities, Bristol .................................................................... 0.100 
266. Rhode Island ........................................ Implement transportation alternative relating to Court Street Bridge, Woonsocket ............ 0.200 
267. California ............................................. Upgrade Industrial Parkway Southwest between Whipple Rd. and improved segment of 
the parkway, Hayward ................................................................................................ 0.600 
268. Missouri ............................................... Replace bridge on Route 92, Platte Co. ............................................................................ 1.000 
269. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade Western Reserve Road, Mahoning Co. ............................................................... 5.600 
270. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade SR 124 between Five Points and Ravenswood Bridge, Meigs Co. .......................... 5.000 
271. Illinois .................................................. Undertake streetscaping between Damden and Halsted .................................................... 1.150 
272. Illinois .................................................. Construct improvements to New Era Road, Carbondale .................................................... 3.500 
273. New York ............................................. Construct access improvements to Port of Rochester Harbor, Rochester ............................. 12.000 
274. Rhode Island ........................................ Reconstruct interchanges on Rt. 116 between Rt. 146 and Ashton Viaduct, Lincoln ........... 0.445 
275. West Virginia ........................................ Preliminary engineering and design for access road to proposed location of regional airport, 
Lincoln Co. ......................................................................................................... 1.000 
276. Massachusetts ...................................... Upgrade Route 2 between Philipston and Greenfield ........................................................ 4.000 
277. Ohio ..................................................... Construct grade separations at Front Street and Bagley Road, Berea ............................... 14.000 
278. Pennsylvania ........................................ Relocate PA 18 between 9th Ave. and 32nd St., Beaver Falls ............................................. 1.400 
279. California ............................................. Construct bike paths, Thousand Oaks ............................................................................. 0.625 
280. Oregon ................................................. Construct right-of-way improvements to provide improved pedestrian access to MAX light 
rail, Gresham .............................................................................................................. 1.282 
281. Louisiana ............................................. Reconstruct I–10 and Ryan Street access ramps and frontage street improvements, Lake 
Charles ....................................................................................................................... 8.000 
282. California ............................................. Upgrade SR 92/El Camino interchange, San Mateo .......................................................... 3.700 
283. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct Housatonic-Hoosic bicycle network .................................................................. 4.000 
284. Texas ................................................... Upgrade SH 30, Huntsville .............................................................................................. 2.500 
285. Connecticut .......................................... Replace bridges over Harbor Brook, Meriden ................................................................... 6.550 
286. Indiana ................................................ Extend SR 149 between SR 130 to US Rt. 30 ...................................................................... 1.000 
287. West Virginia ........................................ Construct improvements on WV 9 including turning lane and signalization, Berkely Co. ... 0.200 
288. Arkansas .............................................. Upgrade Highway 63, Marked Tree to Lake David ........................................................... 12.000 
289. Dist. of Col. .......................................... Conduct studies and related activities pertaining to proposed intermodal transportation 
Center, D.C. ................................................................................................................ 1.000 
290. Ohio ..................................................... Undertake improvements to Valley Street, Dayton ........................................................... 0.900 
291. Texas ................................................... Construct US Expressway 77/83 interchange, Harlingen ................................................... 7.500 
292. Texas ................................................... Construct Loop 197, Galveston ........................................................................................ 4.290 
293. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade Highway 53 between Virginia and Cook ............................................................. 2.000 
294. California ............................................. Upgrade intersection of Folsom Blvd. and Power Inn Rd., Sacramento ............................. 10.000 
295. California ............................................. Reconstruct Grand Avenue between Elm Street and Halcyon Road, Arroyo Grande ........... 0.500 
296. New York ............................................. Construct intermodal facility in Yonkers, Westchester Co. ................................................ 10.250 
297. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct bike path between Rt. 16 (Everett) to Lynn Oceanside ...................................... 1.700 
298. Oregon ................................................. Design and engineering for intermodal transportation center, Astoria ............................... 0.300 
299. California ............................................. Construct Port of Oakland intermodal terminal ............................................................... 8.000 
300. Indiana ................................................ Upgrade County roads in LaPorte County ....................................................................... 7.000 
301. Alabama ............................................... Replace bridge over Tombigbee River, Naheola ................................................................. 3.000 
302. Virginia ................................................ Construct access road and related facilities for Fisher Peak Mountain Music Interpretive 
Center on Blue Ridge Parkway .................................................................................... 1.700 
303. Colorado ............................................... Reconstruct and upgrade I–70/I–25 Interchange, Denver ................................................... 13.000 

H1936 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

304. Alabama ............................................... Construct improvements to 41st Street between 1st Ave. South and Airport Highway, Birmingham 
.................................................................................................................... 1.000 
305. New York ............................................. Replace Route 28 bridge over NY State Thruway, Ulster Co. ............................................. 3.200 
306. Minnesota ............................................ Reconstruct SE Main Ave./I–94 interchange, Moorhead .................................................... 4.000 
307. Indiana ................................................ Construct Gary Marina access road (Buffington Harbor) ................................................. 10.000 
308. Washington .......................................... Undertake SR 166 slide repair ......................................................................................... 6.500 
309. Oregon ................................................. Construct bike path between Main Street/Highway 99 in Cottage Grove to Row River Trail, 
Cottage Grove ............................................................................................................. 0.230 
310. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade 10th Street South, St. Cloud .............................................................................. 1.500 
311. Missouri ............................................... Construct Grand Ave. viaduct over Mill Creek Valley in St. Louis .................................... 2.200 
312. Missouri ............................................... Construct Strother Rd./I–470 interchange, Jackson Co. ..................................................... 8.000 
313. Wisconsin ............................................. Upgrade U.S. 51 between I–90/94 to northern Wisconsin .................................................... 5.000 
314. Virginia ................................................ Construct trailhead and related facilities and restore old Whitetop Train Station at terminus 
of Virginia Creeper Trail adjacent to Mount Rogers National Recreation Area ..... 0.250 
315. Oregon ................................................. Reconstruct Lovejoy ramp, Portland ............................................................................... 7.718 
316. Michigan .............................................. Rehabilitate Lincoln St., Negaunee ................................................................................. 0.170 
317. New York ............................................. Construct full access controlled expressway along NY Route 17 at Parkville, Sullivan Co. 6.000 
318. Texas ................................................... Construct extension of Bay Area Blvd. ............................................................................ 1.000 
319. California ............................................. Construct pedestrian boardwalk between terminus of Pismo Promenade at Pismo Creek 
and Grande Avenue in Gover Beach ............................................................................. 0.500 
320. Michigan .............................................. Construct deceleration lane in front of 4427 Wilder Road, Bay City .................................. 0.020 
321. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct Arlington to Boston Bike Path ........................................................................ 1.000 
322. Virginia ................................................ Undertake access improvements for Freemason Harbor Development Initiative, Norfolk ..... 2.000 
323. Oregon ................................................. Construct bike path along Willamette River, Corvallis ...................................................... 0.808 
324. California ............................................. Upgrade Highway 99 between State Highway 70 and Lincoln Rd., Sutter Co. .................... 14.300 
325. Texas ................................................... Construct US 77/83 Expressway extension, Brownsville ..................................................... 3.000 
326. Ohio ..................................................... Undertake improvements to open Federal Street to traffic, Youngstown ............................ 2.080 
327. Massachusetts ...................................... Upgrade I–495 interchange 17 and related improvements including along Route 140 ........... 14.480 
328. Indiana ................................................ Undertake safety and mobility improvements involving street and street crossings and 
Conrail line, Elkhart ................................................................................................... 2.000 
329. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct interchange at I–294, 127th St. and Cicero Ave. with new ramps to the Tri-
State Tollway, Alsip .................................................................................................... 34.265 
330. Minnesota ............................................ Construct TH 1 east of Northome including bicycle/pedestrian trail ................................... 0.240 
331. Missouri ............................................... Construct Jefferson Ave. viaduct over Mill Creek Valley in St. Louis ................................ 11.000 
332. Ohio ..................................................... Construct connector road between North Road and SR46, Trumbull Co. ............................ 5.680 
333. Oregon ................................................. Repair bridge over Rogue River, Gold Beach .................................................................... 10.000 
334. Tennessee ............................................. Construct I–40/SR 155 interchange, Davidson ................................................................... 9.000 
335. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade I–95 between Lehigh Ave. and Columbia Ave. and improvements to Girard Ave./I– 
95 interchange, Philadelphia ....................................................................................... 29.000 
336. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct Hyannis Intermodal Transportation Center, Hyannis ....................................... 3.200 
337. New York ............................................. Reconstruct 127th Street viaduct, New York City ............................................................. 1.470 
338. California ............................................. Construct bicycle path, Westlake Village ......................................................................... 0.136 
339. California ............................................. Upgrade Osgood Road between Washington Blvd. and South Grimmer Blvd., Freemont ..... 2.000 
340. Tennessee ............................................. Upgrade Briley Parkway between I–40 and Opreyland ..................................................... 9.000 
341. Minnesota ............................................ Construct Gunflint Realignment project, Grand Marais ................................................... 0.800 
342. Maryland ............................................. Construct Baltimore Washington Parkway to Route 197, Prince Georges Co. ..................... 8.000 
343. Virgin Islands ....................................... Construct bypass around Christiansted ........................................................................... 8.000 
344. Dist. of Col. .......................................... Rehabilitate Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Bridge ............................................................ 10.000 
345. California ............................................. Construct Los Angeles County Gateway Cities NHS Access .............................................. 8.750 
346. South Carolina ..................................... Construct pedestrian walkway and safety improvements along SC 277, Richland Co. ......... 0.800 
347. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade US Rt. 35 between vicinity of Chillicothe to Village of Richmond Dale ................. 5.000 
348. California ............................................. Extend 7th St. between F St. and North 7th St., Sacramento ............................................ 2.000 
349. Illinois .................................................. Construct I–64/North Greenmount Rd. interchange, St. Clair Co. ...................................... 4.800 
350. Texas ................................................... Construct 6th and 7th Street overpass over railroad yard, Brownsville .............................. 0.500 
351. Iowa ..................................................... Construct four-lane expressway between Des Moines and Marshalltown ........................... 11.100 
352. Michigan .............................................. Construct route improvements along Washington Ave. between Janes Ave. to Johnson St. 
and East Genesee Ave. between Saginaw River and Janes Ave., Saginaw ....................... 3.600 
353. Minnesota ............................................ Construct pedestrian bridge over TH 169 in Elk River ....................................................... 0.707 
354. Michigan .............................................. Reconstruct I–75/M-57 interchange .................................................................................. 14.000 
355. Virginia ................................................ Upgrade Danville Bypass in Pittsylvania ........................................................................ 4.000 
356. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct Route 126 and replace bridge spanning Route 9, Town of Framingham ........... 4.700 
357. Alabama ............................................... Construct improvements to 19th Street between I–59 and Tuxedo Junction, Birmingham .... 0.900 
358. Ohio ..................................................... Restore Main and First Streets to two-way traffic, Miamisburg ........................................ 0.450 
359. Texas ................................................... Upgrade FM225, Nacogdoches ......................................................................................... 4.000 
360. California ............................................. Construct railroad at-grade crossings, San Leandro ......................................................... 0.500 
361. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve walking and biking trails between Easton and Lehigh Gorge State Park within 
the Delaware and Lehigh Canal National Heritage Corridor ......................................... 2.800 
362. Massachusetts ...................................... Environmental studies, preliminary engineering and design of North-South Connector in 
Pittsfield to improve access to I–90 ............................................................................... 2.000 
363. Oregon ................................................. Upgrade Naito Parkway, Portland .................................................................................. 1.500 
364. Pennsylvania ........................................ Make safety improvements on PA Rt. 61 (Dusselfink Safety Project) between Rt. 183 in 
Cressona and SR 0215 in Mount Carbon ....................................................................... 7.000 
365. New York ............................................. Capital improvements for the car float operations in Brooklyn, New York, for the New 
York City Economic Development Corp. ....................................................................... 14.000 
366. California ............................................. Construct Backbone Trail through Santa Monica National Recreation Area ..................... 0.200 
367. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct Greenfield Road, Montague ......................................................................... 2.500 
368. North Dakota ....................................... Upgrade U.S. Route 52 between Donnybrook and US Route 2 ........................................... 2.400 
369. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Philadelphia Intermodal Gateway Project at 30th St. Station ............................ 8.000 
370. Hawaii ................................................. Construct Kapaa Bypass ................................................................................................ 10.000 
371. Missouri ............................................... Construct bike/pedestrian path between Delmar Metrolink Station and University City 
loop business district in St. Louis ................................................................................. 0.800 
372. Hawaii ................................................. Replace Sand Island tunnel with bridge .......................................................................... 1.000 
373. Missouri ............................................... Improve safety and traffic flow on Rt. 13 through Clinton ................................................ 8.000 
374. California ............................................. Construct improvements to Moorpark/Highway 101 interchange, Bouchard/Highway 101 
interchange and associated street improvements, Thousand Oaks .................................. 0.368 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1937 

[Dollars in Millions] 

375. Texas ................................................... Construct extension of West Austin Street (FM 2609) between Old Tyler Road and Loop 
224, Nacogdoches ......................................................................................................... 1.800 
376. Washington .......................................... Construct passenger ferry to serve Southworth-Seattle ..................................................... 5.000 
377. Hawaii ................................................. Construct interchange at junction of proposed North-South road and H–1 ........................ 20.000 
378. South Carolina ..................................... Construct I–95/I–26 interchange, Orangeburg Co. ............................................................. 12.000 
379. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade SR 46 between Mahoning Ave. and Salt Springs Rd., Mahoning and Trumbull 
Counties ..................................................................................................................... 3.520 
380. California ............................................. Rehabilitate Highway 1 in Guadalupe ............................................................................. 0.500 
381. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct Great River Bridge improvements, Westfield ..................................................... 2.000 
382. Maine ................................................... Studies and planning for extension of I–95 ...................................................................... 1.500 
383. Michigan .............................................. Widen Arch St., Negaunee .............................................................................................. 0.080 
384. Texas ................................................... Construct Concord Road Widening project, Beaumont ..................................................... 8.500 
385. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct accessibility improvments to Charles Street T Station, Boston ........................... 4.000 
386. Oregon ................................................. Purchase and install emitters and receiving equipment to facilitate movement of emergency 
and transit vehicles at key arterial intersections, Portland ............................................ 4.500 
387. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct bicycle and pedestrian facility between Boston Bridge and McKee Point Park, 
Allegheny Co. ............................................................................................................. 0.180 
388. Oregon ................................................. Restore transportation connection between Wauna, Astoria and Port of Astoria ............... 0.700 
389. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Wexford I–79/SR 910 Interchange, Allegheny Co. .............................................. 1.100 
390. Minnesota ............................................ Undertake improvements to Hennepin County Bikeway ................................................... 5.200 
391. New Jersey ............................................ Construct New Jersey Exit 13A Flyover (extension of Kapkowsk Rd. to Trumbull St.) ........ 3.000 
392. Texas ................................................... Implement ‘Hike and Bike’ trail program, Houston .......................................................... 8.000 
393. Puerto Rico .......................................... Upgrade PR 30 between PR 203 in Gurabo to PR 31 in Juncos ........................................... 8.000 
394. Illinois .................................................. Planning, engineering and first phase construction of beltway connector, Decatur ............ 10.310 
395. Texas ................................................... Extend Texas State Highway 154 between US 80W and State Highway 43S ........................ 4.900 
396. Illinois .................................................. Construct bypass of historic stone bridge, Maeystown ...................................................... 0.820 
397. Ohio ..................................................... Rehabilitate Martin Luther King, Jr. Bridge, Toledo ........................................................ 2.000 
398. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade Little Blue Expressway, Jackson Co. ................................................................. 3.000 
399. Puerto Rico .......................................... Upgrade PR 3 between Rio Grande and Fajardo .............................................................. 8.000 
400. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct Cossitt Ave. in LaGrange ............................................................................. 1.485 
401. Pennsylvania ........................................ Facilitate coordination of transportation systems at intersection of 46th and Market, and 
enhance access and related measures to area facilities including purchase of vans for reverse 
commutes, Philadelphia ...................................................................................... 4.000 
402. Connecticut .......................................... Upgrade bridge over Naugatuck River, Ansonia ............................................................... 0.450 
403. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct access road to Hastings Industrial Park, Cambria Co. ....................................... 6.400 
404. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Mon-Fayette Expressway between Union Town and Brownsville ...................... 20.000 
405. Washington .......................................... Reconstruct I–5 interchange, City of Lacy ....................................................................... 1.500 
406. Dist. of Col. .......................................... Construct bicycle and pedestrian walkway (Metropolitan Branch Trail), Union Station to 
Silver Spring ............................................................................................................... 10.000 
407. New Jersey ............................................ Upgrade I–78 interchange and West Peddie St. ramps, Newark ......................................... 6.300 
408. Tennessee ............................................. Implement ITS technologies, Nashville ............................................................................ 2.800 
409. Connecticut .......................................... Construct bicycle and pedestrian walkway, Town of East Hartford .................................. 1.200 
410. North Carolina ..................................... Upgrade Highway 55 between US 64 and State Route 1121, Wake and Durham Counties .... 23.000 
411. Virginia ................................................ Upgrade Route 501 in Bedford County ............................................................................. 1.000 
412. Georgia ................................................ Construct multi-modal passenger terminal, Atlanta .......................................................... 16.000 
413. Virginia ................................................ Renovate Greater Richmond Transit transportation facility, Richmond ............................ 5.000 
414. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Van Dyke Road between M–59 and Utica City limits .......................................... 3.700 
415. Pennsylvania ........................................ Design, engineer, ROW acquisition and construct the Luzerne County Community College 
Road between S.R. 2002 and S.R. 3004 one-mile west of Center Street through S.R. 2008 
in the vicinity of Prospect Street and the Luzerne County Community College ............... 14.000 
416. Texas ................................................... Construct two-lane parallel bridge, State Highway 146, FM 517 to vicinity of Dickinson 
Bayou ........................................................................................................................ 4.850 
417. North Dakota ....................................... Upgrade US Rt. 52, Kenmare to Donnybrook ................................................................... 2.800 
418. Minnesota ............................................ Improve roads, Edge of Wilderness, Grand Rapids to Effie ............................................... 6.000 
419. Virginia ................................................ Construct access road, walking trail and related facilities for the Nicholsville Center, Scott 
Co. ............................................................................................................................. 0.225 
420. Maryland ............................................. Construct pedestrian and bicycle path between Druid Hill Park and Penn Station, Baltimore 
........................................................................................................................... 1.800 
421. Illinois .................................................. Construct access road to Melvin Price Locks and Dam Visitors Center, Madison Co. ......... 1.500 
422. New York ............................................. Install advance traffic management system along Cross County Parkway between Saw 
Mill River Parkway and Hutchinson River Parkway .................................................... 4.000 
423. South Carolina ..................................... Construct I–77/SC #S–20–30 interchange, Fairfield Co. ...................................................... 7.000 
424. Pennsylvania ........................................ Rehabilitate Jefferson Heights Bridge, Penn Hills ............................................................ 1.500 
425. Oregon ................................................. Construct I–205/Sunnyside/Sunnybrook interchange and related extrension road, 
Clackamas Co. ............................................................................................................ 20.000 
426. New York ............................................. Conduct Trans-Hudson Freight Improvement MIS, New York City ................................... 5.000 
427. Illinois .................................................. Construct Marion Street multi-modal project in Village of Oak Park ................................. 2.000 
428. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade roadway in the Princeton/Cottman I–95 interchange and related improvements, 
Philadelphia ............................................................................................................... 20.200 
429. California ............................................. Extend I–10 HOV lanes, Los Angeles ............................................................................... 2.940 
430. Massachusetts ...................................... Rehabilitate Union Station in Springfield ........................................................................ 16.000 
431. California ............................................. Upgrade Greenville Rd. and construct railroad underpass, Livermore ............................... 6.800 
432. Pennsylvania ........................................ Extend Martin Luther King, Jr. East Busway to link with Mon-Fayette ........................... 6.000 
433. Michigan .............................................. Construct improvements to Linden Rd. between Maple Ave. and Pierson Rd., Genessee Co. 1.200 
434. Texas ................................................... Construct Titus County West Loop, Mount Pleasant ........................................................ 2.500 
435. New York ............................................. Upgrade Riverside Drive between 97th St. and Tiemann, New York City ........................... 1.470 
436. Florida ................................................. Construct interchange at 21st Street to provide access to Talleyrand Marine Terminal ....... 11.300 
437. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade CSAH 116 north of SCAH 88 in Ely .................................................................... 1.600 
438. New York ............................................. Rehabilitate Queens Blvd./Sunnyside Yard Bridge, New York City ................................... 8.000 
439. Oregon ................................................. Upgrade I–5, Salem ........................................................................................................ 6.592 
440. California ............................................. Install call boxes along Highway 166 between intersection with Highway 101 and junction 
with Highway 33 ......................................................................................................... 0.288 
441. Arkansas .............................................. Construct US 63 interchange with Washington Ave. and Highway 63B ............................. 2.000 
442. Virginia ................................................ Upgrade Rt. 600 to facilitate access between I–81 and Mount Rogers National Recreation 
Area ........................................................................................................................... 8.000 

H1938 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

443. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct bicycle and pedestrian facility between Washington’s Landing and Millvale 
Borough, Allegheny Co. .............................................................................................. 0.620 
444. New Jersey ............................................ Conduct Route 46 Corridor Improvement Project with of the amount provided, $11,500,000 
for the Route 46/Riverview Drive Interchange reconstruction project, $16,900,000 for the 
Route 46/Van Houton Avenue reconstruction project, and $4,100,000 for the Route ......... 32.500 
445. Virginia ................................................ Construct Southeastern Parkway and Greenbelt in Virginia Beach .................................. 4.000 
446. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Hill Road corridor between I–75 to Dort Highway, Genesee Co. ........................... 3.000 
447. Louisiana ............................................. Upgrade Lapalco Blvd. between Destrehan Ave. and Lapalco Blvd., Jefferson Parish ....... 8.000 
448. California ............................................. Upgrade South Higuera Street, San Luis Obispo .............................................................. 0.900 
449. Rhode Island ........................................ Reconstruct Harris Ave., Woonsocket .............................................................................. 2.000 
450. California ............................................. Construct Olympic Training Center Access Road, Chula Vista .......................................... 5.000 
451. Alabama ............................................... Construct bridge over Tennessee River connecting Muscle Shoals and Florence ................. 10.000 
452. North Carolina ..................................... Construct I–540 from east of NC Rt. 50 to east of US Rt. 1 in Wake Co. .............................. 13.000 
453. Oregon ................................................. Upgrade Murray Blvd. including overpass bridge, Millikan to Terman ............................. 5.000 
454. California ............................................. Planning, preliminary engineering and design for Etiwanda Ave./I–10 interchange, San 
Bernardino Co. ........................................................................................................... 2.000 
455. Arkansas .............................................. Upgrade US Rt. 412, Mountain Home to Missouri State line ............................................. 10.000 
456. California ............................................. Upgrade access road to Mare Island ................................................................................ 1.000 
457. California ............................................. Construct Prunedale Bypass segment of U.S. 101, Monterey Co. ....................................... 2.200 
458. Illinois .................................................. Rehabilitate and upgrade 87th Street Station to improve intermodal access ....................... 2.362 
459. Wisconsin ............................................. Upgrade US Rt. 10 between Waupaca to US Rt. 41 ........................................................... 8.000 
460. Minnesota ............................................ Construct railroad crossing connecting University of MN with City of Crookston .............. 0.200 
461. Wisconsin ............................................. Construct Eau Claire Bypass project ............................................................................... 8.000 
462. Illinois .................................................. Resurface 63rd Street from Western Avenue to Wallace, Chicago ...................................... 0.750 
463. New York ............................................. Reconstruct Chili Ave. between W. City Line and West Ave., Rochester ............................ 1.600 
464. West Virginia ........................................ Construct I–81 interchange, Martinsburg ......................................................................... 5.300 
465. Texas ................................................... Construct transportation improvements as part of redevelopment of Kelly AFB, San Antonio 
............................................................................................................................. 5.000 
466. Oregon ................................................. Construct roundabout at intersection of Highway 101 and Highway 202, Clatsop Co. ......... 0.400 
467. Oregon ................................................. Construct bike path improvements between W.D. Street to south parking lot in Island 
Park and bicycle/pedestrian facility between Island Park path to the Willamalane Senior 
Center, Springfield ................................................................................................. 0.100 
468. Ohio ..................................................... Undertake multimodal transportation improvements, Dayton ........................................... 2.750 
469. Massachusetts ...................................... Upgrade Rt. 3 between Rt. 128/I–95 to Massachusetts and New Hampshire State Line ........ 8.200 
470. Texas ................................................... Conduct MIS for Multimodal Downtown Improvement Project, San Antonio ..................... 1.000 
471. California ............................................. Construct improvements to Route 101/Lost Hills Road interchange, Calabasas ................... 5.790 
472. Florida ................................................. Construct John Young Parkway/I–4 interchange ............................................................. 8.000 
473. Texas ................................................... Reconstruct FM 364 between Humble Road and I–10, Beaumont ....................................... 4.800 
474. Texas ................................................... Construct Austin to San Antonio Corridor ....................................................................... 9.500 
475. Texas ................................................... Construct East Loop, Brownsville ................................................................................... 1.000 
476. Illinois .................................................. Upgrade South Lake Shore Drive between 47th and Hayes, Chicago ................................. 7.800 
477. Alabama ............................................... Construct Finley Ave. Extension East project .................................................................. 3.900 
478. Tennessee ............................................. Implement middle Tennessee alternative transportation system along the Stones River ...... 9.500 
479. Hawaii ................................................. Construct improvements to H–1 between the Waiawa interchange and the Halawa interchange 
....................................................................................................................... 2.000 
480. New Jersey ............................................ Upgrade Industrial Road between Carteret and Woodbridge Township ............................. 3.000 
481. Minnesota ............................................ Restore MN Transportation facility, Jackson Street Roundhouse, St. Paul ........................ 1.000 
482. Hawaii ................................................. Construct Kawahihee Bypass ......................................................................................... 1.000 
483. Georgia ................................................ Upgrade U.S. Rt. 19 between Albany and Thomaston ....................................................... 5.000 
484. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade M–15 from I–75 north to the Genesee County line ............................................... 0.500 
485. Georgia ................................................ Upgrade Lithonia Industrial Boulevard, DeKalb Co. ....................................................... 0.500 
486. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Walton Blvd. between Dixie and Sashabaw, Oakland Co. ................................... 2.000 
487. Kentucky .............................................. Reconstruct Liberty and Todd Roads, Lexington ............................................................. 8.000 
488. North Carolina ..................................... Construct Charlotte Western Outer Loop freeway, Mecklenburg Co. ................................. 16.000 
489. Tennessee ............................................. Construct Crosstown Greenway/Bikeway, Springfield ...................................................... 3.200 
490. North Carolina ..................................... Construct segment of I–74 between Maxton Bypass and NC 710, Robeson Co. .................... 2.000 
491. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct enhancements and related measures, including purchase of vans for reverse 
commutes, to intermodal facility located at intersection of 52nd and Lancaster Ave., 
Philadelphia ............................................................................................................... 4.000 
492. Illinois .................................................. Undertake Industrial Transportation Improvement Program in Chicago ........................... 4.350 
493. Illinois .................................................. Resurface S. Chicago Ave. From 71st to 95th Streets, Chicago ........................................... 1.060 
494. Texas ................................................... Upgrade US Rt. 59 between US 281 to I–37 ....................................................................... 16.000 
495. Tennessee ............................................. Construct Stones River Greenway, Davidson ................................................................... 7.200 
496. South Carolina ..................................... Construct Calhoun/Clarendon Causeway ........................................................................ 10.000 
497. Tennessee ............................................. Construct U.S. 40 bypass, Madison Co. ............................................................................ 2.000 
498. Mississippi ............................................ Upgrade Land Fill Road, Panola Co. .............................................................................. 1.000 
499. Illinois .................................................. Construct elevated walkway between Centre Station and arena ....................................... 1.200 
500. New Jersey ............................................ Construct interchange improvements and flyover ramps at I–80W to Route D23N in Passaic 
Co. ............................................................................................................................. 10.000 
501. Illinois .................................................. Construct new entrance to Midway Airport Terminal ....................................................... 6.500 
502. North Dakota ....................................... Construct Jamestown bypass ........................................................................................... 4.800 
503. Illinois .................................................. Resurface 95th St. between Western Ave. and Stony Island Blvd., Chicago ....................... 3.120 
504. Massachusetts ...................................... Upgrade Rt. 9/Calvin Coolidge Bridge, Hadley ................................................................. 10.000 
505. Oregon ................................................. Acquire and rennovate facility to serve as multimodal transportation center, Eugene ........ 3.590 
506. Tennessee ............................................. Upgrade SR 386 between US 31 to the Gallatin Bypass, Sumner Co. .................................. 3.440 
507. American Samoa ................................... Construct drainage system improvements associated with highway construction on Tutilla 
Island, American Samoa .............................................................................................. 5.000 
508. Ohio ..................................................... Replace I–280 bridge over Maumee River, Toledo area ...................................................... 24.000 
509. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve access to McKeesport-Duquesne Bridge .............................................................. 2.268 
510. Wisconsin ............................................. Upgrade State Highway 29 between Green Bay and Wausau ............................................ 12.000 
511. California ............................................. Construct State Route 905 between I–805 and the Otay Mesa Border Crossing, San Diego 
Co. ............................................................................................................................. 25.000 
512. California ............................................. Undertake median improvements along E. 14th St., San Leandro ...................................... 1.000 
513. Virginia ................................................ Conduct preliminary engineering on I–73 between Roanoke and Virginia/North Carolina 
State line .................................................................................................................... 4.000 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1939 

[Dollars in Millions] 

514. Illinois .................................................. Upgrade industrial park road in Village of Sauget ........................................................... 4.500 
515. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct TeleCom Boulevard with access via Commercial Street and Corporation Way to 
the west of Malden River and with access via Santilli Highway to the east of the river in 
Everett, Medord and Malden ....................................................................................... 7.000 
516. Rhode Island ........................................ Construct Blackstone River Bikeway ............................................................................... 3.455 
517. Oregon ................................................. Construct intermodal station, Clackamas Co. ................................................................... 0.600 
518. Illinois .................................................. Rehabilitate Western Springs Arterial Roadway, Cook Co. ............................................... 0.825 
519. California ............................................. Implement enhanced traffic access between I–10, area hospitals and southern portion of 
Loma Linda ................................................................................................................ 2.000 
520. Maine ................................................... Replace Ridlonville Bridge across Androscoggin River ...................................................... 1.500 
521. New York ............................................. Capital improvements for the Red Hook Barge in NY/NJ for the Port Authority of NY/NJ .. 5.000 
522. Oregon ................................................. Construct bike path between Terry Street and Greenhill Road, Eugene ............................. 1.500 
523. Texas ................................................... Conduct pipeline express study through Texas Transportation Institute (A&M University) 1.500 
524. North Carolina ..................................... Construct segment of Raleigh Outer Loop, Wake Co. ....................................................... 2.700 
525. North Carolina ..................................... Construct segment of new freeway, including right-of-way acquisition, between East of US 
401 to I–95, and bridge over Cape Fear River ................................................................. 16.000 
526. Kentucky .............................................. Construct Newton Pike Extension between West Main St. to South Limestone in Lexington 8.000 
527. Indiana ................................................ Extend SR 149 between SR 130 to US Rt. 30, Valparaiso ................................................... 4.000 
528. California ............................................. Implement safety and congestion mitigation improvements along Pacific Coast Highway, 
Malibu ....................................................................................................................... 0.650 
529. Maryland ............................................. Upgrade I–95/I–495 interchange at Ritchie Marlboro Rd., Prince Georges .......................... 4.800 
530. Michigan .............................................. Construct arterial connector between US41/M28 and Co. Rd. 480, Marquette ..................... 0.500 
531. Ohio ..................................................... Construct SR 711 connector four-lane limited access highway in Mahoning Co. ................. 25.000 
532. Illinois .................................................. Study for new bridge over Mississippi River with terminus points in St. Clair County and 
St. Louis, MO. ............................................................................................................ 1.400 
533. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Three Mile Road, Grand Traverse ..................................................................... 1.000 
534. Wisconsin ............................................. Construct Abbotsford Bypass .......................................................................................... 6.000 
535. North Carolina ..................................... Upgrade US 13/NC11 (including Bethel bypass) in Pitt and Edgecombe ............................. 2.000 
536. New Jersey ............................................ Construct highway connector between Interstate Route 1&9 (Tonelle Ave.) and the New 
Jersey Turnpike at Secaucus Intermodal Transfer Rail Station ...................................... 5.000 
537. Iowa ..................................................... Reconstruct US Highway 218 between 7th and 20th Streets including center turn lane from 
Hubenthal Place to Carbide Lane, Keokuk ................................................................... 2.500 
538. Minnesota ............................................ Construct grade crossing improvments, Morrison County ................................................. 1.800 
539. California ............................................. Upgrade Bristol St., Santa Ana ....................................................................................... 7.000 
540. Illinois .................................................. Undertake access improvements to U.S. Rt. 41, Chicago .................................................... 3.750 
541. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct Dixie Highway, Harvey ................................................................................ 0.494 
542. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade CSAH between TH324 and Snake River .............................................................. 1.200 
543. California ............................................. Rehabilitate B Street between Foothill Blvd. and Kelly St., Hayward ............................... 0.700 
544. Illinois .................................................. Construct improvements to Pleasant Hill Road, Carbondale ............................................. 3.500 
545. Mississippi ............................................ Construct access improvments to various roads, Humphreys Co. ....................................... 1.000 
546. Michigan .............................................. Construct safety enhancements at rail crossings, Linden, Fenton, Swartz Creek and 
Gaines ........................................................................................................................ 1.000 
547. Maryland ............................................. Implement city-wide signal control system replacements and improvements in Baltimore .... 17.700 
548. Michigan .............................................. Construct road drainage improvements, Suttons Bay Village ............................................ 0.240 
549. West Virginia ........................................ Upgrade Route 10 between Logan and Man ..................................................................... 50.000 
550. California ............................................. Construct Gene Autry Way/I–5 Access project, Anaheim ................................................... 9.000 
551. Tennessee ............................................. Reconstruct US 79 between Milan and McKenzie ............................................................. 4.000 
552. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct Midlothian Turnpike, Robbins ..................................................................... 0.288 
553. California ............................................. Construct connector between I–5 and SR 113 and reconstruct I–5 interchange with Road 
102, Woodland ............................................................................................................. 11.500 
554. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct Route 2/Jackson Road interchange, Lancaster ............................................... 3.600 
555. California ............................................. Construct Airport Blvd. interchange in Salinas ............................................................... 8.000 
556. California ............................................. Construct Third Street South Bay Basin Bridge, San Francisco ....................................... 12.500 
557. Minnesota ............................................ Reconstruct CSAH 48 extension, Brainerd/Baxter ............................................................. 0.320 
558. Florida ................................................. Upgrade U.S. 319 between Four Points and Oak Ridge Road, Tallahasee .......................... 4.000 
559. Connecticut .......................................... Reconstruct I–84 between vicinity of Route 69 in Waterbury and Marion Avenue in Southington 
........................................................................................................................ 6.000 
560. California ............................................. Upgrade Riverside Avenue/I–10 interchange, Rialto ......................................................... 0.925 
561. Illinois .................................................. Consolidate rail tracks and eliminate grade crossings as part of Gateway Intermodal Terminal 
access project ..................................................................................................... 1.500 
562. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Robinson Town Centre intermodal facility ....................................................... 2.700 
563. North Carolina ..................................... Construct bridge over Chockoyotte Creek in Halifex Co. ................................................... 1.800 
564. Texas ................................................... Investigate strategies to reduce congestion and facilitate access at the international border 
crossing in Roma ......................................................................................................... 0.250 
565. Hawaii ................................................. Construct Waimea Bypass .............................................................................................. 1.000 
566. Oregon ................................................. Reconstruct I–5/Beltline Road interchange ...................................................................... 3.000 
567. Ohio ..................................................... Construct Intermodal Industrial Park in Wellsville .......................................................... 2.040 
568. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade Route 82, Strongsville ....................................................................................... 7.000 
569. California ............................................. Construct pedestrian promenade, Pismo Beach ................................................................ 0.200 
570. Dist. of Col. .......................................... Conduct MIS of light rail corridors, D.C. ......................................................................... 1.000 
571. California ............................................. Upgrade I–680 Corridor, Alameda Co. .............................................................................. 10.000 
572. Ohio ..................................................... Construct new bridge over Muskingum River and highway approaches, Washington County 
............................................................................................................................... 2.000 
573. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct improvements along Route 18 to provide for access to waterfront and downtown 
areas, New Bedford ..................................................................................................... 12.000 
574. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade Cross-Range Expressway between Coleraine to CSAH 7 ...................................... 6.000 
575. Illinois .................................................. Construct transportation improvements to Industrial Viaduct, Chicago ............................ 1.500 
576. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct American Parkway Bridge project in Allentown ............................................... 4.000 
577. Pennsylvania ........................................ Replace Grant Street Bridge, New Castle ......................................................................... 2.400 
578. Illinois .................................................. Extend South 74th Street, Belleville ................................................................................. 0.500 
579. California ............................................. Construct Phase 3 of Alameda Street project, Los Angeles ................................................ 6.000 
580. New York ............................................. Rehabilitate Third Avenue Bridge over Harlem River, New York City ............................... 1.470 
581. West Virginia ........................................ Upgrade Route 2 in Cabell Co., including the relocation of Route 2 to provide for a connection 
to I–64 (Merrick Creek Connector) .................................................................... 25.000 

H1940 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

582. Minnesota ............................................ Construct Shepard Road/Upper Landing interceptor, St. Paul .......................................... 3.000 
583. Illinois .................................................. Construct improvements to segment of Town Creek Road, Jackson Co. .............................. 1.300 
584. Minnesota ............................................ Complete construction of Forest Highway 11, Lake Co. .................................................... 5.000 
585. Ohio ..................................................... Construct access and related improvements to Downtown Riverfront Area, Dayton ........... 4.900 
586. Minnesota ............................................ Replace Sauk Rapids Bridge over Mississippi River, Stearns and Benton Counties ............ 10.300 
587. Ohio ..................................................... Replace Jacobs Road Bridge, Mahoning Co. .................................................................... 2.000 
588. North Carolina ..................................... Make improvements to I–95/SR–1162 interchange in Johnston Co. ...................................... 3.200 
589. Oregon ................................................. Rehabilitate Broadway Bridge in Portland ...................................................................... 10.000 
590. Minnesota ............................................ Construct Trunk Highway 169 Causeway, Itasca Co. ....................................................... 8.100 
591. Minnesota ............................................ Construct Cass County Public Trails Corridors ................................................................ 0.240 
592. Tennessee ............................................. Construct park and ride intermodal centers for Nashville/Middle Tennessee Commuter Rail 8.000 
593. California ............................................. Construct bicycle path, Calabasas ................................................................................... 0.500 
594. Mississippi ............................................ Upgrade Hampton Lake Road, Tallahatchie Co. .............................................................. 0.880 
595. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade M.L. King Drive. Genesee Co. ........................................................................... 2.000 
596. Michigan .............................................. Facilitate access between I–75 and Soo Locks through road reconstruction, bikepath construction 
and related improvements, Sault Ste. Marie .................................................... 1.000 
597. New York ............................................. Construct Midtown West Intermodal Ferry Terminal, New York City ................................ 5.000 
598. Michigan .............................................. Construct Jackson Road project (demonstrating performance of paper and plastic reinforced 
concrete), Scio Township ................................................................................... 4.600 
599. Alabama ............................................... Upgrade Opoto-Madrid Blvd., Birmingham ..................................................................... 1.400 
600. Michigan .............................................. Reconstruct Bagley Street and improve Genschaw Road, Alpena ...................................... 0.600 
601. Texas ................................................... Reconstruct State Highway 87 between Sabine Pass and Bolivar Penninsula, McFadden 
Beach ......................................................................................................................... 1.294 
602. Arkansas .............................................. Construct Baseline Road RR grade separation, Little Rock .............................................. 5.000 
603. Louisiana ............................................. Construct I–10/Louisiana Ave. interchange ...................................................................... 8.000 
604. Oregon ................................................. Construct regional multimodal transportation center in Albany ........................................ 10.320 
605. Oregon ................................................. Repair Coos Bay rail bridge, Port of Coos Bay ................................................................. 5.500 
606. Illinois .................................................. Upgrade Illinois 336 between Illinois 61 to south of Loraine .............................................. 5.100 
607. Illinois .................................................. Right-of-way acquisition for segment of Alton Bypass between Illinois 143 to Illinois 140 
near Alton .................................................................................................................. 4.000 
608. Oregon ................................................. Restore the Historic Columbia River Highway including construction of a pedestrian and 
bicycle path under I–84 at Tanner Creek and restoration of the Tanner Creek and 
Moffett Creek bridges .................................................................................................. 2.000 
609. New Jersey ............................................ Reconstruct intermodal transportation facility on Bergenline Ave., Union City ................. 4.000 
610. Tennessee ............................................. Upgrade US 231 between SR 268 and Walter Hill, Rutherford ........................................... 5.100 
611. Minnesota ............................................ Extend County State Highway 61 extension into Two Harbors .......................................... 0.800 
612. Mississippi ............................................ Upgrade roads, Washington Co. ...................................................................................... 4.410 
613. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade M–24 from I–75 to the northern Oakland Co. border ........................................... 0.500 
614. Washington .......................................... Construct Sequim/Dungeness Valley trail project ............................................................. 1.000 
615. California ............................................. Construct HOV lane and bicycle lane within the Glendale Blvd. corridor in Los Angeles ... 16.000 
616. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Groveland Mine Road, Dickinson ...................................................................... 0.500 
617. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade Route 219 between Meyersdale and Somerset ...................................................... 5.000 
618. Texas ................................................... Upgrade IH–30 between Dallas and Ft. Worth ................................................................. 29.000 
619. Florida ................................................. Upgrade U.S. 319 between I–10 and the Florida/George State line ...................................... 4.000 
620. Rhode Island ........................................ Construct Rhode Island Greenways and Bikeways projects with of the amount provided 
$5,700,000 for the Washington Secondary Bikepath, and $2,100,000 for the South County 
Bikepath Phase 2 ........................................................................................................ 7.800 
621. Texas ................................................... Conduct feasability study on upgrading SH 16 in South Texas. ........................................ 0.250 
622. Virginia ................................................ Construct road improvement, trailhead development and related facilities for Haysi to 
Breaks Interstate Bicycle and Pedestrian Trail between Haysi and Garden Hole area of 
Breaks Interstate Park ................................................................................................ 0.250 
623. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade CSAH 16 between TH 53 and CSAH 4 ................................................................. 5.400 
624. Minnesota ............................................ Construct bicycle and pedestrian facility (Mesabi Trail), St. Louis County ....................... 3.000 
625. Ohio ..................................................... Construct Black River Intermodal Center, Lorain ............................................................ 2.400 
626. Pennsylvania ........................................ Reconstruct structures and adjacent roadway, Etna and Aspenwall (design and right-ofway 
acquisition phases), Allegheny Co. ........................................................................ 3.700 
627. Florida ................................................. Construct safety improvements and beautification along U.S. 92, Daytona Beach ............. 3.000 
628. Georgia ................................................ Undertake major arterial enhancements in DeKalb Co. with the amount provides as follows: 
$7,000,000 for Candler Rd., $7,500,000 for Memorial Highway and $900,000 for 
Bufford Highway ........................................................................................................ 15.400 
629. Minnesota ............................................ Construct highway construction between Highway 494 and Carver Co. Rd. 147 ................. 4.000 
630. California ............................................. Construct improvements to Harry Bridges Blvd., Los Angeles ........................................... 9.100 
631. California ............................................. Extend Route 46 expressway in San Luis Obispo Co. ........................................................ 8.000 
632. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade M–84 connector between Tittabawasee Rd. and M–13, Bay and Saginaw Counties 16.180 
633. California ............................................. Construct I–380 connector between Sneath Lane and San Bruno Ave., San Bruno ............. 2.800 
634. Maryland ............................................. Reconstruct segment of Baltimore Beltway between U.S. 1 and I–70 .................................. 9.000 
635. Ohio ..................................................... Construct interchange at SR 11 and King Graves Rd. in Trumball Co. .............................. 4.800 
636. Tennessee ............................................. Construct Franklin Road interchange and bypass ........................................................... 2.000 
637. Arkansas .............................................. Construct access routes between interstate highway, industrial park and Slackwater Harbor, 
Little Rock ........................................................................................................... 1.000 
638. California ............................................. Upgrade I–880, Alameda ................................................................................................. 10.000 
639. Maine ................................................... Upgrade Route 11 ........................................................................................................... 4.000 
640. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade 77th St. between I–35W and 24th Ave. to four lanes in Richfield .......................... 22.800 
641. Rhode Island ........................................ Reconstruct Pawtucket Ave. and Wilcott St., Pawtucket .................................................. 1.500 
642. Ohio ..................................................... Construct grade separations at Fitch Road in Olmsted Falls ............................................ 5.000 
643. New Jersey ............................................ Upgrade Market St./Essex St. and Rochelle Ave./Main St. to facilitate access to Routes 17 
and 80, Bergen Co. ...................................................................................................... 5.000 
644. Alabama ............................................... Construct improvements to Ensley Avenue between 20th St. and Warrior Rd., Birmingham 1.000 
645. California ............................................. Seismic retrofit of Golden Gate Bridge ............................................................................. 2.000 
646. Illinois .................................................. Extend Rogers Street to mitigate congestion, Waterloo ..................................................... 1.900 
647. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct I–95/I–93 interchange, Boston .......................................................................... 5.000 
648. Minnesota ............................................ Upgrade TH 13 between TH 77 and I–494 ......................................................................... 2.000 
649. Indiana ................................................ Upgrade Ridge Road between Griffith and Highland ........................................................ 4.400 
650. California ............................................. Construct bikeways, Santa Maria ................................................................................... 0.512 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1941 

[Dollars in Millions] 

651. Pennsylvania ........................................ Upgrade PA 61 between PA 895 and SR 2014, Schuylkill Co. ............................................. 8.000 
652. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct road connector and bridge over Allegheny River to link New Kensington with 
Allegheny Valley Expressway ...................................................................................... 5.000 
653. Alabama ............................................... Replace pedestrian bridges at Village Creek and Valley Creek, Birmingham ...................... 0.100 
654. Arkansas .............................................. Upgrade U.S. 65 in Faulkner and Van Buren Counties .................................................... 4.000 
655. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct U.S. 6, Harvey ............................................................................................. 1.660 
656. Texas ................................................... Construct improvements along US 69 including frontage roads, Jefferson Co. .................... 7.680 
657. North Carolina ..................................... Relocate US 1 from north of Lakeview to SR 1180, Moore and Lee Counties ....................... 7.300 
658. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct Bates Bridge over Merrimack River .............................................................. 4.000 
659. Oregon ................................................. Design and engineering for Newberg-Dundee Bypass ....................................................... 0.500 
660. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct Packets Landing Enhancement and Restoration Project, Town of Yarmouth ..... 1.000 
661. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct roadway improvements on Crosby Drive and Middlesex Turnpike, Beford, Burlington 
and Billerica ................................................................................................... 7.717 
662. Tennessee ............................................. Construct SR22 Bypass, Obion Co. .................................................................................. 10.000 
663. Indiana ................................................ Reconstruct US Rt. 231 between junction of State Road 66 to Dubois Co. line .................... 4.500 
664. Massachusetts ...................................... Upgrade Lowell Street between Woburn Street and Route 38, Town of Wilmington ............ 1.440 
665. New York ............................................. Redesign Grand Concourse to enhance traffic flow and related enhancements between E. 
161st St. and Fordham Rd., New York City ................................................................... 13.000 
666. Massachusetts ...................................... Upgrade Spring St. between Bank and Latham Streets, Williamstown .............................. 2.000 
667. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct bikeway between Blackstone and Worcester ..................................................... 8.000 
668. Indiana ................................................ Repair signal wires, grade-crossing warning devices and other safety protections along 
South Shore Railroad between Gary and Michigan City ................................................ 0.700 
669. Hawaii ................................................. Upgrade Puuloa Road between Kamehameha Highway and Salt Lake Blvd. ..................... 9.000 
670. California ............................................. Upgrade call boxes throughout Santa Barbara County .................................................... 1.500 
671. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade Route 6 between I–29 and Route AC, St. Joseph .................................................. 5.000 
672. Tennessee ............................................. Upgrade Briley Parkway between McGavock Pike and I–65 .............................................. 9.000 
673. Wisconsin ............................................. Upgrade Highway 151 between Platteville and Dubuque .................................................. 8.000 
674. Michigan .............................................. Construct Detroit Metropolitan/Wayne County South Access Road ................................... 20.000 
675. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade Route 36 between Hamilton and Chillicothe ....................................................... 20.000 
676. Pennsylvania ........................................ Extend Martin Luther King Busway, Alleghany Co. ........................................................ 2.200 
677. Illinois .................................................. Study upgrading Illinois 13/127 between Murphysboro and Pinckneyville .......................... 2.100 
678. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct access to site of former Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and Base, Philadelphia .... 2.000 
679. California ............................................. Construct extension of State Route 180 between Rt. 99 and the Hughes/West Diagonal ....... 8.000 
680. Iowa ..................................................... Construct overpass to eliminate railroad crossing in Burlington ....................................... 3.475 
681. West Virginia ........................................ Construct Riverside Expressway, Fairmont ...................................................................... 36.000 
682. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct South Weymouth Naval Air Station Connectivity Improvements ........................ 16.300 
683. Ohio ..................................................... Construct Eastern US Rt. 23 bypass of Portsmouth .......................................................... 5.000 
684. Texas ................................................... Construct highway-rail-marine intermodal project, Corpus Christi ................................... 11.000 
685. Illinois .................................................. Construct Central Ave.-Narragansett Ave. connector, Chicago ......................................... 8.700 
686. Massachusetts ...................................... Preliminary design of Route 2 connector to downtown Fitchburg ...................................... 2.000 
687. Connecticut .......................................... Implement Trinity College Area road improvements, Hartford ........................................... 6.810 
688. New Jersey ............................................ Construct Collingswood Circle eliminator, Camen ............................................................ 8.000 
689. Virginia ................................................ Upgrade Virginia Route 10, Surrey Co. ............................................................................ 1.000 
690. Alabama ............................................... Construct repairs to viaducts connecting downtown and midtown areas, Birmingham ....... 0.600 
691. Connecticut .......................................... Replace Windham Road bridge, Windham ....................................................................... 2.000 
692. Maine ................................................... Implement rural ITS ....................................................................................................... 0.250 
693. Tennessee ............................................. Construct SR22 Bypass, Obion Co. .................................................................................. 10.000 
694. Ohio ..................................................... Construct Black River intermodal transportation center ................................................... 5.600 
695. California ............................................. Construct the South Central Los Angeles Exposition Park Intermodal Urban Access 
Project in Los Angeles ................................................................................................. 26.000 
696. Georgia ................................................ Upgrade I–75 between the Crisp/Dooly Co. line to the Florida State line ............................ 11.000 
697. California ............................................. Construct bicycle paths as part of regional system, Agoura Hills ...................................... 0.100 
698. Massachusetts ...................................... Construct bicycle and pedestrian facility (The Riverwalk), Peabody ................................. 1.440 
699. California ............................................. Construct I–5 rail grade crossings between I–605 and State Route 91, Los Angeles and Orange 
Counties ............................................................................................................. 20.120 
700. California ............................................. Construct tunnel with approaches as part of Devils Slide project in San Mateo Co. ........... 8.000 
701. Texas ................................................... Construct US Highway 59 railroad crossing overpass in Texarkana .................................. 3.500 
702. South Carolina ..................................... Construct improvements to I–95/SC 38 interchange ........................................................... 9.000 
703. Texas ................................................... Construct Cleveland Bypass ........................................................................................... 13.500 
704. Illinois .................................................. Rehabilitate WPA Streets in Chicago ............................................................................... 4.700 
705. California ............................................. Implement ITS technologies in Employment Center area of City of El Segundo .................. 3.550 
706. California ............................................. Construct grade-separated bicycle path along Los Angeles River between Fulton Ave. to 
the vicinity of Sepulveda Blvd. and the Sepulveda Basin Recreation Area, Los Angeles .. 1.600 
707. Michigan .............................................. Replace Barton Rd./M–14 interchange, Ann Arbor ........................................................... 1.000 
708. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade Mo. Rt. 150, Jackson Co. ................................................................................... 3.000 
709. Michigan .............................................. Construct M–24 Corridor from I–69 to southern Lapeer County ......................................... 4.000 
710. Virginia ................................................ Upgrade Route 58 from Stuart up Lovers’ Leap Mountain towards Carroll Co. .................. 7.000 
711. Massachusetts ...................................... Implement Cape and Islands Rural Roads Initiative, Cape Cod ........................................ 0.500 
712. New York ............................................. Rehabilitate Broadway Bridge, New York City ................................................................ 1.470 
713. Massachusetts ...................................... Implement Phase II of unified signage system, Essex Co. .................................................. 0.391 
714. Arizona ................................................ Design, engineering and ROW acquisition for Area Service Highway, Yuma ..................... 1.000 
715. Alabama ............................................... Construct Decatur Southern Bypass ................................................................................ 2.000 
716. California ............................................. Construct new I–95 interchange with Highway 99W, Tehama Co. ..................................... 2.200 
717. New York ............................................. Study transportation improvements for segments of Hutchinson River Parkway and New 
England Thruway which pass through the Northeast Bronx ......................................... 0.750 
718. California ............................................. Construct Alameda Corridor East, San Gabriel Valley ...................................................... 2.940 
719. Massachusetts ...................................... Reconstruct Pleasant Street-River Terrace, Holyoke ......................................................... 1.600 
720. Mississippi ............................................ Upgrade Alva-Stage Rd., Montgomery Co. ....................................................................... 1.500 
721. New York ............................................. Upgrade Frederick Douglas Circle, New York City ........................................................... 14.650 
722. West Virginia ........................................ Construct New River Parkway ........................................................................................ 6.000 
723. Illinois .................................................. Upgrade Wood Street between Little Calumet River to 171st St., Dixmore, Harvey, Markham, 
Hazel Crest ......................................................................................................... 0.990 
724. Michigan .............................................. Improve Hoban Road and Grand Avenue, City of Mackinac Island .................................. 1.120 
725. Oregon ................................................. Construct South Rivergate rail overcrossing in Portland .................................................. 13.000 

H1942 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

726. Mississippi ............................................ Upgrade West County Line Road, City of Jackson ........................................................... 11.000 
727. Massachusetts ...................................... Implement directional signage program between Worcester CBD and regional airport ........ 0.600 
728. California ............................................. Upgrade D Street between Grand and Second Streets, Hayward ....................................... 1.200 
729. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construction of noise barriers along State Route 28, Aspinwall ......................................... 0.800 
730. Michigan .............................................. Upgrade Tittabawasee Road between Mackinaw Road and Midland Road, Saginaw Co. ... 4.000 
731. South Carolina ..................................... Construct North Charleston Regional Intermodal Center .................................................. 4.500 
732. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade SR 7 (Eastern Ave.) to improve traffic flow into Gallipolis, Gallia Co. ................. 2.000 
733. California ............................................. Modify HOV lanes, Marin Co. ........................................................................................ 7.000 
734. Minnesota ............................................ Construct Highway 210 trail/underpass, Brainerd/Baxter ................................................. 0.640 
735. Pennsylvania ........................................ Design, engineer, ROW acquisition and construct the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton International 
Airport Access Road between Route 315 and the airport ................................................ 2.000 
736. Tennessee ............................................. Construct greenway and bicycle path corridor, City of White House ................................. 3.800 
737. Texas ................................................... Upgrade Highway 271 between Paris and Pattonville ....................................................... 2.000 
738. North Carolina ..................................... Upgrade NC 48 in Halifax and Northampton Counties ...................................................... 1.500 
739. Connecticut .......................................... Revise interchange ramp on to Route 72 northbound from I–84 East in Plainville, Connecticut 
...................................................................................................................... 3.750 
740. California ............................................. Improve Mission Boulevard in San Bernardino, California ............................................... 8.500 
741. Ohio ..................................................... Widen and reconstruct State Route 82 from Lorain/Cuyahoga County line to l.R. 77. ......... 8.000 
742. Tennessee ............................................. Widen US–321 from Kinzel Springs to Wean Valley Road ................................................. 9.100 
743. New Hampshire ..................................... Construct Orford Bridge ................................................................................................. 3.400 
744. Oklahoma ............................................. Reconstruct US–70 in Marshall and Bryan Counties ........................................................ 0.200 
745. Washington .......................................... Widen SR522 from SR–9 to Paradise Lake Road ............................................................... 4.000 
746. New York ............................................. Improve Cross Westchester Expressway ........................................................................... 1.000 
747. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve US 22/Canoe Creek Blair County ........................................................................ 2.000 
748. Missouri ............................................... Upgrade US–60 in Carter County, Missouri. .................................................................... 27.000 
749. Ohio ..................................................... Relocate State Route 60 from Zanesville to Dresden, Muskingum County .......................... 1.500 
750. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct PA 16 Truck climbing lane in Franklin County ................................................ 1.000 
751. Indiana ................................................ Conduct railroad relocation study in Muncie ................................................................... 0.060 
752. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct highway-transit transfer facility in Lemoyne ................................................... 2.000 
753. Georgia ................................................ Construct surface transportation facilities along Atlanta-Griffin-Macon corridor .............. 39.000 
754. Louisiana ............................................. Improve US–165 from Alexandria to Monroe .................................................................... 40.000 
755. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade US–30 from Wooster to Riceland ........................................................................ 15.000 
756. Washington .......................................... Construct Edmonds Crossing Multi-modal transportation project in Edmonds, Washington. 
............................................................................................................................ 5.000 
757. Indiana ................................................ Remove and replace Walnut Street in Muncie .................................................................. 2.140 
758. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve South Central Business Park in Fulton County .................................................. 1.000 
759. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct exit ramp on I–180 at State Route 2049 in Williamsport ..................................... 10.500 
760. Washington .......................................... Construct pedestrian access and safety on Deception Pass Bridge, Deception Pass State 
Park, Washington ....................................................................................................... 1.000 
761. Illinois .................................................. Improve and construct grade separation on Cockrell Lane in Springfield .......................... 2.400 
762. Virginia ................................................ Construct the Kemper Street Station connector road in Lynchburg ................................... 2.000 
763. Oklahoma ............................................. Reconstruct and widen I–40 Crosstown Bridge and Realignment in downtown Oklahoma 
City, including demolition of the existing bridge, vehicle approach roads, interchanges, 
intersections, signalization and supporting structures between I–35 and I–44. ................. 97.050 
764. New Mexico .......................................... Improve I–25 at Raton Pass ............................................................................................ 10.000 
765. California ............................................. Reconstruct La Loma Bridge in Pasadena ....................................................................... 3.000 
766. New York ............................................. Conduct traffic calming study on National Scenic Byway Route 5 in Hamburg ................. 0.100 
767. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve PA–8 between Cherry Tree and Rynd Farm ........................................................ 6.400 
768. Alabama ............................................... Construct Historic Whistler Bike Trail in Prichard, Alabama ........................................... 0.670 
770. Alaska .................................................. Construct capital improvement to the Alaska Marine Highway and related facilities: 
$6,000,000 for Seward, $3,000,000 for Ketchikan and $3,000,000 for Hollis ......................... 12.000 
771. Connecticut .......................................... Rehabilitate Route 202 bridge in New Milford, Connecticut .............................................. 2.700 
772. Wisconsin ............................................. Construct U.S. Highway 10, Freemont to Appleton ........................................................... 4.000 
773. Texas ................................................... Conduct major investment study for Outer Loop freeway extension between I–35 West at 
State Highway 170 and State Highway 199 in Tarrant County ....................................... 0.500 
774. Pennsylvania ........................................ Reconfigure US–13/Pennsylvania Turnpike interchange ................................................... 2.230 
775. Washington .......................................... Construct Washington Pass visitor facilities on North Cascades Highway ......................... 1.200 
776. Washington .......................................... Improve Huntington Avenue South in Castle Rock ........................................................... 0.750 
777. California ............................................. Construct Centennial Transportation Corridor ................................................................ 21.000 
778. Kentucky .............................................. Extend Hurstbourne Parkway from Bardstown Road to Fern Valley Road ........................ 8.560 
779. Pennsylvania ........................................ Eliminate 16 at-grade rail crossings through Erie ............................................................. 8.000 
780. California ............................................. Construct Cabot-Camino Capistrano Bridge project in Southern Orange County ............... 2.000 
781. Utah .................................................... Widen 106th South from I–15 to Bangerter Highway in South Jordan ................................ 5.000 
782. Ohio ..................................................... Upgrade 11 warning devices on the rail north/south line from Toledo to Deshler ................ 1.100 
783. Washington .......................................... Construct Port of Kalama River Bridge ........................................................................... 0.900 
784. California ............................................. Improve Folsom Boulevard—Highway 50 in the city of Folsom ......................................... 4.000 
785. New Hampshire ..................................... Construct the Broad Street Parkway in Nashua .............................................................. 16.300 
786. New York ............................................. Construct County Road 93 between NYS 27 and NYS 454. ................................................. 0.515 
787. Washington .......................................... Improve Clinton Ferry Terminal in Clinton ..................................................................... 7.750 
788. Illinois .................................................. Construct Riverfront pedestrian walkway in Peoria ......................................................... 0.050 
789. Colorado ............................................... Construct alternative truck route in Montrose ................................................................. 5.600 
790. New York ............................................. I–87 Noise Abatement Program ........................................................................................ 10.000 
791. New Jersey ............................................ Construct Toms River bridge project connecting Dover and South Toms River Borough ..... 3.000 
792. California ............................................. Install SiliconValley Smart Corridor project along the I–880 corridor ................................ 4.860 
793. Illinois .................................................. Construct Veterans Parkway from Eastland Drive to Commerce Parkway in Bloomington 11.040 
794. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Drexel University Infrastructure Research Facility roadway improvements ....... 1.000 
795. New Jersey ............................................ Widen Route 1 from Pierson Avenue to Inman Avenue in Middlesex County ..................... 7.000 
796. Michigan .............................................. Construct US–131 Cadillac Bypass project ....................................................................... 5.000 
797. New Hampshire ..................................... Reconstruct US–3 Carroll town line 2.1 miles north .......................................................... 2.000 
798. Texas ................................................... Upgrade State Highway 35 Houston District Brazoria County .......................................... 12.000 
799. Tennessee ............................................. Construct US–27 from State Road 61 to Morgan County line ............................................. 5.500 
800. Pennsylvania ........................................ Install citywide signalization (SAMI) project in Lebanon ................................................. 1.000 
801. Maryland ............................................. Upgrade US–113 north of US–50 to MD–589 in Worcester County, Maryland ...................... 24.000 
802. Louisiana ............................................. Construct Florida Expressway in St. Bernard and Orleans Parishes ................................. 0.200 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1943 

[Dollars in Millions] 

803. Colorado ............................................... Construct I–25 truck lane from Lincoln Avenue to Castle Pines Parkway in Douglas County 
............................................................................................................................... 3.000 
804. Oklahoma ............................................. Conduct study of Highway 3 in McCurtain, Pushmataha and Atoka Counties. ................. 0.300 
805. Texas ................................................... Reconstruct intermodal connectors on Highway 78 and Highway 544 in Wylie ................... 10.000 
806. Georgia ................................................ Construct noise barriers on the westside of I–185 between Macon Road and Airport 
Thruway and on I–75 between Mt. Zion Road and Old Dixie Highway in the Atlanta 
area ........................................................................................................................... 1.000 
807. Arkansas .............................................. Construct the Ashdown Bypass/Overpass in Ashdown ...................................................... 5.000 
808. Illinois .................................................. Constuct Peoria City River Center parking facility in Peoria ............................................ 4.000 
809. Arkansas .............................................. Study and construct a multi-modal facility Russellville, Arkansas. ................................... 1.000 
810. Washington .......................................... Design and implement report and environmental study of the I–5 corridor in Everett, 
Washington ................................................................................................................ 1.000 
811. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Newton Hamilton SR 3021 over Juniata River in Mifflin County ........................ 2.000 
812. Texas ................................................... Widen State Highway 6 from from Senior Road to FM521 ................................................. 12.100 
813. South Dakota ....................................... Construct Eastern Dakota Expressway (Phase I) ............................................................. 15.790 
814. Kentucky .............................................. Construct necessary connections for the Taylor Southgate Bridge in Newport and the Clay 
Wade Bailey Bridge in Covington ................................................................................ 9.500 
815. Washington .......................................... Construct traffic signals on US–2 at Olds Owens Road and 5th Street in Sultan, Washington. 
............................................................................................................................ 0.257 
816. Minnesota ............................................ Widen Trunk Highway 14/52 from 75th Street, NW to Trunk Highway 63 in Rochester ....... 13.000 
817. New Jersey ............................................ Improve Old York Road/Rising Run Road intersection in Burlington ................................ 6.640 
818. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct I–81 noise abatement program in Dauphin County ............................................ 0.640 
819. Alabama ............................................... Construct Crepe Myrtle Trail near Mobile, Alabama ........................................................ 1.600 
820. California ............................................. Construct SR–78/Rancho Del Oro interchange in Oceanside ............................................. 5.000 
821. New Jersey ............................................ Improve grade separations on the Garden State Parkway in Cape May County, New Jersey. 
............................................................................................................................ 14.000 
822. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Western Innerloop from PA–26 to State Route 3014 ........................................... 3.600 
823. Kansas ................................................. Widen US–169 in Miami County ...................................................................................... 13.500 
824. New Hampshire ..................................... Construct Hindsale Bridge .............................................................................................. 3.000 
825. Washington .......................................... Construct I–5 interchanges in Lewis County .................................................................... 6.650 
826. Georgia ................................................ Widen Georgia Route 6/US–278 in Polk County ................................................................ 10.888 
827. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve access and interchange from I–95 to the international terminal at Philadelphia 
International Airport .................................................................................................. 5.000 
828. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct rail mitigation and improvement projects from Philadelphia to New Jersey Line 12.800 
829. Nevada ................................................. Extend I–580 in Washie and Douglas Counties ................................................................. 5.000 
830. Georgia ................................................ Resurface Davis Drive, Green Street, and North Houston Road in Warner Robins ............. 0.400 
831. Oregon ................................................. Repair Port of Hood River Bridge Lift Span project ......................................................... 23.500 
832. New York ............................................. Improve access to I–84/Dutchess intermodal facility in Dutchess County ........................... 3.000 
833. Georgia ................................................ Conduct a study of an interstate multimodal transportation corridor from Atlanta to 
Chattanooga ............................................................................................................... 5.000 
834. Nebraska .............................................. Corridor study for Louisville South bypass from State Highway 66 to State Highway 50 .... 0.100 
835. Michigan .............................................. Conduct feasibility study on widening US–12 to three lanes between US–127 and Michigan 
Highway 50. ................................................................................................................ 0.250 
836. Kentucky .............................................. Correct rock hazard on US–127 in Russell County ............................................................ 0.035 
837. New York ............................................. Construct new exit 46A on I–90 at Route 170 in North Chili .............................................. 10.000 
838. California ............................................. Construct parking lot, pedestrian bridge and related improvements to improve intermodal 
transportation in Yorba Linda ..................................................................................... 3.800 
839. Missouri ............................................... Construct US–412 corridor from Kennett to Hayti, Missouri. ............................................. 8.000 
840. Florida ................................................. ITS improvements on US–19 in Pasco County .................................................................. 2.000 
841. Florida ................................................. Construct I–4 reversible safety lane in Orlando ................................................................ 14.000 
842. Connecticut .......................................... Improve and realign Route 8 in Winchester ..................................................................... 2.020 
843. Louisiana ............................................. Construct State Highway 3241/State Highway 1088/I–12 interchange in St. Tammany Parish, 
Louisiana. ............................................................................................................ 10.000 
844. Nebraska .............................................. Corridor study for Plattsmouth Bridge area to US–75 and Horning Road .......................... 0.350 
845. Michigan .............................................. Construct US–131 Business route/industrial connector in Kalamazoo ................................ 2.000 
846. Michigan .............................................. Reconstruct I–94 between Michigan Route 14 and US–23 .................................................. 14.750 
847. California ............................................. Ontario International Airport ground access program ...................................................... 10.500 
848. Texas ................................................... Construct the George H.W. Bush Presidential Corridor from Bryan to east to I–45 ............. 10.000 
849. Virginia ................................................ Construct I–73 from Roanoke to the North Carolina border ............................................... 8.500 
850. Louisiana ............................................. Kerner’s Ferry Bridge Replacement project ...................................................................... 1.000 
851. Washington .......................................... Widen SR–522 in Snohomish County: $3,650,000 for phase 1 from SR–9 to Lake Road; 
$1,500,000 to construct segment from Paradise Lake Road to Snohomish River Bridge ..... 5.200 
852. California ............................................. Plan and design interchange between I–15 and Sante Fe Road in Barstow, California. ...... 4.000 
853. California ............................................. Upgrade Ft. Irwin Road from I–15 to Fort Irwin .............................................................. 1.500 
854. Nebraska .............................................. Construct bridge in Newcastle ......................................................................................... 4.000 
855. Indiana ................................................ Conduct rail-highway feasibility project study in Muncie ................................................ 0.100 
856. New Jersey ............................................ Replace the Ocean City-Longport bridge in Cape May County, New Jersey. ...................... 26.000 
857. Kentucky .............................................. Construct a segment of the I–66 corridor from Somerset to I–75 ......................................... 10.000 
858. Ohio ..................................................... Improve and widen SR–45 from North of the I–90 interchange to North Bend Road in Ash-
tabula County, Ohio ................................................................................................... 7.920 
859. Illinois .................................................. Construct I–88 interchange at Peace Road in Dekalb ....................................................... 4.300 
860. Virginia ................................................ Widen Route 123 from Prince William County line to State Route 645 in Fairfax County, 
Virginia. ..................................................................................................................... 10.000 
861. Pennsylvania ........................................ Widen and improve Route 449 in Potter County ............................................................... 1.000 
862. Ohio ..................................................... Conduct feasibility study for inclusion of US–22 as part of the Interstate System ............... 0.100 
863. New Hampshire ..................................... Improve the Bridge Street bridge in Plymouth .................................................................. 1.000 
864. Louisiana ............................................. Conduct a feasibility and design study of Louisiana Highway 30 between Louisiana Highway 
44 and I–10 .......................................................................................................... 2.000 
865. Louisiana ............................................. Construct I–610 noise and safety barrier in the Lake View section of New Orleans, Louisiana. 
........................................................................................................................... 1.000 
866. New York ............................................. Conduct North Road Corridor study in Oswego County ................................................... 1.500 
867. Kansas ................................................. Construct Diamond interchange at Antioch and I–435 ...................................................... 8.400 
868. Iowa ..................................................... Reconstruct I–235 in Polk County ................................................................................... 6.900 
869. Florida ................................................. Construct Port of Palm Beach road access improvements, Palm Beach County, Florida. .... 21.000 

H1944 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

870. Tennessee ............................................. Improve the Elizabethon Connector from US–312 to US–19 East ........................................ 8.450 
871. California ............................................. Stabilize US–101 at Wilson Creek ..................................................................................... 1.000 
872. Michigan .............................................. Improve the I–73 corridor in Jackson and Lenawee Counties ............................................ 5.000 
873. Arkansas .............................................. Improve Arkansas State Highway 59 from Rena Road to Old Uniontown Road in Van 
Buren ......................................................................................................................... 2.500 
874. Illinois .................................................. Construct Richton Road, Crete ....................................................................................... 2.000 
875. Ohio ..................................................... Widen Licking-SR–79–06.65 (PID 8314) in Licking County ................................................ 9.400 
876. New York ............................................. Improve and reconstruct Commerce Street in York Town .................................................. 0.280 
877. Arkansas .............................................. Construct Highway 371 from Magnolia to Prescott ........................................................... 3.000 
878. Arkansas .............................................. Construct Highway 82 from Hamburg to Montrose ........................................................... 7.000 
879. California ............................................. Improve SR–91/Green River Road interchange .................................................................. 6.500 
880. California ............................................. Widen and improve I–5/State Route 126 interchange in Valencia ....................................... 13.900 
881. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct US–30 Bypass from Exton Bypass to PA–10 ...................................................... 4.400 
882. Illinois .................................................. Replace State Route 47 Bridge in Morris .......................................................................... 19.000 
883. New York ............................................. Construct County Road 67 at Long Island Expressway Exit 57 between County Road 17 
and ............................................................................................................................ 0.700 
884. California ............................................. Construct I–15/Barton Road West/Anderson Street connection .......................................... 5.000 
885. New York ............................................. Reconstruct Route 9 in Plattsburgh ................................................................................. 3.354 
886. Illinois .................................................. Engineering for Peoria to Chicago expressway ................................................................. 5.000 
887. Louisiana ............................................. Construct Hourma-Thibodaux to I–10 connector from Gramercy to Hourma ....................... 3.100 
888. Washington .......................................... Construct Peace Arch Crossing of Entry (PACE) lane in Blaine ....................................... 4.900 
889. Florida ................................................. Purchase and install I–275 traffic management system in Pinellas County, Florida. ........... 1.000 
890. Mississippi ............................................ Construct I–55 connectors to US–51 in Madison, Mississippi. ............................................ 3.000 
891. Alabama ............................................... Construct Anniston Eastern Bypass from I–20 to Fort McClellan in Calhoun County ........ 44.600 
892. Connecticut .......................................... Realign and extend Hart Street in New Britain ................................................................ 4.000 
893. Texas ................................................... Construct Spur 10 from SH–36 to US–59 ........................................................................... 4.000 
894. Wisconsin ............................................. Construct U.S. Highway 151 Fond du Lac Bypass ............................................................ 30.000 
895. Ohio ..................................................... Grade separation project at Snow Road Brook Park ........................................................ 3.000 
896. Nebraska .............................................. Conduct corridor study from Wayne to Vermillion-Newcastle bridge ................................. 0.550 
897. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Erie Eastside Connector .................................................................................. 21.600 
898. New York ............................................. Reconstruct County Route 24 in Franklin County ............................................................ 2.473 
899. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct SR–3019 over Great Trough Creek in Huntingdon County ................................. 0.500 
900. California ............................................. Construct Tulare County roads in Tulare County ............................................................ 9.000 
901. Pennsylvania ........................................ Widen PA–228 from Criders Corners to State Route 3015 ................................................... 1.200 
902. South Carolina ..................................... Three River Greenway Project to and from Gervals Street in Columbia ............................. 5.000 
903. Washington .......................................... Construct State Route 305 corridor improvements in Poulsbo, Washington. ....................... 3.500 
904. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve Lewistown Narrows US–322 in Mifflin and Juniata County ................................. 1.000 
905. Nevada ................................................. Construct the US–395 Carson City Bypass ....................................................................... 5.000 
906. Illinois .................................................. Reconstruct I–74 through Peoria ..................................................................................... 12.865 
907. Florida ................................................. Widen Gunn Highway between Erlich Road and South Mobley Road in Hillsborough 
County ....................................................................................................................... 2.000 
908. New York ............................................. Construct intermodal transportation hub in Patchogue .................................................... 2.500 
909. New York ............................................. Upgrade and relocate Utica-Rome Expressway in Oneida, County New York. ................... 20.000 
910. Georgia ................................................ Conduct a study of a multimodal transportation corridor from Lawrenceville to Marietta .. 2.400 
911. Georgia ................................................ I–75 advanced transportation management system in Cobb County ................................... 1.700 
912. New Hampshire ..................................... Berlin Heritage Project from the Everett turnpike to Hudson in Berlin County .................. 0.050 
913. Alabama ............................................... Engineering, right-of-way acquisition and construction of the Birmingham Northern Belt-
line in Jefferson County .............................................................................................. 20.000 
914. Florida ................................................. Replace St. Johns River Bridge in Volusia and Seminole Counties .................................... 14.000 
915. Maryland ............................................. Improve Halfway Boulevard east and west of Exit 5, I–81 in Washington County .............. 4.000 
916. Georgia ................................................ Construct Harry S. Truman Parkway .............................................................................. 3.550 
917. Pennsylvania ........................................ Reconstruct the I–81 Davis Street interchange in Lackawanna ......................................... 8.000 
918. Illinois .................................................. Widen 143rd Street in Orland Park .................................................................................. 8.000 
919. Pennsylvania ........................................ Conduct study of Ft. Washington transportation improvements, Upper Dublin, PA. .......... 0.500 
920. Kansas ................................................. Construct grade separations on US–36 and US–77 in Marysville, Kansas. .......................... 4.200 
921. Ohio ..................................................... Relocate Harrison/Belmont US–250 .................................................................................. 6.000 
922. Arkansas .............................................. Widen 28th Street and related improvements in Van Buren, Arkansas ............................... 1.000 
923. Tennessee ............................................. Improve County Road 374 in Montgomery County ............................................................ 5.000 
924. Virginia ................................................ Conduct feasibility study for the construction I–66 from Lynchburg to the West Virginia 
border ......................................................................................................................... 0.500 
925. Florida ................................................. Expand Palm Valley Bridge in St. Johns County ............................................................. 3.100 
926. Michigan .............................................. Construct M–6 Grand Rapids South Beltline in Grand Rapids, Michigan. ......................... 28.720 
927. Pennsylvania ........................................ Reconstruct PA–309 in Eastern Montgomery with $4,000,000 for noise abatement ............... 17.400 
928. Colorado ............................................... Reconstruct I–225/Iliff Avenue interchange in Aurora ...................................................... 5.500 
929. California ............................................. Widen US–101 from Windsor to Arata Interchange ........................................................... 1.600 
930. New Jersey ............................................ Design and construction Belford Ferry Terminal in Belford, New Jersey. .......................... 4.600 
931. Louisiana ............................................. Construct East-West Corridor project in Southwest Louisiana .......................................... 1.000 
932. Kentucky .............................................. Construct US–127 Jamestown Bypass ............................................................................... 5.800 
933. Kentucky .............................................. Conduct feasibility study for Northern Kentucky High Priority Corridor (I–74) ................. 0.500 
934. Utah .................................................... Improve 5600 West Highway from 2100 South to 4100 South in West Valley City ................. 5.000 
935. Arkansas .............................................. Construct US–270 East-West Arterial in Hot Springs ........................................................ 9.000 
936. New York ............................................. Improve Route 31 from Baldwinsville to County Route 57 ................................................. 11.750 
937. Arkansas .............................................. Widen West Phoenix Avenue and related improvements in Fort Smith, Arkansas. .............. 8.000 
938. Arkansas .............................................. Improve Arkansas State Highway 12 from US–71 at Rainbow Curve to Northwest Arkansas 
Regional Airport ......................................................................................................... 0.500 
939. Texas ................................................... Widen State Highway 35 from SH288 in Angleton to FM521 .............................................. 6.900 
940. Louisiana ............................................. Congestion mitigation and safety improvements to the Central thruway in Baton Rouge ... 3.000 
941. North Carolina ..................................... Widen North Carolina Route 24 from Swansboro to US–70 in Onslow and Carteret Counties 
............................................................................................................................. 4.000 
942. North Carolina ..................................... Construct US–13 from the Wilson the US–264 Bypass to Goldsboro in Wayne and Wilson 
Counties ..................................................................................................................... 4.500 
943. Michigan .............................................. Construct Bridge Street bridge project in Southfield ......................................................... 4.200 
944. Connecticut .......................................... Improve Route 7 utility and landscaping in New Milford .................................................. 7.200 
945. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct access improvements between exits 56 and 57 off I–81 in Lackawanna ................ 1.700 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1945 

[Dollars in Millions] 

946. New Jersey ............................................ Construct grade separation of Route 35 and Tinton falls and extend Shrewsbury Avenue 
in Monmouth .............................................................................................................. 5.000 
947. Washington .......................................... Improve I–5/196th Street, Southwest Freeway interchange in Lynnwood, Washington. ...... 4.500 
948. Tennessee ............................................. Extend Pellissippi Parkway from State Route 33 to State Route 321 in Blount County ....... 11.800 
949. New York ............................................. Improve Route 281 in Cortland ........................................................................................ 9.000 
950. California ............................................. Construct I–15 Galinas interchange in Riverside County .................................................. 8.500 
951. New Hampshire ..................................... Construct the Keene bypass ............................................................................................ 6.150 
952. Illinois .................................................. Design and construct US–67 corridor from Jacksonville to Beardstown .............................. 10.000 
953. Virginia ................................................ Conduct Williamsburg 2007 transportation study ............................................................. 0.325 
954. Mississippi ............................................ Widen US–84 from I–55 at Brookhaven to US–49 at Collins ............................................... 1.250 
955. New York ............................................. Reconstruct Jackson Avenue in New Windsor, Orange County ......................................... 2.624 
956. Texas ................................................... Widen State Highway 6 from FM521 to Brazoria County line and construct railroad overpass 
............................................................................................................................ 12.200 
957. Tennessee ............................................. Reconstruct road and causeway in Shiloh Military Park in Hardin County ...................... 15.000 
958. Florida ................................................. Pedestrian safety initiative on US–19 in Pinellas County .................................................. 6.800 
959. Washington .......................................... Improve primary truck access route on East Marine View Drive, FAST corridor in Washington 
........................................................................................................................ 4.900 
960. Florida ................................................. Construct Wonderwood Connector from Mayport to Arlington, Duval County, Florida. ..... 38.000 
961. California ............................................. Improve the Avenue H overpass in Lancaster County ....................................................... 6.100 
962. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve safety on PA–41 from US–30 to PA–926 ............................................................... 6.000 
963. New Jersey ............................................ Consrtuct Route 29/129 bicycle, pedestrian and landscape improvement plan ..................... 5.500 
964. Idaho ................................................... Construct critical interchanges and grade-crossings on US–20 between Idaho Falls and 
Chester ....................................................................................................................... 10.000 
965. Louisiana ............................................. Expand Perkins Road in Baton Rouge ............................................................................ 10.000 
966. Pennsylvania ........................................ Widen US 30 from Walker Rd to Fayetteville in Franklin County ..................................... 2.000 
967. Wyoming .............................................. Construct Jackson-Teton Pathway in Teton County ........................................................ 1.830 
968. Utah .................................................... Widen 7200 South in Midvale .......................................................................................... 1.100 
969. Washington .......................................... Conduct feasibility study of State Route 35 Hood River bridge in White Salmon ................ 1.000 
970. Arkansas .............................................. Upgrade US Route 412, Harrison to Mountain Home, Arkansas ........................................ 3.550 
971. Nevada ................................................. Canamex Corridor Innovative Urban Renovation project in Henderson ............................. 12.000 
972. Georgia ................................................ Construct Athens to Atlanta Transportation Corridor ...................................................... 8.000 
973. California ............................................. Widen State Route 29 between Route 281 and Route 175 ................................................... 0.500 
974. California ............................................. Upgrade US–101 from Eureka to Arcata ........................................................................... 1.000 
975. Louisiana ............................................. Expand Harding Road from Scenic Highway to the Mississippi River and construct an information 
center .......................................................................................................... 3.600 
976. Indiana ................................................ Improve Southwest Highway from Bloomington to Evansville ........................................... 30.000 
977. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct Route 72 overpass at Conrail in Lebanon ......................................................... 8.810 
978. Indiana ................................................ Construct Hazel Dell Parkway from 96th Street to 146th Street in Carmel .......................... 5.500 
979. New Jersey ............................................ Replace Calhoun Street Bridge in Trenton ....................................................................... 1.300 
980. Utah .................................................... Reconstruct US–89 and interchange at 200 North in Kaysville .......................................... 7.000 
981. California ............................................. Construct Nogales Street at Railroad Street grade separation in Los Angeles County, California. 
........................................................................................................................ 4.500 
982. Pennsylvania ........................................ Improve Bedford County Business Park Rd in Bedford County ........................................ 2.000 
983. Utah .................................................... Extend Main Street from 5600 South to Vine Street in Murray .......................................... 11.500 
984. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct US–30 at PA–772 and PA–41 ............................................................................ 6.000 
985. Illinois .................................................. Improve Sugar Grove US30 ............................................................................................. 2.500 
986. California ............................................. Improve Route 99/Route 120 interchange in Manteca County ............................................ 8.000 
987. Pennsylvania ........................................ Widen US–11/15 between Mt. Patrick and McKees Half Falls in Perry County ................... 5.000 
988. Ohio ..................................................... Add lanes and improve intersections on Route 20 in Lake County, Ohio ........................... 2.000 
989. Pennsylvania ........................................ Construct PA–283 North Union Street ramps in Dauphin County ...................................... 2.450 
990. California ............................................. Improve and construct I–80 reliever route project; Walters Road and Walters Road Extension 
Segments ............................................................................................................. 7.400 
991. Alabama ............................................... Expand US–278 in Cullman County ................................................................................. 6.000 
992. Ohio ..................................................... Construct Chagrin River/Gulley Brook corridor scenic greenway along I–90 in Lake County 
............................................................................................................................... 1.545 
993. Oregon ................................................. Construct phase I: highway 99 to Biddle Road of the highway 62 corridor solutions 
project. ....................................................................................................................... 1.500 
994. New York ............................................. Renovate State Route 9 in Phillipstown ........................................................................... 3.840 
995. Arkansas .............................................. Enhance area in the vicinity of Dickson Street in Fayetteville .......................................... 1.500 
996. Missouri ............................................... Construction US–67/Route 60 interchange in Poplar Bluff, Missouri. ................................ 8.000 
997. Kansas ................................................. Widen US–81 from Minneapolis, Kansas to Nebraska. ...................................................... 27.800 
998. California ............................................. Widen US–101 from Petaluma Bridge to Novato ............................................................... 33.000 
999. Alabama ............................................... Construct new I–10 bridge over the Mobile River in Mobile, Alabama. ............................... 14.375 
1000. Mississippi .......................................... Upgrade and widen US–49 in Rankin, Simpson, and Covington Counties .......................... 1.250 
1001. California ........................................... Realign and improve California Route 79 in Riverside County .......................................... 6.000 
1002. New Jersey .......................................... Construct East Windsor Bear Brook pathway system ....................................................... 0.360 
1003. New York ............................................ Construct Hutton Bridge Project ..................................................................................... 3.000 
1004. Ohio ................................................... Improve State Route 800 in Monroe County ..................................................................... 0.500 
1005. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve PA–41 between Delaware State line and PA–926 .................................................. 7.600 
1006. New York ............................................ Improve Hiawatha Boulevard and Harrison Street corridors in Syracuse .......................... 2.250 
1007. Pennsylvania ...................................... Replace Dellville Bridge in Wheatfield ............................................................................ 1.000 
1008. Florida ............................................... Construct I–4/John Young Parkway interchange project in Orlando ................................. 13.659 
1009. Connecticut ......................................... Reconstruct Broad Street in New Britain ......................................................................... 3.200 
1010. Washington ......................................... Widen US–395 in the vicinity of mile post 170 north of Spokane ........................................ 10.000 
1011. New York ............................................ Construct NYS Route 27 at intersection of North Monroe Avenue ..................................... 4.700 
1012. New York ............................................ Reconstruct Route 23/Route 205 intersection in Oneonta ................................................... 0.850 
1013. Alaska ................................................ Construct Pt. Mackenzie Intermodal Facility ................................................................... 9.000 
1014. Maryland ............................................ Construct phase 1A of the I–70/I–270/US–340 interchange in Frederick County ................... 15.000 
1015. Illinois ................................................ Widen and improve US–34 intechange in Aurora .............................................................. 8.000 
1016. Florida ............................................... A–1–A Beautification project in Daytona, Florida ............................................................ 4.400 
1017. Louisiana ........................................... Construct I–49 interchange at Caddo Port Road in Shreveport .......................................... 5.600 
1018. Tennessee ............................................ Construct Kingsport Highway in Washington County ...................................................... 2.000 
1019. New Hampshire ................................... Improve 3 Pisquataqua River Bridges on the New Hampshire—Maine border ..................... 2.200 
1020. Nebraska ............................................. Construct the Antelope Valley Overpass in Lincoln ......................................................... 7.500 

H1946 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

1021. Pennsylvania ...................................... Install traffic signal upgrade in Clearfield Borough in Clearfield County .......................... 0.500 
1022. North Carolina .................................... Construct US–311(I–74) from NC–68 to US–29A–70A .......................................................... 30.500 
1023. California ........................................... Design and initiation of long term improvements along Highway 199 in Del Norte County, 

California ................................................................................................................... 0.500 
1024. Virginia .............................................. Improve Lee Highway Corridor in Fairfax, Virginia. ........................................................ 1.800 
1025. Illinois ................................................ Improve roads in the Peoria Park District ....................................................................... 0.810 
1026. California ........................................... Construct Overland Drive overcrossing in Temecula ......................................................... 5.000 
1027. Iowa ................................................... Construct the Julien Dubuque Bridge over the Mississippi River at Dubuque .................... 28.000 
1028. Kentucky ............................................ Construct highway-rail grade separations along the City Lead in Paducah ...................... 1.100 
1029. Indiana ............................................... Safety improvements to McKinley and Riverside Avenues in Muncie ................................. 9.100 
1030. Pennsylvania ...................................... Gettysburg comprehensive road improvement study .......................................................... 4.000 
1031. Indiana ............................................... Reconstruct Wheeling Avenue in Muncie ......................................................................... 1.600 
1032. Indiana ............................................... Construct Hoosier Heartland from Lafayette to Ft. Wayne ............................................... 25.000 
1033. Louisiana ........................................... Upgrade and widen I–10 between Williams Boulevard and Tulane Avenue in Jefferson and 

Orleans Parishes ......................................................................................................... 12.000 
1034. Louisiana ........................................... Construct Metairie Rail Improvements and Relocation project in Jefferson and Orleans 

Parishes, Louisiana. .................................................................................................... 7.000 
1035. Wisconsin ........................................... Construct STH–26/US–41 Interchange in Oshkosh ............................................................ 3.000 
1036. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve Sidling Hill Curve and Truck Escape in Fulton County ....................................... 0.500 
1037. New York ............................................ Construct Wellwood Avenue from Freemont Street to Montauk Highway in Lindenhurst ... 1.200 
1038. New York ............................................ Improve ferry infrastructure in Greenport ....................................................................... 1.000 
1039. Alaska ................................................ Construct Spruce Creek Bridge in Soldotna ..................................................................... 0.350 
1040. Alabama ............................................. Construct East Foley corridor project from Baldwin County Highway 20 to State Highway 

59 in Alabama. ............................................................................................................ 7.000 
1041. Louisiana ........................................... Construct North/South Road/I–10–US–61 connection in the Kenner, Louisiana. ................. 7.000 
1042. Texas .................................................. Construct FM2234(McHard Road) from SH–35 to Beltway 8 at Monroe Boulevard ............. 6.400 
1043. Michigan ............................................ Construct M–5 Haggerty Connector ................................................................................. 3.200 
1044. Kentucky ............................................ Ohio River Major Investment Study Project, Kentucky and Indiana ................................. 40.100 
1045. Ohio ................................................... Construct Muskingum–SR–16 .......................................................................................... 8.000 
1046. Ohio ................................................... Relocate SR–30 for final design of south alternative in Carroll County, Ohio .................... 1.000 
1047. Missouri .............................................. Upgrade US–63 in Howell County, Missouri. .................................................................... 8.000 
1048. California ........................................... Widen SR–23 between Moorpark and Thousand Oaks ...................................................... 14.000 
1049. Connecticut ......................................... Reconstruct Post Office Town Farm Road in Enfield, Connecticut .................................... 1.500 
1050. Washington ......................................... Improve I–90/Sunset Way interchange in Issaquah, WA ................................................... 19.800 
1051. New York ............................................ Construct Elmira Arterial from Miller to Cedar ................................................................ 3.000 
1052. California ........................................... Construct Imperial Highway grade separation and sound walls at Esperanza Road/ 

Orangethorpe Avenue in Yorba Linda, California. ........................................................ 14.500 
1053. Wyoming ............................................. Widen and improve Cody—Yellowstone Highway from the entrance to Yellowstone Na


tional Park to Cody ..................................................................................................... 10.170 
1054. Florida ............................................... West Palm Beach Traffic Calming Project on US–1 and Flagur Drive ............................... 15.000 
1055. Missouri .............................................. Construction and upgrade of US–71/I–49 in Newton and McDonald County, Missouri. ....... 33.303 
1056. Virginia .............................................. Commuter and freight rail congestion and mitigation project over Quantico Creek ............ 10.000 
1057. California ........................................... Complete Citraeado Parkway project in San Diego County ............................................... 3.000 
1058. Tennessee ............................................ Improve State Route 92 from I–40 to South of Jefferson City ............................................. 4.550 
1059. Washington ......................................... Redevelop Port of Anacortes waterfront .......................................................................... 0.077 
1060. Mississippi .......................................... Widen US–98 from Pike County to Foxworth ................................................................... 1.250 
1061. New York ............................................ Construct US–219 from Route 39 to Route 17 .................................................................... 20.000 
1062. Michigan ............................................ Construct US–27 between St. Johns and Ithaca ................................................................ 8.500 
1063. California ........................................... Construct highway-rail grade separation for Fairway Drive and Union Pacific track ........ 4.215 
1064. Tennessee ............................................ Reconstruct Old Walland Highway bridge over Little River in Townsend .......................... 1.680 
1065. California ........................................... Construct I–10 Tippecanoe/Anderson interchange project in Loma Linda and San 

Bernardino County, California. ................................................................................... 2.000 
1066. California ........................................... Construct State Route 76 in Northern San Diego. ............................................................. 10.000 
1067. Nebraska ............................................. Construct NE–35 alternative and modified route expressway in Norfolk and Wayne ........... 4.500 
1068. Arkansas ............................................ Construct Highway 425 from Pine Bluff to the Louisiana State line .................................. 7.000 
1069. Tennessee ............................................ Construct bridge and approaches on State Route 33 over the Tennessee River (Henley 

Street Bridge) .............................................................................................................. 13.200 
1070. Mississippi .......................................... Construct Jackson International Airport Parkway and connectors from High Street to the 

Jackson International Airport in Jackson, Mississippi. .................................................. 10.000 
1071. Wisconsin ........................................... Reconstruct U.S. Highway 10, Waupaca County .............................................................. 12.000 
1072. Ohio ................................................... Construct highway-rail grade separations on Heisley Road between Hendricks Road and 

Jackson Street in Mentor ............................................................................................. 8.205 
1073. Virginia .............................................. Widen I–64 Bland Boulevard interchange ........................................................................ 30.675 
1074. Illinois ................................................ Improve IL–159 in Edwardsville ...................................................................................... 4.275 
1075. Iowa ................................................... Extend NW 86th Street from NW 70th Street to Beaver Drive in Polk County ..................... 7.000 
1076. New York ............................................ Construct County Route 21, Peeksill Hollow Road renovation project ............................... 7.577 
1077. Iowa ................................................... IA–192 relation and Avenue G viaduct in Council Bluffs .................................................. 6.000 
1078. Ohio ................................................... Upgrade and widen US–24 from I–469 to I–475 .................................................................. 23.000 
1079. Illinois ................................................ Construct crossings over Fox River in Kane County ......................................................... 10.200 
1080. Florida ............................................... Construct North East Dade Bike Path in North Miami Beach, Florida. ............................. 1.600 
1081. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve Oxford Valley Road/US–1 interchange in Bucks County ...................................... 4.000 
1082. California ........................................... Improve highway access to Humboldt Bay and Harbor Port ............................................. 0.500 
1083. North Carolina .................................... Construct I–85 Greensboro Bypass in Greensboro, North Carolina. .................................... 29.500 
1084. Pennsylvania ...................................... Reconfigure I–81 Exit 2 Ramp in Franklin County ........................................................... 0.700 
1085. Indiana ............................................... Feasibility study of State Road 37 improvements in Noblesville, Elwood and Marion .......... 0.600 
1086. New Jersey .......................................... Revitalize Route 130 from Cinnaminson to Willingboro ..................................................... 4.000 
1087. Ohio ................................................... Upgrade I–77/US–250/SR–39 interchange in Tuscarawas County ........................................ 1.000 
1088. Virginia .............................................. Enhance Maple Avenue streetscape in Vienna, Virginia ................................................... 2.700 
1089. Arkansas ............................................ Widen Highway 65/82 from Pine Bluff to the Mississippi State line .................................... 7.000 
1090. New Jersey .......................................... Construct Route 31 Fleming Bypass in Hunterdon County, New Jersey. ............................ 15.400 
1091. New York ............................................ Conduct safety study and improve I–90 in Downtown Buffalo .......................................... 0.400 
1092. Utah ................................................... Widen SR–36 from I–80 to Mills Junction ......................................................................... 3.000 
1093. Alabama ............................................. Construct the Montgomery Outer Loop from US–80 to I–85 via I–65 ................................... 17.650 
1094. Tennessee ............................................ Construct Foothills Parkway from Walland to Weans Valley ............................................ 11.500 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1947 

[Dollars in Millions] 

1095. California ........................................... Upgrade and synchronize traffic lights in the Alameda Corridor East in Los Angeles 

County ....................................................................................................................... 23.000 
1096. New York ............................................ Conduct feasibility study of new International bridges on the NY/Canada border .............. 0.500 
1097. Colorado ............................................. Construct C–470/I–70 ramps in Jefferson Co. ..................................................................... 6.250 
1098. Virginia .............................................. Improve Route 123 from Route 1 to Fairfax County line in Prince William County, Vir


ginia. ......................................................................................................................... 15.000 
1099. Washington ......................................... Construct Interstate 405/NE 8th Street interchange project in Bellevue, WA ...................... 23.500 
1100. New Hampshire ................................... Widen I–93 from Salem north .......................................................................................... 12.100 
1101. South Dakota ...................................... Replace Meridan Bridge ................................................................................................. 3.250 
1102. Washington ......................................... Extend Mill Plain Boulevard in Vancouver ..................................................................... 4.000 
1103. Colorado ............................................. Improve SH–74/JC–73 interchange in Evergreen County .................................................... 6.250 
1104. Tennessee ............................................ Improve US–64 in Hardeman and McNairy Counties ........................................................ 5.000 
1105. Illinois ................................................ Design and construct I–72/MacArthur Boulevard interchange in Springfield ..................... 5.500 
1106. Pennsylvania ...................................... Replace bridge over Shermans Creek in Carroll ................................................................ 1.000 
1107. Illinois ................................................ Improve IL–113 in Kankakee ........................................................................................... 7.700 
1108. Pennsylvania ...................................... Realign PA29 in the Borough of Collegeville, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania ............. 0.550 
1109. Louisiana ........................................... Construct Causeway Boulevard/Earhart Expressway interchange in Jefferson, Parish, 

Louisiana ................................................................................................................... 5.000 
1110. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve PA 26 in Huntingdon County ............................................................................. 1.000 
1111. New York ............................................ Construct Furrows Road from Patchogue/Holbrook Road to Waverly Avenue in Islip ........ 1.500 
1112. Tennessee ............................................ Reconstruction of US–414 In Henderson County .............................................................. 5.000 
1113. Indiana ............................................... Widen 116th Street in Carmel .......................................................................................... 1.500 
1114. Louisiana ........................................... Reconstruct Jefferson Lakefront bikepath in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana. ........................ 1.000 
1115. Utah ................................................... Construct 7800 South from 1300 West to Bangerter Highway in West Jordan ...................... 6.500 
1116. Mississippi .......................................... Construct segment 2 and 3 of the Bryam-Clinton Corridor in Hinds County ...................... 1.250 
1117. Kentucky ............................................ Construct Route 259–101 from Brownsville to I–65 ............................................................ 1.000 
1118. New Jersey .......................................... Replace Kinnaman Avenue bridge over Pohatcong Creek in Warren County ..................... 1.600 
1119. Louisiana ........................................... Widen Lapalco Boulevard from Barataria Boulevard to Destrehan Avenue in Jefferson 

Parish, Louisiana. ...................................................................................................... 5.000 
1120. Florida ............................................... Restore and rehabilitate Miami Beach Bridge and waterfront in Miami Beach, Florida. .... 1.800 
1121. Texas .................................................. Widen Highway 287 from Creek Bend Drive to Waxahacie bypass ..................................... 13.500 
1122. Utah ................................................... Widen and improve 123rd/126th South from Jordan River to Bangerter Highway in River-

ton ............................................................................................................................. 5.000 
1123. Ohio ................................................... Construct a new interchange at County Road 80 and I–77 in Dover with $100,000 to pre


serve or reconstruct the Tourism Information Center ..................................................... 7.100 
1124. Pennsylvania ...................................... Realign Route 501 in Lebanon County ............................................................................. 1.600 
1125. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct Williamsport-Lycoming County Airport Access road from I–80 to the airport ...... 7.000 
1126. New York ............................................ Construct the Mineola intermodal facility and Hicksville intermodal facility in Nassau 

County ....................................................................................................................... 14.000 
1127. Arkansas ............................................ Construct Highway 15 from Connector Road to Railroad Overpass in Pine Bluff ............... 1.000 
1128. Kentucky ............................................ Redevelop and improve ground access to Louisville Waterfront District in Louisville, Ken


tucky. ......................................................................................................................... 2.840 
1129. Ohio ................................................... Improve and widen SR–91 from SR–43 south to county line/city line in Solon .................... 5.000 
1130. Louisiana ........................................... Extend I–49 from I–220 to Arkansas State line .................................................................. 4.400 
1131. Pennsylvania ...................................... West Philadelphia congestion mitigation initiative ........................................................... 0.410 
1132. New York ............................................ Judd Road Connector in New Hartford and Whitestown, New York .................................. 37.300 
1133. South Dakota ...................................... Construct Eastern Dakota Expressway (Phase II) ............................................................ 31.438 
1134. Virginia .............................................. Conduct historic restoration of Roanoke Passange Station in Roanoke ............................. 0.500 
1135. Louisiana ........................................... Construct Port of St. Bernard Intermodal facility ............................................................ 2.100 
1136. Mississippi .......................................... Construct segment 2 of the Jackson University Parkway in Jackson ................................. 1.250 
1137. Indiana ............................................... Extend East 56th Street in Lawrence ............................................................................... 6.500 
1138. Ohio ................................................... Improve and construct SR–44/Jackson Street Interchange in Painesville ............................ 4.000 
1139. Pennsylvania ...................................... Widen US–30 from US–222 to PA–340 and from PA–283 to PA–741 ...................................... 12.000 
1140. Ohio ................................................... Construct State Route 209 from Cambridge and Byesville to the Guernsey County Indus


trial Park ................................................................................................................... 2.200 
1141. California ........................................... Construct I–5/Avenida Vista Hermosa interchange in San Clemente .................................. 3.000 
1142. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve PA 17 from PA 274 to PA 850 in Perry County ..................................................... 1.000 
1143. Georgia ............................................... Improve GA–316 in Gwinnett County ............................................................................... 40.900 
1144. New York ............................................ Construct congestion mitigation project for Brookhaven ................................................... 5.000 
1145. New Hampshire ................................... Construct Chestersfield Bridge ........................................................................................ 3.000 
1146. California ........................................... Improve the interchange at Cabo and Nason Street in Moreno Valley ............................... 6.000 
1147. Missouri .............................................. Widen US–63 in Randolph and Boone Counties, Missouri ................................................. 45.360 
1148. New Jersey .......................................... Upgrade Garden State Parkway Exit 142 ......................................................................... 30.000 
1149. New York ............................................ Improve Bedford-Banksville Road from Millbrook to Connecticut State line ...................... 2.880 
1150. New York ............................................ Upgrade and improve Albany to Saratoga to Adirondack intermodal transportation cor


ridor ........................................................................................................................... 14.000 
1151. Oklahoma ........................................... Reconstruct US–99/SH377 from Prague to Stroud in Lincoln County ................................. 9.000 
1152. Washington ......................................... Safety improvements to State Route 14 in Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area ....... 4.200 
1153. Nevada ............................................... Widen I–50 between Fallon and Fernley .......................................................................... 4.000 
1154. South Carolina .................................... Widen and relocate SC–6 in Lexington County ................................................................ 8.000 
1155. Kansas ................................................ Widen US–54 from Liberal, Kansas southwest to Oklahoma. ............................................. 8.000 
1156. Virginia .............................................. Improve East Eldon Street in Herndon ............................................................................ 0.500 
1157. Michigan ............................................ Improve US–31 from Holland to Grand Haven .................................................................. 5.000 
1158. Arkansas ............................................ Construct turning lanes at US–71/AR–8 intersection in Mena ............................................ 0.250 
1159. California ........................................... Widen LaCosta Avenue in Carlsbad ................................................................................ 3.000 
1160. Alaska ................................................ Improve roads in Kotzebue ............................................................................................. 2.350 
1161. New Hampshire ................................... Construct Manchester Airport access road in Manchester ................................................ 10.700 
1162. Texas .................................................. Upgrade SH 130 in Caldwell amd Williamson Counties ..................................................... 1.000 
1163. South Dakota ...................................... Construct Heartland Expressway Phase I ........................................................................ 6.505 
1164. New York ............................................ Design and construct Outer Harbor Bridge in Buffalo. ..................................................... 16.260 
1165. Pennsylvania ...................................... Reconstruct State Route 2001 in Pike County ................................................................... 9.000 
1166. Ohio ................................................... Construct interchange at I–480 in Independence, Ohio. .................................................... 6.000 
1167. New Mexico ......................................... Improve US–70 southwest of Portales .............................................................................. 10.000 
1168. California ........................................... Willits Bypass, Highway 101 in Mendocino County, California ......................................... 1.000 


H1948 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

1169. Florida ............................................... Widen US–192 between County Route 532 and I–95 in Brevard and Osceola Counties ......... 25.000 
1170. Georgia ............................................... Widen US–84 South from US–82 to the Ware County Line in Waycross and Ware Counties 3.200 
1171. New Hampshire ................................... Reconstruct bridge over the Connecticut River between Lebanon, NH and White River 

Junction, VT ............................................................................................................... 3.000 
1172. Ohio ................................................... Conduct feasibility study for the construction of Muskingum County South 93–22–40 con


nector ......................................................................................................................... 0.700 
1173. Georgia ............................................... Reconstruct SR–26/US–60 from Bull River to Lazaretto Creek ............................................ 3.550 
1174. Wisconsin ........................................... Improve Janesville transportation ................................................................................... 4.000 
1175. Illinois ................................................ Reconstruct US–30 in Joliet ............................................................................................. 9.000 
1176. New Mexico ......................................... Complete the Paseo del Norte East Corridor in Bernalillo County ..................................... 7.500 
1177. Michigan ............................................ Construct I–96/Beck Wixom Road interchange ................................................................. 2.600 
1178. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct US–322 Conchester Highway between US–1 and PA–452 .................................... 25.000 
1179. New Mexico ......................................... Extend Unser Boulevard in Albuquerque ......................................................................... 1.000 
1180. Arkansas ............................................ Conduct planning for highway 278 and rail for the Warren/Monticello Arkansas Inter-

modal Complex ............................................................................................................ 1.000 
1181. Washington ......................................... Widen SR–543 from I–5 to International Boundary, Washington. ...................................... 3.616 
1182. New York ............................................ Construct congestion mitigation project for Smithtown ..................................................... 1.000 
1183. Mississippi .......................................... Widen MS–15 from Laurel to Louiseville .......................................................................... 10.000 
1184. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct Abbey Trails in Abington Township ................................................................. 0.500 
1185. Mississippi .......................................... Construct East Metro Corridor in Rankin County, Mississippi. ......................................... 3.500 
1186. Utah ................................................... Construct I–15 interchange at Atkinville .......................................................................... 8.000 
1187. California ........................................... Improve SR–70 from Marysville Bypass to Oroville Freeway ............................................. 15.000 
1188. New Hampshire ................................... Construct Conway bypass from Madison to Bartlett ......................................................... 7.100 
1189. New York ............................................ Improve the Route 31/I–81 Bridge in Watertown ............................................................... 2.473 
1190. Pennsylvania ...................................... Relocate PA–113 at Creamery Village in Skippack ............................................................ 3.000 
1191. Indiana ............................................... Upgrade 4 warning devices on north/south rail line from Terre Haute to Evansville ........... 0.400 
1192. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct noise abatement barriers along US–581 from I–83 2 miles west in Cumberland 

County ....................................................................................................................... 0.480 
1193. Louisiana ........................................... Install computer signal synchronization system in Baton Rouge ....................................... 6.500 
1194. Alabama ............................................. Construct US–231/I–10 Freeway Connector from the Alabama border to Dothan ................. 1.350 
1195. Michigan ............................................ Improve I–94 in Kalamazoo County ................................................................................. 5.000 
1196. Florida ............................................... Construct Englewood Interstate connector from River Road to I–75 in Sarasota and Char


lotte Counties .............................................................................................................. 10.000 
1197. New York ............................................ Conduct scope and design study of Hamilton Street interchange in Erwin. ........................ 16.500 
1198. Alabama ............................................. Extend I–759 in Etowah County ...................................................................................... 15.000 
1199. Pennsylvania ...................................... US–209 Marshall’s Creek Traffic Relief project in Monroe County .................................... 10.000 
1200. Georgia ............................................... Construct the Fall Line Freeway from Bibb to Richmond Counties ................................... 23.000 
1201. Indiana ............................................... Construct SR–9 bypass in Greenfield ............................................................................... 3.150 
1202. Illinois ................................................ Construct Alton Bypass from IL–40 to Fosterburg Road ................................................... 2.500 
1203. New York ............................................ Replace of Route 92 Limestone Creek Bridge in Manlius ................................................... 4.000 
1204. Indiana ............................................... Upgrade 14 warning devices on east/west rail line from Gary to Auburn ............................ 1.400 
1205. New York ............................................ Improve 6th and Columbia Street project in Elmira .......................................................... 0.700 
1206. Michigan ............................................ Improve Kent County Airport road access in Grand Rapids, Michigan .............................. 11.280 
1207. Arkansas ............................................ Enhance area around the Paris Courthouse in the vicinity of Arkansas Scenic Highway 22 

and Arkansas Scenic Highway 309, Paris Arkansas ....................................................... 0.400 
1208. Virginia .............................................. Downtown Staunton Streetscape Plan—Phase I in Staunton ............................................ 0.500 
1209. New York ............................................ Construct CR–85 from Foster Avenue to CR97 in Suffolk County ...................................... 0.675 
1210. California ........................................... Construct interchange between I–15 and Main Street in Hesperia, California .................... 10.000 
1211. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct Ardmore Streetscape project ............................................................................ 0.500 
1212. New York ............................................ Reconstruct Route 25/Route 27 intersection in St. Lawrence County ................................. 1.000 
1213. Connecticut ......................................... Relocate and realign Route 72 in Bristol .......................................................................... 4.800 
1214. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve Park Avenue/PA 36 in Blair County ................................................................... 0.600 
1215. Virginia .............................................. Construct Route 288 in the Richmond Metropolitan Area ................................................. 22.000 
1216. New York ............................................ Construct city of Glen Cove waterfront improvements ...................................................... 5.000 
1217. North Carolina .................................... Upgrade and improve US–19 from Maggie Valley to Cherokee ........................................... 20.000 
1218. New York ............................................ Construct Eastern Long Island Scenic Byway in Suffolk County ...................................... 15.000 
1219. Pennsylvania ...................................... Widen SR–247 and SR–2008 between 84 and Lackawanna Valley Industrial Highway for 

the Moosic Mountain Business Park ............................................................................ 10.900 
1220. Louisiana ........................................... Construct and equip Transportation Technology and Emergency Preparedness Center in 

Baton Rouge, Louisiana .............................................................................................. 5.400 
1221. Pennsylvania ...................................... Reconstruct I–95/Street Road interchange in Bucks County .............................................. 7.500 
1222. Mississippi .......................................... Widen State Route 24 from Liberty to I–55 ....................................................................... 1.250 
1223. New York ............................................ Initiate study and subsequent development and engineering of an international trade cor


ridor in St. Lawrence County ...................................................................................... 2.000 
1224. Missouri .............................................. Construct Highway 36 Hannibal Bridge and approaches in Marion County ...................... 3.496 
1225. New York ............................................ Reconstruct Ridge Road Bridge in Orange County ........................................................... 0.160 
1226. New Jersey .......................................... Reconstruct South Pembrton Road from Route 206 to Hanover Street ................................ 8.000 
1227. Ohio ................................................... Improve Alum Creek Drive from I–270 to Frebis Avenue in Franklin County ...................... 7.000 
1228. Ohio ................................................... Construct SR–315 Ohio State University Ramp project in Franklin County ....................... 3.000 
1229. North Carolina .................................... Construct US–64/264 in Dare County ............................................................................... 2.000 
1230. New Mexico ......................................... Improve US–70 from I–25 to Organ in New Mexico. ........................................................... 25.000 
1231. Kentucky ............................................ Construct connection between Natcher Bridge and KY–60 east of Owensboro .................... 3.000 
1232. California ........................................... Widen 5th Street and replace 5th Street bridge in Highland, California ............................. 1.000 
1233. New Mexico ......................................... Reconstruct US–84/US–285 from Santa Fe to Espanola ...................................................... 15.000 
1234. Iowa ................................................... Improve IA–60 Corridor from LeMar to MN State line ...................................................... 8.800 
1235. Louisiana ........................................... Construct Leeville Bridge on LA–1 .................................................................................. 1.500 
1236. Tennessee ............................................ Reconstruct US–27 in Morgan County ............................................................................. 3.000 
1237. Texas .................................................. Improve US 82, East-West Freeway between Memphis Avenue and University Avenue ....... 16.400 
1238. Alabama ............................................. Construction of Eastern Black Warrior River Bridge and right-of-way acquisition and 

construction of an extension of the Black Warrior Parkway from US–82 to US–43 in Tus


caloosa County ........................................................................................................... 23.000 
1239. North Carolina .................................... Construct US–117, the Elizabeth City Bypass in Pasquotank County ................................ 4.500 
1240. Florida ............................................... Construct Cross Seminole Trail connection in Seminole County ........................................ 1.500 
1241. New York ............................................ Construct County Road 50 in the vicinity of Windsor Avenue ........................................... 1.360 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1949 

[Dollars in Millions] 

1242. Ohio ................................................... Construct greenway enhancements in Madison ................................................................ 2.300 
1243. Nebraska ............................................. Conduct corridor study of NE–35 alternative and modified route in Norfolk, Wayne and 

Dakota City ................................................................................................................ 1.000 
1244. New York ............................................ Improve Broadway in North Castle in Westchester County ............................................... 2.520 
1245. Louisiana ........................................... Extend Louisiana Highway 42 between US–61 and I–10 in Ascension Parish ...................... 8.000 
1246. Alaska ................................................ Extend Kenai Spur Highway-North Road in Kenai Peninsula Borough ............................ 8.000 
1247. Utah ................................................... Construct underpass at 100th South in Sandy .................................................................. 3.900 
1248. Connecticut ......................................... Construct Seaview Avenue Corridor project ..................................................................... 10.000 
1249. New Jersey .......................................... Replace Maple Grange Road bridge over Pochuck Creek in Sussex County ........................ 1.800 
1250. New York ............................................ Construct congestion mitigation project for Riverhead ..................................................... 2.500 
1251. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve PA 453 from Water Street to Tyrone in Huntingdon County ................................. 1.000 
1252. Oklahoma ........................................... Reconstruct County Road 237 from Indiahoma to Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge ....... 0.250 
1253. Washington ......................................... Construct 192nd Street from Sr–14 to SE 15th ................................................................... 5.000 
1254. Ohio ................................................... Construct Licking-Thornwood Connector in Licking County ............................................ 1.500 
1255. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve I–95/PA–413 Interchange in Bucks County .......................................................... 7.500 
1256. Florida ............................................... Construct US–98/Thomas Drive interchange ..................................................................... 15.000 
1257. Texas .................................................. Widen Meacham Boulevard from I–35W to FM–146 and extend Meacham Boulevard from 

west of FM–156 to North Main Street ........................................................................... 3.500 
1258. Utah ................................................... Construct Cache Valley Highway in Logan ..................................................................... 7.000 
1259. Texas .................................................. Relocation of Indiana Avenue between 19th street to North Loop 289 and Quaker Avenue 

intersection ................................................................................................................. 9.600 
1260. Kentucky ............................................ Reconstruct KY–210 from Hodgenville to Morning Star Road, Larue County ..................... 8.000 
1261. Georgia ............................................... Construct Rome to Memphis Highway in Floyd and Bartow Counties ............................... 4.112 
1262. Pennsylvania ...................................... Realign West 38th Street from Shunpike Road to Myrtle Street in Erie County .................. 7.200 
1263. New York ............................................ Upgrade Chenango County Route 32 in Norwich ............................................................. 1.600 
1264. California ........................................... Rehabilitate historic train depot in San Bernadino .......................................................... 3.500 
1265. Louisiana ........................................... Construct the Southern extension of I–49 from Lafayette to the Westbank Expressway ...... 5.500 
1266. New York ............................................ Replace Kennedy-class ferries, Staten Island ................................................................... 40.000 
1267. Florida ............................................... Construct South Connector Road and Airport Road interchange in Jacksonville, Florida .. 9.000 
1268. Virginia .............................................. Construct the Lynchburg/Madison Heights bypass in Lynchburg ...................................... 1.500 
1269. California ........................................... Widen I–15 from Victorville to Barstow in California ........................................................ 24.000 
1270. New York ............................................ Traffic Mitigation Project on William Street and Losson Road in Cheektowaga ................. 3.000 
1271. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve PA 56 from I–99 to Somerset County Line in Bedford County ............................... 1.000 
1272. Pennsylvania ...................................... Renovate Harrisburg Transportation Center in Dauphin County ...................................... 2.500 
1273. Washington ......................................... Widen Columbia Center Boulevard in Kennewick ............................................................ 1.610 
1274. Indiana ............................................... Improve State Road 31 in Columbus ................................................................................ 0.500 
1275. New York ............................................ Construct pedestrian access bridge from Utica Union Station ........................................... 0.250 
1276. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve Route 219 in Clearfield County ........................................................................... 1.000 
1277. Kentucky ............................................ Construct KY–70 from Cave City to Mammoth Cave ......................................................... 2.000 
1278. New Jersey .......................................... Replace Groveville-Allentown Road bridge in Hanilton .................................................... 3.200 
1279. Washington ......................................... Construct Mount Vernon multi-modal transportation facility project in Mount Vernon, 

Washington ................................................................................................................ 3.500 
1280. New Jersey .......................................... Construct pedestrian bridge in Washington Township ...................................................... 3.000 
1281. Indiana ............................................... Install traffic signalization system in Muncie .................................................................. 0.900 
1282. New Mexico ......................................... Improve 84/285 between Espanola and Hernandez ............................................................ 5.000 
1283. Florida ............................................... Widen of State Road 44 in Volusia County ...................................................................... 2.250 
1284. Maryland ............................................ Construct improvements a I–270/MD–187 interchange ....................................................... 10.000 
1285. Louisiana ........................................... Increase capacity of Lake Pontchartrain Causeway ......................................................... 2.000 
1286. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct Walnut Street pedestrian bridge in Dauphin County ........................................ 1.000 
1287. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve US–22/PA–866 Intersection in Blair County ......................................................... 2.000 
1288. Indiana ............................................... Expand 126th Street in Carmel ........................................................................................ 1.000 
1289. Ohio ................................................... Upgrade 1 warning device on the rail line from Marion to Ridgeway ................................ 0.100 
1290. Illinois ................................................ Conduct Midwest Regional intermodal facility feasibility study in Rochelle ...................... 0.400 
1291. Minnesota ........................................... Construct Trunk Highway 610/10 from Trunk Highway 169 in Brooklyn Park to I–94 in 

Maple Grove ............................................................................................................... 15.000 
1292. Oklahoma ........................................... Improve Battiest-Pickens Road between Battiest and Pickens in McCurtain County .......... 3.000 
1293. Mississippi .......................................... Widen US–61 from Louisiana State line to Adams County ................................................ 1.250 
1294. California ........................................... Construct capital improvements along I–680 corridor ........................................................ 5.000 
1295. Arkansas ............................................ Study and construct Van Buren intermodal port facility in Van Buren, Arkansas ............. 0.300 
1296. New York ............................................ Construct access road from Lake Avenue to Milestrip Road in Blasdell ............................. 0.240 
1297. Iowa ................................................... Construct I–29 airport interchange overpass in Sioux City ................................................ 6.200 
1298. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct PA–309 Sumneytown Pike Connector ............................................................... 4.400 
1299. Kentucky ............................................ Construct Savage-Cedar Knob Bridge at Koger Creek ...................................................... 0.350 
1300. Washington ......................................... Widen SR–527 from 112th SE to 132nd SE in Everett ......................................................... 4.700 
1301. Kentucky ............................................ Complete I–65 upgrade from Elizabethtown to Tennessee State line ................................... 5.000 
1302. Illinois ................................................ Replace Gaumer Bridge near Alvin ................................................................................. 0.900 
1303. South Carolina .................................... Construct I–26/US–1 connector in Columbia ..................................................................... 12.000 
1304. Illinois ................................................ Construct Sullivan Road Bridge over the Fox River ......................................................... 10.000 
1305. California ........................................... Extend State Route 7 in Imperial County ........................................................................ 10.000 
1306. South Carolina .................................... Construct high priority surface transportation projects eligible for Federal-aid highway 

funds. ......................................................................................................................... 10.000 
1307. New York ............................................ Construct Erie Canal Preserve I–90 rest stop in Port Byron .............................................. 3.000 
1308. Virginia .............................................. Improve Harrisonburg East Side roadways in Harrisonburg ............................................. 0.500 
1309. Texas .................................................. Improve I–35 West from Spur 280 to I–820 in Fort Worth ................................................... 4.000 
1310. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct US–202 Section 600 Phase I Early Action project in Upper Gwynedd and Lower 

Gwynedd .................................................................................................................... 5.000 
1311. Pennsylvania ...................................... PA 26 over Piney Creek 2-bridges in Bedford County ........................................................ 0.800 
1312. Florida ............................................... Widen and realign Eller Drive in Port Everglades, Florida ............................................... 5.600 
1313. Illinois ................................................ Improve access to Rantoul Aviation Center in Rantoul ..................................................... 1.600 
1314. Florida ............................................... Deploy magnetic lane marking system on I–4 ................................................................... 0.500 
1315. Alaska ................................................ Construct the a bridge joining the Island of Gravina to the Community of Ketchikan on 

Revilla Island ............................................................................................................. 20.000 
1316. Louisiana ........................................... Conduct feasibility study, design and construction of connector between Louisiana High


way 16 to I–12 in Livingston Parish .............................................................................. 5.000 


H1950 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

[Dollars in Millions] 

1317. New York ............................................ Improve Hardscrabble Road from Route 22 to June Road in North Salem ........................... 2.880 
1318. California ........................................... Enhance Fort Bragg and Willitis passenger stations ........................................................ 0.500 
1319. New Mexico ......................................... Improve Uptown in Bernalillo County ............................................................................. 1.500 
1320. Missouri .............................................. Construction of airport ground transportation terminal for the Springfield/Branson Air


port intermodal facility in Springfield, Missouri ........................................................... 5.000 
1321. North Carolina .................................... Widen US–421 from North Carolina Route 194 to two miles East of US–221 ........................ 7.400 
1322. Kentucky ............................................ Construct US–127: $800,000 for the segment between the Albany Bypass and KY–90; 

$10,375,000 for the segment between the Albany Bypass and Clinton County High 

School; $40,000 for the segment between KY696 and the Tennessee State line .................. 11.215 
1323. Missouri .............................................. Upgrade US–71 interchange in Carthage, Missouri ........................................................... 1.000 
1324. Ohio ................................................... Reconstruct Morgan County 37 in Morgan County .......................................................... 0.500 
1325. New York ............................................ Construct Maybrook Corridor bikeway in Dutchess County .............................................. 1.404 
1326. New York ............................................ Construct Poughkeepsie Intermodal Facility in Poughkeepsie .......................................... 3.750 
1327. Illinois ................................................ Construct Orchard Road Bridge over the Fox River ......................................................... 7.000 
1328. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve PA–23 Corridor from US–30 Bypass between Lancaster County line and Morgan-

town ........................................................................................................................... 4.000 
1329. California ........................................... Improve State Route 57 interchange at Lambert Road in Brea .......................................... 0.985 
1330. Texas .................................................. Upgrade State Highway 35 Yoakum District in Matagorda and Buazovia Counties ........... 12.000 
1331. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve T–344 Bridge over Mahantango Creek in Snyder County ..................................... 0.700 
1332. Ohio ................................................... Complete safety/bicycle path in Madison Township .......................................................... 0.030 
1333. New Jersey .......................................... Upgrade Montvale/Chestnut Ridge Road and Grand Avenue intersection at Garden State 

Parkway in Bergan County ......................................................................................... 0.500 
1334. Kentucky ............................................ Widen US–27 from Norwood to Eubank ........................................................................... 30.000 
1335. California ........................................... Extend Highway 41 in Madera County ............................................................................ 10.000 
1336. New York ............................................ Improve and reconstruct Stony Street in York Town ........................................................ 0.350 
1337. Pennsylvania ...................................... Complete Broad Street ramps at Route 611 bypass in Bucks County .................................. 1.770 
1338. Tennessee ............................................ Construct State Route 131 from Gill Road to Bishop Road ................................................ 2.400 
1339. Georgia ............................................... Construct the Savannah River Parkway in Bullock, Jenkins, Screven and Effinghaus 

Counties ..................................................................................................................... 10.000 
1340. Illinois ................................................ Improve Illinois Route 29 in Sangamon and Christian Counties ........................................ 2.300 
1341. Mississippi .......................................... Widen State Route 6 from Pontotoc to US–45 at Tupelo in Mississippi ............................... 15.000 
1342. Kansas ................................................ Construct road and rail grade separations in Wichita ...................................................... 35.000 
1343. Illinois ................................................ Widen US–20 in Freeport ................................................................................................ 5.100 
1344. Minnesota ........................................... Construct Mankato South Route in Mankato .................................................................. 7.000 
1345. Michigan ............................................ Construct interchange at Eastman Avenue/US–10 in Midland ........................................... 11.000 
1346. California ........................................... Highway 65 improvement and mitigation project .............................................................. 4.000 
1347. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve access to Raystown in Huntingdon County ......................................................... 1.500 
1348. Indiana ............................................... Construct East 79th from Sunnyside Road to Oaklandon Road in Lawrence ..................... 4.000 
1349. Georgia ............................................... Widen and reconstruct Corder Road from Pineview Drive to the Russell Parkway ............. 3.400 
1350. New York ............................................ Rahabilitate Jay Covered Bridge in Essex County ............................................................ 1.000 
1351. New York ............................................ Improve Long Ridge Road from Pound Ridge Road to Connecticut State line .................... 2.800 
1352. Mississippi .......................................... Widen MS–45 from Brooksville to US–82 in Mississippi. .................................................... 4.500 
1353. Ohio ................................................... Upgrade US–30 in Hancock ............................................................................................. 15.000 
1354. Illinois ................................................ Construct an interchange at I–90 and Illinois Route 173 in Rockford ................................ 7.500 
1355. New York ............................................ Construct Route 17-Lowman Crossover in Ashland .......................................................... 4.800 
1356. New Jersey .......................................... Rehabilitate East Ridgewood Avenue over Route 17 in Bergan County .............................. 3.600 
1357. Pennsylvania ...................................... St. Thomas Signals Hade and Jack Rds US–30 in Franklin County ................................... 0.200 
1358. New York ............................................ Improve Route 9 in Dutchess County ............................................................................... 1.560 
1359. Ohio ................................................... Rail mitigation and improvement projects from Vermillion to Conneaut ............................ 12.000 
1360. Virginia .............................................. Complete North Section of Fairfax County Parkway in Fairfax County, Virginia. ............. 10.000 
1361. Arkansas ............................................ Conduct design study and acquire right of way on US–71 in the vicinity of Fort Chaffee, 

Fort Smith .................................................................................................................. 5.000 
1362. Pennsylvania ...................................... Realign Moulstown Road/Route 194/Eisenhower Drive York County ................................. 2.000 
1363. Florida ............................................... Construct Greater Orlando Aviation Authority Consolidated Surface Access in Orlando .... 1.341 
1364. Florida ............................................... Construct US17/92 and SR–436 interchange in Orange/Osceola/Seminole County region ...... 2.750 
1365. Washington ......................................... Construct State Route 7—Elbe rest area and interpretive facility in Pierce County, WA. .... 0.600 
1366. Virginia .............................................. Improve the RIC airport connector road in Richmond ...................................................... 3.000 
1367. Tennessee ............................................ Improve State Road 60 from Waterville to US–64 in Bradley County .................................. 1.600 
1368. Pennsylvania ...................................... Relocate US–219 Ridgeway, Pennsylvania, truck bypass connector along Osterhout Street 6.000 
1369. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct PA 36 Convention Center Connector in Blair County ........................................ 1.000 
1370. New Jersey .......................................... Construct US–22/Chimney Rock Road interchange in Somerset County ............................. 23.000 
1371. Alaska ................................................ Improve Dalton Highway from Fairbanks to Prudhoe Bay ............................................... 5.000 
1372. Pennsylvania ...................................... Allegheny Trail from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to Cumberland, Maryland ........................ 12.000 
1373. Washington ......................................... Reconstruct I–21/Keys Road intersection in Yakima ......................................................... 8.640 
1374. Pennsylvania ...................................... Upgrade 2 sections of US–6 in Tioga County .................................................................... 1.500 
1375. Illinois ................................................ Congestion mitigation for Illinois Route 31 and Illinois Route 62 intersection in Algonquin 12.000 
1376. Illinois ................................................ Construct Towanda-Barnes Road in Mclean County ........................................................ 7.760 
1377. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct Lackawanna River Heritage Trail in Lackawanna ........................................... 0.500 
1378. Pennsylvania ...................................... Reconstruct I–81 Plainfield interchange in Cumberland County ........................................ 3.520 
1379. Kentucky ............................................ Reconstruct US–127: $7,500,000 for the segment between Dry Ridge Road and US–231 and 

US–31; $4,000,000 for the segment between Allen-Warren County line and Dry Ridge 

Road .......................................................................................................................... 11.500 
1380. Tennessee ............................................ Construct State Route 30 from Athens to Etowah in McMinn County ............................... 10.320 
1381. Arizona ............................................... Replace US–93 Hoover Dam Bridge .................................................................................. 20.000 
1382. Iowa ................................................... Conduct study of Port of Des Moines, Des Moines ........................................................... 0.100 
1383. Missouri .............................................. Bull Shoals Lake Ferry in Taney County, Missouri. ........................................................ 0.697 
1384. Pennsylvania ...................................... Widen PA–413 in Bucks County ...................................................................................... 2.000 
1385. Mississippi .......................................... Construct I–20 interchange at Pirate Cove ....................................................................... 1.000 
1386. Texas .................................................. Complete State Highway 35 in Aransas County ................................................................ 10.000 
1387. California ........................................... Construct interchange between I–15 and SR–18 in San Bernardino, California. ................. 8.000 
1388. Pennsylvania ...................................... Improve Route 94 Corridor through Hanover to Maryland State Line. .............................. 8.000 
1389. Ohio ................................................... Upgrade 2 warning devices on the rail north/south line from Columbus to Toledo .............. 0.200 
1390. Pennsylvania ...................................... Resurface current 219 bypass at Bradford ........................................................................ 6.500 
1391. New Jersey .......................................... Construct Route 17 bridge over the Susquehanna and Western Rail line in Rochelle Park .. 1.500 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1951 

[Dollars in Millions] 

1392. Louisiana ........................................... Replace ferry in Plaquemines Parish ............................................................................... 2.150 
1393. New York ............................................ Construct Hudson River scenic overlook from Route 9 to Waterfront in Poughkeepsie ........ 0.455 
1394. California ........................................... Complete State Route 56 in San Diego ............................................................................. 4.000 
1395. New Jersey .......................................... Replace Clove Road bridge over tributary of Mill Brook and Clove Brook in Sussex County 1.000 
1396. California ........................................... Construct interchanges for I–10 in Coachella Valley, Riverside County ............................. 3.000 
1397. South Dakota ...................................... Construct US–16 Hell Canyon Bridge and approaches in Custer County ........................... 0.441 
1398. Wisconsin ........................................... Reconstruct U.S. Highway 151, Waupun to Fond du Lac ................................................. 26.000 
1399. Indiana ............................................... Construct I–70/Six Points interchange in Marion and Hendricks County ........................... 19.950 
1400. Wyoming ............................................. Reconstruct Cheyenne Area Norris Viaduct ..................................................................... 8.000 
1401. California ........................................... Extend State Route 52 in San Diego ................................................................................ 5.000 
1402. Kansas ................................................ Reconstruct K–7 from Lone Elm Road to Harrison ........................................................... 3.100 
1403. Mississippi .......................................... Construct US–84 from Eddiceton to Auburn Road ............................................................ 1.250 
1404. Florida ............................................... Construct County Road 470 Interchange in Lake County ................................................. 8.000 
1405. Virginia .............................................. Widen I–81 in Roanoke and Botetourt Counties and in Rockbridge, Augusta and Rocking-

ham Counties .............................................................................................................. 6.000 
1406. California ........................................... Improve and modify the Port of Hueneme Intermodal Corridor—Phase II in Ventura 

County ....................................................................................................................... 22.400 
1407. New York ............................................ Construct Bay Shore Road SR–231 to SR–27 in Suffolk County ......................................... 8.000 
1408. Alabama ............................................. Complete I–59 interchange in Dekalb County ................................................................... 4.000 
1409. Michigan ............................................ Construct interchange at US–10/Bay City Road in Midland .............................................. 4.000 
1410. Connecticut ......................................... Improve Route 4 intersection in Harwinton, Connecticut. ................................................. 1.800 
1411. Colorado ............................................. Construct Wadsworth Boulevard improvement project in Arvada ...................................... 1.000 
1412. Connecticut ......................................... Reconstruct Post Office Town Farm Road in Enfield, Connecticut .................................... 1.500 
1413. Pennsylvania ...................................... Widen and signalize Sumneytown Pike and Forty Foot Road in Montgomery County, 

Pennsylvania. ............................................................................................................. 4.300 
1414. Tennessee ............................................ Improve State Road 95 from Westover Drive to SR–62 in Roane and Anderson Counties ..... 4.900 
1415. New York ............................................ FJ&G Rail/Trail Project in Fulton County ....................................................................... 0.700 
1416. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct Towamencin Township multimodal center ........................................................ 2.900 
1417. Michigan ............................................ Relocate US–31 from River Road to Naomi Road in Berrian County .................................. 18.000 
1418. Alaska ................................................ Extend West Douglas Road in Goldbelt and Juneau ......................................................... 3.300 
1419. Illinois ................................................ Construct US–67 in Madison and Jersey Counties ............................................................ 6.800 
1420. Idaho .................................................. Reconstruct US–95 from Bellgrove to Mica ....................................................................... 10.000 
1421. Idaho .................................................. Construct US–95: Sandcreek Alternate Route in Sandpoint ............................................... 15.000 
1422. Ohio ................................................... Construct highway-rail grade separations on Snow Road in Brook Park .......................... 3.000 
1423. New York ............................................ Construct Southern State Parkway ITS between NYS Route 110 and Sagtikos Parkway .... 4.825 
1424. Florida ............................................... Widen US–17/92 in Volusia County .................................................................................. 1.800 
1425. Connecticut ......................................... Realign Route 4 intersection in Farmington ..................................................................... 2.800 
1426. Louisiana ........................................... Construct Louisiana Highway 1 from the Gulf of Mexico to US–90 .................................... 0.750 
1427. Kentucky ............................................ Construct Kentucky 31E from Bardstowns to Salt River ................................................... 1.000 
1428. Virginia .............................................. Constuct Third Bridge/Tunnel Crossing of Hampton Road ............................................... 5.000 
1429. Washington ......................................... Widen Cook Road in Skagit County, Washington. ........................................................... 3.100 
1430. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct 25.5 miles of the Perkiomen Trail ..................................................................... 0.540 
1431. Louisiana ........................................... Construct Port of South Louisiana Connector in Saint John the Baptist Parish ................ 0.700 
1432. New York ............................................ Construct CR–96 from Great South Bay to Montauk Highway in Suffolk County .............. 0.275 
1433. Pennsylvania ...................................... Construct US–6 Tunkhannock Bypass in Wyoming County .............................................. 2.400 
1434. Alabama ............................................. Construct Eastern Shore Trail project in Fairhope, Alabama. ........................................... 1.355 
1435. Georgia ............................................... Construct North River Causeway and Bridge, St. Mary’s County ..................................... 2.900 
1436. Utah ................................................... Construct Phase II of the University Avenue Interchange in Provo .................................. 10.000 
1437. California ........................................... Widen SR–71 from Riverside County to SR–91 .................................................................. 13.000 
1438. Arkansas ............................................ Construct access route to Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport in Highfill, Arkansas. ...... 16.000 
1439. California ........................................... Construct Ocean Boulevard and Terminal Island Freeway interchange in Long Beach, 

California. .................................................................................................................. 20.000 
1440. Nebraska ............................................. Widen and reconstruct I–680 from Pacific Street to Dodge Street in Douglas County .......... 8.000 
1441. Indiana ............................................... Lafayette Railroad relocation project in Lafayette, Indiana. ............................................ 29.400 
1442. Florida ............................................... Construct pedestrian overpass from Florida National Scenic Trail over I–4 ........................ 2.500 
1443. Michigan ............................................ Construct interchange at I–75/North Down River Road .................................................... 1.500 
1444. New York ............................................ Construct CR–96 from Montauk Highway to Sunrise Highway in Suffolk County .............. 0.435 
1445. Connecticut ......................................... Widen Route 10 from vicinity of Lazy Lane to River Street in Southington, Connecticut .... 4.640 
1446. Connecticut ......................................... Widen Route 4 in Torrington .......................................................................................... 2.800 
1447. Washington ......................................... Construct Port of Longview Industrial Rail Corridor and Fibre Way Overpass in Longview 2.500 
1448. Virginia .............................................. Construct I–95/State Route 627 interchange in Stafford County ........................................ 4.000 
1449. Colorado ............................................. Complete the Powers Boulevard north extension in Colorado Springs ................................ 12.000 
1450. Ohio ................................................... Construct St. Clairsville Bike Path in Belmont County ..................................................... 0.500 
1451. South Dakota ...................................... Construct Aberdeen Truck bypass ................................................................................... 2.576 
1452. New York ............................................ Conduct extended needs study for the Tappan Zee Bridge ................................................ 4.000 
1453. Washington ......................................... Widen SR–99 between 148th Street and King County Line in Lynnwood ............................ 3.000 
1454. Texas .................................................. Construct State Highway 121 from I–30 to US–67 in Cleburne ............................................ 32.000 
1455. Oklahoma ........................................... Reconstruct US–70 from Broken Bow to Arkansas State line in McCurtain County ............ 7.500 
1456. Georgia ............................................... Conduct study of a multimodal transportation corridor along GA–400 ............................... 25.000 
1457. New York ............................................ Reconstruct and widen Route 78 from I–90 to Route 15 ..................................................... 5.500 
1458. Nebraska ............................................. Construct South Beltway in Linclon ............................................................................... 5.500 
1459. Nebraska ............................................. Replace US–81 bridge between Yankton, south Dakota and Cedar County, Nebaska .......... 1.500 
1460. Florida ............................................... Construct Alden Road Improvement Project in Orange County ......................................... 0.700 
1461. California ........................................... Improve and widen Forest Hill Road in Placer County ..................................................... 7.000 
1462. Washington ......................................... Improve Hillsboro Street/Highway 395 intersection in Pasco .............................................. 3.550 
1463. Missouri .............................................. Construct Hermann Bridge on Highway 19 in Montgomery and Gasconade Counties ......... 1.544 
1464. Utah ................................................... Widen and improve 123rd/126th South from 700 East to Jordan River in Draper ................. 7.000 
1465. Illinois ................................................ Improve Constitution Avenue in Peoria ........................................................................... 3.500 
1466. New York ............................................ Reconstruct Washington County covered bridge project ................................................... 1.700 
1467. New York ............................................ Reconstruct Stoneleigh Avenue in Putnam County .......................................................... 3.920 


H1952 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

SEC. 128. WOODROW WILSON MEMORIAL BRIDGE. 

Section 407(a) of the National Highway System 
Designation Act of 1995 (109 Stat. 630–631) is 
amended— 

(1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
(3); 
(2) by striking ‘‘(a)’’ and all that follows 
through the period at the end of paragraph (1) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) CONVEYANCES.— 

‘‘(1) CONVEYANCE TO STATES AND DISTRICT OF 
COLUMBIA.— 

‘‘(A) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph, 
the Secretary shall convey to the 
State of Virginia, the State of Maryland, and 
the District of Columbia all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the Bridge, 
including such related riparian rights and interests 
in land underneath the Potomac River as 
are necessary to carry out the project. 

‘‘(B) ACCEPTANCE OF TITLE.—Except as provided 
in paragraph (3), upon conveyance by the 
Secretary, the State of Virginia, the State of 
Maryland, and the District of Columbia shall 
accept the right, title, and interest in and to the 
Bridge. 

‘‘(C) CONSOLIDATION OF JURISDICTION.—For 
the purpose of making the conveyance under 
this paragraph, the Secretary of the Interior 
and the head of any other Federal department 
or agency that has jurisdiction over the land 
adjacent to the Bridge shall transfer such jurisdiction 
to the Secretary. 

‘‘(D) FUNDS ALLOCATED.—No funds made 
available for the high cost Interstate System reconstruction 
and improvement program under 
section 160 of title 23, United States Code, may 
be allocated for the Bridge before the State of 
Virginia, the State of Maryland, and the District 
of Columbia accept right, title, and interest 
in and to the Bridge under this paragraph. 

‘‘(2) CONVEYANCE TO AUTHORITY.—After execution 
of the agreement under subsection (c), 
the State of Virginia, State of Maryland, and 
the District of Columbia shall convey to the Authority 
their respective rights, titles, and interests 
in and to the Bridge, including such related 
riparian rights and interests in land underneath 
the Potomac River as are necessary to carry out 
the Project. Except as provided in paragraph 
(3), upon conveyance by the Secretary, the Authority 
shall accept the right, title, and interest 
in and to the Bridge and all duties and responsibilities 
associated with the Bridge.’’; and 

(3) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph 
(1) of this section, by striking ‘‘conveyance 
under paragraph (1)’’ and inserting ‘‘conveyance 
under this subsection’’. 
SEC. 129. TRAINING. 

(a) TRAINING POSITIONS FOR WELFARE RECIPIENTS.—
Section 140(a) is amended by inserting 
after the third sentence the following: ‘‘In implementing 
such programs, a State may reserve 
training positions for persons who receive welfare 
assistance from such State; except that the 
implementation of any such program shall not 
cause current employees to be displaced or current 
positions to be supplanted.’’. 
(b) TYPES OF TRAINING.—Section 140(b) is 
amended— 
(1) in the first sentence— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘and technology’’ after ‘‘construction’’; 
and 
(B) by inserting after ‘‘programs’’ the following: 
‘‘, and to develop and fund summer transportation 
institutes’’; and 
(2) in the last sentence by striking ‘‘may be 
available’’ and inserting ‘‘may be utilized’’. 
(c) HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR TRAINING 
FACILITY.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
a heavy equipment operator training facility 
in Hibbing, Minnesota. The purpose of the 
facility shall be to develop an appropriate curriculum 
for training, and to train operators and 
future operators of heavy equipment in the safe 
use of such equipment. 
(2) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
out of the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account) $500,000 
for each of fiscal years 1998 and 1999 to carry 
out this subsection. 
(3) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds made 
available to carry out this subsection shall be 
available for obligation in the same manner as 
if such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 
of title 23, United States Code; except that the 
Federal share of the cost of establishment of the 
facility under this subsection shall be 80 percent 
and such funds shall remain available until expended. 
(d) MOTOR CARRIER OPERATOR VEHICLE AND 
TRAINING FACILITY.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall 
make grants to the State of Pennsylvania to establish 
and operate an advanced tractor trailer 
safety and operator training facility in Chambersburg, 
Pennsylvania. The purpose of the facility 
shall be to develop and coordinate an advance 
curriculum for the training of operators 
and future operators of tractor trailers. The facility 
shall conduct training on the test track at 
Letterkenny Army Depot and the unused segment 
of the Pennsylvania Turnpike located in 
Bedford County, Pennsylvania. The facility 
shall be operated by a not-for-profit entity and, 
when Federal assistance is no longer being provided 
with respect to the facility, shall be privately 
operated. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $500,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this subsection. 
Such funds shall remain available until 
expended. The Federal share of the cost of establishment 
and operation of the facility under 
this subsection shall be 80 percent. 
SEC. 130. TRANSPORTATION ASSISTANCE FOR 
OLYMPIC CITIES. 

(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section is 
to provide assistance and support to State and 
local efforts on surface and aviation-related 
transportation issues necessary to obtain the 
national recognition and economic benefits of 
participation in the International Olympic 
movement and the International Paralympic 
movement by hosting international quadrennial 
Olympic and Paralympic events in the United 
States. 
(b) PRIORITY FOR TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS 
RELATED TO OLYMPIC EVENTS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary 
may give priority to funding for a transportation 
project related to an Olympic event from 
funds available to carry out 1 or more of sections 
144(g)(1) and 160 of title 23, United States 
Code, and sections 5309 and 5326 of title 49, 
United States Code, if the project meets the extraordinary 
needs associated with an international 
quadrennial Olympic event and if the 
project is otherwise eligible for assistance under 
such section. 
(c) TRANSPORTATION PLANNING ACTIVITIES.— 
The Secretary may participate in planning activities 
of States, metropolitan planning organizations, 
and sponsors of transportation projects 
related to an international quadrennial Olympic 
event under sections 134 and 135 of title 23, 
United States Code, and in developing inter-
modal transportation plans necessary for such 
projects in coordination with State and local 
transportation agencies. 
(d) USE OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—The 
Secretary may provide assistance from funds deducted 
under section 104(a) of title 23, United 
States Code, for the development of an Olympic 
and Paralympic transportation management 
plan in cooperation with an Olympic and a 
Paralympic Organizing Committee responsible 
for hosting, and State and local communities affected 
by, an international quadrennial Olympic 
event. 
(e) TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS RELATED TO 
OLYMPIC EVENTS.— 
(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may 
provide assistance to States and local governments 
in carrying out transportation projects related 
to an international quadrennial Olympic 
event. Such assistance may include planning, 
capital, and operating assistance. 

(2) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share of the 
costs of projects assisted under this subsection 
shall not exceed 80 percent. For purposes of determining 
the non-Federal share, highway, 
aviation, and transit projects shall be considered 
a program of projects. 
(f) ELIGIBLE GOVERNMENTS.—A State or local 
government is eligible to receive assistance 
under this section only if it is hosting a venue 
that is part of an international quadrennial 
Olympics that is officially selected by the International 
Olympic Committee. 
(g) AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.— 
(1) AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT DEFINED.—Section 
47102(3) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(H) Developing, in coordination with State 
and local transportation agencies, intermodal 
transportation plans necessary for Olympic-related 
projects at an airport.’’. 

(2) DISCRETIONARY GRANTS.—Section 47115(d) 
of title 49, United States Code, is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(5); 
(B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(6) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(7) the need for the project in order to meet 
the unique demands of hosting international 
quadrennial Olympic events.’’. 

SEC. 131. NATIONAL DEFENSE HIGHWAYS. 

(a) RECONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.—If the Secretary 
determines, after consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, that a highway, or portion 
of a highway, located outside the United States 
is important to the national defense, the Secretary 
may carry out a project for the reconstruction 
of such highway or portion of highway. 
(b) FUNDING.—The Secretary may make available, 
from funds appropriated for expenditure 
on the National Highway System, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 per fiscal year for each of fiscal 
years 1998 through 2003 to carry out this section. 
Such sums shall remain available until expended. 
SEC. 132. MISCELLANEOUS SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
PROGRAMS. 

(a) INFRASTRUCTURE AWARENESS PROGRAM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary is authorized 
to fund the production of a documentary about 
infrastructure in cooperation with a not-forprofit 
national public television station and the 
National Academy of Engineering which shall 
demonstrate how public works and infrastructure 
projects stimulate job growth and the economy 
and contribute to the general welfare of the 
nation. 
(2) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
out of the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry 
out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998, 1999, and 2000. Such funds shall remain 
available until expended. 
(3) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds authorized 
by this subsection shall be available for 
obligation in the same manner as if such funds 
were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
United States Code; except that the Federal 
share of the cost of any project under this subsection 
and the availability of funds authorized 
by this subsection shall be determined in accordance 
with this subsection. 
(b) STUDY OF PARKING FACILITIES ADEQUACY.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study to determine the location and quantity of 
parking facilities at commercial truck stops and 
travel plazas and public rest areas that could be 
used by motor carriers to comply with Federal 
hours of service rules. The study shall include 
an inventory of current facilities serving the National 
Highway System, analyze where shortages 
exist or are projected to exist, and propose 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1953 

a plan to reduce the shortages. The study shall 
be carried out in cooperation with research entities 
representing motor carriers, the travel plaza 
industry, and commercial motor vehicle drivers. 

(2) REPORT.—Not later than January 1, 2001, 
the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report 
on the results of the study with any recommendations 
the Secretary determines appropriate 
as a result of the study. 
(3) FUNDING.—From amounts set aside under 
section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, for 
each of fiscal years 1998, 1999, and 2000, the Secretary 
may use not to exceed $500,000 per fiscal 
year to carry out this section. 
SEC. 133. ELIGIBILITY. 

(a) AMBASSADOR BRIDGE ACCESS, MICHIGAN.— 
Notwithstanding section 129 of title 23, United 
States Code, or any other provision of law, improvements 
to and construction of access roads, 
approaches, and related facilities (such as signs, 
lights, and signals) necessary to connect the 
Ambassador Bridge in Detroit, Michigan, to the 
Interstate System shall be eligible for funds apportioned 
under sections 104(b)(1) and 104(b)(3) 
of such title. 
(b) CUYAHOGA RIVER BRIDGE, OHIO.—Notwithstanding 
section 149 of title 23, United 
States Code, or any other provision of law, a 
project to construct a new bridge over the Cuyahoga 
River in Cleveland, Ohio, shall be eligible 
for funds apportioned under section 104(b)(2) of 
such title. 
(c) CONNECTICUT.—In fiscal year 1998, the 
State of Connecticut may transfer any funds remaining 
available for obligation under the section 
104(b)(5)(A) of title 23, United States Code, 
as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
of this Act, for construction of the 
Interstate System to any other program eligible 
for assistance under chapter 1 of such title. Before 
making any distribution of the obligation 
limitation under section 103(c)(4) of this Act, the 
Secretary shall make available to the State of 
Connecticut sufficient obligation authority 
under section 103(c) of this Act to obligate funds 
available for transfer under this subsection. 
(d) SAN FRANCISCO-OAKLAND BAY BRIDGE, 
CALIFORNIA.—In accordance with section 502 of 
this Act, a project to reconstruct the Interstate 
System approach to the western end of the San 
Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and the ramps 
connecting the bridge to Treasure Island shall 
be eligible for funds under section 160 of title 23, 
United States Code, relating to the high-cost 
Interstate System reconstruction and improvement 
program. 
(e) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.—Notwithstanding 
section 120(l)(1) of title 23, United States Code— 
(1) private entity expenditures to construct the 
SR–91 toll road located in Orange County, California, 
from SR–55 to the Riverside County line 
may be credited toward the State matching 
share for any Federal-aid project beginning construction 
after the SR–91 toll road was opened 
to traffic; and 
(2) private expenditures for the future SR–125 
toll road in San Diego County, California, from 
SR–905 to San Miguel Road may be credited 
against the State match share for Federal-aid 
highway projects beginning after SR–125 is 
opened to traffic. 
(f) INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE, SAULT STE. 
MARIE, MI.—The International Bridge Authority, 
or its successor organization, shall be permitted 
to continue collection of tolls for the 
maintenance, operation, capital improvements, 
and future expansions to the International 
Bridge and its approaches, plaza areas, and associated 
buildings and structures. 
(g) INFORMATION SERVICES.—A food business 
that would otherwise be eligible to display a 
mainline business logo on a specific service food 
sign described in section 2G–5.7(4) of part IIG of 
the 1988 edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic 
Control Devices for Streets and Highways 
under the requirements specified in that section, 
but for the fact that the business is open 6 days 
a week, cannot be prohibited from inclusion on 
such a food sign. 

SEC. 134. FISCAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OTHER 
AMENDMENTS. 

(a) ADVANCED CONSTRUCTION.—Section 115 is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) by moving the text of paragraph (1) (including 
subparagraphs (A) and (B)) 2 ems to the 
left; 
(B) by striking ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—’’; 
(C) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3); and 
(D) by striking ‘‘(A) prior’’ and inserting ‘‘(1) 
prior’’; and 
(E) by striking ‘‘(B) the project’’ and inserting 
‘‘(2) the project’’; 
(2) by striking subsection (c); and 
(3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
(c). 
(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Section 118 is 
amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading for subsection 
(b) by striking ‘‘; DISCRETIONARY PROJECTS’’; 
and 
(2) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(e) EFFECT OF RELEASE OF FUNDS.—Any 
Federal-aid highway funds released by the final 
payment on a project, or by the modification of 
the project agreement, shall be credited to the 
same program funding category previously apportioned 
to the State and shall be immediately 
available for expenditure.’’. 

(c) FEDERAL SHARE PAYABLE.—Section 120 is 
amended in each of subsections (a) and (b) by 
striking ‘‘shall be’’ and inserting ‘‘shall not exceed’’. 
(d) PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR CONSTRUCTION.—
Section 121 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking the second sentence; and 
(B) by striking the last sentence and inserting 
the following: ‘‘Such payments may also be 
made for the value of the materials (1) which 
have been stockpiled in the vicinity of such construction 
in conformity to plans and specifications 
for the projects, and (2) which are not in 
the vicinity of such construction if the Secretary 
determines that because of required fabrication 
at an off-site location the material cannot be 
stockpiled in such vicinity.’’; 
(2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(b) PROJECT AGREEMENT.—No payment shall 
be made under this chapter except for a project 
covered by a project agreement. After completion 
of the project in accordance with the project 
agreement, a State shall be entitled to payment 
out of the appropriate sums apportioned or allocated 
to it of the unpaid balance of the Federal 
share payable on account of such project.’’; 

(3) by striking subsections (c) and (d); and 
(4) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection 
(c). 
(e) ADVANCES TO STATES.—Section 124 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(a)’’ the first place it appears; 
and 
(2) by striking subsection (b). 
(f) DIVERSION.—Section 126, and the item relating 
to such section in the table of sections for 
chapter 1, are repealed. 
(g) STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.—Section 
302 is amended— 
(1) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the 
following: ‘‘Compliance with this provision shall 
have no effect on the eligibility of costs.’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘(a)’’; and 
(3) by striking subsection (b). 
(h) BRIDGE COMMISSIONS.—Public Law 87–441, 
relating to bridge commissions created by Congress 
and Federal approval of membership of 
such commissions, is repealed. 
(i) OTHER AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 1023(h)(1) of Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 
127 note) is amended by striking ‘‘the date on 
which Federal-aid highway and transit programs 
are reauthorized after the date of the enactment 
of the National Highway System Designation 
Act of 1995’’ and inserting ‘‘September 
30, 2003’’. 

(2) Section 127(a) is amended by inserting before 
the next to the last sentence the following: 
‘‘With respect to the State of Colorado, vehicles 
designed to carry 2 or more precast concrete 
panels shall be considered a nondivisible load.’’. 
(3) Section 127(a) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: ‘‘The State of Louisiana may 
allow, by special permit, the operation of vehicles 
with a gross vehicle weight of up to 100,000 
pounds for the hauling of sugarcane during the 
harvest season, not to exceed 100 days annually.’’. 
(4) Section 127 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(h) MAINE AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.—With respect 
to Interstate Route 95 in the State of New 
Hampshire, State laws or regulations in effect 
on January 1, 1987, shall be applicable for purposes 
of this section. With respect to that portion 
of the Maine Turnpike designated Interstate 
Route 95 and 495, and that portion of 
Interstate Route 95 from the southern terminus 
of the Maine Turnpike to the New Hampshire 
State line, State laws or regulations in effect on 
October 1, 1995, shall be applicable for purposes 
of this section.’’. 

(j) SPECIALIZED HAULING VEHICLES.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study to examine the impact of the truck weight 
standards on specialized hauling vehicles. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to Congress a report on the results 
of the study with any recommendations 
the Secretary determines appropriate as a result 
of the study. 
SEC. 135. ACCESS OF MOTORCYCLES. 

Section 102 is amended by redesignating subsection 
(b) as subsection (c) and by inserting 
after subsection (a) the following: 

‘‘(b) ACCESS OF MOTORCYCLES.—No State or 
political subdivision of a State may restrict the 
access of motorcycles to any highway or portion 
of a highway for which Federal-aid highway 
funds have been utilized for planning, design, 
construction, or maintenance.’’. 

SEC. 136. AMENDMENTS TO PRIOR SURFACE 

TRANSPORTATION AUTHORIZATION 

LAWS. 

(a) ISTEA HIGH PRIORITY CORRIDORS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1105(c) of the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991 (105 Stat. 2032–2033) is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (5)(B)(iii)(I)(ff) by inserting 
before the semicolon ‘‘, including a connection 
to Andrews following the Route 41 Corridor’’; 
(B) in paragraph (9) by inserting after ‘‘New 
York’’ the following: ‘‘, including United States 
Route 322 between United States Route 220 and 
I–80’’; 
(C) in paragraph (18)— 
(i) by inserting before ‘‘Indianapolis, Indiana’’ 
the following: ‘‘Sarnia, Ontario, Canada, 
through Port Huron, Michigan, southwesterly 
along I–69 and from Windsor, Ontario, Canada, 
through Detroit, Michigan, westerly along I–94 
via Marshall, Michigan, thence south to’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘and to include’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘as follows: 
‘‘(A) In Tennessee, Mississippi, Arkansas, and 
Louisiana, the Corridor shall— 
‘‘(i) follow the alignment generally identified 
in the Corridor 18 Special Issues Study Final 
Report; and 

‘‘(ii) run in an East/South direction to United 
States Route 61 and cross the Mississippi River 
(in the vicinity of Memphis, Tennessee) to Highway 
79, and then follow Highway 79 south to 2 
miles west of Altimer, Arkansas, and across the 
Arkansas River at Lock and Dam Number 4, Arkansas, 
and then proceed south in the direction 
of Monticello, Arkansas, and link up with the 


H1954 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

route proposed in the Corridor 18 Special Issues 
Study Final Report which would continue to 
Haynesville, Louisiana. 

‘‘(B) In the Lower Rio Grande Valley, the 
Corridor shall— 

‘‘(i) include United States Route 77 from the 
Rio Grande River to Interstate Route 37 at Corpus 
Christi, Texas, and then to Victoria, Texas, 
via United States Route 77; 

‘‘(ii) include United States Route 281 from the 
Rio Grande River to Interstate Route 37 and 
then to Victoria, Texas, via United States Route 
59; and 

‘‘(iii) include’’; 

(D) in paragraph (21) by striking ‘‘United 
States Route 17 in the vicinity of Salamanca, 
New York’’ and inserting ‘‘Interstate Route 80’’; 
(E) by inserting ‘‘, including I–29 between 
Kansas City and the Canadian border’’ before 
the period at the end of paragraph (23); and 
(F) by inserting after paragraph (29) the following: 
‘‘(30) Interstate Route 5 in the States of California, 
Oregon, and Washington, including 
California State Route 905 between Interstate 
Route 5 and the Otay Mesa Port of Entry. 

‘‘(31) The Mon-Fayette Expressway and 
Southern Beltway in Pennsylvania. 

‘‘(32) The Wisconsin Development Corridor 
from the Iowa, Illinois, and Wisconsin border 
near Dubuque, Iowa, to the Upper Mississippi 
River Basin near Eau Claire, Wisconsin, as follows: 


‘‘(A) United States Route 151 from the Iowa 
border to Fond du Lac via Madison, Wisconsin, 
then United States Route 41 from Fond du Lac 
to Marinette via Oshkosh, Appleton, and Green 
Bay, Wisconsin. 

‘‘(B) State Route 29 from Green Bay to I–94 
via Wausau, Chippewa Falls, and Eau Claire, 
Wisconsin. 

‘‘(C) United States Route 10 from Appleton to 
Marshfield, Wisconsin. 

‘‘(33) The Capital Gateway Corridor following 
United States Route 50 from the proposed inter-
modal transportation center connected to I–395 
in Washington, D.C., to the intersection of 
United States Route 50 with Kenilworth Avenue 
and the Baltimore-Washington Parkway in 
Maryland. 

‘‘(34) The Alameda Corridor East generally 
described as 52.8 miles from east Los Angeles 
(terminus of Alameda Corridor) through the San 
Gabriel Valley terminating at Colton Junction 
in San Bernandino. 

‘‘(35) Everett-Tacoma FAST Corridor. 

‘‘(36) New York and Pennsylvania State 
Route 17 from Harriman, New York, to its intersection 
with I–90 in Pennsylvania. 

‘‘(37) United States Route 90 from I–49 in Lafayette, 
Louisiana, to I–10 in New Orleans. 
‘‘(38) The Ports-to-Plains Corridor from the 
Mexican Border via I–27 to Denver, Colorado. 
‘‘(39) United States Route 63 from Marked 
Tree, Arkansas, to I–55.’’. 

(2) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CORRIDORS.— 
Section 1105(e)(5)(A) of such Act is amended— 
(A) by inserting after ‘‘referred to’’ the first 
place it appears the following: ‘‘in subsection 
(c)(1),’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘and’’ the second place it appears; 
and 
(C) by inserting after ‘‘(c)(20)’’ the following: 
‘‘, in subsection (c)(36), and in subsection 
(c)(37)’’. 
(3) ROUTES.—Section 1105(e)(5) of such Act is 
further amended— 
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and 
(C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; 
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
following: 

‘‘(B) ROUTES.— 

‘‘(i) DESIGNATION.—The routes referred to in 

subsections (c)(18) and (c)(20) shall be designated 
as Interstate Route I–69. A State having 
jurisdiction over any segment of routes referred 
to in subsections (c)(18) and (c)(20) shall erect 
signs identifying such segment that is consistent 

with the criteria set forth in subsections 
(e)(5)(A)(i) and (e)(5)(A)(ii) as Interstate Route 
I–69, including segments of United States Route 
59 in the State of Texas. The segment identified 
in subsection (c)(18)(B)(i) shall be designated as 
Interstate Route I–69 East, and the segment 
identified in subsection (c)(18)(B)(ii) shall be 
designated as Interstate Route I–69 Central. The 
State of Texas shall erect signs identifying such 
routes as segments of future Interstate Route I– 
69. 

‘‘(ii) RULEMAKING TO DETERMINE FUTURE 
INTERSTATE SIGN ERECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary 
shall conduct a rulemaking to determine 
the appropriate criteria for the erection of signs 
for future routes on the Interstate System identified 
in subparagraph (A). Such rulemaking 
shall be undertaken in consultation with States 
and local officials and shall be completed not 
later than December 31, 1998.’’; 

(C) by striking the last sentence of subparagraph 
(A) and inserting it as the first sentence 
of subparagraph (B)(i), as inserted by subparagraph 
(B) of this paragraph; and 
(D) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated by 
subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking 
‘‘(C)’’ and inserting ‘‘(D)’’. 
(b) AMENDMENTS TO SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1982.—Section 146 of 
the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 
1982 (96 Stat. 2130), relating to lane restrictions, 
is repealed. 
SEC. 137. BICYCLE TRANSPORTATION AND PEDESTRIAN 
WALKWAYS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 217 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘pedestrian walkways and’’ 
after ‘‘construction of’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(other than the Interstate 
System)’’; 
(2) in subsection (e) by striking ‘‘, other than 
a highway access to which is fully controlled,’’; 
(3) by striking subsection (g) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(g) PLANNING AND DESIGN.—Bicyclists and 
pedestrians shall be given due consideration in 
the comprehensive transportation plans developed 
by each metropolitan planning organization 
and State in accordance with sections 134 
and 135, respectively. Bicycle transportation facilities 
and pedestrian walkways shall be considered, 
where appropriate, in conjunction with 
all new construction and reconstruction of 
transportation facilities, except where bicycle 
and pedestrian use are not permitted. Transportation 
plans and projects shall provide due consideration 
for safety and contiguous routes. 
Safety considerations shall include the installation 
and maintenance of audible traffic signals 
and audible signs at street crossings.’’; 

(4) in subsection (h) by striking ‘‘No motorized 
vehicles shall’’ and inserting ‘‘Motorized vehicles 
may not’’; 
(5) in subsection (h)(3) by striking ‘‘when 
State and local regulations permit,’’; 
(6) in subsection (h)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(3); 
(B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
(5); and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 
‘‘(4) when State or local regulations permit, 
electric bicycles; and’’; and 

(7) by striking subsections (i) and (j) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the following 
definitions apply: 
‘‘(1) BICYCLE TRANSPORTATION FACILITY.—The 
term ‘bicycle transportation facility’ means new 
or improved lanes, paths, or shoulders for use by 
bicyclists, traffic control devices, shelters, and 
parking facilities for bicycles. 

‘‘(2) ELECTRIC BICYCLE.—The term ‘electric bicycle’ 
means any bicycle or tricycle with a low-
powered electric motor weighing under 100 
pounds, with a top motor-powered speed not in 
excess of 20 miles per hour. 

‘‘(3) PEDESTRIAN.—The term ‘pedestrian’ 
means any person traveling by foot and any mobility 
impaired person using a wheelchair. 

‘‘(4) WHEELCHAIR.—The term ‘wheelchair’ 
means a mobility aid, usable indoors, and designed 
for and used by individuals with mobility 
impairments, whether operated manually or 
powered.’’. 

(b) PROTECTION OF NONMOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION 
TRAFFIC.—Section 109(n) is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘(n) PROTECTION OF NONMOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION 
TRAFFIC.—The Secretary shall not 
approve any project or take any regulatory action 
under this title that will result in the severance 
of an existing major route or have significant 
adverse impact on the safety for non-
motorized transportation traffic and light motorcycles, 
unless such project or regulatory action 
provides for a reasonably alternate route or 
such a route exits.’’. 

(c) RAILWAY-HIGHWAY CROSSINGS.—Section 
130 is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(j) BICYCLE SAFETY.—In carrying out 
projects under this section, a State shall take 
into account bicycle safety.’’. 

(d) HIGHWAY AND STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.— 
(1) STUDY.—Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall initiate, in conjunction with the American 
Association of State Highway and Transportation 
Officials, a study to consider proposals to 
amend the policies of such association relating 
to highway and street design standards to accommodate 
bicyclists and pedestrians. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after such 
date of enactment, the Secretary shall transmit 
to Congress a report on the results of the study 
with any recommendations on amending the 
policies referred to in paragraph (1) the Secretary 
determines appropriate. 
(e) NATIONAL BICYCLE SAFETY EDUCATION 
CURRICULA.— 
(1) DEVELOPMENT.—The Secretary is authorized 
to develop a national bicycle safety education 
curricula that may include courses relating 
to on-road training. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 12 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to Congress a copy of the 
curricula. 
(3) FUNDING.—From amounts made available 
under section 210 of this Act, the Secretary may 
use not to exceed $500,000 for fiscal year 1998 to 
carry out this subsection. 
(f) DESIGN GUIDANCE.—In implementing section 
217(g) of title 23, United States Code, the 
Secretary, in cooperation with the American Association 
of State Highway and Transportation 
Officials, the Institute of Transportation Engineers, 
and other interested organizations, shall 
develop guidance on the various approaches to 
accommodating bicycles and pedestrian travel. 
The guidance shall address issues such as the 
level and nature of the demand, volume, and 
speed of motor vehicle traffic, safety, terrain, 
cost, and sight distance. The guidance shall be 
developed within 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
SEC. 138. HAZARD ELIMINATION PROGRAM. 

Section 152 is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a) by inserting ‘‘, 
bicyclists,’’ after ‘‘motorists’’; 
(2) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the 
following: ‘‘In carrying out this section, States 
shall minimize any negative impact on safety 
and access for bicyclists and pedestrians.’’; 
(3) in subsection (b) by inserting after 
‘‘project’’ the following: ‘‘or safety improvement 
project described in subsection (a)’’; and 
(4) in subsections (f) and (g) by striking 
‘‘highway’’ each place it appears. 
SEC. 139. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION. 

(a) LIFE CYCLE COST ANALYSIS.—Section 
106(e) is amended— 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1955 

(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘with a cost 
of $25,000,000 or more’’; 
(2) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) the 
following: ‘‘The program shall be based on the 
principles contained in section 2 of Executive 
Order 12893.’’; and 
(3) in paragraph (2) by inserting after ‘‘maintenance,’’ 
the following: ‘‘user costs,’’. 
(b) EVALUATION OF PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 
AND PROJECT DELIVERY.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study to assess the impact that a utility 
company’s failure to relocate their facilities 
in a timely manner has on the delivery and cost 
of Federal-aid highway and bridge projects. The 
study shall also assess the following: 
(A) Methods States use to mitigate such 
delays, including the use of the courts to compel 
utility cooperation. 
(B) The prevalence and use of incentives to 
utility companies for early completion of utility 
relocations on Federal-aid transportation 
project sites and, conversely, penalties assessed 
on utility companies for utility relocation delays 
on such projects. 
(C) The extent to which States have used 
available technologies, such as subsurface utility 
engineering, early in the design of Federal-
aid highway and bridge projects so as to eliminate 
or reduce the need for or delays due to utility 
relocations. 
(D) Whether individual States compensate 
transportation contractors for business costs 
they incur when Federal-aid highway and 
bridge projects under contract to them are delayed 
by utility company caused delays in utility 
relocations and any methods used by States 
in making any such compensation. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall transmit to Congress a report 
on the results of the study with any recommendations 
the Comptroller General determines 
appropriate as a result of the study. 
SEC. 140. CONTRACTING FOR ENGINEERING AND 
DESIGN SERVICES. 

Section 112(b)(2) of title 23, United States 
Code, is amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (B)(i) by striking ‘‘, except 
to’’ and all that follows through ‘‘services’’; 
(2) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(C) SELECTION, PERFORMANCE, AND AUDITS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—All requirements for architectural, 
engineering, and related services at 
any phase of a highway project funded in whole 
or in part with Federal-aid highway funds shall 
be performed under a contract awarded in accordance 
with subparagraph (A) unless the simplified 
acquisition procedures of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulations of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations, apply. 

‘‘(ii) PROHIBITION ON STATE RESTRICTIONS.—A 
State shall not impose any overhead restriction, 
or salary limitation inconsistent with the Federal 
Acquisition Regulations, that would preclude 
any qualified firm from being eligible to 
compete for contracts awarded in accordance 
with subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(iii) COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL ACQUISITION 
REGULATIONS.—The process for selection, award, 
performance, administration, and audit of the 
resulting contracts shall comply with the procedures, 
cost principles, and cost accounting principles 
of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 
including parts 30, 31, and 36 of title 48, Code of 
Federal Regulations.’’; 

(3) in subparagraph (G)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘(i) GENERAL RULE.—’’ before 
‘‘Subpargraphs’’; 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(ii) STATE OPTION.—Congress has determined 
that the State opt-out period for the contract 
administration procedures has expired. States 
that have complied with or received waivers 
from the Secretary regarding the requirements of 
section 307 of the National Highway Designa


tion Act of 1995, as of the date of the enactment 
of this clause, shall not be subject to the requirements 
of subparagraph (A).’’; and 

(C) by indenting clause (i), as designated by 
subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, and aligning 
it with clause (ii), as added by subparagraph 
(B) of this paragraph; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(H) COMPLIANCE.—A State shall comply, 
with respect to any architecture, engineering, or 
related service contract for any phase of a Federal-
aid highway project, with the qualifications-
based selection procedures of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulations, and with the single 
audit procedures required under this paragraph, 
or with an existing State law or a statute enacted 
in accordance with the legislative session 
exemption provided by subparagraph (G).’’. 

SEC. 141. COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE STUDY. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall request the 
Transportation Research Board of the National 
Academy of Sciences to conduct a study regarding 
the regulation of weights, lengths, and 
widths of commercial motor vehicles operating 
on Federal-aid highways to which Federal regulations 
currently apply. In conducting the 
study, the Board shall review current law, regulations, 
studies (including Transportation Research 
Board Special Report 225), and practices 
and develop recommendations regarding any revisions 
to current law and regulations that the 
Board deems appropriate. 
(b) FACTORS TO CONSIDER AND EVALUATE.—In 
developing recommendations under subsection 
(a), the Board shall consider and evaluate the 
impact of the recommendations described in subsection 
(a) on the economy, the environment, 
safety, and service to communities. 
(c) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out the 
study, the Board shall consult the Department 
of Transportation, States, the motor carrier industry, 
freight shippers, highway safety groups, 
air quality and natural resource management 
groups, commercial motor vehicle driver representatives, 
and other appropriate entities. 
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Board 
shall transmit to Congress and the Secretary a 
report on the results of the study conducted 
under this section. 
(e) RECOMMENDATIONS.—Not later than 6 
months after the date of receipt of the report 
under subsection (d), the Secretary may transmit 
to Congress a report containing comments or 
recommendations of the Secretary regarding the 
report. 
(f) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
out of the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) $250,000 for 
each of fiscal years 1998 and 1999 to carry out 
this subsection. 
(g) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds made 
available to carry out this section shall be available 
for obligation in the same manner as if 
such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of 
title 23, United States Code; except that the Federal 
share of the cost of the study under this 
section shall be 100 percent and such funds shall 
remain available until expended. 
SEC. 142. NEW YORK AVENUE TRANSPORTATION 
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established an 
authority to be known as the New York Avenue 
Transportation Development Authority (hereinafter 
in this section referred to as ‘‘Authority’’). 
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Authority shall be 
composed of 5 members appointed as follows: 
(1) 3 individuals appointed by the President. 
(2) 2 individuals appointed by the mayor of 
the District of Columbia. 
(c) COMPENSATION.—Members of the Authority 
may not receive pay, allowances, or benefits by 
reason of their service on the Authority. 
(d) DUTIES.—The Authority shall develop a 
transportation improvement plan for the Capital 
Gateway Corridor and vicinity following United 
States Route 50 from I–395 in Washington, D.C., 
to the intersection of United States Route 50 
with Kenilworth Avenue and the Baltimore-
Washington Parkway in Maryland, which shall 
include— 

(1) engineering, pre-design, and design necessary 
to improve the corridor; and 
(2) economic feasibility studies of financing 
the project, including the feasibility of repaying 
funds that may be borrowed from the Highway 
Trust Fund to carry out the project. 
(e) CONSIDERATIONS FOR TIP.—In developing 
the transportation improvement plan, the Authority 
shall consider— 
(1) how a tunnel or other method to re-route 
interstate traffic from the surface of New York 
Avenue may improve traffic on and access to the 
New York Avenue Corridor; and 
(2) how to improve access to the National Arboretum. 
(f) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Authority 
shall report to the Congress on any additional 
legal authorities it needs to carry out the transportation 
improvement plan. 
(g) FUNDING.—The Authority is eligible to receive 
funds authorized under the National Corridor 
Planning and Development program established 
in section 115. 
SEC. 143. DEFINITIONS. 

Section 101(a) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—The following definitions 
apply: 

‘‘(1) APPORTIONMENT.—The term ‘apportionment’ 
includes unexpended apportionments 
made under prior authorization laws. 

‘‘(2) CARPOOL PROJECT.—The term ‘carpool 
project’ means any project to encourage the use 
of carpools and vanpools, including provision of 
carpooling opportunities to the elderly and 
handicapped, systems for locating potential riders 
and informing them of carpool opportunities, 
acquiring vehicles for carpool use, designating 
existing highway lanes as preferential carpool 
highway lanes, providing related traffic control 
devices, and designating existing facilities for 
use for preferential parking for carpools. 

‘‘(3) CONSTRUCTION.—The term ‘construction’ 
means the supervising, inspecting, actual building, 
and all expenses incidental to the construction 
or reconstruction of a highway, including 
bond costs and other costs relating to the 
issuance in accordance with section 122 of bonds 
or other debt financing instruments and costs 
incurred by the State in performing Federal-aid 
project related audits which directly benefit the 
Federal-aid highway program. Such term includes— 


‘‘(A) locating, surveying, and mapping (including 
the establishment of temporary and permanent 
geodetic markers in accordance with 
specifications of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration in the Department of 
Commerce); 

‘‘(B) resurfacing, restoration, and rehabilitation; 


‘‘(C) acquisition of rights-of-way; 

‘‘(D) relocation assistance, acquisition of replacement 
housing sites, and acquisition and rehabilitation, 
relocation, and construction of replacement 
housing; 

‘‘(E) elimination of hazards of railway grade 
crossings; 

‘‘(F) elimination of roadside obstacles; 

‘‘(G) improvements which directly facilitate 
and control traffic flow, such as grade separation 
of intersections, widening of lanes, channelization 
of traffic, traffic control systems, and 
passenger loading and unloading areas; and 

‘‘(H) capital improvements which directly facilitate 
an effective vehicle weight enforcement 
program, such as scales (fixed and portable), 
scale pits, scale installation, and scale houses. 

‘‘(4) COUNTY.—The term ‘county’ includes corresponding 
units of government under any other 
name in States which do not have county organizations 
and, in those States in which the 
county government does not have jurisdiction 


H1956 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

over highways, any local government unit vested 
with jurisdiction over local highways. 

‘‘(5) FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS.—The term ‘Federal-
aid highways’ means highways eligible for 
assistance under this chapter other than highways 
classified as local roads or rural minor collectors. 


‘‘(6) FEDERAL-AID SYSTEM.—The term ‘Federal-
aid system’ means any one of the Federal-
aid highway systems described in section 103. 

‘‘(7) FEDERAL LANDS HIGHWAYS.—The term 
‘Federal lands highways’ means forest highways, 
public lands highways, park roads, parkways, 
and Indian reservation roads which are 
public roads. 

‘‘(8) FOREST DEVELOPMENT ROADS AND 
TRAILS.—The term ‘forest development roads 
and trails’ means a forest road or trail under 
the jurisdiction of the Forest Service. 

‘‘(9) FOREST HIGHWAY.—The term ‘forest highway’ 
means a forest road under the jurisdiction 
of, and maintained by, a public authority and 
open to public travel. 

‘‘(10) FOREST ROAD OR TRAIL.—The term ‘forest 
road or trail’ means a road or trail wholly or 
partly within, or adjacent to, and serving the 
National Forest System and which is necessary 
for the protection, administration, and utilization 
of the National Forest System and the use 
and development of its resources. 

‘‘(11) HIGHWAY.—The term ‘highway’ includes 
roads, streets, and parkways, and also includes 
rights-of-way, bridges, railroad-highway crossings, 
tunnels, drainage structures, signs, guardrails, 
and protective structures, in connection 
with highways. It further includes that portion 
of any interstate or international bridge or tunnel 
and the approaches thereto, the cost of 
which is assumed by a State highway department, 
including such facilities as may be required 
by the United States Customs and Immigration 
Services in connection with the operation 
of an international bridge or tunnel. 

‘‘(12) HIGHWAY SAFETY IMPROVEMENT 
PROJECT.—The term ‘highway safety improvement 
project’ means a project which corrects or 
improves high hazard locations, eliminates roadside 
obstacles, improves highway signing and 
pavement marking, installs priority control systems 
for emergency vehicles at signalized intersections, 
installs or replaces emergency motorist 
aid call boxes, or installs traffic control or 
warning devices at high accident potential locations. 


‘‘(13) INDIAN RESERVATION ROADS.—The term 
‘Indian reservation roads’ means public roads 
that are located within or provide access to an 
Indian reservation or Indian trust land or restricted 
Indian land which is not subject to fee 
title alienation without the approval of the Federal 
Government, or Indian and Alaska Native 
villages, groups, or communities in which Indians 
and Alaskan Natives reside, whom the Secretary 
of the Interior has determined are eligible 
for services generally available to Indians under 
Federal laws specifically applicable to Indians. 

‘‘(14) INTERSTATE SYSTEM.—The term ‘Interstate 
System’ means the Dwight D. Eisenhower 
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways 
described in section 103(e). 

‘‘(15) MAINTENANCE.—The term ‘maintenance’ 
means the preservation of the entire highway, 
including surface, shoulders, roadsides, structures, 
and such traffic-control devices as are 
necessary for its safe and efficient utilization. 

‘‘(16) NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM.—The term 
‘National Highway System’ means the Federal-
aid highway system described in section 103(b). 

‘‘(17) OPERATING COSTS FOR TRAFFIC MONITORING, 
MANAGEMENT, AND CONTROL.—The term ‘operating 
costs for traffic monitoring, management, 
and control’ includes labor costs, administrative 
costs, costs of utilities and rent, and 
other costs associated with the continuous operation 
of traffic control, such as integrated traffic 
control systems, incident management programs, 
and traffic control centers. 

‘‘(18) OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENT.—The term 
‘operational improvement’ means a capital im


provement for installation of traffic surveillance 
and control equipment, computerized signal systems, 
motorist information systems, integrated 
traffic control systems, incident management 
programs, and transportation demand management 
facilities, strategies, and programs and 
such other capital improvements to public roads 
as the Secretary may designate, by regulation; 
except that such term does not include resurfacing, 
restoring, or rehabilitating improvements, 
construction of additional lanes, interchanges, 
and grade separations, and construction 
of a new facility on a new location. 

‘‘(19) PARK ROAD.—The term ‘park road’ 
means a public road, including a bridge built 
primarily for pedestrian use, but with capacity 
for use by emergency vehicles, that is located 
within, or provides access to, an area in the National 
Park System with title and maintenance 
responsibilities vested in the United States. 

‘‘(20) PARKWAY.—The term ‘parkway’, as used 
in chapter 2 of this title, means a parkway authorized 
by Act of Congress on lands to which 
title is vested in the United States. 

‘‘(21) PROJECT.—The term ‘project’ means an 
undertaking to construct a particular portion of 
a highway, or if the context so implies, the particular 
portion of a highway so constructed or 
any other undertaking eligible for assistance 
under this title. 

‘‘(22) PROJECT AGREEMENT.—The term ‘project 
agreement’ means the formal instrument to be 
executed by the State highway department and 
the Secretary as required by section 110(a). 

‘‘(23) PUBLIC AUTHORITY.—The term ‘public 
authority’ means a Federal, State, county, 
town, or township, Indian tribe, municipal or 
other local government or instrumentality with 
authority to finance, build, operate, or maintain 
toll or toll-free facilities. 

‘‘(24) PUBLIC LANDS DEVELOPMENT ROADS AND 
TRAILS.—The term ‘public lands development 
roads and trails’ means those roads or trails 
which the Secretary of the Interior determines 
are of primary importance for the development, 
protection, administration, and utilization of 
public lands and resources under his control. 

‘‘(25) PUBLIC LANDS HIGHWAY.—The term ‘public 
lands highway’ means any highway through 
unappropriated or unreserved public lands, 
nontaxable Indian lands, or other Federal reservations 
under the jurisdiction of and maintained 
by a public authority and open to public 
travel. 

‘‘(26) PUBLIC ROAD.—The term ‘public road’ 
means any road or street under the jurisdiction 
of and maintained by a public authority and 
open to public travel. 

‘‘(27) RURAL AREAS.—The term ‘rural areas’ 
means all areas of a State not included in urban 
areas. 

‘‘(28) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means 
Secretary of Transportation. 

‘‘(29) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means any one 
of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or 
Puerto Rico. 

‘‘(30) STATE FUNDS.—The term ‘State funds’ 
includes funds raised under the authority of the 
State or any political or other subdivision thereof, 
and made available for expenditure under 
the direct control of the State highway department. 


‘‘(31) STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.—The term 
‘State highway department’ means that department, 
commission, board, or official of any State 
charged by its laws with the responsibility for 
highway construction. 

‘‘(32) TRANSPORTATION ENHANCEMENT ACTIVITIES.—
The term ‘transportation enhancement 
activities’ means, with respect to any project or 
the area to be served by the project, any of the 
following activities if such activity has a direct 
link to surface transportation: provision of facilities 
for pedestrians and bicycles, provision of 
safety and educational activities for pedestrians 
and bicyclists, acquisition of scenic easements 
and scenic or historic sites, scenic or historic 
highway programs, landscaping and other sce


nic beautification, including removal of graffiti 
and litter to the extent that such removal is in 
excess of fiscal year 1997 maintenance levels for 
removal of graffiti and litter, historic preservation, 
rehabilitation and operation of historic 
transportation buildings, structures, or facilities 
(including historic railroad facilities and canals), 
preservation of abandoned railway corridors 
(including the conversion and use thereof 
for pedestrian or bicycle trails), control and removal 
of outdoor advertising, archaeological 
planning and research, environmental mitigation 
to address water pollution due to highway 
runoff or reduce vehicle-caused wildlife mortality 
while maintaining habitat connectivity, and 
provision of tourist and welcome centers. 

‘‘(33) URBAN AREA.—The term ‘urban area’ 
means an urbanized area or, in the case of an 
urbanized area encompassing more than one 
State, that part of the urbanized area in each 
such State, or urban place as designated by the 
Bureau of the Census having a population of 
5,000 or more and not within any urbanized 
area, within boundaries to be fixed by responsible 
State and local officials in cooperation 
with each other, subject to approval by the Secretary. 
Such boundaries shall, as a minimum, 
encompass the entire urban place designated by 
the Bureau of the Census, except in the case of 
cities in the State of Maine and in the State of 
New Hampshire. 

‘‘(34) URBANIZED AREA.—The term ‘urbanized 
area’ means an area with a population of 50,000 
or more designated by the Bureau of the Census, 
within boundaries to be fixed by responsible 
State and local officials in cooperation with 
each other, subject to approval by the Secretary. 
Boundaries shall, at a minimum, encompass the 
entire urbanized area within a State as designated 
by the Bureau of the Census.’’. 

TITLE II—HIGHWAY SAFETY 

SEC. 201. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 23, UNITED 
STATES CODE. 

Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
whenever in this title an amendment or repeal is 
expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision of law, the 
reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of title 23, United 
States Code. 

SEC. 202. HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS. 

(a) UNIFORM GUIDELINES.—Section 402(a) is 
amended— 
(1) in the fourth sentence by striking ‘‘(4)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘(4) to prevent accidents and’’; 
and 
(2) in the eighth sentence by striking ‘‘include 
information obtained by the Secretary under 
section 4007 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 and’’. 
(b) ADMINISTRATION OF STATE PROGRAMS.— 
Section 402(b) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(b)(1)’’ and all that follows 
through paragraph (2) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATION OF STATE PROGRAMS.— 
’’; 

(2) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and 
(5) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively; 
(3) in paragraph (1)(C), as so redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘paragraph (5)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph 
(3)’’; and 
(4) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘paragraph (3)(C)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (1)(C)’’. 
(c) APPORTIONMENT OF FUNDS.—The 6th sentence 
of section 402(c) is amended by inserting 
‘‘the apportionment to the Secretary of the Interior 
shall not be less than three-fourths of 1 percent 
of the total apportionment and’’ after ‘‘except 
that’’. 
(d) APPLICATION IN INDIAN COUNTRY.—Section 
402(i) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(i) APPLICATION IN INDIAN COUNTRY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of applica


tion of this section in Indian country, the terms 
‘State’ and ‘Governor of a State’ include the 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1957 

Secretary of the Interior and the term ‘political 
subdivision of a State’ includes an Indian tribe. 
Notwithstanding subsection (b)(1)(C), 95 percent 
of the funds apportioned to the Secretary of the 
Interior under this section shall be expended by 
Indian tribes to carry out highway safety programs 
within their jurisdictions. The requirements 
of subsection (b)(1)(D) shall be applicable 
to Indian tribes, except to those tribes with respect 
to which the Secretary of Transportation 
determines that application of such provisions 
would not be practicable. 

‘‘(2) INDIAN COUNTRY DEFINED.—In this subsection, 
the term ‘Indian country’ means— 

‘‘(A) all land within the limits of any Indian 
reservation under the jurisdiction of the United 
States, notwithstanding the issuance of any 
patent, and including rights-of-way running 
through the reservation; 

‘‘(B) all dependent Indian communities within 
the borders of the United States, whether within 
the original or subsequently acquired territory 
thereof and whether within or without the limits 
of a State; and 

‘‘(C) all Indian allotments, the Indian titles to 
which have not been extinguished, including 
rights-of-way running through such allotments.’’. 


(e) RULEMAKING PROCEEDING.—Section 402(j) 
is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(j) RULEMAKING PROCEEDING.—The Secretary 
may from time to time conduct a rulemaking 
process to identify highway safety programs 
that are highly effective in reducing motor vehicle 
crashes, injuries, and deaths. Any such rule-
making shall take into account the major role of 
the States in implementing such programs. 
When a rule promulgated in accordance with 
this section takes effect, States shall consider 
these highly effective programs when developing 
their highway safety programs.’’. 

SEC. 203. HIGHWAY SAFETY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. 


Section 403(a)(2)(A) is amended by inserting ‘‘, 
including training in work zone safety management’’ 
after ‘‘personnel’’. 

SEC. 204. OCCUPANT PROTECTION INCENTIVE 
GRANTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 4 is amended by inserting 
after section 404 the following: 
‘‘§ 405. Occupant protection incentive grants 

‘‘(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.— 

‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO MAKE GRANTS.—Subject to 
the provisions of this section, the Secretary shall 
make grants under subsections (b) and (c) to 
States that adopt and implement effective programs 
to reduce highway deaths and injuries resulting 
from individuals riding unrestrained or 
improperly restrained in motor vehicles. Such 
grants may be used by recipient States only to 
implement and enforce, as appropriate, such 
programs. 

‘‘(2) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—No grant may 
be made to a State under subsection (b) or (c) in 
any fiscal year unless the State enters into such 
agreements with the Secretary as the Secretary 
may require to ensure that the State will maintain 
its aggregate expenditures from all other 
sources for programs described in paragraph (1) 
at or above the average level of such expenditures 
in its 2 fiscal years preceding the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998. 

‘‘(3) MAXIMUM PERIOD OF ELIGIBILITY; FEDERAL 
SHARE FOR GRANTS.—No State may receive 
grants under subsection (b) or (c) in more than 
6 fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1997. 
The Federal share payable for any grant under 
this section shall not exceed— 

‘‘(A) in the first and second fiscal years in 
which the State receives the grant, 75 percent of 
the cost of implementing and enforcing, as appropriate, 
in such fiscal year a program adopted 
by the State; 

‘‘(B) in the third and fourth fiscal years in 
which the State receives the grant, 50 percent of 
the cost of implementing and enforcing, as appropriate, 
in such fiscal year such program; and 

‘‘(C) in the fifth and sixth fiscal years in 
which the State receives the grant, 25 percent of 
the cost of implementing and enforcing, as appropriate, 
in such fiscal year such program. 

‘‘(b) GRANT A.—A State may establish its eligibility 
for a grant under this subsection by 
adopting or demonstrating to the satisfaction of 
the Secretary at least 5 of the following and, beginning 
in fiscal year 2001, at least 6 of the following: 


‘‘(1) SAFETY BELT USE LAW.—The State has in 
effect a safety belt use law that makes unlawful 
throughout the State the operation of a passenger 
motor vehicle whenever an individual 
(other than a child who is secured in a child restraint 
system) in the front seat of the vehicle 
(and, beginning in fiscal year 2000, in any seat 
in the vehicle) does not have a safety belt properly 
secured about the individual’s body. 

‘‘(2) PRIMARY SAFETY BELT USE LAW.—The 
State provides for primary enforcement of its 
safety belt use law. 

‘‘(3) MINIMUM FINE OR PENALTY POINTS.—The 
State imposes a minimum fine, or provides for 
the imposition of penalty points against an individual’s 
driver’s license, for a violation of its 
safety belt use law. 

‘‘(4) CHILD SAFETY SEAT LAW.—The State has 
in effect a child passenger protection law that 
makes unlawful throughout the State the operation 
of a passenger motor vehicle whenever a 
child up to 4 years of age in the vehicle is not 
properly secured in a child safety seat. 

‘‘(5) SPECIAL TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.—
The State has implemented a statewide 
special traffic enforcement program for occupant 
protection that emphasizes publicity for 
the program. 

‘‘(6) CHILD OCCUPANT PROTECTION EDUCATION 
PROGRAM.—The State has implemented a statewide 
comprehensive child occupant protection 
education program that includes education 
about proper seating positions for children in 
air bag equipped motor vehicles and instruction 
on how to reduce the improper use of child restraints 
systems. 

‘‘(7) CHILD PASSENGER PROTECTION LAW.—The 
State has in effect a child passenger protection 
law that makes unlawful throughout the State 
the operation of a passenger motor vehicle 
whenever a child up to 10 years of age (and, beginning 
in fiscal year 2003, a child up to 16 
years of age) in the vehicle is not properly restrained. 


‘‘(c) GRANT B.—A State may establish its eligibility 
for a grant under this subsection by 
adopting or demonstrating to the satisfaction of 
the Secretary each of the following: 

‘‘(1) STATE SAFETY BELT USE RATE.—The State 
demonstrates a statewide safety belt use rate in 
both front outboard seating positions in all passenger 
motor vehicles of 80 percent or higher in 
each of the years a grant under this subparagraph 
is received. 

‘‘(2) SURVEY METHOD.—The State follows safety 
belt use survey methods which conform to 
guidelines issued by the Secretary ensuring that 
such measurements are accurate and representative. 


‘‘(d) GRANT AMOUNTS.—The amount of each 
grant for which a State qualifies under subsection 
(b) or (c) for a fiscal year shall equal up 
to 30 percent of the amount apportioned to the 
State for fiscal year 1997 under section 402 of 
this title. 

‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the following 
definitions apply: 

‘‘(1) CHILD SAFETY SEAT.—The term ‘child 
safety seat’ means any device (except safety 
belts) designed for use in a motor vehicle to restrain, 
seat, or position a child who weighs 50 
pounds or less. 

‘‘(2) MOTOR VEHICLE.—The term ‘motor vehicle’ 
means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical 
power and manufactured primarily for 
use on public streets, roads, and highways, but 
does not include a vehicle operated only on a 
rail line. 

‘‘(3) MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE.—The 
term ‘multipurpose passenger vehicle’ means a 
motor vehicle with motive power (except a trailer), 
designed to carry not more than 10 individuals, 
that is constructed either on a truck chassis 
or with special features for occasional off-
road operation. 

‘‘(4) PASSENGER CAR.—The term ‘passenger 
car’ means a motor vehicle with motive power 
(except a multipurpose passenger vehicle, motorcycle, 
or trailer) designed to carry not more 
than 10 individuals. 

‘‘(5) PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE.—The term 
‘passenger motor vehicle’ means a passenger car 
or a multipurpose passenger motor vehicle. 

‘‘(6) SAFETY BELT.—The term ‘safety belt’ 
means— 

‘‘(A) with respect to open-body passenger vehicles, 
including convertibles, an occupant restraint 
system consisting of a lap belt or a lap 
belt and a detachable shoulder belt; and 

‘‘(B) with respect to other passenger vehicles, 
an occupant restraint system consisting of integrated 
lap and shoulder belts. 

‘‘(f) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Funds authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section 
shall be subject to a deduction not to exceed 
5 percent for the necessary costs of administering 
the provisions of this section. 

‘‘(g) APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 1.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, all provisions of chapter 
1 of this title that are applicable to National 
Highway System funds, other than provisions 
relating to the apportionment formula and provisions 
limiting the expenditure of such funds to 
Federal-aid highways, shall apply to the funds 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
section. 

‘‘(2) INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS.—If the Secretary 
determines that a provision of chapter 1 
of this title is inconsistent with this section, 
such provision shall not apply to funds authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section. 

‘‘(3) CREDIT FOR STATE AND LOCAL EXPENDITURES.—
The aggregate of all expenditures made 
during any fiscal year by a State and its political 
subdivisions (exclusive of Federal funds) for 
carrying out the State highway safety program 
under section 402 (other than planning and administration) 
shall be available for the purpose 
of crediting such State during such fiscal year 
for the non-Federal share of the cost of any 
project under this section (other than one for 
planning or administration) without regard to 
whether such expenditures were actually made 
in connection with such project. 

‘‘(4) INCREASED FEDERAL SHARE FOR CERTAIN 
INDIAN TRIBE PROGRAMS.—In the case of an occupant 
protection program carried out by an Indian 
tribe, if the Secretary is satisfied that an 
Indian tribe does not have sufficient funds 
available to meet the non-Federal share of the 
cost of such program, the Secretary may increase 
the Federal share of the cost thereof payable 
under this title to the extent necessary. 

‘‘(5) TREATMENT OF TERM ‘STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT’.—
In applying provisions of chapter 1 
in carrying out this section, the term ‘State 
highway department’ as used in such provisions 
shall mean the Governor of a State and, in the 
case of an Indian tribe program, the Secretary 
of the Interior.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for such chapter is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 404 the following: 
‘‘405. Occupant protection incentive grants.’’. 

SEC. 205. ALCOHOL-IMPAIRED DRIVING COUNTERMEASURES. 


Section 410 is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘§ 410. Alcohol-impaired driving countermeasures 


‘‘(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Subject to the requirements 
of this section, the Secretary shall 
make grants to States that adopt and implement 
effective programs to reduce traffic safety problems 
resulting from individuals driving while 


H1958 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

under the influence of alcohol. Such grants may 
only be used by recipient States to implement 
and enforce such programs. 

‘‘(b) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—No grant may 
be made to a State under this section in any fiscal 
year unless the State enters into such agreements 
with the Secretary as the Secretary may 
require to ensure that the State will maintain its 
aggregate expenditures from all other sources 
for alcohol traffic safety programs at or above 
the average level of such expenditures in its 2 
fiscal years preceding the date of the enactment 
of the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998. 

‘‘(c) MAXIMUM PERIOD OF ELIGIBILITY; FEDERAL 
SHARE FOR GRANTS.—No State may receive 
grants under this section in more than 6 fiscal 
years beginning after September 30, 1997. The 
Federal share payable for any grant under this 
section shall not exceed— 

‘‘(1) in the first and second fiscal years in 
which the State receives a grant under this section, 
75 percent of the cost of implementing and 
enforcing in such fiscal year a program adopted 
by the State pursuant to subsection (a); 

‘‘(2) in the third and fourth fiscal years in 
which the State receives a grant under this section, 
50 percent of the cost of implementing and 
enforcing in such fiscal year such program; and 

‘‘(3) in the fifth and sixth fiscal years in 
which the State receives a grant under this section, 
25 percent of the cost of implementing and 
enforcing in such fiscal year such program. 

‘‘(d) BASIC GRANT ELIGIBILITY.— 

‘‘(1) BASIC GRANT A.—A State shall become eligible 
for a grant under this paragraph by adopting 
or demonstrating to the satisfaction of the 
Secretary at least 5 of the following: 

‘‘(A) .08 BAC PER SE LAW.—A law that provides 
that any individual with a blood alcohol concentration 
of 0.08 percent or greater while operating 
a motor vehicle shall be deemed to be driving 
while intoxicated. 

‘‘(B) ADMINISTRATIVE LICENSE REVOCATION.— 
An administrative driver’s license suspension or 
revocation system for individuals who operate 
motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol 
that requires that— 

‘‘(i) in the case of an individual who, in any 
5-year period beginning after the date of the enactment 
of the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998, is determined 
on the basis of a chemical test to have been operating 
a motor vehicle under the influence of 
alcohol or is determined to have refused to submit 
to such a test as proposed by a law enforcement 
officer, the State agency responsible for 
administering drivers’ licenses, upon receipt of 
the report of the law enforcement officer— 

‘‘(I) shall suspend the driver’s license of such 
individual for a period of not less than 90 days 
if such individual is a first offender in such 5year 
period; and 

‘‘(II) shall suspend the driver’s license of such 
individual for a period of not less than 1 year, 
or revoke such license, if such individual is a repeat 
offender in such 5-year period; and 

‘‘(ii) the suspension and revocation referred to 
under clause (i) shall take effect not later than 
30 days after the day on which the individual 
refused to submit to a chemical test or received 
notice of having been determined to be driving 
under the influence of alcohol, in accordance 
with the State’s procedures. 

‘‘(C) UNDERAGE DRINKING PROGRAM.—An effective 
system, as determined by the Secretary, 
for preventing operators of motor vehicles under 
age 21 from obtaining alcoholic beverages and 
for preventing persons from making alcoholic 
beverages available to individuals under age 21. 
Such system may include a graduated licensing 
system, the issuance of drivers’ licenses to individuals 
under age 21 that are easily distinguishable 
in appearance from drivers’ licenses issued 
to individuals age 21 years of age or older, and 
the issuance of drivers’ licenses that are tamper 
resistant. 

‘‘(D) ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.—Either— 

‘‘(i) a statewide program for stopping motor 
vehicles on a nondiscriminatory, lawful basis 
for the purpose of determining whether the operators 
of such motor vehicles are driving while 
under the influence of alcohol; or 

‘‘(ii) a statewide special traffic enforcement 
program for impaired driving that emphasizes 
publicity for the program. 

‘‘(E) REPEAT OFFENDERS.—Effective sanctions 
for repeat offenders convicted of driving under 
the influence of alcohol. Such sanctions, as determined 
by the Secretary, may include electronic 
monitoring; alcohol interlocks; intensive 
supervision of probation; vehicle impoundment, 
confiscation, or forfeiture; dedicated detention 
facilities; special measures to reduce driving 
with a suspended license; and assignment of 
treatment. 

‘‘(F) DRIVERS WITH HIGH BAC’S.—Programs to 
target individuals with high blood alcohol concentrations 
who operate a motor vehicle. Such 
programs may include implementation of a system 
of graduated penalties and assessment of individuals 
convicted of driving under the influence 
of alcohol. 

‘‘(G) YOUNG ADULT DRINKING PROGRAMS.— 
Programs to reduce driving while under the influence 
of alcohol by individuals age 21 through 

34. Such programs may include awareness campaigns; 
traffic safety partnerships with employers, 
colleges, and the hospitality industry; assessment 
of first time offenders; and incorporation 
of treatment into judicial sentencing. 
‘‘(H) TESTING FOR BAC.—An effective system 
for increasing the rate of testing for blood alcohol 
concentration of motor vehicle drivers in 
fatal accidents and, in fiscal year 2000 and in 
each fiscal year thereafter, a rate of such testing 
that is equal to or greater than the national 
average. 

‘‘(2) BASIC GRANT B.—A State shall become eligible 
for a grant under this paragraph by adopting 
or demonstrating to the satisfaction of the 
Secretary each of the following: 

‘‘(A) FATAL IMPAIRED DRIVER PERCENTAGE RE-
DUCTION.—The percentage of fatally injured 
drivers with 0.10 percent or greater blood alcohol 
concentration in the State has decreased in 
each of the 3 most recent calendar years for 
which statistics for determining such percentages 
are available. 

‘‘(B) FATAL IMPAIRED DRIVER PERCENTAGE 
COMPARISON.—The percentage of fatally injured 
drivers with 0.10 percent or greater blood alcohol 
concentration in the State has been lower 
than the average percentage for all States in 
each of the calendar years referred to in subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(3) BASIC GRANT AMOUNT.—The amount of a 
basic grant made to a State for a fiscal year 
under this subsection shall equal up to 30 percent 
of the amount apportioned to the State for 
fiscal year 1997 under section 402 of this title. 

‘‘(e) DISCRETIONARY GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon receiving an application 
from a State, the Secretary may make 
grants to the State for carrying out innovative 
programs (other than the programs specified in 
subsection (d)) to reduce traffic safety problems 
resulting from individuals driving while under 
the influence of alcohol or controlled substances. 
Such programs may seek to achieve 
such a reduction through legal, judicial, enforcement, 
educational, technological, or other 
approaches. 

‘‘(2) ELIGIBILITY.—A State shall be eligible to 
receive a grant under this subsection in a fiscal 
year only if the State is eligible to receive a 
grant under subsection (d) in such fiscal year. 

‘‘(3) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
to carry out this section, not to exceed 12 
percent shall be available for making grants 
under this subsection. 

‘‘(f) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Funds authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section 
shall be subject to a deduction not to exceed 
5 percent for the necessary costs of administering 
the provisions of this section. 

‘‘(g) APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 1.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, all provisions of chapter 
1 of this title that are applicable to National 
Highway System funds, other than provisions 
relating to the apportionment formula and provisions 
limiting the expenditure of such funds to 
Federal-aid highways, shall apply to the funds 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
section. 

‘‘(2) INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS.—If the Secretary 
determines that a provision of chapter 1 
of this title is inconsistent with this section, 
such provision shall not apply to funds authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section. 

‘‘(3) CREDIT FOR STATE AND LOCAL EXPENDITURES.—
The aggregate of all expenditures made 
during any fiscal year by a State and its political 
subdivisions (exclusive of Federal funds) for 
carrying out the State highway safety program 
under section 402 (other than planning and administration) 
shall be available for the purpose 
of crediting such State during such fiscal year 
for the non-Federal share of the cost of any 
project under this section (other than one for 
planning or administration) without regard to 
whether such expenditures were actually made 
in connection with such project. 

‘‘(4) INCREASED FEDERAL SHARE FOR CERTAIN 
INDIAN TRIBE PROGRAMS.—In the case of an alcohol-
impaired driving countermeasures program 
carried out by an Indian tribe, if the Secretary 
is satisfied that an Indian tribe does not 
have sufficient funds available to meet the non-
Federal share of the cost of such program, the 
Secretary may increase the Federal share of the 
cost thereof payable under this title to the extent 
necessary. 

‘‘(5) TREATMENT OF TERM ‘STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT’.—
In applying provisions of chapter 1 
in carrying out this section, the term ‘State 
highway department’ as used in such provisions 
shall mean the Governor of a State and, in the 
case of an Indian tribe program, the Secretary 
of the Interior. 

‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the following 
definitions apply: 

‘‘(1) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.—The term ‘alcoholic 
beverage’ has the meaning such term has 
under section 158(c) of this title. 

‘‘(2) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.—The term 
‘controlled substances’ has the meaning such 
term has under section 102(6) of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)). 

‘‘(3) MOTOR VEHICLE.—The term ‘motor vehicle’ 
means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical 
power and manufactured primarily for 
use on public streets, roads, and highways, but 
does not include a vehicle operated only on a 
rail line.’’. 

SEC. 206. STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY DATA IMPROVEMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 4 is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new section: 
‘‘§ 411. State highway safety data improvements 


‘‘(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Subject to the 
provisions of this section, the Secretary shall 
make grants to States that adopt and implement 
effective programs to— 

‘‘(1) improve the timeliness, accuracy, completeness, 
uniformity, and accessibility of the 
State’s data needed to identify priorities for national, 
State, and local highway and traffic 
safety programs; 

‘‘(2) evaluate the effectiveness of efforts to 
make such improvements; 

‘‘(3) link these State data systems, including 
traffic records, together and with other data 
systems within the State, such as systems that 
contain medical and economic data; and 

‘‘(4) improve State data systems’ compatibility 
with national data systems and those of other 
States and enhance the Secretary’s ability to observe 
and analyze national trends in crash occurrences, 
rates, outcomes, and causation. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1959 

Such grants may be used by recipient States 
only to implement such programs. 

‘‘(b) MODEL DATA ELEMENTS.—The Secretary, 
in consultation with States and other appropriate 
parties, shall determine the model data 
elements necessary to observe and analyze national 
trends in crash occurrences, rates, outcomes, 
and causation. A State’s multiyear highway 
safety data and traffic records plan described 
in subsection (e)(1) shall demonstrate 
how the model data elements will be incorporated 
into the State’s data systems for the 
State to be eligible for grants under this section. 

‘‘(c) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—No grant may 
be made to a State under this section in any fiscal 
year unless the State enters into such agreements 
with the Secretary as the Secretary may 
require to ensure that the State will maintain its 
aggregate expenditures from all other sources 
for highway safety data programs at or above 
the average level of such expenditures in its 2 
fiscal years preceding the date of the enactment 
of the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998. 

‘‘(d) MAXIMUM PERIOD OF ELIGIBILITY; FEDERAL 
SHARE FOR GRANTS.—No State may receive 
grants under this section in more than 6 fiscal 
years beginning after September 30, 1997. The 
Federal share payable for any grant under this 
section shall not exceed— 

‘‘(1) in the first and second fiscal years in 
which the State receives the grant, 75 percent of 
the cost of implementing and enforcing, as appropriate, 
in such fiscal year a program adopted 
by the State; 

‘‘(2) in the third and fourth fiscal years in 
which the State receives the grant, 50 percent of 
the cost of implementing and enforcing, as appropriate, 
in such fiscal year such program; and 

‘‘(3) in the fifth and sixth fiscal years in 
which the State receives the grant under this 
section, 25 percent of the cost of implementing 
and enforcing, as appropriate, in such fiscal 
year such program. 

‘‘(e) FIRST-YEAR GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—A State shall be eligible for 
a first-year grant under this section in a fiscal 
year if the State either— 

‘‘(A) demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the 
Secretary, that the State has— 

‘‘(i) established a highway safety data and 
traffic records coordinating committee with a 
multidisciplinary membership, including the administrators, 
collectors, and users of such data 
(including the public health, injury control, and 
motor carrier communities); 

‘‘(ii) completed, within the preceding 5 years, 
a highway safety data and traffic records assessment 
or an audit of the State’s highway 
safety data and traffic records system; and 

‘‘(iii) initiated the development of a multiyear 
highway safety data and traffic records strategic 
plan, to be approved by the State’s highway 
safety data and traffic records coordinating 
committee, that identifies and prioritizes the 
State’s highway safety data and traffic records 
needs and goals, and that identifies performance-
based measures by which progress toward 
those goals will be determined; or 

‘‘(B) provides, to the satisfaction of the Secretary— 


‘‘(i) a certification that the State has met the 
requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph 
(A); 

‘‘(ii) a multiyear plan that— 

‘‘(I) identifies and prioritizes the State’s highway 
safety data and traffic records needs and 
goals; 

‘‘(II) specifies how the State’s incentive funds 
for the fiscal year will be used to address those 
needs and goals; and 

‘‘(III) identifies performance-based measures 
by which progress toward those goals will be determined; 
and 

‘‘(iii) a certification that the State’s highway 
safety data and traffic records coordinating 
committee continues to operate and supports the 
multiyear plan described in clause (ii). 

‘‘(2) GRANT AMOUNTS.—The amount of a first-
year grant made to a State for a fiscal year 
under this subsection shall equal— 

‘‘(A) if the State is eligible for the grant under 
paragraph (1)(A), $125,000, subject to the availability 
of appropriations; and 

‘‘(B) if the State is eligible for the grant under 
paragraph (1)(B), an amount determined by 
multiplying— 

‘‘(i) the amount appropriated to carry out this 
section for such fiscal year; by 

‘‘(ii) the ratio that the funds apportioned to 
the State under section 402 for fiscal year 1997 
bears to the funds apportioned to all States 
under section 402 for fiscal year 1997; 
except that no State shall receive less than 
$225,000, subject to the availability of appropriations. 


‘‘(f) SUCCEEDING YEAR GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—A State shall be eligible for 
a grant under this subsection in any fiscal year 
succeeding the first fiscal year in which the 
State receives a grant under subsection (e) if the 
State, to the satisfaction of the Secretary— 

‘‘(A) submits or updates a multiyear plan described 
in subsection (e)(1)(A)(iii); 

‘‘(B) certifies that the highway safety data 
and traffic records coordinating committee of 
the State continues to operate and supports the 
multiyear plan; and 

‘‘(C) reports annually on the State’s progress 
in implementing the multiyear plan. 

‘‘(2) GRANT AMOUNTS.—The amount of a succeeding 
year grant made to the State for a fiscal 
year under this paragraph shall equal the 
amount determined by multiplying— 

‘‘(A) the amount appropriated to carry out 
this section for such fiscal year; by 

‘‘(B) the ratio that the funds apportioned to 
the State under section 402 for fiscal year 1997 
bears to the funds apportioned to all States 
under section 402 for fiscal year 1997; 

except that no State shall receive less than 
$225,000, subject to the availability of appropriations. 


‘‘(g) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Funds authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section 
shall be subject to a deduction not to exceed 
5 percent for the necessary costs of administering 
the provisions of this section. 

‘‘(h) APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 1.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this subsection, all provisions of chapter 
1 of this title that are applicable to National 
Highway System funds, other than provisions 
relating to the apportionment formula and provisions 
limiting the expenditure of such funds to 
Federal-aid highways, shall apply to the funds 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
section. 

‘‘(2) INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS.—If the Secretary 
determines that a provision of chapter 1 
of this title is inconsistent with this section, 
such provision shall not apply to funds authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section. 

‘‘(3) CREDIT FOR STATE AND LOCAL EXPENDITURES.—
The aggregate of all expenditures made 
during any fiscal year by a State and its political 
subdivisions (exclusive of Federal funds) for 
carrying out the State highway safety program 
under section 402 (other than planning and administration) 
shall be available for the purpose 
of crediting such State during such fiscal year 
for the non-Federal share of the cost of any 
project under this section (other than one for 
planning or administration) without regard to 
whether such expenditures were actually made 
in connection with such project. 

‘‘(4) INCREASED FEDERAL SHARE FOR CERTAIN 
INDIAN TRIBE PROGRAMS.—In the case of a highway 
safety data improvements program carried 
out by an Indian tribe, if the Secretary is satisfied 
that an Indian tribe does not have sufficient 
funds available to meet the non-Federal 
share of the cost of such program, the Secretary 
may increase the Federal share of the cost 
thereof payable under this title to the extent 
necessary. 

‘‘(5) TREATMENT OF TERM ‘STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT’.—
In applying provisions of chapter 1 
in carrying out this section, the term ‘State 
highway department’ as used in such provisions 
shall mean the Governor of a State and, in the 
case of an Indian tribe program, the Secretary 
of the Interior.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for such chapter is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘411. State highway safety data improvements.’’. 


SEC. 207. NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER. 

(a) TRANSFER OF SELECTED FUNCTIONS TO 
NON-FEDERAL MANAGEMENT.—Section 30302 of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) TRANSFER OF SELECTED FUNCTIONS TO 
NON-FEDERAL MANAGEMENT.— 

‘‘(1) AGREEMENT.—The Secretary may enter 
into an agreement with an organization that 
represents the interests of the States to manage, 
administer, and operate the National Driver 
Register’s computer timeshare and user assistance 
functions. If the Secretary decides to enter 
into such an agreement, the Secretary shall ensure 
that the management of these functions is 
compatible with this chapter and the regulations 
issued to implement this chapter. 

‘‘(2) REQUIRED DEMONSTRATION.—Any transfer 
of the National Driver Register’s computer 
timeshare and user assistance functions to an 
organization that represents the interests of the 
States shall begin only after a determination is 
made by the Secretary that all States are participating 
in the National Driver Register’s 
‘Problem Driver Pointer System’ (the system 
used by the Register to effect the exchange of 
motor vehicle driving records), and that the system 
is functioning properly. 

‘‘(3) TRANSITION PERIOD.—Any agreement entered 
into under this subsection shall include a 
provision for a transition period sufficient to 
allow the States to make the budgetary and legislative 
changes the States may need to pay fees 
charged by the organization representing their 
interests for their use of the National Driver 
Register’s computer timeshare and user assistance 
functions. During this transition period, 
the Secretary shall continue to fund these transferred 
functions. 

‘‘(4) FEES.—The total of the fees charged by 
the organization representing the interests of 
the States in any fiscal year for the use of the 
National Driver Register’s computer timeshare 
and user assistance functions shall not exceed 
the total cost to the organization of performing 
these functions in such fiscal year. 

‘‘(5) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—
Nothing in this subsection may be construed 
to diminish, limit, or otherwise affect the 
authority of the Secretary to carry out this 
chapter.’’. 

(b) ACCESS TO REGISTER INFORMATION.— 
(1) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
30305(b) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(A) in paragraph (2) by inserting before the 
period at the end the following: ‘‘, unless the information 
is about a revocation or suspension 
still in effect on the date of the request’’; 
(B) in paragraph (8), as redesignated by section 
207(b) of the Coast Guard Authorization 
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–324, 110 Stat. 
3908)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘paragraph (2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (a) of this section’’; and 
(ii) by moving the text of such paragraph 2 
ems to the left; and 
(C) by redesignating paragraph (8), as redesignated 
by section 502(b)(1) of the Federal Aviation 
Reauthorization Act of 1996 (Public Law 
104–264, 110 Stat. 3262), as paragraph (9). 
(2) FEDERAL AGENCY ACCESS PROVISION.—Section 
30305(b) of title 49, United States Code, is 
further amended— 
(A) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
(10) and inserting such paragraph after 
paragraph (9); 

H1960 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(B) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following: 
‘‘(6) The head of a Federal department or 
agency that issues motor vehicle operator’s licenses 
may request the chief driver licensing official 
of a State to obtain information under 
subsection (a) of this section about an individual 
applicant for a motor vehicle operator’s license 
from such department or agency. The department 
or agency may receive the information, 
provided it transmits to the Secretary a report 
regarding any individual who is denied a 
motor vehicle operator’s license by that department 
or agency for cause; whose motor vehicle 
operator’s license is revoked, suspended, or canceled 
by that department or agency for cause; or 
about whom the department or agency has been 
notified of a conviction of any of the motor vehicle-
related offenses or comparable offenses 
listed in section 30304(a)(3) and over whom the 
department or agency has licensing authority. 
The report shall contain the information specified 
in section 30304(b).’’; and 

(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(11) The head of a Federal department or 
agency authorized to receive information regarding 
an individual from the Register under 
this section may request and receive such information 
from the Secretary.’’. 

SEC. 208. SAFETY STUDIES. 

(a) BLOWOUT RESISTANT TIRES STUDY.—The 
Secretary shall conduct a study on the benefit 
to public safety of the use of blowout resistant 
tires on commercial motor vehicles and the potential 
to decrease the incidence of accidents 
and fatalities from accidents occurring as a result 
of blown out tires. 
(b) SCHOOL BUS OCCUPANT SAFETY STUDY.— 
The Secretary shall conduct a study to assess 
occupant safety in school buses. The study shall 
examine available information about occupant 
safety and analyze options for improving occupant 
safety. 
(c) REPORTS.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to Congress a report on the results 
of each study conducted under this section. 
(d) LIMITATION ON FUNDING.—The Secretary 
may not expend more than $200,000, from funds 
made available by section 210, for conducting 
each study under this section. 
SEC. 209. EFFECTIVENESS OF LAWS ESTABLISHING 
MAXIMUM BLOOD ALCOHOL 
CONCENTRATIONS. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study to evaluate the effectiveness of 
State laws that— 
(1) deem any individual with a blood alcohol 
concentration of 0.08 percent or greater while 
operating a motor vehicle to be driving while intoxicated; 
and 
(2) deem any individual under the age of 21 
with a blood alcohol concentration of 0.02 percent 
or greater while operating a motor vehicle 
to be driving while intoxicated; 
in reducing the number and severity of alcohol-
involved crashes. 

(b) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall transmit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Public 
Works and the Environment of the Senate a report 
containing the results of the study conducted 
under this section. 
SEC. 210. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The following sums are authorized 
to be appropriated out of the Highway 
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account): 
(1) NHTSA HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.—For 
carrying out section 402 of title 23, United States 
Code, by the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration $128,200,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
$150,700,000 for fiscal year 1999, and $195,700,000 
for each of fiscal years 2000 through 2003. 
(2) FHWA HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.—For 
carrying out section 402 of title 23, United States 
Code, by the Federal Highway Administration 
$12,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, $20,000,000 for 
fiscal year 1999, and $25,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2000 through 2003. 
(3) NHTSA HIGHWAY SAFETY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT.—For carrying out section 403 of 
such title by the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration $55,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998 through 2003. 
(4) FHWA HIGHWAY SAFETY RESEARCH AND DE-
VELOPMENT.—For carrying out section 403 of 
such title by the Federal Highway Administration 
$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2003. 
(5) OCCUPANT PROTECTION INCENTIVE 
GRANTS.—For carrying out section 405 of such 
title $9,000,000 for fiscal year 1998 and 
$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003. 
(6) ALCOHOL-IMPAIRED DRIVING COUNTERMEASURES 
INCENTIVE GRANT PROGRAM.—For carrying 
out section 410 of such title $35,000,000 for 
fiscal year 1998 and $45,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1999 through 2003. 
(7) STATE HIGHWAY SAFETY DATA GRANTS.—For 
carrying out section 411 of such title $2,500,000 
for fiscal year 1998 and $12,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1999 through 2003. 
(8) NATIONAL DRIVER REGISTER.—For carrying 
out chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code, 
by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
$2,300,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2003. 
(b) TRANSFERS.—In each fiscal year, the Secretary 
may transfer any amounts remaining 
available under paragraph (5), (6), or (7) of subsection 
(a) to the amounts made available under 
any other of such paragraphs in order to ensure, 
to the maximum extent possible, that each 
State receives the maximum incentive funding 
for which the State is eligible under sections 405, 
406, and 410 of title 23, United States Code. 
SEC. 211. TRANSPORTATION INJURY RESEARCH. 

(a) CENTER FOR TRANSPORTATION INJURY RESEARCH.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to establish and maintain a center for 
transportation injury research at the Calspan 
University of Buffalo Research Center affiliated 
with the State University of New York at Buffalo. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $2,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this subsection. 
(b) HEAD AND SPINAL CORD INJURY RESEARCH.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to the Neuroscience Center for Excellence 
at Louisiana State University and the Virginia 
Transportation Research Institute at George 
Washington University for research and technology 
development for preventing and minimizing 
head and spinal cord injuries relating to 
automobile accidents. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of amounts made available for 
each of fiscal years 1999 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(F), $500,000 per fiscal year shall be 
available to carry out this subsection. 
TITLE III—FEDERAL TRANSIT 
ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS 
SEC. 301. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 49, UNITED 
STATES CODE. 

Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
whenever in this title an amendment or repeal is 
expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision of law, the 
reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of title 49, United 
States Code. 

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS. 

Section 5302 is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘§ 5302. Definitions 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In this chapter, the following 
definitions apply: 

‘‘(1) CAPITAL PROJECT.—The term ‘capital 
project’ means a project for— 

‘‘(A) acquiring, constructing, supervising, or 
inspecting equipment or a facility for use in 
mass transportation, expenses incidental to the 
acquisition or construction (including designing, 
engineering, location surveying, mapping, and 
acquiring rights of way), payments for the capital 
portions of rail trackage rights agreements, 
transit-related intelligent transportation systems, 
relocation assistance, acquiring replacement 
housing sites, and acquiring, constructing, 
relocating, and rehabilitating replacement housing; 


‘‘(B) rehabilitating a bus; 

‘‘(C) remanufacturing a bus; 

‘‘(D) overhauling rail rolling stock; 

‘‘(E) preventive maintenance; 

‘‘(F) leasing equipment or a facility for use in 
mass transportation subject to regulations the 
Secretary prescribes limiting the leasing arrangements 
to those that are more cost-effective 
than acquisition or construction; or 

‘‘(G) a mass transportation improvement that 
enhances economic development or incorporates 
private investment (including commercial and 
residential development and pedestrian and bicycle 
access to a mass transportation facility) 
because the improvement— 

‘‘(i) enhances the effectiveness of a mass 
transportation project and is related physically 
or functionally to that mass transportation 
project or establishes new or enhanced coordination 
between mass transportation and other 
transportation; and 

‘‘(ii) provides a fair share of revenue for mass 
transportation that will be used for mass transportation. 


‘‘(2) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF A STATE.— 
The term ‘chief executive officer of a State’ includes 
the designee of the chief executive officer. 

‘‘(3) EMERGENCY REGULATION.—The term 
‘emergency regulation’ means a regulation— 

‘‘(A) that is effective temporarily before the 
expiration of the otherwise specified periods of 
time for public notice and comment under section 
5334(b) of this title; and 

‘‘(B) prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation 
as the result of a finding that a delay in 
the effective date of the regulation— 

‘‘(i) would injure seriously an important public 
interest; 

‘‘(ii) would frustrate substantially legislative 
policy and intent; or 

‘‘(iii) would damage seriously a person or 
class without serving an important public interest. 


‘‘(4) FIXED GUIDEWAY.—The term ‘fixed guide-
way’ means a mass transportation facility— 

‘‘(A) using and occupying a separate right of 
way or rail for the exclusive use of mass transportation 
and other high occupancy vehicles; or 

‘‘(B) using a fixed catenary system and a 
right of way usable by other forms of transportation. 


‘‘(5) HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUAL.—The term 
‘handicapped individual’ means an individual 
who, because of illness, injury, age, congenital 
malfunction, or other incapacity or temporary 
or permanent disability (including an individual 
who is a wheelchair user or has semiambulatory 
capability), cannot use effectively, without special 
facilities, planning, or design, mass transportation 
service or a mass transportation facility. 


‘‘(6) LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY.—The 
term ‘local governmental authority’ includes— 

‘‘(A) a political subdivision of a State; 

‘‘(B) an authority of at least one State or po


litical subdivision of a State; 

‘‘(C) an Indian tribe; and 

‘‘(D) a public corporation, board, or commis


sion established under the laws of a State. 

‘‘(7) MASS TRANSPORTATION.—The term ‘mass 
transportation’ means transportation by a conveyance 
that provides regular and continuing 
general or special transportation to the public, 
but does not include school bus, charter, or 
sightseeing transportation. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1961 

‘‘(8) NET PROJECT COST.—The term ‘net project 
cost’ means the part of a project that reasonably 
cannot be financed from revenues. 

‘‘(9) NEW BUS MODEL.—The term ‘new bus 
model’ means a bus model (including a model 
using alternative fuel)— 

‘‘(A) that has not been used in mass transportation 
in the United States before the date of 
production of the model; or 

‘‘(B) used in mass transportation in the 
United States but being produced with a major 
change in configuration or components. 

‘‘(10) PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE.—The term 
‘preventive maintenance’ means a major activity 
intended to improve or upgrade a transit vehicle 
or facility or repair or replace a damaged, malfunctioning, 
overaged, or outmoded transit vehicle 
or facility system, subsystem, element, or 
component. Such term does not include any activity 
of a routine or servicing nature, such as 
checking and replenishing fluid levels, adjusting 
settings on otherwise properly operating components, 
washing and cleaning a transit vehicle or 
facility, changing tires and wheels, or repairing 
damage to a vehicle or facility caused by an accident. 


‘‘(11) PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.—The term 
‘public transportation’ means mass transportation. 


‘‘(12) REGULATION.—The term ‘regulation’ 
means any part of a statement of general or particular 
applicability of the Secretary of Transportation 
designed to carry out, interpret, or 
prescribe law or policy in carrying out this 
chapter. 

‘‘(13) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means a State 
of the United States, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, 
Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands. 

‘‘(14) TRANSIT.—The term ‘transit’ means mass 
transportation. 

‘‘(15) TRANSIT ENHANCEMENT.—The term ‘transit 
enhancement’ means with respect to any 
project or an area to be served by the project, 
historic preservation, rehabilitation, and operation 
of historic mass transportation buildings, 
structures, and facilities (including historic bus 
and railroad facilities and canals); projects that 
enhance transit safety and security; landscaping 
and other scenic beautification and art 
in and around mass transportation stations, facilities, 
bus shelters, bridges, and buses; bicycle 
and pedestrian access to mass transportation, 
including bicycle storage facilities and installing 
equipment for transporting bicycles on mass 
transportation vehicles; projects that enhance 
access for the disabled to mass transportation; 
and archaeological planning and research related 
to mass transportation projects. 

‘‘(16) URBAN AREA.—The term ‘urban area’ 
means an area that includes a municipality or 
other built-up place that the Secretary of Transportation, 
after considering local patterns and 
trends of urban growth, decides is appropriate 
for a local mass transportation system to serve 
individuals in the locality. 

‘‘(17) URBANIZED AREA.—The term ‘urbanized 
area’ means an area— 

‘‘(A) encompassing at least an urbanized area 
within a State that the Secretary of Commerce 
designates; and 

‘‘(B) designated as an urbanized area within 
boundaries fixed by State and local officials and 
approved by the Secretary of Transportation. 

‘‘(b) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY ‘HANDICAPPED 
INDIVIDUAL’.—The Secretary of Transportation 
by regulation may modify the definition of subsection 
(a)(5) as it applies to section 
5307(d)(1)(D) of this title.’’. 

SEC. 303. METROPOLITAN PLANNING. 

(a) GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF PLANNING 
PROCESS.—Section 5303(b) is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(b) GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF PLANNING 
PROCESS.— 
‘‘(1) CONSIDERATION.—To the extent that the 
metropolitan planning organization determines 

appropriate, the metropolitan transportation 
planning process may include consideration of 
goals and objectives that— 

‘‘(A) support the economic vitality of the metropolitan 
area, especially by enabling global 
competitiveness, productivity, and efficiency; 

‘‘(B) increase the safety and security of the 
transportation system for all users; 

‘‘(C) increase the accessibility and mobility for 
people and freight; 

‘‘(D) protect and enhance the environment, 
conserve energy, and enhance quality of life; 

‘‘(E) enhance the integration and connectivity 
of the transportation system, across and between 
modes, for people and freight; 

‘‘(F) promote efficient system utilization and 
operation; and 

‘‘(G) preserve and optimize the existing transportation 
system. 
This paragraph shall apply to the development 
of long-range transportation plans and transportation 
improvement programs. 

‘‘(2) CONVERSION TO GOALS AND OBJECTIVES.— 
The metropolitan planning organization shall 
cooperatively determine with the State and mass 
transportation operators how the considerations 
listed in paragraph (1) are translated into metropolitan 
goals and objectives and how they are 
factored into decisionmaking.’’. 

(b) COORDINATION.—Section 5303(e) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) PROJECT LOCATED IN MULTIPLE MPOS.—If 
a project is located within the boundaries of 
more than one metropolitan planning organization, 
the metropolitan planning organizations 
shall coordinate plans regarding the project.’’. 

(c) LONG-RANGE TRANSPORTATION PLAN.—Section 
5303(f) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1) by inserting ‘‘transportation’’ 
after ‘‘long-range’’; 
(2) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘at least 
shall—’’ and inserting ‘‘shall contain, at a minimum, 
the following:’’; 
(3) in paragraph (1)(A)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘identify’’ and inserting ‘‘An 
identification of’’; and 
(B) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
inserting a period; 
(4) by striking paragraph (1)(B) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(B) A financial plan that demonstrates how 
the adopted transportation plan can be implemented, 
indicates resources from public and private 
sources that are reasonably expected to be 
made available to carry out the plan and recommends 
any additional financing strategies for 
needed projects and programs. The financial 
plan may include, for illustrative purposes, additional 
projects that would be included in the 
adopted transportation plan if reasonable additional 
resources beyond those identified in the 
financial plan were available. For the purpose 
of developing the transportation plan, the metropolitan 
planning organization and State shall 
cooperatively develop estimates of funds that 
will be available to support plan implementation.’’; 


(5) in paragraph (1)(C)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘assess’’ and inserting ‘‘An assessment 
of’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a period; 
(6) in paragraph (1)(D) by striking ‘‘indicate’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Indicate’’; 
(7) in paragraph (4) by inserting after ‘‘employees,’’ 
the following: ‘‘freight shippers and 
providers of freight transportation services,’’; 
and 
(8) in paragraph (5) by inserting ‘‘transportation’’ 
before ‘‘plan’’. 
SEC. 304. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. 


Section 5304 is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a) by striking ‘‘2 years’’ and 
inserting ‘‘3 years’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b)(2)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(B); 
(B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
(C) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) may include, for illustrative purposes, 
additional projects that would be included in 
the adopted transportation plan if reasonable 
additional resources beyond those identified in 
the financial plan were available.’’. 

SEC. 305. TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT 
AREAS. 

Section 5305(d)(1) is amended by striking ‘‘of 
the National Highway System’’ each place it appears 
and inserting the following: ‘‘under the 
National Highway System and high risk road 
safety programs,’’. 

SEC. 306. URBANIZED AREA FORMULA GRANTS. 

(a) SECTION HEADING.— 
(1) AMENDMENT TO SECTION.—Section 5307 is 
amended by striking the section heading and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘§ 5307. Urbanized area formula grants’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The item relating 
to section 5307 in the table of sections for 
chapter 53 is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘5307. Urbanized area formula grants.’’. 

(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 5307(a) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘In this section—’’ and inserting 
‘‘In this section, the following definitions 
apply:’’; 
(2) by inserting ‘‘ASSOCIATED CAPITAL MAINTENANCE 
ITEMS.—The term’’ after ‘‘(1)’’; and 
(3) by inserting ‘‘DESIGNATED RECIPIENT.—The 
term’’ after ‘‘(2)’’. 
(c) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Section 5307(b) is 
amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘, improvement, and operating 
costs’’ and inserting ‘‘and improvement costs’’; 
and 
(B) by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ‘‘In an urbanized area with a population 
of less than 200,000, the Secretary may 
also make grants under this section to finance 
the operating cost of equipment and facilities for 
use in mass transportation.’’; 
(2) by striking paragraphs (3) and (5); and 
(3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
(3). 
(d) ADVANCE CONSTRUCTION.—Section 
5307(g)(3) is amended by striking ‘‘the amount 
by which’’ and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘the most favorable 
financing terms reasonably available for 
the project at the time of borrowing. The applicant 
shall certify, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Secretary, that the applicant has shown 
reasonable diligence in seeking the most favorable 
financing terms.’’. 
(e) COORDINATION OF REVIEWS.—Section 
5307(i)(2) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ‘‘To the extent practicable, the Secretary 
shall coordinate such reviews with any 
related State or local reviews.’’. 
(f) TRANSIT ENHANCEMENT ACTIVITIES.—Section 
5307(k) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(k) TRANSIT ENHANCEMENT ACTIVITIES.—2 
percent of the funds apportioned to urbanized 
areas of at least 200,000 population under section 
5336 for a fiscal year shall only be available 
for transit enhancement activities.’’. 

(g) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
5307(n) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(1)’’ the first place it appears 
and all that follows through ‘‘(2)’’; and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘5319,’’ after ‘‘5318,’’. 
SEC. 307. MASS TRANSIT ACCOUNT BLOCK 
GRANTS. 

Section 5308, and the item relating to section 
5308 in the table of sections for chapter 53, are 
repealed. 

SEC. 308. CAPITAL PROGRAM GRANTS AND 
LOANS. 

(a) SECTION HEADING.—Section 5309 is amended 
in the section heading by striking ‘‘Discretionary’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Capital program’’. 

H1962 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The item relating 
to section 5309 in the table of sections for 
chapter 53 is amended by striking ‘‘Discretionary’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Capital program’’. 
(c) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Section 5309(a) is 
amended— 
(1) by striking paragraph (1)(E) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(E) capital projects to modernize existing 
fixed guideway systems;’’; 

(2) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(1)(F); 
(3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(1)(G) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (1)(G) the following: 
‘‘(H) capital projects to replace, rehabilitate, 
and purchase buses and related equipment and 
to construct bus-related facilities.’’. 

(d) CONSIDERATION OF DECREASED COMMUTER 
RAIL TRANSPORTATION.—Section 5309(c) is repealed. 
(e) CRITERIA FOR GRANTS AND LOANS FOR 
FIXED GUIDEWAY SYSTEMS.—Section 5309(e) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(e) CRITERIA FOR GRANTS AND LOANS FOR 
FIXED GUIDEWAY SYSTEMS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Transportation 
may approve a grant or loan under this 
section for a capital project for a new fixed 
guideway system or extension of an existing 
fixed guideway system only if the Secretary determines 
that the proposed project is— 

‘‘(A) based on the results of an alternatives 
analysis and preliminary engineering; 

‘‘(B) justified based on a comprehensive review 
of its mobility improvements, environmental 
benefits, cost effectiveness, and operating 
efficiencies; and 

‘‘(C) supported by an acceptable degree of 
local financial commitment, including evidence 
of stable and dependable financing sources to 
construct, maintain, and operate the system or 
extension. 

‘‘(2) ALTERNATIVES ANALYSIS AND PRELIMINARY 
ENGINEERING.—In evaluating a project 
under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall 
analyze and consider the results of the alternatives 
analysis and preliminary engineering 
for the project. 

‘‘(3) PROJECT JUSTIFICATION.—In evaluating a 
project under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary 
shall— 

‘‘(A) consider the direct and indirect costs of 
relevant alternatives; 

‘‘(B) consider factors such as congestion relief, 
improved mobility, air pollution, noise pollution, 
energy consumption, and all associated 
ancillary and mitigation costs necessary to 
carry out each alternative analyzed; 

‘‘(C) identify and consider existing mass 
transportation supportive land use policies and 
future land use patterns and the costs of urban 
sprawl; 

‘‘(D) consider the degree to which the project 
increases the mobility of the mass transportation 
dependent population or promotes economic development; 


‘‘(E) consider population density, current 
transit ridership in the corridor, and cost per 
new rider; 

‘‘(F) consider the technical capability of the 
grant recipient to construct the project; 

‘‘(G) adjust the project justification to reflect 
differences in local land, construction, and operating 
costs; and 

‘‘(H) consider other factors the Secretary determines 
appropriate to carry out this chapter. 

‘‘(4) LOCAL FINANCIAL COMMITMENT.— 

‘‘(A) EVALUATION OF PROJECT.—In evaluating 
a project under paragraph (1)(C), the Secretary 
shall require that— 

‘‘(i) the proposed project plan provides for the 
availability of contingency amounts the Secretary 
determines to be reasonable to cover unanticipated 
cost increases; 

‘‘(ii) each proposed local source of capital and 
operating financing is stable, reliable, and 

available within the proposed project timetable; 
and 

‘‘(iii) local resources are available to operate 
the overall proposed mass transportation system 
(including essential feeder bus and other services 
necessary to achieve the projected ridership 
levels) without requiring a reduction in existing 
mass transportation services to operate the proposed 
project. 

‘‘(B) STABILITY, RELIABILITY, AND AVAILABILITY 
OF LOCAL FINANCING.—In assessing the stability, 
reliability, and availability of proposed 
sources of local financing for the project, the 
Secretary shall consider— 

‘‘(i) existing grant commitments; 

‘‘(ii) the degree to which financing sources are 
dedicated to the purposes proposed; 

‘‘(iii) any debt obligation that exists or is proposed 
by the recipient for the proposed project 
or other mass transportation purpose; and 

‘‘(iv) the extent to which the project has a 
local financial commitment that exceeds the required 
non-Federal share of the cost of the 
project. 

‘‘(5) REGULATIONS.—No later than 120 days 
after the date of the enactment of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998, the Secretary shall issue regulations 
on how the Secretary will evaluate and rate the 
projects based on the results of alternatives 
analysis, project justification, and the degree of 
local financial commitment as required under 
this subsection. 

‘‘(6) PROJECT EVALUATION AND RATING.—A 
proposed project may advance from alternatives 
analysis to preliminary engineering, and may 
advance from preliminary engineering to final 
design and construction, only if the Secretary 
finds that the project meets the requirements of 
this section and there is a reasonable likelihood 
that the project will continue to meet such requirements. 
In making such findings, the Secretary 
shall evaluate and rate the project as either 
highly recommended, recommended, or not 
recommended based on the results of alternatives 
analysis, the project justification criteria, 
and the degree of local financial commitment 
as required under this subsection. In rating 
the projects, the Secretary shall provide, in 
addition to the overall project rating, individual 
ratings for each criteria established under the 
regulations issued under paragraph (5). 

‘‘(7) FULL FUNDING GRANT AGREEMENT.—A 
project financed under this subsection shall be 
carried out through a full funding grant agreement. 
The Secretary shall enter into a full funding 
grant agreement based on the evaluations 
and ratings required under this subsection. The 
Secretary shall not enter into a full funding 
grant agreement for a project unless that project 
is authorized for final design and construction. 

‘‘(8) LIMITATIONS ON APPLICABILITY.— 

‘‘(A) PROJECTS WITH A SECTION 5309 FEDERAL 
SHARE OF LESS THAN $25,000,000.—A project for a 
new fixed guideway system or extension of an 
existing fixed guideway system is not subject to 
the requirements of this subsection, and the simultaneous 
evaluation of similar projects in at 
least 2 corridors in a metropolitan area may not 
be limited, if the assistance provided under this 
section with respect to the project is less than 
$25,000,000. 

‘‘(B) PROJECTS IN NONATTAINMENT AREAS.— 
The simultaneous evaluation of projects in at 
least 2 corridors in a metropolitan area may not 
be limited and the Secretary shall make decisions 
under this subsection with expedited procedures 
that will promote carrying out an approved 
State Implementation Plan in a timely 
way if a project is— 

‘‘(i) located in a nonattainment area; 

‘‘(ii) a transportation control measure (as defined 
by the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
seq.)); and 

‘‘(iii) required to carry out the State Implementation 
Plan. 

‘‘(C) PROJECTS FINANCED WITH HIGHWAY 
FUNDS.—This subsection does not apply to a 

project financed completely with amounts made 
available from the Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account). 

‘‘(D) PREVIOUSLY ISSUED LETTER OF INTENT OR 
FULL FUNDING GRANT AGREEMENT.—This subsection 
does not apply to projects for which the 
Secretary has issued a letter of intent or entered 
into a full funding grant agreement before the 
date of the enactment of this subparagraph.’’. 

(f) LETTERS OF INTENT AND FULL FUNDING 
GRANT AGREEMENTS.—Section 5309(g) is amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading by striking ‘‘FINANCING’’ 
and inserting ‘‘FUNDING’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘full financing’’ each place it 
appears and inserting ‘‘full funding’’; and 
(3) in paragraph (1)(B)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘30 days’’ and inserting ‘‘60 
days’’; 
(B) by inserting before the first comma ‘‘or entering 
into a full funding grant agreement’’; 
and 
(C) by striking ‘‘issuance of the letter.’’ and 
inserting ‘‘letter or agreement. The Secretary 
shall include with the notification a copy of the 
proposed letter or agreement as well as the evaluations 
and ratings for the project.’’. 
(g) ALLOCATING AMOUNTS.—Section 5309(m) is 
amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(m) ALLOCATING AMOUNTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made available 
by section 5338(b) for grants and loans 
under this section for each of fiscal years 1998 
through 2003— 

‘‘(A) 40 percent shall be available for fixed 
guideway modernization; 

‘‘(B) 40 percent shall be available for capital 
projects for new fixed guideway systems and extensions 
to existing fixed guideway systems; and 

‘‘(C) 20 percent shall be available to replace, 
rehabilitate, and buy buses and related equipment 
and to construct bus-related facilities. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON AMOUNTS AVAILABLE FOR 
ACTIVITIES OTHER THAN FINAL DESIGN AND CON-
STRUCTION.—Not more than 8 percent of the 
amounts made available in each fiscal year by 
paragraph (1)(B) shall be available for activities 
other than final design and construction. 

‘‘(3) BUS AND BUS FACILITY GRANTS.— 

‘‘(A) CONSIDERATION.—In making grants 
under paragraph (1)(C), the Secretary shall consider 
the age of buses, bus fleets, related equipment, 
and bus-related facilities. 

‘‘(B) FUNDING FOR BUS TESTING FACILITY.—Of 
the amounts made available by paragraph 
(1)(C), $3,000,000 shall be available in each of 
fiscal years 1998 through 2003 to carry out section 
5318. 

‘‘(C) FUNDING FOR BUS TECHNOLOGY PILOT 
PROGRAM.—Of the funds made available by 
paragraph (1)(C), 10 percent shall be available 
in each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 to carry 
out the bus technology pilot program under subsection 
(o). 

‘‘(D) OTHER THAN URBANIZED AREAS.—Of 
amounts made available by paragraph (1)(C), 
not less than 5.5 percent shall be available in 
each fiscal year for other than urbanized areas. 

‘‘(4) ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE FOR MULTIPLE 
PROJECTS.—A person applying for, or receiving, 
assistance for a project described in 
clause (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) may receive 
assistance for a project described in another 
of those clauses.’’. 

(h) ADVANCE CONSTRUCTION.—Section 
5309(n)(2) is amended by striking ‘‘in a way’’ 
and inserting ‘‘in a manner’’. 
(i) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) RELOCATION OF SUBSECTION.—Section 5309 
is amended— 
(A) by striking subsection (f); and 
(B) by redesignating subsections (g) through 
(o) as subsections (f) through (n), respectively. 
(2) CROSS REFERENCES.—Chapter 53 is amended— 
(A) in section 5319 by striking ‘‘5309(h)’’ and 
inserting ‘‘5309(g)’’; 
(B) in section 5328(a)(2) by striking 
‘‘5309(e)(1)–(6) of this title’’ and inserting 
‘‘5309(e)’’; and 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1963 

(C) in section 5328(a)(4) by striking 
‘‘5309(m)(2) of this title’’ and inserting 
‘‘5309(o)(1)’’. 
(3) REFERENCES TO FULL FUNDING GRANT 
AGREEMENTS.—Sections 5320 and 5328(a)(4) are 
each amended by striking ‘‘full financing’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘full funding’’. 
The subsection heading for section 5320(e) is 
amended by striking ‘‘FINANCING’’ and inserting 
‘‘FUNDING’’. 
(j) BUS TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAM.—Section 
5309 is further amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(o) BUS TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
a pilot program for the testing and deployment 
of new bus technology, including 
clean fuel and alternative fuel technology. 

‘‘(2) PROJECTS.—Under the pilot program, the 
Secretary shall carry out projects for testing and 
deployment of new bus technology, including 
clean fuel and alternative fuel technology. The 
Secretary shall select projects for funding under 
the pilot program that will employ a variety of 
technologies and will be performed in a variety 
of geographic areas of the country with populations 
under 50,000, between 50,000 and 200,000, 
and over 200,000. 

‘‘(3) REPORT.—Not later than April 30, 2000, 
the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
a report on the results of the pilot program, including 
a description of the projects carried out, 
the amounts obligated, and the status of the test 
and deployment activities undertaken.’’. 

(k) REPORTS.—Section 5309 is further amended 
by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(p) REPORTS.— 

‘‘(1) FUNDING LEVELS AND ALLOCATIONS OF 
FUNDS FOR FIXED GUIDEWAY SYSTEMS.— 

‘‘(A) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than the 
first Monday in February of each year, the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report 
that includes a proposal on the allocation 
of amounts to be made available to finance 
grants and loans for capital projects for new 
fixed guideway systems and extensions to existing 
fixed guideway systems among applicants 
for those amounts. 

‘‘(B) RECOMMENDATIONS ON FUNDING.—The 
annual report under this paragraph shall include 
evaluations and ratings, as required 
under subsection (e), for each project that is authorized 
or has received funds under this section 
since the date of the enactment of this Act or 
October 1 of the preceding fiscal year, whichever 
date is earlier. The report shall also include 
recommendations of projects for funding based 
on the evaluations and ratings and on existing 
commitments and anticipated funding levels for 
the next 3 fiscal years and for the next 10 fiscal 
years based on information currently available 
to the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT ON NEW STARTS.— 
The Secretary shall submit a report to Congress 
on the 31st day of August of each year that describes 
the Secretary’s evaluation and rating of 
each project that has completed alternatives 
analysis or preliminary engineering since the 
date of the last report. The report shall include 
all relevant information that supports the evaluation 
and rating of each project, including a 
summary of each project’s financial plan. 

‘‘(3) ANNUAL GAO REVIEW.—the General Accounting 
Office shall— 

‘‘(A) conduct an annual review of— 

‘‘(i) the processes and procedures for evaluat


ing and rating projects and recommending 
projects; and 
‘‘(ii) the Secretary’s implementation of such 
processes and procedures; and 
‘‘(B) shall report to Congress on the results of 
such review by April 30 of each year.’’. 

(l) PROJECT DEFINED.—Section 5309 is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(q) PROJECT DEFINED.—In this section, the 
term ‘project’ means, with respect to a new fixed 
guideway system or extension to an existing 
fixed guideway system, a minimum operable segment 
of the project.’’. 

SEC. 309. DOLLAR VALUE OF MOBILITY IMPROVEMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall not consider 
the dollar value of mobility improvements, 
as specified in the report required under section 
5309(m)(1)(C) or section 5309(p) (as added by this 
Act), in evaluating projects under section 5309 
of title 49, United States Code, in developing 
regulations, or in carrying out any other duty 
of the Secretary. 
(b) STUDY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General 
shall conduct a study of the dollar value of mobility 
improvements and the relationship of mobility 
improvements to the overall transportation 
justification of a new fixed guideway system or 
extension to an existing system. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than January 1, 2000, 
the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
a report on the results of the study, including 
an analysis of the factors relevant to determining 
the dollar value of mobility improvements. 
SEC. 310. FORMULA GRANTS AND LOANS FOR 
SPECIAL NEEDS OF ELDERLY INDIVIDUALS 
AND INDIVIDUALS WITH 
DISABILITIES. 

(a) SECTION HEADING.—Section 5310 is amended 
in the section heading by striking ‘‘Grants’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Formula grants’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The item relating 
to section 5310 in the table of sections for 
chapter 53 is amended by inserting ‘‘formula’’ 
before ‘‘grants’’. 
SEC. 311. FORMULA PROGRAM FOR OTHER THAN 
URBANIZED AREAS. 

(a) INTERCITY BUS TRANSPORTATION.—Section 
5311 is amended— 
(1) in the section heading by striking ‘‘Financial 
assistance’’ and inserting ‘‘Formula 
grants’’; and 
(2) in subsection (f)(1) by striking ‘‘10 percent 
of the amount made available in the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 1993, and’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The item relating 
to section 5311 in the table of sections for 
chapter 53 is amended by striking ‘‘Financial 
assistance’’ and inserting ‘‘Formula grant’’. 
SEC. 312. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, DEM


ONSTRATION, AND TRAINING 

PROJECTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5312 is amended— 
(1) in each of subsections (a) and (b) by striking 
the first parenthetical phrase; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(d) JOINT PARTNERSHIPS FOR DEPLOYMENT 
OF INNOVATION.— 
‘‘(1) CONSORTIUM DEFINED.—In this subsection, 
the term ‘consortium’ means one or 
more public or private organizations located in 
the United States which provide mass transportation 
service to the public and one or more 
businesses, including small and medium sized 
businesses, incorporated in a State, offering 
goods or services or willing to offer goods or 
services to mass transportation operators. It 
may include as additional members public or 
private research organizations located in the 
United States, or State or local governmental 
authorities. 

‘‘(2) GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary 
may make grants and enter into contracts, cooperative 
agreements, and other agreements with 
consortia selected competitively from among 
public and private partnerships to promote the 
early deployment of innovation in mass transportation 
technology, services, management, or 
operational practices. Any such grant, contract, 
or agreement shall provide for the sharing of 

costs, risks, and rewards of early deployment of 
innovation. Such grants, contracts, and agreements 
shall be subject to such terms and conditions 
as the Secretary prescribes. 

‘‘(3) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT.—This subsection 
shall be carried out in consultation with 
the transit industry. 

‘‘(4) COST SHARING.—Any consortium that receives 
a grant or enters into a contract or agreement 
under this subsection shall provide at least 
50 percent of the cost of any joint partnership 
project. Any business, organization, person, or 
governmental body may contribute funds to 
such project. 

‘‘(5) PUBLIC NOTICE.—The Secretary shall periodically 
give public notice of— 

‘‘(A) the technical areas for which joint partnerships 
are solicited under this subsection; 

‘‘(B) required qualifications of consortia desiring 
to participate in such partnerships; 

‘‘(C) the method of selection and evaluation 
criteria to be used in selecting participating consortia 
and projects under this subsection; and 

‘‘(D) the process by which projects will be 
awarded under this subsection. 

‘‘(6) ACCEPTANCE OF REVENUES.—The Secretary 
may accept a portion of the revenues resulting 
from sales of an innovation supported 
under this subsection and deposit any revenues 
accepted into a special account of the Treasury 
of the United States to be established for purposes 
of carrying out this subsection. 

‘‘(e) INTERNATIONAL MASS TRANSPORTATION 
PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) ACTIVITIES.—The Secretary is authorized 
to engage in activities to inform the United 
States domestic mass transportation community 
about technological innovations available in the 
international marketplace and activities that 
may afford domestic businesses the opportunity 
to become globally competitive in the export of 
mass transportation products and services. 
These activities may include— 

‘‘(A) development, monitoring, assessment, 
and dissemination domestically of information 
about worldwide mass transportation market 
opportunities; 

‘‘(B) cooperation with foreign public sector 
entities in research, development, demonstration, 
training, and other forms of technology 
transfer and exchange of experts and information; 


‘‘(C) advocacy, in international mass transportation 
markets, of firms, products, and services 
available from the United States; 

‘‘(D) informing the international market 
about the technical quality of mass transportation 
products and services through participation 
in seminars, expositions, and similar activities; 
and 

‘‘(E) offering those Federal Transit Administration 
technical services which cannot be readily 
obtained from the United States private sector 
to foreign public authorities planning or undertaking 
mass transportation projects if the 
cost of these services will be recovered under the 
terms of each project. 

‘‘(2) COOPERATION.—The Secretary may carry 
out activities under this subsection in cooperation 
with other Federal agencies, State or local 
agencies, public and private nonprofit institutions, 
government laboratories, foreign governments, 
or any other organization the Secretary 
determines is appropriate. 

‘‘(3) FUNDING.—The funds available to carry 
out this subsection shall include funds paid to 
the Secretary by any cooperating organization 
or person and shall be deposited by the Secretary 
in a special account in the Treasury of 
the United States to be established for purposes 
of carrying out this subsection. The funds shall 
be available for promotional materials, travel, 
reception, and representation expenses necessary 
to carry out the activities authorized by 
this subsection. Reimbursement for services provided 
under this subsection shall be credited to 
the appropriation account concerned.’’. 

(b) MASS TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT 
AND DEPLOYMENT.— 

H1964 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may 
make grants and enter into contracts, cooperative 
agreements, and other agreements with eligible 
consortia to promote the development and 
early deployment of innovation in mass transportation 
technology, services, management, or 
operational practices. The Secretary shall coordinate 
activities under this section with related 
activities under programs of other Federal 
departments and agencies. 
(2) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.—To be qualified to 
receive funding under this section, an eligible 
consortium shall— 
(A) be organized for the purpose of designing, 
developing, and deploying advanced mass transportation 
technologies that address identified 
technological impediments in the mass transportation 
field; 
(B) have an established mechanism for designing, 
developing, and deploying advanced mass 
transportation technologies as evidenced by participation 
in a Federal program such as the consortia 
funded pursuant to Public Law 102–396; 
(C) facilitate the participation in the consortium 
of small- and medium-sized businesses in 
conjunction with large established manufacturers, 
as appropriate; 
(D) be designed to use State and Federal 
funding to attract private capital in the form of 
grants or investments to further the purposes of 
this section; and 
(E) provide for the sharing of costs, risks, and 
rewards of early deployment of innovation in 
mass transportation technologies. 
(3) GRANT REQUIREMENTS.—Grants, contracts, 
and agreements under paragraph (1) shall be eligible 
under and consistent with section 5312 of 
title 49, United States Code, and shall be subject 
to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
prescribes. 
(4) FEDERAL SHARE OF COSTS.—The Federal 
share of costs for a grant, contract, or agreement 
with a consortium under this subsection 
shall not exceed 50 percent of the net project 
cost. 
(5) ELIGIBLE CONSORTIUM DEFINED.—For purposes 
of this section, the term ‘‘eligible consortium’’ 
means a consortium of— 
(A) businesses incorporated in the United 
States; 
(B) public or private educational or research 
organizations located in the United States; 
(C) entities of State or local governments in 
the United States; 
(D) Federal laboratories; or 
(E) existing consortia funded pursuant to 
Public Law 103–396. 
(6) FUNDING.— 
(A) SET-ASIDE OF AMOUNTS MADE AVAILABLE 
UNDER SECTION 5338(d).—Of the funds made 
available by or appropriated under section 
5338(d) of title 49, United States Code, for a fiscal 
year $5,000,000 shall be available to carry 
out this subsection. 
(B) SET-ASIDE OF AMOUNTS MADE AVAILABLE 
UNDER SECTION 5309(o).—Of the funds made 
available to carry out the bus technology pilot 
program under section 5309(o) of title 49, United 
States Code, for a fiscal year $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out this subsection. 
(c) FUEL CELL BUS AND BUS FACILITIES PROGRAM.—
Of the funds made available for a fiscal 
year to carry out the bus technology pilot program 
under section 5309(o) of title 49, United 
States Code, $4,850,000 shall be available to 
carry out the fuel cell powered transit bus program 
and the intermodal transportation fuel cell 
bus maintenance facility. 
(d) ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROJECT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants for the development of low speed magnetic 
levitation technology for public transportation 
purposes in urban areas to demonstrate 
energy efficiency, congestion mitigation, and 
safety benefits. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $5,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this subsection. 


(3) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
on account of activities carried out using a 
grant made under this subsection shall be 80 
percent of the cost of such activities. 
(e) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 
APPLICATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants for the study, design, and demonstration 
of fixed guideway technology in North Orange-
South Seminole County, Florida, and in Galveston, 
Texas. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
pursuant to section 5338(d) of title 49, United 
States Code, for fiscal year 1999, $1,500,000 shall 
be available to carry out this subsection. Of 
such sums, $750,000 shall be available for fixed 
guideway activities in North Orange-South Seminole 
County, Florida, and $750,000 shall be 
available for fixed guideway activities in Galveston, 
Texas. 
SEC. 313. NATIONAL PLANNING AND RESEARCH 
PROGRAMS. 

Section 5314(a)(2) is amended by striking 
‘‘$2,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$3,000,000’’. 

SEC. 314. NATIONAL TRANSIT INSTITUTE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5315 is amended— 
(1) in the section heading by striking ‘‘mass 
transportation’’ and inserting ‘‘transit’’; and 
(2) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘mass transportation’’ in the 
first sentence and inserting ‘‘transit’’; 
(B) by inserting ‘‘and architectural design’’ 
before the semicolon at the end of paragraph 
(5); 
(C) by striking ‘‘carrying out’’ in paragraph 
(7) and inserting ‘‘delivering’’; 
(D) by inserting ‘‘, construction management, 
insurance, and risk management’’ before the 
semicolon at the end of paragraph (11); 
(E) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(13); 
(F) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(14) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(G) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(15) innovative finance.’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The item relating 
to section 5315 in the table of sections for 
chapter 53 is amended by striking ‘‘mass transportation’’ 
and inserting ‘‘transit’’. 
SEC. 315. UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INSTITUTES. 

Section 5316, and the item relating to section 
5316 in the table of sections for chapter 53, are 
repealed. 

SEC. 316. TRANSPORTATION CENTERS. 

Section 5317, and the item relating to section 
5317 in the table of sections for chapter 53, are 
repealed. 

SEC. 317. BUS TESTING FACILITIES. 

(a) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.—Section 
5318(b) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘make a contract with’’ and 
inserting ‘‘enter into a contract or cooperative 
agreement with, or make a grant to,’’; 
(2) by inserting ‘‘or organization’’ after ‘‘person’’; 
(3) by inserting ‘‘, cooperative agreement, or 
grant’’ after ‘‘The contract’’; and 
(4) by inserting ‘‘mass transportation’’ after 
‘‘and other’’. 
(b) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—Section 
5318(d) is amended by striking ‘‘make a contract 
with’’ and inserting ‘‘enter into a contract or 
cooperative agreement with, or make a grant 
to,’’. 
SEC. 318. BICYCLE FACILITIES. 

Section 5319 is amended by striking ‘‘under 
this section is for 90 percent of the cost of the 
project’’ and inserting ‘‘made eligible by this 
section is for 90 percent of the cost of the 
project; except that, if the grant or any portion 
of the grant is made with funds required to be 
expended under section 5307(k) and the project 
involves providing bicycle access to mass transportation, 
that grant or portion of that grant 
shall be at a Federal share of 95 percent’’. 

SEC. 319. GENERAL PROVISIONS ON ASSISTANCE. 

(a) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 5323(d) 
is amended by striking ‘‘BUYING AND OPERATING 
BUSES.—’’and inserting ‘‘CONDITION ON CHARTER 
BUS TRANSPORTATION SERVICE.—’’. 
(b) GOVERNMENT’S SHARE.—Section 5323(i) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(i) GOVERNMENT SHARE OF COSTS FOR CERTAIN 
PROJECTS.—A grant for a project to be assisted 
under this chapter that involves acquiring 
vehicle-related equipment required by the Americans 
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
12101 et seq.) or vehicle-related equipment (including 
clean fuel or alternative fuel vehicle-related 
equipment) for purposes of complying with 
or maintaining compliance with the Clean Air 
Act, is for 90 percent of the net project cost of 
such equipment attributable to compliance with 
such Acts. The Secretary shall have discretion 
to determine, through practicable administrative 
procedures, the costs of such equipment attributable 
to compliance with such Acts.’’. 

(c) BUY AMERICA.—Section 5323(j)(7) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(7) OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT INADVERTENT 
ERROR.—The Secretary may allow a manufacturer 
or supplier of steel, iron, or manufactured 
goods to correct after bid opening any certification 
made under this subsection if the Secretary 
is satisfied that the manufacturer or supplier 
submitted an incorrect certification as a result 
of an inadvertent or clerical error.’’. 

(d) PARTICIPATION OF GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES 
IN DESIGN AND DELIVERY OF TRANSPORTATION 
SERVICES.—Section 5323 is amended by 
redesignating subsections (k) and (l) as subsections 
(l) and (m) and by inserting after subsection 
(j) the following: 
‘‘(k) PARTICIPATION OF GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES 
IN DESIGN AND DELIVERY OF TRANSPORTATION 
SERVICES.—To the extent feasible, governmental 
agencies and nonprofit organizations 
that receive assistance from Government sources 
(other than the Department of Transportation) 
for nonemergency transportation services shall 
participate and coordinate with recipients of assistance 
under this chapter in the design and 
delivery of transportation services and shall be 
included in the planning for such services.’’. 

(e) SUBMISSION OF CERTIFICATIONS.—Section 
5323 is further amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(n) SUBMISSION OF CERTIFICATIONS.—A certification 
required under this chapter and any 
additional certification or assurance required by 
law or regulation to be submitted to the Secretary 
may be consolidated into a single document 
to be submitted annually as part of a 
grant application under this chapter. The Secretary 
shall publish annually a list of all certifications 
required under this chapter with the 
publication required under section 5336(e)(2).’’. 

(f) REQUIRED PAYMENTS AND ELIGIBLE 
COSTS.—Section 5323 is further amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(o) REQUIRED PAYMENTS AND ELIGIBLE COSTS 
OF PROJECTS THAT ENHANCE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
OR INCORPORATE PRIVATE INVESTMENT.— 


‘‘(1) REQUIRED PAYMENTS.—Each grant or 
loan under this chapter for a capital project described 
in section 5302(a)(1)(G) shall require that 
a person making an agreement to occupy space 
in a facility funded under this chapter pay a 
reasonable share of the costs of the facility 
through rental payments and other means. 

‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE COSTS.—Eligible costs for a capital 
project described in section 5302(a)(1)(G)— 

‘‘(A) include property acquisition, demolition 
of existing structures, site preparation, utilities, 
building foundations, walkways, open space, 
and a capital project for, and improving, equipment 
or a facility for an intermodal transfer facility 
or transportation mall; but 

‘‘(B) do not include construction of a commercial 
revenue producing facility or a part of a 
public facility not related to mass transportation.’’. 



April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1965 

SEC. 320. CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS. 

(a) EFFICIENT PROCUREMENT.—Section 5325 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (b) and (c); 
(2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
(b); and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(c) EFFICIENT PROCUREMENT.—A recipient 
may award a procurement contract under this 
chapter to other than the lowest bidder when 
the award furthers an objective consistent with 
the purposes of this chapter, including improved 
long-term operating efficiency and lower longterm 
costs.’’. 

(b) ARCHITECTURAL, ENGINEERING, AND DESIGN 
CONTRACTS.—Section 5325(b), as redesignated by 
subsection (a)(2), is amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘or requirement’’ after ‘‘A 
contract’’; and 
(2) by inserting before the last sentence the 
following: ‘‘When awarding such contracts, recipients 
of assistance under this chapter shall 
maximize efficiencies of administration by accepting 
nondisputed audits conducted by other 
government agencies, as provided in subparagraphs 
(C) through (F) of section 112(b)(2) of 
title 23.’’. 
SEC. 321. SPECIAL PROCUREMENTS. 

(a) TURNKEY SYSTEM PROJECTS.—Section 
5326(a) is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(1) TURNKEY SYSTEM PROJECT DEFINED.—In 
this subsection, the term ‘turnkey system 
project’ means a project under which a recipient 
enters into a contract with a seller, firm, or consortium 
of firms to design and build a mass 
transportation system or an operable segment 
thereof that meets specific performance criteria. 
Such project may also include an option to finance, 
or operate for a period of time, the system 
or segment or any combination of designing, 
building, operating, or maintaining such system 
or segment.’’; 

(2) in paragraph (2)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘SELECTION OF TURNKEY 
PROJECTS.—’’ after ‘‘(2)’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or an operable segment of a 
mass transportation system’’ after ‘‘transportation 
system’’; 
(3) in paragraph (3) by inserting ‘‘DEMONSTRATIONS.—’’ 
after ‘‘(3)’’; and 
(4) by aligning paragraphs (2) and (3) with 
paragraph (1) of such section, as amended by 
paragraph (1) of this section. 
(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 5326 is 
amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(c) ACQUIRING ROLLING STOCK.—A recipient 
of financial assistance of the United States Government 
under this chapter may enter into a 
contract to expend that assistance to acquire 
rolling stock— 

‘‘(1) based on— 

‘‘(A) initial capital costs; or 

‘‘(B) performance, standardization, life cycle 
costs, and other factors; or 

‘‘(2) with a party selected through a competitive 
procurement process. 

‘‘(d) PROCURING ASSOCIATED CAPITAL MAINTENANCE 
ITEMS.—A recipient of a grant under section 
5307 of this title procuring an associated 
capital maintenance item under section 5307(b) 
may enter into a contract directly with the 
original manufacturer or supplier of the item to 
be replaced, without receiving prior approval of 
the Secretary, if the recipient first certifies in 
writing to the Secretary that— 

‘‘(1) the manufacturer or supplier is the only 
source for the item; and 
‘‘(2) the price of the item is no more than the 
price similar customers pay for the item.’’. 

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
5334(b)(4) is amended by striking ‘‘5323(a)(2), (c) 
and (e), 5324(c), and 5325 of this title’’ and inserting 
‘‘5323(a)(2), 5323(c), 5323(e), 5324(c), 
5325(a), 5325(b), 5326(c), and 5326(d)’’. 
SEC. 322. PROJECT MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT 
AND REVIEW. 

Section 5327(c)(2) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘make contracts’’ and inserting 
‘‘enter into contracts’’; and 
(2) by inserting before the period at the end of 
the first sentence the following: ‘‘and to provide 
technical assistance to correct deficiencies identified 
in compliance reviews and audits carried 
out under this section’’. 
SEC. 323. STUDY ON ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED 
SUBSTANCES RANDOM TESTING 
RATE CALCULATION. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study to determine how the alcohol and controlled 
substances random testing rate under 
section 5331 of title 49, United States Code, 
should be calculated. 
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—In conducting the study 
under this section, the Secretary shall consider— 
(1) the differences in random testing results 
among employers subject to section 5331 of title 
49, United States Code; 
(2) the differences in random testing results 
among employers subject to such section in 
areas with populations of at least 200,000, in 
areas with populations less than 200,000, and in 
other than urbanized areas; 
(3) the deterrent effect of random testing; and 
(4) the effect of random testing on public safety. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than December 31, 
1999, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a 
report on the results of the study conducted 
under this section, together with any proposed 
changes to the calculation of the random alcohol 
and controlled substances testing rate. 
SEC. 324. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES. 

(a) TRAINING AND CONFERENCE COSTS.—Section 
5334(a) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(8); 
(2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(9) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(10) collect fees to cover the costs of training 
or conferences, including costs of promotional 
materials, sponsored by the Federal Transit Administration 
to promote mass transportation and 
credit amounts collected to the appropriation 
concerned.’’. 

(b) FLEXIBILITY FOR AREAS WITH POPULATIONS 
UNDER 200,000.—Section 5334(i) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(i) FLEXIBILITY FOR AREAS WITH POPULATIONS 
UNDER 200,000.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of the 
Building Efficient Surface Transportation and 
Equity Act of 1998, the Secretary shall seek public 
comment on ways to simplify and streamline 
the administration of the formula program for 
urbanized areas with populations of less than 
200,000 and shall make, to the extent feasible 
and consistent with statutory requirements, 
every effort to ease any administrative burdens 
thereby identified.’’. 

(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) SECTION HEADING.—The heading for section 
5334 is amended by inserting ‘‘provisions’’ 
after ‘‘Administrative’’. 
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The item relating to 
section 5334 in the table of sections for chapter 
53 is amended by inserting ‘‘provisions’’ after 
‘‘Administrative’’. 
SEC. 325. REPORTS AND AUDITS. 

(a) NATIONAL TRANSIT DATABASE.—Section 
5335(a) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘REPORTING SYSTEM AND UNIFORM 
SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS’’ and 
inserting ‘‘NATIONAL TRANSIT DATABASE’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘by uniform categories,’’ and 
inserting ‘‘using uniform categories’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘and a uniform system of accounts 
and records’’ and inserting ‘‘and using a 
uniform system of accounts’’. 
(b) REPORTS.—Section 5335 is further amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (b) and (c); and 
(2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
(b). 
SEC. 326. APPORTIONMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR FORMULA GRANTS. 

Section 5336 is amended— 

(1) in the section heading by striking ‘‘block 
grants’’ and inserting ‘‘formula grants’’; and 
(2) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON OPERATING ASSISTANCE 
AND PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE.—Of the funds 
apportioned under this section for urbanized 
areas, such sums as may be necessary shall be 
available for operating assistance for urbanized 
areas with populations under 200,000, except 
that the total amount of such funds made available 
for such operating assistance and for urbanized 
areas for preventive maintenance activities 
that become eligible for capital assistance 
under section 5307 on the date of the enactment 
of the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998 may not exceed 
$400,000,000 for any fiscal year.’’. 

SEC. 327. APPORTIONMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS 

FOR FIXED GUIDEWAY MODERNIZA


TION. 

(a) DISTRIBUTION.—Section 5337(a) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary of Transportation 
shall apportion amounts made available 
for fixed guideway modernization under 
section 5309 for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003 as follows: 

‘‘(1) The first $497,700,000 shall be apportioned 
in the following urbanized areas as follows: 

‘‘(A) Baltimore, $8,372,000. 

‘‘(B) Boston, $38,948,000. 

‘‘(C) Chicago/Northwestern Indiana, 
$78,169,000. 

‘‘(D) Cleveland, $9,509,500. 

‘‘(E) New Orleans, $1,730,588. 

‘‘(F) New York, $176,034,461. 

‘‘(G) Northeastern New Jersey, $50,604,653. 

‘‘(H) Philadelphia/Southern New Jersey, 
$58,924,764. 

‘‘(I) Pittsburgh, $13,662,463. 

‘‘(J) San Francisco, $33,989,571. 

‘‘(K) Southwestern Connecticut, $27,755,000. 

‘‘(2) The next $74,849,950 shall be apportioned 
as follows: 

‘‘(A) $4,849,950 to the Alaska Railroad for improvements 
to its passenger operations. 

‘‘(B) Of the remaining $70,000,000— 

‘‘(i) 50 percent in the urbanized areas listed in 
paragraph (1) as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A); and 

‘‘(ii) 50 percent in other urbanized areas eligible 
for assistance under section 5336(b)(2)(A) to 
which amounts were apportioned under this section 
for fiscal year 1997, as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(3) The next $5,700,000 shall be apportioned 
in the following urbanized areas as follows: 

‘‘(A) Pittsburgh, 61.76 percent. 

‘‘(B) Cleveland, 10.73 percent. 

‘‘(C) New Orleans, 5.79 percent. 

‘‘(D) 21.72 percent in urbanized areas to 
which paragraph (2)(B)(ii) applies, as provided 
in section 5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this 
section. 

‘‘(4) The next $186,600,000 shall be apportioned 
in each urbanized area to which paragraph (1) 
applies and in each urbanized area to which 
paragraph (2)(B) applies, as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(5) The next $140,000,000 shall be apportioned 
as follows: 

‘‘(A) 65 percent in the urbanized areas listed 
in paragraph (1) as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(B) 35 percent to other urbanized areas eligible 
for assistance under section 5336(b)(2)(A) of 
this title if the areas contain fixed guideway 
systems placed in revenue service at least 7 
years before the fiscal year in which amounts 


H1966 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

are made available and in any urbanized area 
if, before the first day of the fiscal year, the 
area satisfies the Secretary that the area has 
modernization needs that cannot adequately be 
met with amounts received under section 
5336(b)(2)(A), as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(6) The next $100,000,000 shall be apportioned 
as follows: 

‘‘(A) 60 percent in the urbanized areas listed 
in paragraph (1) as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(B) 40 percent to urbanized areas to which 
paragraph (5)(B) applies, as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(7) Remaining amounts shall be apportioned 
as follows: 

‘‘(A) 50 percent in the urbanized areas listed 
in paragraph (1) as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section. 

‘‘(B) 50 percent to urbanized areas to which 
paragraph (5)(B) applies, as provided in section 
5336(b)(2)(A) and subsection (e) of this section.’’. 

(b) ROUTE SEGMENTS TO BE INCLUDED IN APPORTIONMENT 
FORMULAS.—Section 5337 is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) ROUTE SEGMENTS TO BE INCLUDED IN APPORTIONMENT 
FORMULAS.—(1) Amounts apportioned 
under paragraphs (2)(B), (3), and (4) of 
subsection (a) shall have attributable to each 
urbanized area only the number of fixed guide-
way revenue miles of service and number of 
fixed guideway route miles for segments of fixed 
guideway systems used to determine apportionments 
for fiscal year 1997. 

‘‘(2) Amounts apportioned under paragraphs 

(5) through (7) of subsection (a) shall have attributable 
to each urbanized area only the number 
of fixed guideway revenue miles of service 
and number of fixed guideway route-miles for 
segments of fixed guideway systems placed in 
revenue service at least 7 years before the fiscal 
year in which amounts are made available.’’. 
SEC. 328. AUTHORIZATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5338 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 5338. Authorizations 

‘‘(a) FORMULA GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) FROM THE TRUST FUND.—There shall be 
available from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund to carry out sections 5307, 
5310, and 5311— 

‘‘(A) $2,697,600,000 for fiscal year 1998; 

‘‘(B) $3,213,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; and 

‘‘(C) $3,553,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 

‘‘(2) FROM THE GENERAL FUND.—In addition to 
amounts made available under paragraph (1), 
there are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out sections 5307 and 5311— 

‘‘(A) $290,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; and 

‘‘(B) $68,000,000 for fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(3) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the aggregate 
of amounts made available by and appropriated 
under this subsection for a fiscal year— 

‘‘(A) 2.4 percent shall be available to provide 
transportation services to elderly individuals 
and individuals with disabilities under section 
5310; 

‘‘(B) 5.37 percent shall be available to provide 
financial assistance for other than urbanized 
areas under section 5311; and 

‘‘(C) 92.23 percent shall be available to provide 
financial assistance for urbanized areas under 
section 5307. 

‘‘(b) CAPITAL PROGRAM GRANTS AND LOANS.— 
There shall be available from the Mass Transit 
Account of the Highway Trust Fund to carry 
out section 5309: 

‘‘(1) $2,197,000,000 for fiscal year 1998. 

‘‘(2) $2,412,000,000 for fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(3) $2,613,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 

‘‘(c) PLANNING.— 

‘‘(1) FROM THE TRUST FUND.—There shall be 
available from the Mass Transit Account of the 

Highway Trust Fund to carry out sections 5303, 
5304, 5305, and 5313(b) $54,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2000 through 2003. 

‘‘(2) FROM THE GENERAL FUND.—There are authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out sections 
5303, 5304, 5305, and 5313(b)— 

‘‘(A) $48,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; and 

‘‘(B) $52,000,000 for fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(3) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the funds 
made available by or appropriated under this 
subsection for a fiscal year— 

‘‘(A) 82.72 percent shall be available for metropolitan 
planning under sections 5303, 5304, and 
5305; and 

‘‘(B) 17.28 percent shall be available for State 

planning under section 5313(b). 

‘‘(d) RESEARCH.— 

‘‘(1) FROM THE TRUST FUND.—There shall be 
available from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund to carry out sections 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322 
$38,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003. 

‘‘(2) FROM THE GENERAL FUND.—There are authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out sections 
5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 5314, 5315, and 5322 
$38,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1998 and 1999. 

‘‘(3) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the funds 
made available by or appropriated under this 
subsection for a fiscal year— 

‘‘(A) not less than $5,250,000 shall be available 
for providing rural transportation assistance 
under section 5311(b)(2); 

‘‘(B) not less than $8,250,000 shall be available 
for carrying out transit cooperative research 
programs under section 5313(a); 

‘‘(C) not less than $3,000,000 shall be available 
to carry out programs under the National Transit 
Institute under section 5315; and 

‘‘(D) the remainder shall be available for carrying 
out national planning and research programs 
under sections 5311(b)(2), 5312, 5313(a), 
5314, and 5322. 

‘‘(e) UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH.— 


‘‘(1) FROM THE TRUST FUND.—There shall be 
available from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund to carry out section 5505 
$6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
2003. 

‘‘(2) FROM THE GENERAL FUND.—There is authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out section 
5505 $6,000,000 per fiscal year for fiscal years 
1998 and 1999. 

‘‘(f) ADMINISTRATION.— 

‘‘(1) FROM THE TRUST FUND.—There shall be 
available from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund for administrative expenses 
to carry out section 5334 $52,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2000 through 2003. 

‘‘(2) FROM THE GENERAL FUND.—There is authorized 
to be appropriated for administrative 
expenses to carry out section 5334— 

‘‘(A) $46,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; and 

‘‘(B) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(g) GRANTS AS CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) GRANTS FINANCED FROM THE HIGHWAY 
TRUST FUND.—A grant or contract approved by 
the Secretary, that is financed with amounts 
made available under subsection (a)(1), (b), 
(c)(1), (d)(1), (e)(1), or (f)(1) is a contractual obligation 
of the United States Government to pay 
the Government’s share of the cost of the 
project. 

‘‘(2) GRANTS FINANCED FROM GENERAL 
FUNDS.—A grant or contract, approved by the 
Secretary, that is financed with amounts made 
available under subsection (a)(2), (c)(2), (d)(2), 
(e)(2), or (f)(2) is a contractual obligation of the 
Government to pay the Government’s share of 
the cost of the project only to the extent 
amounts are provided in advance in an appropriations 
law. 

‘‘(h) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—Amounts 
made available by or appropriated under subsections 
(a) through (e) shall remain available 
until expended.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 53 is 
amended as follows: 
(1) In sections 5303(h)(1), 5303(h)(2)(A), and 
5303(h)(3)(A) by striking ‘‘5338(g)(1)’’ and inserting 
‘‘5338(c)(3)(A)’’. 
(2) In section 5303(h)(1) by striking ‘‘–5306’’ 
and inserting ‘‘and 5305’’. 
(3) In section 5303(h)(4) by striking ‘‘5338(g)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5338(c)(3)(A)’’. 
(4) In section 5309(f)(4), as redesignated by 
section 308(i)(1)(B) of this Act, by striking 
‘‘5338(a)’’ and inserting ‘‘5338(b)’’. 
(5) In section 5310(b) by striking ‘‘5338(a)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5338(a)(3)(A)’’. 
(6) In section 5311(c) by striking ‘‘5338(a)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5338(a)(3)(B)’’. 
(7) In section 5313(a)(1) by striking ‘‘section 
5338(g)(3)’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 5338(d)(3)(B) 
and 5338(d)(3)(D)’’. 
(8) In section 5313(b)(1) by striking 
‘‘5338(g)(3)’’ and inserting ‘‘5338(c)(3)(B)’’. 
(9) In section 5314(a)(1) by striking 
‘‘5338(g)(4)’’ and inserting ‘‘5338(d)(3)(D)’’. 
(10) In section 5318(d) by striking ‘‘5338(j)(5)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5309(m)(3)(B)’’. 
(11) In section 5333(b) by striking ‘‘5338(j)(5)’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘5338(b)’’. 
(12) In section 5336(a) by striking ‘‘5338(f)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5338(a)(3)(C)’’. 
(13) In section 5336(e)(1) by striking ‘‘5338(f)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘5338(a)(3)(C)’’. 
SEC. 329. OBLIGATION CEILING. 

(a) CAPITAL PROGRAM GRANTS AND LOANS.— 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
total of all obligations from amounts made 
available from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund by section 5338(b) of title 
49, United States Code, shall not exceed— 
(1) $2,000,000,000 in fiscal year 1998; 
(2) $2,412,000,000 in fiscal year 1999; and 
(3) $2,613,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
(b) FORMULA GRANTS, PLANNING, RESEARCH, 
ADMINISTRATION, AND STUDIES.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the total of all 
obligations from amounts made available from 
the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust 
Fund by subsections (a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of 
section 5338 of title 49, United States Code, and 
sections 331 and 332 of this Act shall not exceed— 
(1) $2,260,000,000 in fiscal year 1998; 
(2) $3,213,000,000 in fiscal year 1999; and 
(3) $3,703,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 
SEC. 330. ACCESS TO JOBS CHALLENGE GRANT 
PILOT PROGRAM. 

(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may 
make grants under this section to assist States, 
local governmental authorities, and nonprofit 
organizations in financing transportation services 
designed to transport welfare recipients to 
and from jobs and activities related to their employment. 
The Secretary shall coordinate activities 
under this section with related activities 
under programs of other Federal departments 
and agencies. 
(b) GRANT CRITERIA.—In selecting applicants 
for grants under this section, the Secretary shall 
consider the following: 
(1) The percentage of the population in the 
area to be served that are welfare recipients. 
(2) The need for additional services (including 
bicycling) to transport welfare recipients to and 
from specified jobs, training, and other employment 
support services, and the extent to which 
the proposed services will address those needs. 
(3) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates 
coordination with, and the financial 
commitment of, existing transportation service 
providers and the extent to which the applicant 
demonstrates coordination with the State agency 
or department that administers the State program 
funded under part A of title IV of the Social 
Security Act. 
(4) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates 
maximum utilization of existing transportation 
service providers and expands existing 
transit networks or hours of service or both. 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1967 

(5) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates 
an innovative approach that is responsive 
to identified service needs. 
(6) The extent to which the applicant presents 
a comprehensive approach to addressing the 
needs of welfare recipients and identifies longterm 
financing strategies to support the services 
under this section. 
(c) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—The Secretary may 
make grants under this section for— 
(1) capital projects and to finance operating 
costs of equipment, facilities, and associated 
capital maintenance items related to providing 
access to jobs under this section; 
(2) promoting the use of transit by workers 
with nontraditional work schedules; 
(3) promoting the use by appropriate agencies 
of transit vouchers for welfare recipients under 
specific terms and conditions developed by the 
Secretary; and 
(4) promoting the use of employer-provided 
transportation including the transit pass benefit 
program under subsections (a) and (f) of section 
132 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 
No planning or coordination activities are eligible 
for assistance under this section. 
(d) COMPETITIVE GRANT SELECTION.—The Secretary 
shall conduct a national solicitation for 
applications for grants under this section. 
Grantees shall be selected on a competitive 
basis. The Secretary shall select not more than 
10 demonstration projects for the pilot program, 
including 6 projects from urbanized areas with 
populations of at least 200,000, 2 projects from 
urbanized areas with populations less than 
200,000, and 2 projects from other than urbanized 
areas. 
(e) FEDERAL SHARE OF COSTS.—The Federal 
share of costs under this section shall be provided 
from funds appropriated to carry out this 
section. The Federal share of the costs for a 
project under this section shall not exceed 50 
percent of the net project cost. The remainder 
shall be provided in cash from sources other 
than revenues from providing mass transportation. 
Funds appropriated to a Federal department 
or agency (other than the Department of 
Transportation) and eligible to be used for 
transportation may be used toward the non-
government share payable on a project under 
this section. 
(f) PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.—The requirements 
of sections 5303 through 5306 of title 49, 
United States Code, apply to grants made under 
this section. Applications must reflect coordination 
with and the approval of affected transit 
grant recipients and the projects financed must 
be part of a coordinated public transit-human 
services transportation planning process. 
(g) GRANT REQUIREMENTS.—A grant under 
this section shall be subject to all of the terms 
and conditions of grants made under section 
5307 of title 49, United States Code, and such 
terms and conditions as determined by the Secretary. 
(h) PROGRAM EVALUATION.— 
(1) COMPTROLLER GENERAL.—Six months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act and each 
6 months thereafter, the Comptroller General 
shall conduct a study to evaluate the access to 
jobs program conducted under this section and 
transmit to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs of the Senate the results of 
the study. 
(2) DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.—The 
Secretary shall conduct a study to evaluate the 
access to jobs program conducted under this section 
and transmit to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate the 
results of the study within 2 years of the date of 
the enactment of this Act. 
(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the following 
definitions apply: 
(1) CAPITAL PROJECT AND URBANIZED AREA.— 
The terms ‘‘capital project’’ and ‘‘urbanized 
area’’ have the meaning such terms have under 
section 5302 of title 49, United States Code. 

(2) EXISTING TRANSPORTATION SERVICE PRO-
VIDERS.—The term ‘‘existing transportation 
service providers’’ means mass transportation 
operators and governmental agencies and nonprofit 
organizations that receive assistance from 
Federal, State, or local sources for nonemergency 
transportation services. 
(3) WELFARE RECIPIENT.—The term ‘‘welfare 
recipient’’ means an individual who receives or 
received aid or assistance under a State program 
funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security 
Act (whether in effect before or after the 
effective date of the amendments made by title I 
of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996) at any time 
during the 3-year period ending on the date the 
applicant applies for a grant under this section. 
(j) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out this section $42,000,000 per 
fiscal year for fiscal years 1998 through 2003. 
Such sums shall remain available until expended. 
SEC. 331. ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE SURFACE 
TRANSPORTATION EXTENSION ACT 
OF 1997. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary shall ensure that 
the total apportionments and allocations made 
to a designated grant recipient under section 
5338 of this Act for fiscal year 1998 shall be reduced 
by the amount apportioned to such designated 
recipient pursuant to section 8 of the 
Surface Transportation Extension Act of 1997 
(111 Stat. 2559). 
(b) FIXED GUIDEWAY MODERNIZATION ADJUSTMENT.—
In making the apportionments described 
in subsection (a), the Secretary shall adjust the 
amount apportioned to each urbanized area for 
fixed guideway modernization for fiscal year 
1998 to reflect the method for apportioning 
funds in section 5337(a). 
SEC. 332. PROJECTS FOR NEW FIXED GUIDEWAY 
SYSTEMS AND EXTENSIONS TO EXISTING 
SYSTEMS. 

(a) FINAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.—The 
following projects are authorized for final design 
and construction for fiscal years 1998 
through 2003 under section 5309(m)(1)(B) of title 
49, United States Code: 
(1) Atlanta—Athens Commuter Rail. 
(2) Atlanta—Griffin Commuter Rail. 
(3) Atlanta—North Line Extension. 
(4) Austin—NW/North Central/SE—Airport 
LRT. 
(5) Baltimore—Central LRT Extension to Glen 
Burnie. 
(6) Boston—Massport Airport Intermodal 
Transit Connector. 
(7) Boston—North Shore Blue Line Extension 
to Beverly. 
(8) Charlotte—South Corridor Transitway. 
(9) Chicago—Navy Pier-McCormick Place 
Busway. 
(10) Chicago—North Central Upgrade Commuter 
Rail. 
(11) Chicago—Ravenswood Line Extension. 
(12) Chicago—Southwest Extension. 
(13) Chicago—West Line Expansion. 
(14) Cleveland—Akron-Canton Commuter 
Rail. 
(15) Cleveland—Berea Metroline Extension. 
(16) Cleveland—Blue Line Extension. 
(17) Cleveland—Euclid Corridor Extension. 
(18) Cleveland—I–90 Corridor to Ashtabula 
County. 
(19) Cleveland—Waterfront Line Extension. 
(20) Dallas—North Central Extension. 
(21) Dallas—Ft. Worth RAILTRAN (Phase II). 
(22) Denver—East Corridor (Airport). 
(23) Denver—Southeast LRT (I–25 between 6th 
& Lincoln). 
(24) Denver—Southwest LRT. 
(25) Denver—West Corridor LRT. 
(26) East St. Louis-St. Clair County—Mid-
America Airport Corridor. 
(27) Ft. Lauderdale-West Palm Beach-Miami 
Tri-County Commuter Rail. 
(28) Galveston—Trolley Extension. 
(29) Hartford—Griffin Line. 
(30) Hollis—Ketchikan Ferry. 
(31) Houston—Regional Bus Plan—Phase I. 
(32) Kansas City—I–35 Commuter Rail. 
(33) Kansas City—Southtown Corridor. 
(34) Las Vegas Corridor. 
(35) Little Rock—River Rail. 
(36) Los Angeles—Metrolink San Bernadino 
Line. 
(37) Los Angeles—MOS–3. 

(38) Los Angeles—Metrolink (Union Station-
Fullerton). 
(39) Louisville—Jefferson County Corridor. 
(40) MARC—Commuter Rail Improvements. 
(41) Maryland Light Rail Double Track. 
(42) Memphis—Medical Center Extension. 
(43) Miami—East-West Corridor. 
(44) Miami—North 27th Avenue Corridor. 
(45) Miami—South Busway Extension. 
(46) Milwaukee—East-West Corridor. 
(47) Monterey County Commuter Rail. 
(48) Nashua, NH—Lowell, MA Commuter Rail. 
(49) Nashville—Commuter Rail. 
(50) New Orleans—Canal Streetcar. 
(51) New York—8th Avenue Subway Connector. 
(52) New York—Brooklyn—Staten Island 
Ferry. 
(53) New York—Long Island Railroad East 
Side Access. 
(54) New York—Staten Island Ferry—Whitehall 
Intermodal Terminal. 
(55) New York Susquehanna and Western 
Commuter Rail. 
(56) New Jersey Urban Core. 
(57) Norfolk—Virginia Beach Corridor. 
(58) Oklahoma City—MAPS Link. 
(59) Orange County—Fullerton—Irvine Corridor. 
(60) Orlando—I–4 Central Florida Light Rail 
System. 
(61) Philadelphia—Schuykill Valley Metro. 
(62) Phoenix—Fixed Guideway. 
(63) Colorado—Roaring Fork Valley Rail. 
(64) Pittsburgh Airborne Shuttle System. 
(65) Pittsburgh—MLK Busway Extension. 
(66) Portland—South-North Corridor. 
(67) Portland—Westside-Hillsboro Corridor. 
(68) Raleigh-Durham—Regional Transit Plan. 
(69) Sacramento—Folsom Extension. 
(70) Sacramento—Placer County Corridor. 
(71) Sacramento—South Corridor. 
(72) Salt Lake City—Light Rail (Airport to 
University of Utah). 
(73) Salt Lake City—Ogden-Provo Commuter 
Rail. 
(74) Salt Lake City—South LRT. 
(75) San Diego—Mid-Coast LRT Corridor. 
(76) San Diego—Mission Valley East Corridor. 
(77) San Diego—Oceanside—Escondido Corridor. 
(78) San Francisco—BART to San Francisco 
International Airport Extension. 
(79) San Francisco—Bayshore Corridor. 
(80) San Jose—Tasman Corridor Light Rail. 
(81) San Juan—Tren Urbano. 
(82) San Juan—Tren Urbano Extension to 
Minellas. 
(83) Santa Cruz—Fixed Guideway. 
(84) Seattle—Southworth High Speed Ferry. 
(85) Seattle—Sound Move Corridor. 
(86) South Boston—Piers Transitway. 
(87) St. Louis—Cross County Corridor. 
(88) Stockton—Altamont Commuter Rail. 
(89) Tampa Bay—Regional Rail. 
(90) Twin Cities—Northstar Commuter Rail 
(Northtown Hub, Anoka County—St. Cloud). 
(91) Twin Cities—Transitways Corridors. 
(92) Washington—Richmond Rail Corridor Improvements. 
(93) Washington, D.C.—Dulles Corridor Extension. 
(94) Washington, D.C.—Largo Extension. 
(95) West Trenton Line (West Trenton-Newark). 
(96) Westlake—Commuter Rail Link. 
(b) ALTERNATIVES ANALYSIS AND PRELIMINARY 
ENGINEERING.—The following projects are authorized 
for alternatives analysis and preliminary 
engineering for fiscal years 1998 through 

H1968 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

2003 under section 5309(m)(1)(B) of title 49, 
United States Code: 

(1) Albuquerque—High Capacity Corridor. 
(2) Atlanta—Georgia 400 Multimodal Corridor. 
(3) Atlanta—MARTA Extension (S. DeKalb-
Lindbergh). 
(4) Atlanta—MARTA I–285 Transit Corridor. 
(5) Atlanta—MARTA Marietta-Lawrenceville 
Corridor. 
(6) Atlanta—MARTA South DeKalb Comprehensive 
Transit Program. 
(7) Baltimore—Metropolitan Rail Corridor. 
(8) Baltimore—People Mover. 
(9) Bergen County Cross—County Light Rail. 
(10) Birmingham Transit Corridor. 
(11) Boston—Urban Ring. 
(12) Charleston—Monobeam. 
(13) Chicago—Cominsky Park Station. 
(14) Chicago—Inner Circumferential Commuter 
Rail. 
(15) Cumberland/Dauphin County Corridor 1 
Commuter Rail. 
(16) Dallas—DART LRT Extensions. 
(17) Dallas—Las Colinas Corridor. 
(18) Dayton—Regional Riverfront Corridor. 
(19) El Paso—International Fixed Guideway 
(El Paso-Juarez). 
(20) Fremont—South Bay Corridor. 
(21) Georgetown Branch (Bethesda-Silver 
Spring). 
(22) Houston—Advanced Transit Program. 
(23) Jacksonville—Fixed Guideway Corridor. 
(24) Kenosha-Racine—Milwaukee Rail Extension. 
(25) Knoxville—Electric Transit. 
(26) Lorain—Cleveland Commuter Rail. 
(27) Los Angeles—MOS–4 East Side Extension 
(II). 
(28) Los Angeles—MOS–4 San Fernando Valley 
East-West. 
(29) Los Angeles—LOSSAN (Del Mar-San 
Diego). 
(30) Maine High Speed Ferry Service. 
(31) Maryland Route 5 Corridor. 
(32) Memphis—Regional Rail Plan. 
(33) Miami—Kendall Corridor. 
(34) Miami—Northeast Corridor. 
(35) Miami—Palmetto Metrorail. 
(36) New Jersey Trans-Hudson Midtown Corridor. 
(37) New Orleans—Airport—CBD Commuter 
Rail. 
(38) New Orleans—Desire Streetcar. 
(39) New York—Astoria—East Elmhurst Extension. 
(40) New York—Broadway—Lafayette & 
Bleecker St Transfer. 
(41) New York—Brooklyn—Manhattan Access. 
(42) New York—Lower Manhattan Access. 
(43) New York—Manhattan East Side Link. 
(44) New York—Midtown West Intermodal 
Terminal. 
(45) New York—Nassau Hub. 
(46) New York—North Shore Railroad. 
(47) New York—Queens West Light Rail Link. 
(48) New York—St. George’s Ferry Intermodal 
Terminal. 
(49) Newburgh—LRT System. 
(50) North Front Range Corridor. 
(51) Northeast Indianapolis Corridor. 
(52) Oakland Airport—BART Connector. 
(53) Philadelphia—Broad Street Line Extension. 
(54) Philadelphia—Cross County Metro. 
(55) Philadelphia—Lower Marion Township. 
(56) Pinellas County—Mobility Initiative 
Project. 
(57) Pittsburgh—Stage II Light Rail Reconstruction. 
(58) Redlands—San Bernardino Transportation 
Corridor. 
(59) Riverside—Perris rail passenger service. 
(60) Salt Lake City—Draper Light Rail Extension. 
(61) Salt Lake City—West Jordan Light Rail 
Extension. 
(62) San Francisco—CalTrain Extension to 
Hollister. 
(63) Scranton—Laurel Line Intermodal Corridor. 
(64) SEATAC—Personal Rapid Transit. 
(65) Toledo—CBD to Zoo. 
(66) Union Township Station (Raritan Valley 
Line). 
(67) Washington County Corridor (Hastings-
St. Paul). 
(68) Washington, D.C.—Georgetown-Ft. Lincoln. 
(69) Williamsburg—Newport News-Hampton 
LRT. 
(70) Cincinnati/N. Kentucky—Northeast Corridor. 
(71) Northeast Ohio—commuter rail. 
(c) EFFECT OF AUTHORIZATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Projects authorized by subsection 
(a) for final design and construction are 
also authorized for alternatives analysis and 
preliminary engineering. 
(2) FIXED GUIDEWAY AUTHORIZATION.—The 
project authorized by subsection (a)(3) includes 
an additional 28 rapid rail cars and project 
scope changes from amounts authorized by the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991. 
(3) INTERMODAL CENTER AUTHORIZATION.— 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Huntington, West Virginia Intermodal Facility 
project is eligible for funding under section 
5309(m)(1)(C) of title 49, United States Code. 
(d) NEW JERSEY URBAN CORE PROJECT.— 
(1) ALLOCATIONS.—Section 3031(a) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2122) is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(3) ALLOCATIONS.— 

‘‘(A) RAIL CONNECTION BETWEEN PENN STATION 
NEWARK AND BROAD STREET STATION, NEWARK.— 
Of the amounts made available for the New Jersey 
Urban Core Project under section 
5309(m)(1)(B) of title 49, United States Code, for 
fiscal years 1998 through 2003, the Secretary 
shall set aside 10 percent, but not more than 
$5,000,000, per fiscal year for preliminary engineering, 
design, and construction of the rail 
connection between Penn Station, Newark and 
Broad Street Station, Newark. 

‘‘(B) NEWARK—NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT—
ELIZABETH TRANSIT LINK.—Of the 
amounts made available for the New Jersey 
Urban Core Project under section 5309(m)(1)(B) 
of title 49, United States Code, for fiscal years 
1998 through 2003, the Secretary, after making 
the set aside under subparagraph (A), shall set 
aside 10 percent, but not more than $5,000,000, 
per fiscal year for preliminary engineering, design, 
and construction of the Newark—Newark 
International Airport—Elizabeth Transit Link, 
including construction of the auxiliary New Jersey 
Transit station, described in subsection (d). 

‘‘(C) LIGHT RAIL CONNECTION AND ALIGNMENT 
WITHIN AND SERVING THE CITY OF ELIZABETH.— 
Of amounts made available for the New Jersey 
Urban Core Project under section 5309(m)(1)(B) 
of title 49, United States Code, for fiscal years 
1998 through 2003, the Secretary, after making 
the set-aside under subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
shall set aside 10 percent but not more than 
$5,000,000 per fiscal year for preliminary engineering, 
design, and construction of the light 
rail connection and alignment within and serving 
the city of Elizabeth as described in subsection 
(d).’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 3031(c) 
of such Act is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘section 3(i) of the Federal 
Transit Act (relating to criteria for new starts)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘section 5309(e) of title 49, United 
States Code,’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘; except’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘such element’’. 
(3) ELEMENTS OF NEW JERSEY URBAN CORE 
PROJECT.—Section 3031(d) of such Act is amended— 
(A) by inserting after ‘‘Secaucus Transfer’’ 
the following: ‘‘(including relocation and construction 
of the Bergen County and Pascack 
Valley Rail Lines and the relocation of the 
Main/Bergen Connection with construction of a 
rail station and associated components to and at 
the contiguous New Jersey Meadowlands Sports 
Complex)’’; 

(B) by striking ‘‘, Newark-Newark International 
Airport-Elizabeth Transit Link’’ and 
inserting the following: ‘‘(including a connection 
from the Vince Lombardi Station to 
Saddlebrook), Newark-Newark International 
Airport-Elizabeth Transit Link (including construction 
of an auxiliary New Jersey Light Rail 
Transit station directly connected to and integrated 
with the Amtrak Northeast Corridor Station 
at Newark International Airport, providing 
access from the Newark-Newark International 
Airport-Elizabeth Light Rail Transit Link to the 
Newark International Airport)’’; and 
(C) by inserting after ‘‘New York Penn Station 
Concourse,’’ the following: ‘‘the restoration 
of commuter rail service in Lakewood to Freehold 
to Matawan or Jamesburg, New Jersey, as 
described in section 3035(p) of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 
(105 Stat. 2131), a light rail extension of the 
Newark-Newark International Airport-Elizabeth 
Light Rail Transit Link from Elizabeth, New 
Jersey, to the towns of Cranford, Westfield, 
Fanwood, and Plainfield in Union County, New 
Jersey, and any appropriate light rail connections 
and alignments within the city of Elizabeth 
to be determined by the city of Elizabeth 
and the New Jersey Department of Transportation 
(and which shall include connecting midtown 
Elizabeth to Route 1 Park and Ride, the 
Elizabeth Car House Museum, Division Street, 
Singer Place, Ferry Terminal, Jersey Gardens 
Mall, Elizabeth Port to Lot D at Newark Airport) 
and any appropriate fixed guideway system 
in Passaic County,’’. 
SEC. 333. PROJECTS FOR BUS AND BUS-RELATED 
FACILITIES. 

Of the amounts made available to carry out 
section 5309(m)(1)(C) for each of fiscal years 
1999 and 2000, the Secretary shall make funds 
available for the following projects in not less 
than the amounts specified for the fiscal year: 

Project 
FY 1999 
(in millions) 
FY 2000 
(in millions) 
1. Albuquerque, NM 
buses ....................... 
2. Alexandria, VA 
bus maintenance fa1.250 
1.250 
cility ....................... 
3. Alexandria, VA 
King Street Station 
1.000 1.000 
access ...................... 
4. Altoona, PA 
Metro Transit Authority 
buses and 
transit system im1.100 
0.000 
provements .............. 
5. Altoona, PA 
Metro Transit Authority 
Logan Valley 
Mall Suburban 
0.842 0.842 
Transfer Center ....... 
6. DAltoona, PA 
Metro Transit Authority 
Transit Cen0.080 
0.000 
ter improvements ...... 
7. Arkansas Highway 
and Transit De0.424 
0.000 
partment buses ........ 
8. DArmstrong 
County-Mid County, 
PA bus facilities and 
0.200 0.000 
buses ....................... 
9. DAtlanta, GA 
0.150 0.150 
MARTA buses .......... 9.000 13.500 
10. Austin, TX buses 
11. Babylon, NY 
1.250 1.250 
Intermodal Center .... 1.250 1.250 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1969 

FY 1999 

FY 2000 

FY 1999 

FY 2000 
Project 

(in mil


(in mil-Project 

(in mil


(in millions) 


lions) 

lions) 

lions) 

12. Birmingham-Jef38. 
Erie, PA Metroferson 
County, AL 
politan Transit Au-
buses ....................... 

1.250 

1.250 thority buses ............ 
1.000 

1.000 

13. Boulder/Denver, 
39. Everett, WA 
CO RTD buses ......... 
0.625 

0.625 Multimodal Trans14. 
Bradford County, 
portation Center ...... 

1.950 

1.950 

Endless Mountain 

40. Fayette County, 
Transportation Au-
PA Intermodal Fa


thority buses ............ 

1.000 

0.000 cilities and buses ...... 
1.270 

1.270 

15. Brookhaven 
41. Fayetteville, AR 
Town, NY elderly 
University of Arkanand 
disabled buses 

sas Transit System 
and vans ................. 

0.225 

0.000 buses ....................... 
0.500 

0.000 

16. Brooklyn-Staten 
42. Fort Dodge, IA 
Island, NY Mobility 
Intermodal Facility 
Enhancement buses .. 

0.800 

0.000 (Phase II) ................ 
0.885 

0.885 

17. Broward County, 
43. Gary, IN Transit 
FL buses .................. 
1.000 

0.000 

Consortium buses ..... 

1.250 

1.250 

18. Buffalo, NY Au44. 
Grant County,
ditorium Intermodal 
WA buses and vans .. 

0.600 

0.000 
Center ..................... 

2.000 

2.000 

45. Greensboro, NC 
19. Buffalo, NY 
Multimodal Center ... 

3.340 

3.339 
Crossroads Inter


46. Greensboro, NC
modal Station .......... 

1.000 

0.000 

Transit Authority

20. Cambria County, 
buses ....................... 

1.500 

1.500 

PA bus facilities and 

47. Greensboro, NC
buses ....................... 

0.575 

0.575 

Transit Authority

21. Centre Area, PA 
small buses and vans 

0.321 

0.000 

Transportation Au


48. Hartford, CT
thority buses ............ 

1.250 

1.250 

Transportation Ac


22. Chambersburg, 
cess Project .............. 

0.800 

0.000 

PA Transit Authority 

49. Healdsburg, CA
buses ....................... 

0.300 

0.000 

Intermodal Facility .. 

1.000 

1.000 

23. DChambersburg, 
50. Honolulu, HI bus
PA Transit Authority 

facility and buses ..... 

2.250 

2.250

Intermodal Center .... 

1.000 

0.000 

51. Hot Springs, AR
24. Chatham, GA 
Transportation Depot

Downtown Transfer 

and Plaza ................ 

0.560 

0.560

Center, Multimodal 

52. Humboldt, CA
Circulator and 

Intermodal Facility .. 

1.000 

0.000

Southside Transit 

53. Huntington, WV
Center ..................... 

1.250 

1.250 

Intermodal Facility .. 

8.000 

12.000

25. Chester County, 
54. Illinois statewide
PA Paoli Transpor


buses and bus-related

tation Center ........... 

1.000 

1.000 

equipment ................ 

6.800 

8.200

26. Clark County, 
55. Indianapolis, IN
NV Regional Trans-

buses ....................... 

5.000 

5.000

portation Commission 
buses ....................... 

56. Iowa/Illinois 
Transit Consortium 
1.250 

1.250 

27. Cleveland, OH 
bus safety and secu-

Triskett Garage bus 

rity ......................... 

1.000 

1.000

maintenance facility 

0.625 

0.625 

57. Ithaca, NY TCAT 
PA Transportation 
28. Crawford Area, 
bus technology imbuses 
....................... 

provements .............. 

1.250 

1.250

0.500 

0.000 

58. Lackawanna 
CityBus buses .......... 
29. Culver City, CA 
County, PA Transit 
System buses ............ 

1.250 

1.250 

0.600 

0.600

30. Davis, CA 
Unitrans transit 
59. Lakeland, FL 
maintenance facility 
Citrus Connection

0.625 

0.625 

transit vehicles and 
Multimodal Trans


31. Dayton, OH 
related equipment .... 

1.250 

1.250 
portation Center ...... 

0.625 60. Lane County, OR
0.625 

Bus Rapid Transit ... 

4.400 

4.400 
Intermodal Center .... 

32. Daytona, FL 
2.500 61. Lansing, MI
2.500 

CATA bus technology 
Transit Authority 

33. Duluth, MN 
improvements ........... 

0.600 

0.000 
community circula


62. Little Rock, AR 
tion vehicles ............ 
1.000 Central Arkansas
1.000 

Transit buses ........... 

0.300 

0.000 
Transit Authority in


34. Duluth, MN 
63. Livermore, CA 
telligent transporautomatic 
vehicle lotation 
systems .......... 

0.500 cator ....................... 
1.000 

1.000

0.500 

64. Long Island, NY 
Transit Authority 
35. Duluth, MN 
CNG transit vehicles 
Transit Hub ............. 

0.500 and facilities ............ 
1.250 

1.250

0.500 

65. Los Angeles 
NY Loop System 
36. Dutchess County, 
County, CA Foothill 
buses ....................... 

0.521 Transit buses ........... 
1.625 

1.625

0.521 

37. East Hampton, 
66. Los Angeles 
NY elderly and dis-
County, CA MTOC 
abled buses and vans 

0.100 

0.000 buses ....................... 
1.000 

1.000 

FY 1999 

FY 2000 
Project 

(in mil


(in millions) 


lions) 

67. Los Angeles, CA 
San Fernando Valley 
smart shuttle buses .. 
0.300 

0.000 

68. Los Angeles, CA 
Union Station Gateway 
Intermodal 
Transit Center ......... 
1.250 

1.250 

69. Louisiana statewide 
bus facilities 
and buses ................ 
8.000 

12.000 

70. Maryland statewide 
bus facilities 
and buses ................ 
7.000 

11.500 

71. Mercer County, 
PA buses ................. 
0.750 

0.000 

72. Miami Beach, FL 
Electric Shuttle Service 
........................... 
0.750 

0.750 

73. Miami-Dade, FL 
buses ....................... 
1.750 

1.750 

74. Michigan statewide 
buses ............... 
10.000 

13.500 

75. Milwaukee County, 
WI buses ............ 
4.000 

6.000 

76. Mineola/Hicksville, 
NY LIRR Inter-
modal Centers .......... 
1.250 

1.250 

77. Mobile, AL 
GM&O Intermodal 
Facility ................... 
0.750 

0.000 

78. Modesto, CA bus 
maintenance facility 
0.625 

0.625 

79. Monroe County, 
PA Transportation 
Authority buses ....... 
1.000 

0.000 

80. Monterey, CA 
Monterey-Salinas 
buses ....................... 
0.625 

0.625 

81. Morango Basin, 
CA Transit Authority 
bus facility .............. 
0.650 

0.000 

82. New Haven, CT 
bus facility .............. 
2.250 

2.250 

83. New Jersey Transit 
jitney shuttle 
buses ....................... 
1.750 

1.750 

84. Newark, NJ Morris 
& Essex Station 
access and buses ...... 
1.250 

1.250 

85. Northstar Corridor, 
MN Intermodal 
Facilities and buses .. 
6.000 

10.000 

86. Norwalk, CA 
transit facility ......... 
0.500 

0.500 

87. Norwich, CT 
buses ....................... 
2.250 

2.250 

88. Ogden, UT Inter-
modal Center ........... 
0.800 

0.800 

89. Oklahoma statewide 
bus facilities 
and buses ................ 
5.000 

5.000 

90. Orlando, FL 
Downtown Inter-
modal Facility ......... 
2.500 

2.500 

91. Palm Springs, CA 
fuel cell buses .......... 
1.000 

1.000 

92. Perris, CA bus 
maintenance facility 
1.250 

1.250 

93. Philadelphia, PA 
Frankford Transportation 
Center ........... 
5.000 

5.000 

94. Philadelphia, PA 
Intermodal 30th 
Street Station .......... 
1.250 

1.250 

95. Portland, OR Tri-
Met buses ................ 
1.750 

1.750 

96. Pritchard, AL 
bus transfer facility 
0.500 

0.000 

97. Reading, PA 
BARTA Intermodal 
Transportation Facility 
........................... 
1.750 

1.750 


H1970 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

FY 1999 
Project (in mil-
FY 2000 
(in millions) 
lions) 
98. Red Rose, PA 
Transit Bus Terminal 1.000 0.000 
99. Richmond, VA 
GRTC bus maintenance 
facility .......... 1.250 1.250 
100. Riverhead, NY elderly 
and disabled 
buses and vans ........ 0.125 0.000 
101. Robinson, PA 
Towne Center Inter-
modal Facility ......... 1.500 1.500 
102. Rome, NY Inter-
modal Center ........... 0.400 0.000 
103. Sacramento, CA 
CNG buses ............... 1.000 0.000 
104. San Francisco, 
CA Islais Creek 
Maintenance Facility 1.250 1.250 
105. San Juan, Puerto 
Rico Intermodal access 
......................... 0.600 0.600 
106. Santa Clarita, CA 
facilities and buses ... 1.250 1.250 
107. Santa Cruz, CA 
bus facility .............. 0.625 0.625 
108. Santa Rosa/ 
Cotati, CA Inter-
modal Transportation 
Facilities ....... 0.750 0.750 
109. Seattle, WA 
Intermodal Transportation 
Terminal ....... 1.250 1.250 
110. Shelter Island, 
NY elderly and disabled 
buses and vans 0.100 0.000 
111. Smithtown, NY 
elderly and disabled 
buses and vans ........ 0.125 0.000 
112. Somerset County, 
PA bus facilities and 
buses ....................... 0.175 0.175 
113. South Amboy, NJ 
Regional Intermodal 
Transportation Initiative 
..................... 1.250 1.250 
114. South Bend, IN 
Urban Intermodal 
Transportation Facility 
........................... 1.250 1.250 
115. South Carolina 
statewide Virtual 
Transit Enterprise .... 1.220 1.220 
116. South Dakota 
statewide bus facilities 
and buses .......... 1.500 1.500 
117. Southampton, NY 
elderly and disabled 
buses and vans ........ 0.125 0.000 
118. Southold, NY elderly 
and disabled 
buses and vans ........ 0.100 0.000 
119. Springfield, MA 
Union Station .......... 1.250 1.250 
120. St. Louis, MO Bistate 
Intermodal Center 
........................... 1.250 1.250 
121. Stapleton, CO 
Intermodal Center .... 1.250 1.250 
122. Suffolk County, 
NY elderly and disabled 
buses and vans 0.100 0.000 
123. Texas statewide 
small urban and 
rural buses .............. 4.000 4.500 
124. Towamencin 
Township, PA Inter-
modal Bus Transportation 
Center ........... 1.500 1.500 
125. Tuscaloosa, AL 
Intermodal Center .... 1.000 0.000 
126. Tuscon, AZ 
Intermodal Center .... 1.250 1.250 


FY 1999 

FY 2000 
Project 

(in mil


(in millions) 


lions) 

127. Ukiah, CA Transportation 
Center ...... 
0.500 

0.000 

128. Utah Transit Authority, 
UT Inter-
modal Facilities ....... 
1.500 

1.500 

129. Utah Transit Authority/
Park City 
Transit, UT buses .... 
6.500 

6.500 

130. Utica, NY Union 
Station .................... 
2.100 

2.100 

131. Utica and Rome, 
NY bus facilities and 
buses ....................... 
0.500 

0.000 

132. Washington 
County, PA Inter-
modal Facilities ....... 
0.630 

0.630 

133. Washington, D.C. 
Intermodal Transportation 
Center ........... 
2.500 

2.500 

134. Washoe County, 
NV transit improvements 
...................... 
1.250 

1.250 

135. Waterbury, CT 
bus facility .............. 
2.250 

2.250 

136. West Virginia 
statewide Intermodal 
Facility and buses .... 
5.000 

5.000 

137. Westchester 
County, NY Bee-Line 
transit system 
fareboxes ................. 
0.979 

0.979 

138. Westchester 
County, NY Bee-Line 
transit system shuttle 
buses ....................... 
1.000 

1.000 

139. Westchester 
County, NY DOT articulated 
buses ......... 
1.250 

1.250 

140. Westmoreland 
County, PA Inter-
modal Facility ......... 
0.200 

0.200 

141. Wilkes-Barre, PA 
Intermodal Facility .. 
1.250 

1.250 

142. Williamsport, PA 
buses ....................... 
1.200 

1.200 

143. Windsor, CA 
Intermodal Facility .. 
0.750 

0.750 

144. Wisconsin statewide 
bus facilities 
and buses ................ 
8.000 

12.000 

145. Woodland Hills, 
CA Warner Center 
Transportation Hub 
0.325 

0.625 

146. Worcester, MA 
Union Station Inter-
modal Transportation 
Center ........... 
2.500 

2.500 

147. Lynchburg, VA 
buses ....................... 
0.200 

0.000 

148. Harrisonburg, VA 
buses ....................... 
0.200 

0.000 

149. Roanoke, VA 
buses ....................... 
0.200 

0.000 

SEC. 334. PROJECT MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study of the Secretary of Transportation’s 
implementation of project management 
oversight under section 5327 of title 49, United 
States Code. 
(b) CONTENTS.—The study shall include the 
following: 
(1) A listing of the amounts made available 
under section 5327(c)(1) of title 49, United States 
Code, for project management oversight in each 
of fiscal years 1992 through 1997 and a description 
of the activities funded using such 
amounts. 
(2) A description of the major capital projects 
subject to project management oversight, including 
the grant amounts for such projects. 
(3) A description of the contracts entered into 
for project management oversight, including the 
scope of work and dollar amounts of such contracts. 


(4) A determination of whether the project 
management oversight activities conducted by 
the Secretary are authorized under section 5327. 
(5) A description of any cost savings or program 
improvements resulting from project management 
oversight. 
(6) Recommendations regarding any changes 
that would improve the project management 
oversight function. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 12 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall transmit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
Senate a report containing the results of the 
study. 
SEC. 335. PRIVATIZATION. 

(a) STUDY.—Not later than 3 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall enter into an agreement with the Transportation 
Research Board of the National Academy 
of Sciences to conduct a study of the effect 
of privatization or contracting out mass transportation 
operation and administrative functions 
on cost, availability and level of service, 
efficiency, safety, quality of services provided to 
transit-dependent populations, and employer-
employee relations. 
(b) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—The agreement 
entered into in subsection (a) shall provide 
that— 
(1) the Transportation Research Board, in 
conducting the study, consider the number of 
grant recipients that have privatized or contracted 
out services, the size of the population 
served by such grant recipients, the basis for decisions 
regarding privatization or contracting 
out, and the extent to which contracting out 
was affected by the integration and coordination 
of resources of transit agencies and other 
Federal agencies and programs; and 
(2) the panel conducting the study shall include 
representatives of transit agencies, employees 
of transit agencies, private contractors, 
academic and policy analysts, and other interested 
persons. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 24 months after 
the date of entry into the agreement under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall transmit to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
of the Senate a report containing the results 
of the study. 
(d) FUNDING.—There shall be available from 
the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust 
Fund to carry out this section $200,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, subject to the obligation limitation set 
forth in section 329(b). 
(e) CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION.—Entry into an 
agreement to carry out this section that is financed 
with amounts made available under subsection 
(c) is a contractual obligation of the 
United States to pay the Government’s share of 
the cost of the study. 
SEC. 336. SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY. 

(a) STUDY.—Not later than 3 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall enter into an agreement with the Transportation 
Research Board of the National Academy 
of Sciences to conduct a study of the safety 
issues attendant to transportation of school 
children to and from school and school-related 
activities by various transportation modes. 
(b) TERMS OF AGREEMENT.—The agreement 
entered into in subsection (a) shall provide 
that— 
(1) the Transportation Research Board, in 
conducting the study, consider— 
(A) in consultation with the National Transportation 
Safety Board, the Bureau of Transportation 
Statistics, and other relevant entities, 
available crash injury data, and if unavailable 
or insufficient, recommend a new data collection 
regimen and implementation guidelines; and 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1971 

(B) vehicle design and driver training requirements, 
routing, and operational factors that affect 
safety and other factors that the Secretary 
considers appropriate; and 
(2) the panel conducting the study shall include 
representatives of highway safety organizations, 
school transportation, mass transportation 
operators, employee organizations, bicycling 
organizations, academic and policy analysts, 
and other interested parties. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 12 months after 
the date of entry into the agreement under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall transmit to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
of the Senate a report containing the results 
of the study. 
(d) FUNDING.—There shall be available from 
the Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust 
Fund to carry out this section $200,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, subject to the obligation limitation set 
forth in section 329(b). 
(e) CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION.—Entry into an 
agreement to carry out this section that is financed 
with amounts made available under subsection 
(c) is a contractual obligation of the 
United States to pay the Government’s share of 
the cost of the study. 
SEC. 337. URBANIZED AREA FORMULA STUDY. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study to determine whether the current formula 
for apportioning funds to urbanized areas accurately 
reflects the transit needs of the urbanized 
areas and if not whether any changes should be 
made either to the formula or through some 
other mechanism to reflect the fact that some 
urbanized areas with a population between 
50,000 and 200,000 have transit systems that 
carry more passengers per mile or hour than the 
average of those transit systems in urbanized 
areas with a population over 200,000. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than December 31, 
1999, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
Senate a report on the results of the study conducted 
under this section together with any proposed 
changes to the method for apportioning 
funds to urbanized areas with a population over 
50,000. 
SEC. 338. COORDINATED TRANSPORTATION SERVICES. 


(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study of Federal departments and 
agencies (other than the Department of Transportation) 
that receive Federal financial assistance 
for non-emergency transportation services. 
(b) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study, the 
Comptroller General shall— 
(1) identify each Federal department and 
agency (other than the Department of Transportation) 
that has received Federal financial assistance 
for non-emergency transportation services 
in any of the 3 fiscal years preceding the 
date of the enactment of this Act; 
(2) identify the amount of such assistance received 
by each Federal department and agency 
in such fiscal years; and 
(3) identify the projects and activities funded 
using such financial assistance. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall transmit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
a report containing the results of the study and 
any recommendations for enhanced coordination 
between the Department of Transportation 
and other Federal departments and agencies 
that provide funding for non-emergency transportation. 
SEC. 339. FINAL ASSEMBLY OF BUSES. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study to review monitoring by the 
Federal Transit Administration of preaward and 
post-delivery audits for compliance with the requirements 
for final assembly of buses of section 
5323(j) of title 49, United States Code. 

(b) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall transmit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
Senate a report containing the results of the 
study. 
TITLE IV—MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY 

SEC. 401. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 49, UNITED 
STATES CODE. 

Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
whenever in this title an amendment or repeal is 
expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision of law, the 
reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of title 49, United 
States Code. 

SEC. 402. STATE GRANTS. 

(a) OBJECTIVE AND DEFINITIONS.—Section 
31101 is amended— 
(1) by striking 
‘‘§ 31101. Definitions’’ 

and inserting the following: 

‘‘§ 31101. Objective and definitions’’; 

(2) in paragraph (1)(A)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or gross vehicle weight’’ 
after ‘‘rating’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘10,000 pounds’’ and inserting 
‘‘10,001 pounds, whichever is greater’’; 
(3) in paragraph (1)(C) by inserting ‘‘and 
transported in a quantity requiring placarding 
under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
under section 5103’’ after ‘‘title’’; 
(4) by striking ‘‘In this subchapter—’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this subchapter the following 
definitions apply:’’; and 

(5) by inserting after the section heading the 
following: 
‘‘(a) OBJECTIVE.—The objective of this sub-
chapter is to ensure that the Secretary, States, 
and other political jurisdictions establish programs 
to improve motor carrier, commercial 
motor vehicle, and driver safety to support a 
safe and efficient transportation system by— 

‘‘(1) promoting safe for-hire and private transportation, 
including transportation of passengers 
and hazardous materials, to reduce the 
number and severity of commercial motor vehicle 
crashes; 

‘‘(2) developing and enforcing effective, compatible, 
and cost-beneficial motor carrier, commercial 
motor vehicle, and driver safety regulations 
and practices, including enforcement of 
State and local traffic safety laws and regulations; 


‘‘(3) assessing and improving statewide program 
performance by setting program outcome 
goals, improving problem identification and 
countermeasures planning, designing appropriate 
performance standards, measures, and 
benchmarks, improving performance information, 
and monitoring program effectiveness; 

‘‘(4) ensuring that drivers of commercial motor 
vehicles and enforcement personnel obtain adequate 
training in safe operational practices and 
regulatory requirements; and 

‘‘(5) advancing promising technologies and 
encouraging adoption of safe operational practices.’’. 


(b) PERFORMANCE-BASED GRANTS AND HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION SAFETY.— 
Section 31102 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘improving motor carrier 
safety and’’ after ‘‘programs for’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘, hazardous material transportation 
safety,’’ after ‘‘commercial motor vehicle 
safety’’; and 
(2) in the first sentence of paragraph (b)(1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘adopt and assume responsibility 
for enforcing’’ and inserting ‘‘assume responsibility 
for improving motor carrier safety 
and to adopt and enforce’’; and 

(B) by inserting ‘‘, hazardous material transportation 
safety,’’ after ‘‘commercial motor vehicle 
safety’’. 
(c) CONTENTS OF STATE PLANS.—Section 
31102(b)(1) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (J) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ 
after ‘‘(c)’’; 
(2) by striking subparagraphs (K), (L), (M), 
and (N) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(K) ensures consistent, effective, and reasonable 
sanctions; 
‘‘(L) ensures that the State agency will coordinate 
the plan, data collection, and information 
systems with State highway safety programs 
under title 23; 

‘‘(M) ensures participation in motor carrier, 
commercial motor vehicle, and driver information 
systems by all appropriate jurisdictions receiving 
funding under this section; 

‘‘(N) implements performance-based activities 
by fiscal year 2003;’’; 

(3) in subparagraph (O)— 
(A) by inserting after ‘‘activities’’ the following: 
‘‘in support of national priorities and performance 
goals, including’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘to remove’’ in clause (i) and 
inserting ‘‘activities aimed at removing’’; 
(C) by striking ‘‘to provide’’ in clause (ii) and 
inserting ‘‘activities aimed at providing’’; and 
(D) by inserting ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon at 
the end of clause (ii); and 
(E) by striking clauses (iii) and (iv) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(iii) interdiction activities affecting the 
transportation of controlled substances by commercial 
motor vehicle drivers and training on 
appropriate strategies for carrying out those 
interdiction activities;’’; 

(4) by striking subparagraph (P) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(P) provides that the State will establish a 
program to ensure the proper and timely correction 
of commercial motor vehicle safety violations 
noted during an inspection carried out 
with funds authorized under section 31104;’’; 

(5) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
(Q) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(6) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(R) ensures that roadside inspections will be 
conducted only at a distance that is adequate to 
protect the safety of drivers and enforcement 
personnel.’’. 

(d) UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT’S SHARE OF 
COSTS.—The first sentence of section 31103 is 
amended by inserting ‘‘improve commercial 
motor vehicle safety and’’ before ‘‘enforce’’. 
(e) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—Section 
31104(a) of such title is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The following amounts are 
made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account) for the 
Secretary of Transportation to incur obligations 
to carry out section 31102: 

‘‘(1) Not more than $78,000,000 for fiscal year 
1998. 
‘‘(2) Not more than $110,000,000 for fiscal year 
1999. 
‘‘(3) Not more than $130,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2000 through 2003.’’ 

(f) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
31104(b) is amended by striking ‘‘(1)’’ and by 
striking paragraph (2). 
(g) ALLOCATION CRITERIA AND ELIGIBILITY.— 
Section 31104 is further amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (f) and (g) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(f) ALLOCATION CRITERIA AND ELIGIBILITY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On October 1 of each fiscal 

year or as soon after that date as practicable 
and after making the deduction under subsection 
(e), the Secretary shall allocate amounts 
made available to carry out section 31102 for 
such fiscal year among the States with plans 
approved under section 31102. Such allocation 
shall be made under such criteria as the Secretary 
prescribes by regulation. 


H1972 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

‘‘(2) HIGH-PRIORITY ACTIVITIES AND 
PROJECTS.—The Secretary may designate up to 5 
percent of amounts available for allocation 
under paragraph (1) to reimburse— 

‘‘(A) States for carrying out high priority activities 
and projects that improve commercial 
motor vehicle safety and compliance with commercial 
motor vehicle safety regulations, including 
activities and projects that are national in 
scope, increase public awareness and education, 
or demonstrate new technologies; and 

‘‘(B) local governments and other persons that 
use trained and qualified officers and employees, 
for carrying out activities and projects described 
in subparagraph (A) in coordination 
with State motor vehicle safety agencies.’’; 

(2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection 
(g); 
(3) by striking subsection (i); 
(4) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection 
(h); and 
(5) in the first sentence of subsection (h), as so 
redesignated, by striking ‘‘tolerance’’. 
(h) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 311 is amended by striking 
the item relating to section 31101 and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘31101. Objective and definitions.’’. 

SEC. 403. INFORMATION SYSTEMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 31106 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 31106. Information systems 

‘‘(a) INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DATA ANALYSIS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the provisions of 
this section, the Secretary shall establish and 
operate motor carrier, commercial motor vehicle, 
and driver information systems and data analysis 
programs to support safety activities required 
under this title. 

‘‘(2) COORDINATION INTO NETWORK.—In cooperation 
with the States, the information systems 
under this section shall be coordinated into 
a network providing identification of motor carriers 
and drivers, commercial motor vehicle registration 
and license tracking, and motor carrier, 
commercial motor vehicle, and driver safety 
performance data. 

‘‘(3) DATA ANALYSIS CAPACITY AND PROGRAMS.—
The Secretary shall develop and maintain 
under this section data analysis capacity 
and programs that provide the means to— 

‘‘(A) identify and collect necessary motor carrier, 
commercial motor vehicle, and driver data; 

‘‘(B) evaluate the safety fitness of motor carriers, 
commercial motor vehicles, and drivers; 

‘‘(C) develop strategies to mitigate safety problems 
and to measure the effectiveness of such 
strategies and related programs; 

‘‘(D) determine the cost-effectiveness of Federal 
and State safety and enforcement programs 
and other countermeasures; and 

‘‘(E) adapt, improve, and incorporate other 
information and information systems as the Secretary 
determines appropriate. 

‘‘(4) STANDARDS.—To implement this section, 
the Secretary may prescribe technical and operational 
standards to ensure— 

‘‘(A) uniform, timely, and accurate information 
collection and reporting by the States and 
other entities; 

‘‘(B) uniform Federal, State, and local policies 
and procedures; and 

‘‘(C) the reliability and availability of the information 
to the Secretary, States, and others as 
the Secretary determines appropriate. 

‘‘(b) PERFORMANCE AND REGISTRATION INFORMATION 
PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE.—The Secretary 
shall include, as part of the information 
systems authorized by this section, a program to 
establish and maintain a clearinghouse and repository 
of information related to State registration 
and licensing of commercial motor vehicles 
and the motor carriers operating the vehicles. 
The clearinghouse and repository shall include 
information on the safety fitness of each motor 

carrier and registrant and other information the 
Secretary considers appropriate, including information 
on motor carrier, commercial motor 
vehicle, and driver safety performance. 

‘‘(2) DESIGN.—The program shall link Federal 
safety information systems with State registration 
and licensing systems and shall be designed 
to enable a State to— 

‘‘(A) determine the safety fitness of a motor 
carrier or registrant when licensing or registering 
the motor carrier or commercial motor vehicle 
or while the license or registration is in effect; 
and 

‘‘(B) decide, in cooperation with the Secretary, 
whether and what types of sanctions or 
operating limitations to impose on the motor 
carrier or registrant to ensure safety. 

‘‘(3) CONDITIONS FOR PARTICIPATION.—The 
Secretary shall require States, as a condition of 
participation in the program, to— 

‘‘(A) comply with the technical and operational 
standards prescribed by the Secretary 
under subsection (a)(4); and 

‘‘(B) possess or seek authority to impose commercial 
motor vehicle registration sanctions or 
operating limitations on the basis of a Federal 
safety fitness determination. 

‘‘(4) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
under section 31107, not more than 
$6,000,000 in each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003 may be used to carry out this subsection. 

‘‘(c) COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVER 
SAFETY PROGRAM.—In coordination with the information 
system under section 31309, the Secretary 
is authorized to establish a program to 
improve commercial motor vehicle driver safety. 
The objectives of the program shall include— 

‘‘(1) enhancing the exchange of driver licensing 
information among the States and among 
the States, the Federal Government, and foreign 
countries; 

‘‘(2) providing information to the judicial system 
on commercial motor vehicle drivers; 

‘‘(3) evaluating any aspect of driver performance 
that the Secretary determines appropriate; 
and 

‘‘(4) developing appropriate strategies and 
countermeasures to improve driver safety. 

‘‘(d) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS, GRANTS, AND 
CONTRACTS.—The Secretary may carry out this 
section either independently or in cooperation 
with other Federal departments, agencies, and 
instrumentalities, or by making grants to, and 
entering into contracts and cooperative agreements 
with, States, local governments, associations, 
institutions, corporations, and other persons. 


‘‘(e) INFORMATION AVAILABILITY AND PRIVACY 
PROTECTION.— 

‘‘(1) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—The 
Secretary shall make data collected in systems 
and through programs under this section available 
to the public to the maximum extent permissible 
under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 
552a) and the Freedom of Information Act (5 
U.S.C. 552). 

‘‘(2) REVIEW OF DATA.—The Secretary shall 
allow individuals and motor carriers to whom 
the data pertains to review periodically such 
data and to request corrections or clarifications. 

‘‘(3) STATE AND LOCAL OFFICIALS.—State and 
local safety and enforcement officials shall have 
access to data made available under this subsection 
to the same extent as Federal safety and 
enforcement officials.’’. 

(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 
31107 is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘§ 31107. Authorization of appropriations for 
information systems 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There shall be available 
from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account) to carry out sections 
31106 and 31309 of this title— 

‘‘(1) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; 

‘‘(2) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; and 

‘‘(3) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 
through 2003. 

The amounts made available under this subsection 
shall remain available until expended. 

‘‘(b) CONTRACT AUTHORITY.—Approval by the 
Secretary of a grant with funds made available 
under this section imposes upon the United 
States Government a contractual obligation for 
payment of the Government’s share of costs incurred 
in carrying out the objectives of the 
grant.’’. 

(c) SUBCHAPTER HEADING.—The heading for 
subchapter I of chapter 311 is amended by inserting 
after ‘‘GRANTS’’ the following: ‘‘AND 
OTHER COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE 
PROGRAMS’’. 
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—The table of 
sections for chapter 311 is amended— 
(1) by striking 
‘‘SUBCHAPTER I—STATE GRANTS’’ 
and inserting 
‘‘SUBCHAPTER I—STATE GRANTS AND 

OTHER COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE 
PROGRAMS’’; 

(2) by striking the item relating to section 
31106 and inserting the following: 
‘‘31106. Information systems.’’; and 

(3) by striking the item relating to section 
31107 and inserting the following: 
‘‘31107. Authorization of appropriations for information 
systems.’’. 

SEC. 404. AUTOMOBILE TRANSPORTER DEFINED. 

Section 31111(a) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘section—’’ and inserting ‘‘section, 
the following definitions apply:’’; 
(2) by inserting after ‘‘(1)’’ the following: 
‘‘MAXI-CUBE VEHICLE.—The term’’; 
(3) by inserting after ‘‘(2)’’ the following: 
‘‘TRUCK TRACTOR.—The term’’; 
(4) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and 
(5) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so re-
designated, the following: 
‘‘(1) AUTOMOBILE TRANSPORTER.—The term 
‘automobile transporter’ means any vehicle combination 
designed and used specifically for the 
transport of assembled highway vehicles.’’. 

SEC. 405. INSPECTIONS AND REPORTS. 

(a) GENERAL POWERS OF THE SECRETARY.— 
Section 31133(a)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘and 
make contracts for’’ after ‘‘conduct’’. 
(b) REPORTS AND RECORDS.—Section 504(c) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘(and, in the case of a 
motor carrier, a contractor)’’ before the second 
comma. 
SEC. 406. EXEMPTIONS AND PILOT PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 31315 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 31315. Exemptions and pilot programs 

‘‘(a) EXEMPTIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon receipt of a request 
pursuant to paragraph (3), the Secretary of 
Transportation may grant to a person or class 
of persons an exemption from a regulation prescribed 
under this chapter or section 31136 if the 
Secretary finds such exemption would likely 
achieve a level of safety equal to or greater than 
the level that would be achieved absent such exemption. 
An exemption may be granted for no 
longer than 2 years from its approval date and 
may be renewed upon application to the Secretary. 


‘‘(2) AUTHORITY TO REVOKE EXEMPTION.—The 
Secretary shall immediately revoke an exemption 
if the person fails to comply with the terms 
and conditions of such exemption or if continuation 
of the exemption would not be consistent 
with the goals and objectives of this chapter or 
section 31136, as the case may be. 

‘‘(3) REQUESTS FOR EXEMPTION.—Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this section and after notice and an opportunity 
for public comment, the Secretary shall specify 
by regulation the procedures by which a person 
may request an exemption. Such regulations 
shall, at a minimum, require the person to provide 
the following information for each exemption 
request: 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1973 

‘‘(A) The provisions from which the person requests 
exemption. 

‘‘(B) The time period during which the exemption 
would apply. 

‘‘(C) An analysis of the safety impacts the exemption 
may cause. 

‘‘(D) The specific countermeasures the person 
would undertake, if the exemption were granted, 
to ensure an equal or greater level of safety 
than would be achieved absent the exemption. 

‘‘(4) NOTICE AND COMMENT.— 

‘‘(A) UPON RECEIPT OF A REQUEST.—Upon receipt 
of an exemption request, the Secretary 
shall publish in the Federal Register a notice explaining 
the request that has been filed and 
shall give the public an opportunity to inspect 
the safety analysis and any other relevant information 
known to the Secretary and to comment 
on the request. This subparagraph does 
not require the release of information protected 
by law from public disclosure. 

‘‘(B) UPON GRANTING A REQUEST.—Upon 
granting a request for exemption, the Secretary 
shall publish in the Federal Register the name 
of the person granted the exemption, the provisions 
from which the person will be exempt, the 
effective period, and all terms and conditions of 
the exemption. 

‘‘(C) UPON DENYING A REQUEST.—Upon denying 
a request for exemption, the Secretary shall 
publish in the Federal Register the name of the 
person denied the exemption and the reasons for 
such denial. 

‘‘(5) APPLICATIONS TO BE DEALT WITH PROMPT-
LY.—The Secretary shall grant or deny an exemption 
request after a thorough review of its 
safety implications, but in no case later than 180 
days after the filing date of such request, or the 
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register 
the reason for the delay in the decision and an 
estimate of when the decision will be made. 

‘‘(6) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The Secretary 
shall establish terms and conditions for each exemption 
to ensure that it will likely achieve a 
level of safety equal to or greater than the level 
that would be achieved absent such exemption. 
The Secretary shall monitor the implementation 
of the exemption to ensure compliance with its 
terms and conditions. 

‘‘(7) NOTIFICATION OF STATE COMPLIANCE AND 
ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.—Before granting a 
request for exemption, the Secretary shall notify 
State safety compliance and enforcement personnel, 
including roadside inspectors, and the 
public that a person will be operating pursuant 
to an exemption and any terms and conditions 
that will apply to the exemption. 

‘‘(b) PILOT PROGRAMS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may conduct 
pilot programs to evaluate innovative approaches 
to motor carrier, vehicle, and driver 
safety. Such pilot programs may include exemptions 
from a regulation prescribed under this 
chapter or section 31136 if the pilot program 
contains, at a minimum, the elements described 
in paragraph (2). The Secretary shall publish in 
the Federal Register a detailed description of 
the program and the exemptions to be considered 
and provide notice and an opportunity for 
public comment before the effective date of any 
exemptions. 

‘‘(2) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.—In proposing a 
pilot program and before granting exemptions 
for purposes of a pilot program, the Secretary 
shall include, at a minimum, the following elements 
in each pilot program plan: 

‘‘(A) A program scheduled life of not more 
than 3 years. 

‘‘(B) A scientifically valid methodology and 
study design, including a specific data collection 
and analysis plan, that identifies appropriate 
control groups for comparison. 

‘‘(C) The fewest participants necessary to 
yield statistically valid findings. 

‘‘(D) Observance of appropriate ethical protocols 
for the use of human subjects in field experiments. 


‘‘(E) An oversight plan to ensure that participants 
comply with the terms and conditions of 
participation. 

‘‘(F) Adequate countermeasures to protect the 
health and safety of study participants and the 
general public. 

‘‘(G) A plan to inform State partners and the 
public about the pilot program and to identify 
approved participants to safety compliance and 
enforcement personnel and to the public. 

‘‘(3) AUTHORITY TO REVOKE PARTICIPATION.— 
The Secretary shall immediately revoke participation 
in a pilot program of a motor carrier, vehicle, 
or driver for failure to comply with the 
terms and conditions of the pilot program or if 
continued participation would not be consistent 
with the goals and objectives of this chapter or 
section 31136, as the case may be. 

‘‘(4) AUTHORITY TO TERMINATE PROGRAM.— 
The Secretary shall immediately terminate a 
pilot program if its continuation would not be 
consistent with the goals and objectives of this 
chapter or section 31136, as the case may be. 

‘‘(5) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—At the conclusion 
of each pilot program, the Secretary shall 
promptly report to Congress the findings, conclusions, 
and recommendations of the program, 
including suggested amendments to law or regulation 
that would enhance motor carrier, vehicle, 
and driver safety and improve compliance 
with national safety standards. 

‘‘(c) PREEMPTION OF STATE RULES.—During 
the time period that an exemption or pilot program 
is in effect under this section, no State 
shall enforce any law or regulation that conflicts 
with or is inconsistent with an exemption 
or pilot program with respect to a person exercising 
the exemption or participating in the pilot 
program.’’. 

(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sections 
for chapter 313 is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 31315 and inserting the following: 
‘‘31315. Exemptions and pilot programs.’’. 

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
31136(e) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(e) EXEMPTIONS.—The Secretary may grant 
exemptions from any regulation prescribed 
under this section in accordance with section 
31315.’’. 

(d) PROTECTION OF EXISTING EXEMPTIONS.— 
The amendments made by subsections (a) and 
(c) of this section shall not apply to or otherwise 
affect an exemption or waiver in effect on the 
day before the date of the enactment of this Act 
under section 31315 or 31136(e) of title 49, United 
States Code. 
SEC. 407. SAFETY REGULATION. 

(a) COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED.— 
Section 31132(1) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or gross vehicle weight’’ 
after ‘‘rating’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘, whichever is greater’’ after 
‘‘pounds’’; and 
(2) in subparagraph (B)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or livery’’ after ‘‘taxicab’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘6 passengers’’ and inserting 
‘‘8 passengers, including the driver,’’. 
(b) REPEAL OF REVIEW PANEL.—Section 31134, 
and the item relating to such section in the table 
of sections for chapter 311, are repealed. 
(c) REPEAL OF SUBMISSION TO REVIEW 
PANEL.—Section 31140, and the item relating to 
such section in the table of sections for chapter 
311, are repealed. 
(d) REVIEW PROCEDURE.—Section 31141 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(b) SUBMISSION OF REGULATION.—A State 
that enacts a State law or issues a regulation on 
commercial motor vehicle safety shall submit a 
copy of the law or regulation to the Secretary of 
Transportation immediately after the enactment 
or issuance. 

‘‘(c) REVIEW AND DECISIONS BY SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(1) REVIEW.—The Secretary shall review 
State laws and regulations on commercial motor 
vehicle safety. The Secretary shall decide 
whether the State law or regulation— 

‘‘(A) has the same effect as a regulation prescribed 
by the Secretary under section 31136; 

‘‘(B) is less stringent than such regulation; or 

‘‘(C) is additional to or more stringent than 
such regulation. 

‘‘(2) REGULATIONS WITH SAME EFFECT.—If the 
Secretary decides a State law or regulation has 
the same effect as a regulation prescribed by the 
Secretary under section 31136 of this title, the 
State law or regulation may be enforced. 

‘‘(3) LESS STRINGENT REGULATIONS.—If the 
Secretary decides a State law or regulation is 
less stringent than a regulation prescribed by 
the Secretary under section 31136 of this title, 
the State law or regulation may not be enforced. 

‘‘(4) ADDITIONAL OR MORE STRINGENT REGULA-
TIONS.—If the Secretary decides a State law or 
regulation is additional to or more stringent 
than a regulation prescribed by the Secretary 
under section 31136 of this title, the State law or 
regulation may be enforced unless the Secretary 
also decides that— 

‘‘(A) the State law or regulation has no safety 
benefit; 

‘‘(B) the State law or regulation is incompatible 
with the regulation prescribed by the Secretary; 
or 

‘‘(C) enforcement of the State law or regulation 
would cause an unreasonable burden on 
interstate commerce. 

‘‘(5) CONSIDERATION OF EFFECT ON INTERSTATE 
COMMERCE.—In deciding under paragraph (4) 
whether a State law or regulation will cause an 
unreasonable burden on interstate commerce, 
the Secretary may consider the effect on interstate 
commerce of implementation of that law or 
regulation with the implementation of all similar 
laws and regulations of other States.’’; 

(2) by striking subsection (e); and 
(3) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and 
(h) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively. 
(e) INSPECTION OF SAFETY EQUIPMENT.—Section 
31142(a) is amended by striking ‘‘part 393 of 
title 49, Code of Federal Regulations’’ and inserting 
‘‘the regulations issued under section 
31136’’. 
(f) PROTECTION OF STATES PARTICIPATING IN 
STATE GROUPS.—Section 31142(c)(1)(C) is 
amended— 
(1) by inserting after ‘‘from’’ the following: 
‘‘participating in the activities of a voluntary 
group of States’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘that meets’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘1984’’. 
(g) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report 
on the status of implementation of the 
amendments made by subsection (a)(2) of this 
section. 
SEC. 408. IMPROVED INTERSTATE SCHOOL BUS 
SAFETY. 

(a) APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER 
SAFETY REGULATIONS TO INTERSTATE 
SCHOOL BUS OPERATIONS.—Section 31136 is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(g) APPLICABILITY TO SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION 
OPERATIONS OF LOCAL EDUCATION AGENCIES.—
Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary 
shall issue regulations making the relevant commercial 
motor carrier safety regulations issued 
under subsection (a) applicable to all interstate 
school transportation operations by local educational 
agencies (as defined in section 14101 of 
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965).’’. 

(b) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall submit to Congress a report describing the 

H1974 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

status of compliance by private for-hire motor 
carriers and local educational agencies in meeting 
the requirements of section 31136 of title 49, 
United States Code, and any activities of the 
Secretary or the States to enforce such requirements. 


SEC. 409. REPEAL OF CERTAIN OBSOLETE MISCELLANEOUS 
AUTHORITIES. 

Subchapter IV of chapter 311 (including sections 
31161 and 31162), and the items relating to 
such subchapter and sections in the table of sections 
for chapter 311, are repealed. 
SEC. 410. COMMERCIAL VEHICLE OPERATORS. 

(a) COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE DEFINED.— 
Section 31301(4) is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or gross vehicle weight’’ 
after ‘‘rating’’ the first 2 places it appears; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘, whichever is greater,’’ 
after ‘‘pounds’’ the first place it appears; and 
(2) in subparagraph (C)(ii) by inserting ‘‘is’’ 
before ‘‘transporting’’ each place it appears. 
(b) PROHIBITION ON CMV OPERATION WITHOUT 
CDL.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 31302 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 31302. Driver’s license requirement 

‘‘An individual may operate a commercial 
motor vehicle only if the individual has a valid 
commercial driver’s license. An individual operating 
a commercial motor vehicle may have only 
one driver’s license at any time.’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The item relating 
to section 31302 in the table of sections for 
chapter 313 is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘31302. Driver’s license requirement.’’. 

(c) UNIQUE IDENTIFIERS IN CDLS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 31308(2) is amended 
by inserting before the semicolon ‘‘and each license 
issued after January 1, 2000, include 
unique identifiers to minimize fraud and duplication’’. 
(2) DEADLINE FOR ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS.—
Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
issue regulations to carry out the amendment 
made by paragraph (1). 
(d) COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION 
SYSTEM.—Section 31309 is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a) by striking ‘‘make an 
agreement under subsection (b) of this section 
for the operation of, or establish under subsection 
(c) of this section,’’ and inserting ‘‘maintain’’; 
(2) by inserting after the first sentence of subsection 
(a) the following: ‘‘The system shall be 
coordinated with activities carried out under 
section 31106.’’; 
(3) by striking subsections (b) and (c); 
(4) in subsection (d)(1)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(E); 
(B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
(F) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(G) information on all fines, penalties, convictions, 
and failure to appear for a hearing or 
trial incurred by the operator with respect to operation 
of a motor vehicle for a period of not less 
than 3 years beginning on the date of the imposition 
of such a fine or penalty or the date of 
such a conviction or failure to appear.’’; 

(5) by striking subsection (d)(2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) The information system under this section 
must accommodate any unique identifiers 
required to minimize fraud or duplication of a 
commercial driver’s license under section 
31308(2).’’; 

(6) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(e) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—Information 
in the information system shall be made 
available and subject to review and correction 
in accordance with section 31106(e).’’; 

(7) in subsection (f) by striking ‘‘If the Secretary 
establishes an information system under 
this section, the’’ and inserting ‘‘The’’; 
(8) by striking ‘‘shall’’ in the first sentence of 
subsection (f) and inserting ‘‘may’’; and 
(9) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and 
(f) as subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively. 
(e) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE GRANT PROGRAMS.— 
Sections 31312 and 31313, and the items relating 
to such sections in the table of sections for 
chapter 313, are repealed. 
(f) UPDATING AMENDMENTS.—Section 31314 is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘(2), (5), and (6)’’ each place it 
appears in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting 
‘‘(3), and (5)’’; 
(2) in subsection (c) by striking ‘‘(1) Amounts’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘(2) Amounts’’ and 
inserting ‘‘Amounts’’; 
(3) by striking subsection (d); and 
(4) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection 
(d). 
SEC. 411. INTERIM BORDER SAFETY IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM. 

(a) PROGRAM.—The Secretary shall carry out 
a program to improve commercial motor vehicle 
safety in the vicinity of borders between the 
United States and Canada and the United 
States and Mexico. 
(b) GRANT AND OTHER AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
may expend funds made available to 
carry out this section— 
(1) for making grants to border States, local 
governments, organizations, and other persons 
to carry out activities described in subsection 
(c); 
(2) for personnel of the Department of Transportation 
to conduct such activities; and 
(3) for entry into contracts for the conduct of 
such activities. 
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—Activities for which funds 
may be expended under this section include— 
(1) employment by the Department of Transportation 
or a border State of additional personnel 
to enforce commercial motor vehicle safety 
regulations described in subsection (a); 
(2) training of personnel to enforce such regulations; 
(3) development of data bases and communication 
systems to improve commercial motor vehicle 
safety; and 
(4) education and outreach initiatives. 
(d) CRITERIA.—In selecting activities and 
projects for funding under this section, the Secretary 
shall consider current levels of enforcement 
by border States, cross border traffic patterns 
(including volume of commercial motor vehicle 
traffic), location of inspection facilities, 
and such other factors as the Secretary determines 
will result in the greatest safety improvement 
and benefit to border States and the Nation. 
(e) FEDERAL SHARE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share payable 
under a grant made under this section for— 
(A) any activity described in paragraph (2), 
(3), or (4) of subsection (c) shall be 80 percent; 
and 
(B) any activity described in subsection (c)(1) 
shall be— 
(i) 80 percent for the first 2 years that a State 
receives a grant under this section for such activity; 
(ii) 50 percent for the third and fourth years 
that a State receives a grant under this section 
for such activity; and 
(iii) 25 percent for the fifth and sixth years 
that a State receives a grant under this section 
for such activity. 
(2) IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS.—In determining 
the non-Federal costs under paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall include in-kind contributions by 
the grant recipient, of which up to $2,500,000 
may be used to upgrade earthquake simulation 
facilities as required to carry out the program. 
(f) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—A grant may 
not be made to a State under this section for an 
activity described in subsection (c)(1) in any fiscal 
year unless the State enters into such agreements 
with the Secretary as the Secretary may 
require to ensure that the State will maintain its 
aggregate expenditures from all other sources 
for employment of personnel to enforce commercial 
motor vehicle safety regulations in the vicinity 
of the border at or above the average level 
of such expenditures in the State’s 2 fiscal years 
preceding the date of the enactment of this section. 


(g) FUNDING.—Of amounts made available to 
carry out the coordinated border infrastructure 
and safety program under section 116 of this 
Act, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1998 and 
$15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003 shall be available to carry out this section. 
(h) BORDER STATE DEFINED.—In this section, 
the term ‘‘border State’’ means any State that 
has a boundary in common with Canada or 
Mexico. 
SEC. 412. VEHICLE WEIGHT ENFORCEMENT. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study of State laws and regulations pertaining 
to penalties for violation of State commercial 
motor vehicle weight laws. 
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the study shall 
be to determine the effectiveness of State penalties 
as a deterrent to illegally overweight 
trucking operations. The study shall evaluate 
fine structures, innovative roadside enforcement 
techniques, a State’s ability to penalize shippers 
and carriers as well as drivers, and shall examine 
the effectiveness of administrative and judicial 
procedures utilized to enforce vehicle weight 
laws. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to Congress a report on the results 
of the study conducted under this section, 
together with any legislative recommendations 
of the Secretary. 
(d) FUNDING.—From amounts made available 
under subparagraphs (F) through (I) of section 
127(a)(3) of this Act, the Secretary may use not 
to exceed $300,000 to carry out this section. 
SEC. 413. PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL 

REGISTRATION PLAN AND INTER


NATIONAL FUEL TAX AGREEMENT. 

Sections 31702, 31703, and 31708, and the items 
relating to such sections in the table of sections 
for chapter 317, are repealed. 

SEC. 414. TELEPHONE HOTLINE FOR REPORTING 
SAFETY VIOLATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—For a period of not less than 
2 years beginning on or before the 90th day following 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall establish, maintain, and promote 
the use of a nationwide toll-free telephone system 
to be used by drivers of commercial motor 
vehicles and others to report potential violations 
of Federal motor carrier safety regulations and 
any laws or regulations relating to the safe operation 
of commercial motor vehicles and to report 
potentially improper inspections, audits, 
and enforcement activities. 
(b) MONITORING.—The Secretary shall monitor 
reports received by the telephone system and 
shall consider nonfrivolous information provided 
by such reports in setting priorities for 
motor carrier safety audits and other enforcement 
activities. 
(c) PROTECTION OF PERSONS REPORTING VIOLATIONS.— 
(1) PROHIBITION.—A person reporting a potential 
violation to the telephone system while acting 
in good faith may not be discharged, disciplined, 
or discriminated against regarding 
pay, terms, or privileges of employment because 
of the reporting of such violation. 
(2) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 31105 OF TITLE 
49.—For purposes of section 31105 of title 49, 
United States Code, a violation or alleged violation 
of paragraph (1) shall be treated as a violation 
of section 31105(a) of such title. 
(d) FUNDING.—From amounts set aside under 
section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code, the 
Secretary may use not to exceed $300,000 for 
each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 to carry 
out this section. 
SEC. 415. INSULIN TREATED DIABETES MELLITUS. 

(a) DETERMINATION.—Not later than 18 
months after the date of the enactment of this 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1975 

Act, the Secretary shall determine whether a 
practicable and cost-effective screening, operating, 
and monitoring protocol could likely be developed 
for insulin treated diabetes mellitus individuals 
who want to operate commercial motor 
vehicles in interstate commerce that would ensure 
a level of safety equal to or greater than 
that achieved with the current prohibition on 
individuals with insulin treated diabetes 
mellitus driving such vehicles. 

(b) COMPILATION AND EVALUATION.—Prior to 
making the determination in subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall compile and evaluate research 
and other information on the effects of insulin 
treated diabetes mellitus on driving performance. 
In preparing the compilation and evaluation, 
the Secretary shall, at a minimum— 
(1) consult with States that have developed 
and are implementing a screening process to 
identify individuals with insulin treated diabetes 
mellitus who may obtain waivers to drive 
commercial motor vehicles in intrastate commerce; 
(2) evaluate the Department’s policy and actions 
to permit certain insulin treated diabetes 
mellitus individuals who meet selection criteria 
and who successfully comply with the approved 
monitoring protocol to operate in other modes of 
transportation; 
(3) analyze available data on the safety performance 
of diabetic drivers of motor vehicles; 
(4) assess the relevance of intrastate driving 
and experiences of other modes of transportation 
to interstate commercial motor vehicle operations; 
and 
(5) consult with interested groups knowledgeable 
about diabetes and related issues. 
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—If the Secretary 
determines that no protocol described in subsection 
(a) could likely be developed, the Secretary 
shall report to Congress the basis for such 
determination. 
(d) INITIATION OF RULEMAKING.—If the Secretary 
determines that a protocol described in 
subsection (a) could likely be developed, the Secretary 
shall report to Congress a description of 
the elements of such protocol and shall promptly 
initiate a rulemaking proceeding to implement 
such protocol. 
SEC. 416. PERFORMANCE-BASED CDL TESTING. 

(a) REVIEW.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall complete a review of the procedures established 
and implemented by States under section 
31305 of title 49, United States Code, to determine 
if the current system for testing is an accurate 
measure and reflection of an individual’s 
knowledge and skills as an operator of a commercial 
motor vehicle and to identify methods to 
improve testing and licensing standards, including 
identifying the benefits and costs of a graduated 
licensing system. 
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 1 year after 
the date of completion of the review under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall issue regulations 
under section 31305 reflecting the results of the 
review. 
SEC. 417. POSTACCIDENT ALCOHOL TESTING. 

(a) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study of the feasibility of utilizing qualified 
emergency responders and law enforcement officers 
for conducting postaccident alcohol testing 
of commercial motor vehicle operators under section 
31306 of title 49, United States Code, as a 
method of obtaining more timely information 
and reducing the burdens that employers may 
encounter in meeting the testing requirements of 
such section. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall transmit to Congress a report on the 
study conducted under subsection (a) with recommendations 
regarding the utilization of emergency 
responders and law enforcement officers 
in conducting testing described in subsection 
(a). 
SEC. 418. DRIVER FATIGUE. 

(a) TECHNOLOGIES TO REDUCE FATIGUE OF 
COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATORS.— 
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNOLOGIES.—As part 
of the activities of the Secretary relating to the 
fatigue of commercial motor vehicle operators, 
the Secretary shall encourage the research, development, 
and demonstration of technologies 
that may aid in reducing such fatigue. 
(2) IDENTIFICATION OF TECHNOLOGIES.—In 
identifying technologies pursuant to paragraph 
(1), the Secretary shall take into account— 
(A) the degree to which the technology will be 
cost efficient; 
(B) the degree to which the technology can be 
effectively used in diverse climatic regions of the 
Nation; and 
(C) the degree to which the application of the 
technology will further emissions reductions, energy 
conservation, and other transportation 
goals. 
(3) FUNDING.—The Secretary may use amounts 
made available under subparagraphs (F) 
through (I) of section 127(a)(3) of this Act to 
carry out this subsection. 
(b) NONSEDATING ANTIHISTAMINES.—The Secretary 
shall review available information on the 
effects of antihistamines on driver fatigue, 
awareness, and performance and shall consider 
encouraging the use of nonsedating antihistamines 
as a means of reducing the adverse effects 
of the use of other antihistamines by drivers. 
SEC. 419. SAFETY FITNESS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 31144 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 31144. Safety fitness of owners and operators 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) determine whether an owner or operator 
is fit to operate safely commercial motor vehicles; 


‘‘(2) periodically update such safety fitness 
determinations; 

‘‘(3) make such safety fitness determinations 
readily available to the public; and 

‘‘(4) prescribe by regulation penalties for violations 
of this section consistent with section 
521. 

‘‘(b) PROCEDURE.—The Secretary shall maintain 
by regulation a procedure for determining 
whether an owner or operator is fit to operate 
safely commercial motor vehicles. The procedure 
shall include, at a minimum, the following elements: 


‘‘(1) Specific initial and continuing requirements 
with which an owner or operator must 
comply to demonstrate safety fitness. 

‘‘(2) A methodology the Secretary will use to 
determine whether an owner or operator is fit. 

‘‘(3) Specific time frames within which the 
Secretary will determine whether an owner or 
operator is fit. 

‘‘(c) PROHIBITED TRANSPORTATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sections 
521(b)(5)(A) and 5113 and this subsection, 
an owner or operator who the Secretary determines 
is not fit may not operate commercial 
motor vehicles in interstate commerce beginning 
on the 61st day after the date of such fitness determination 
and until the Secretary determines 
such owner or operator is fit. 

‘‘(2) OWNERS OR OPERATORS TRANSPORTING 
PASSENGERS.—With regard to owners or operators 
of commercial motor vehicles designed or 
used to transport passengers, an owner or operator 
who the Secretary determines is not fit may 
not operate in interstate commerce beginning on 
the 46th day after the date of such fitness determination 
and until the Secretary determines 
such owner or operator is fit. 

‘‘(3) OWNERS OR OPERATORS TRANSPORTING 
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.—With regard to owners 
or operators of commercial motor vehicles designed 
or used to transport hazardous material 
for which placarding of a motor vehicle is required 
under regulations prescribed under chapter 
51, an owner or operator who the Secretary 
determines is not fit may not operate in interstate 
commerce beginning on the 46th day after 

the date of such fitness determination and until 
the Secretary determines such owner or operator 
is fit. 

‘‘(4) SECRETARY’S DISCRETION.—Except for 
owners or operators described in paragraphs (2) 
and (3), the Secretary may allow an owner or 
operator who is not fit to continue operating for 
an additional 60 days after the 61st day after 
the date of the Secretary’s fitness determination, 
if the Secretary determines that such owner or 
operator is making a good faith effort to become 
fit. 

‘‘(d) REVIEW OF FITNESS DETERMINATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 45 days after 
an unfit owner or operator requests a review, 
the Secretary shall review such owner’s or operator’s 
compliance with those requirements with 
which the owner or operator failed to comply 
and resulted in the Secretary determining that 
the owner or operator was not fit. 

‘‘(2) OWNERS OR OPERATORS TRANSPORTING 
PASSENGERS.—Not later than 30 days after an 
unfit owner or operator of commercial motor vehicles 
designed or used to transport passengers 
requests a review, the Secretary shall review 
such owner’s or operator’s compliance with 
those requirements with which the owner or operator 
failed to comply and resulted in the Secretary 
determining that the owner or operator 
was not fit. 

‘‘(3) OWNERS OR OPERATORS TRANSPORTING 
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.—Not later than 30 days 
after an unfit owner or operator of commercial 
motor vehicles designed or used to transport 
hazardous material for which placarding of a 
motor vehicle is required under regulations prescribed 
under chapter 51, the Secretary shall review 
such owner’s or operator’s compliance with 
those requirements with which the owner or operator 
failed to comply and resulted in the Secretary 
determining that the owner or operator 
was not fit. 

‘‘(e) PROHIBITED GOVERNMENT USE.—A department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government may not use to provide 
any transportation service an owner or operator 
who the Secretary has determined is not 
fit until the Secretary determines such owner or 
operator is fit.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 5113 is 
amended by striking subsections (a), (b), (c), 
and (d) and inserting the following: 
‘‘See section 31144.’’. 

SEC. 420. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPOR


TATION REGULATION AND FARM 

SERVICE VEHICLES. 

(a) EXCEPTIONS.—Section 5117(d)(2) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘do not prohibit’’; 
(2) in subparagraph (A)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘do not prohibit’’ before ‘‘or 
regulate’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘or’’ the last place it appears; 
(3) in subparagraph (B) by inserting ‘‘do not 
prohibit’’ before ‘‘transportation’’; 
(4) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
(B) and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and 
(5) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) do not prohibit a State from providing an 
exception from requirements relating to 
placarding, shipping papers, and emergency 
telephone numbers for the private motor carriage 
in intrastate transportation of an agricultural 
production material from a source of supply 
to a farm, from a farm to another farm, from 
a field to another field on a farm, or from the 
farm back to the source of supply. 

In granting any exception under subparagraph 
(C), a State must certify to the Secretary that 
such exception is in the public interest, the need 
for such exception, and that the State shall 
monitor the exception and take such measures 
necessary to ensure that safety is not compromised.’’. 


(b) AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION MATERIAL DEFINED.—
Section 5117 is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 

H1976 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

‘‘(f) AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION MATERIAL 
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘agricultural 
production material’ means— 

‘‘(1) ammonium nitrate fertilizer in a quantity 
that does not exceed 16,094 pounds; 

‘‘(2) a pesticide in a quantity that does not exceed 
502 gallons for liquids and 5,070 pounds for 
solids; and 

‘‘(3) a diluted solution of water and pesticides 
or fertilizer in a quantity that does not exceed 
3,500 gallons.’’. 

SEC. 421. TRUCK TRAILER CONSPICUITY. 

(a) ISSUANCE OF FINAL RULE.—Not later than 
1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall issue a final rule regarding 
the conspicuity of trailers manufactured 
before December 1, 1993. 
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—In conducting the rule-
making under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
consider, at a minimum, the following: 
(1) The cost-effectiveness of any requirement 
to retrofit trailers manufactured before December 
1, 1993. 
(2) The extent to which motor carriers have 
voluntarily taken steps to increase equipment 
visibility. 
(3) Regulatory flexibility to accommodate differing 
trailer designs and configurations, such 
as tank trucks. 
SEC. 422. DOT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months 
after the date of the enactment of this section, 
the Secretary shall develop and submit to Congress 
a plan for implementing authority (if subsequently 
provided by law) to— 
(1) investigate and bring civil actions to enforce 
chapter 5 of title 49, United States Code, or 
a regulation or order of the Secretary under 
such chapter, when violated by shippers, freight 
forwarders, brokers, consignees, or persons 
(other than rail carriers, motor carriers, motor 
carriers of migrant workers, or motor private 
carriers); and 
(2) assess civil or criminal penalties against a 
person who knowingly aids, abets, counsels, 
commands, induces, or procures a violation of a 
regulation or an order of the Secretary under 
chapter 311 or section 31502 of such title to the 
same extent as a motor carrier or driver who 
commits such a violation. 
(b) CONTENTS OF IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—In 
developing the implementation plan, the Secretary, 
at a minimum, shall consider— 
(1) in what circumstances the Secretary would 
exercise the new authority; 
(2) how the Secretary would determine that 
shippers, freight forwarders, brokers, consignees, 
or other persons committed violations 
described in subsection (a), including what 
types of evidence would be conclusive; 
(3) what procedures would be necessary during 
investigations to ensure the confidentiality 
of shipper contract terms prior to the Secretary’s 
findings of violations; 
(4) what impact the exercise of the new authority 
would have on the Secretary’s resources, 
including whether additional investigative or 
legal resources would be necessary and whether 
the staff would need specialized education or 
training to exercise properly such authority; 
(5) to what extent the Secretary would conduct 
educational activities for persons who 
would be subject to the new authority; and 
(6) any other information that would assist 
the Congress in determining whether to provide 
the Secretary the new authority. 
TITLE V—PROGRAMMATIC REFORMS AND 
STREAMLINING 
SEC. 501. PROJECT APPROVAL AND OVERSIGHT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 106 is amended by 
striking the section heading and all that follows 
through the period at the end of subsection (d) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘§ 106. Project approval and oversight 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) SUBMISSION OF PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, 
AND ESTIMATES.—Except as otherwise provided 

in this section, each State highway department 
shall submit to the Secretary for approval such 
plans, specifications, and estimates for each 
proposed project as the Secretary may require. 

‘‘(2) PROJECT AGREEMENT.—The Secretary 
shall act upon the plans, specifications, and estimates 
as soon as practicable after the date of 
their submission and shall enter into a formal 
project agreement with the State highway department 
formalizing the conditions of the 
project approval. 

‘‘(3) CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION.—The execution 
of the project agreement shall be deemed a 
contractual obligation of the Federal Government 
for the payment of its proportional contribution 
thereto. 

‘‘(4) GUIDANCE.—In taking action under this 
subsection, the Secretary shall be guided by the 
provisions of section 109. 

‘‘(b) PROJECT AGREEMENT.— 

‘‘(1) PROVISION OF STATE FUNDS.—The project 
agreement shall make provision for State funds 
required for the State’s pro rata share of the 
cost of construction of the project and for the 
maintenance of the project after completion of 
construction. 

‘‘(2) REPRESENTATIONS OF STATE.—The Secretary 
may rely upon representations made by 
the State highway department with respect to 
the arrangements or agreements made by the 
State highway department and appropriate 
local officials if a part of the project is to be 
constructed at the expense of, or in cooperation 
with, local subdivisions of the State. 

‘‘(c) SPECIAL RULES FOR PROJECT OVER


SIGHT.— 

‘‘(1) NHS PROJECTS.— 

‘‘(A) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Except as otherwise 
provided in subsection (d), the Secretary 
may discharge to the State any of the Secretary’s 
responsibilities under this title for design, 
plans, specifications, estimates, contract 
awards, and inspection of projects on the National 
Highway System. 

‘‘(B) AGREEMENT.—The Secretary and the 
State shall reach agreement as to the extent the 
State may assume the Secretary’s responsibilities 
under this subsection. The Secretary may not 
assume any greater responsibility than the Secretary 
is permitted under this title on September 
30, 1997, except upon agreement by the Secretary 
and the State. 

‘‘(2) NON-INTERSTATE SYSTEM PROJECTS.—For 
all projects under this title that are not on the 
National Highway System, the State shall assume 
the Secretary’s responsibility under this 
title for design, plans, specifications, estimates, 
contract awards, and inspection of projects. For 
projects that are on the National Highway System 
but not on the Interstate System, the State 
shall assume the Secretary’s responsibility 
under this title for design, plans, specifications, 
estimates, contract awards, and inspections of 
projects unless the State or the Secretary determines 
that such assumption is not appropriate. 

‘‘(d) SECRETARY’S RESPONSIBILITIES.—Nothing 
in this section, section 133, and section 149 shall 
affect or discharge any responsibility or obligation 
of the Secretary under any Federal law, 
other than this title. Any responsibility or obligation 
of the Secretary under sections 113 and 
114 of this title and section 5333 of title 49, 
United States Code, shall not be affected and 
may not be discharged under this section, section 
133, or section 149.’’. 

(b) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS.—Sections 
105, 110, and 117, and the items relating to 
such sections in the table of sections for chapter 
1, are repealed. 
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 1 is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 106 and inserting: 
‘‘106. Project approval and oversight.’’. 

SEC. 502. ENVIRONMENTAL STREAMLINING. 

(a) COORDINATED ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW 
PROCESS.— 
(1) DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION.—The 
Secretary shall develop and implement a coordinated 
environmental review process for highway 
construction projects that require— 

(A) the preparation of an environmental impact 
statement or environmental assessment 
under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969, except that the Secretary may decide not 
to apply this section to the preparation of an 
environmental assessment under such Act; or 
(B) the conduct of any other environmental 
review, analysis, opinion, or issuance of an environmental 
permit, license, or approval by operation 
of Federal law. 
(2) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The 
coordinated environmental review process for 
each project shall ensure that, whenever practicable 
(as set forth in this section), all environmental 
reviews, analyses, opinions, and any 
permits, licenses, or approvals that must be 
issued or made by any Federal agency for the 
concerned highway project shall be conducted 
concurrently and completed within a cooperatively 
determined time period. Such process for a 
project or class of projects may be incorporated 
into a memorandum of understanding between 
the Department of Transportation and all other 
Federal agencies (and, where appropriate, State 
agencies). In establishing such time period and 
any time periods for review within such period 
the Department and all such agencies shall take 
into account their respective resources and statutory 
commitments. 
(b) ELEMENTS OF COORDINATED ENVIRONMENTAL 
REVIEW PROCESS.—For each highway 
project, the coordinated environmental review 
process established under this section shall provide, 
at a minimum, for the following elements: 
(1) AGENCY IDENTIFICATION.—The Secretary 
shall, at the earliest possible time, identify all 
potential Federal agencies that— 
(A) have jurisdiction by law over environ-
mental-related issues that may be affected by 
the project and the analysis of which would be 
part of any environmental document required by 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; 
or 
(B) may be required by Federal law to independently— 
(i) conduct an environmental-related review 
or analysis; or 
(ii) determine whether to issue a permit, license, 
or approval or render an opinion on the 
environmental impact of the project. 
(2) TIME LIMITATIONS AND CONCURRENT REVIEW.—
The Secretary and the head of each Federal 
agency identified under paragraph (1)— 
(A)(i) shall jointly develop and establish time 
periods for review for— 

(I) all Federal agency comments with respect 
to any environmental review documents required 
by the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 for the project; and 
(II) all other independent Federal agency environmental 
analyses, reviews, opinions, and 
decisions on any permits, licenses, and approvals 
that must be issued or made for the project; 
whereby each such Federal agency’s review 
shall be undertaken and completed within such 
established time periods for review; or 

(ii) may enter into an agreement to establish 
such time periods for review with respect to a 
class of projects; and 
(B) shall ensure, in establishing such time periods 
for review, that the conduct of any such 
analysis, review, opinion, and decision is undertaken 
concurrently with all other environmental 
reviews for the project, including those required 
by the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969; except that such review may not be concurrent 
if the affected Federal agency can demonstrate 
that such concurrent review would result 
in a significant adverse impact to the environment 
or substantively alter the operation of 
Federal law or would not be possible without information 
developed as part of the environmental 
review process. 
(3) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—Time periods 
for review established under this section shall be 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1977 

consistent with those established by the Council 
on Environmental Quality under the provisions 
of sections 1501.8 and 1506.10 of title 40, Code of 
Federal Regulations. 

(4) EXTENSIONS.—The Secretary shall extend 
any time periods for review under this section if, 
upon good cause shown, the Secretary and any 
Federal agency concerned determine that additional 
time for analysis and review is needed as 
a result of new information which has been discovered 
that could not reasonably have been anticipated 
when such agency’s time periods for 
review were established. Any memorandum of 
understanding shall be modified to incorporate 
any mutually agreed upon extensions. 
(c) DISPUTE RESOLUTION.—When the Secretary 
determines that a Federal agency which 
is subject to a time period for its environmental 
review or analysis under this section has failed 
to complete such review, analysis, opinion, or 
decision on issuing any permit, license, or approval 
within the established time period or 
within any agreed upon extension to such time 
period, then the Secretary may close the record. 
If the Secretary finds after timely compliance 
with this section, that an environmental issue 
related to the highway project that an affected 
Federal agency has jurisdiction over by operation 
of Federal law has not been resolved, then 
the Secretary and the head of such agency shall 
resolve the matter within 30 days of the finding 
by the Secretary. 
(d) ACCEPTANCE OF PURPOSE AND NEED.—For 
any environmental impact statement prepared 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 or the conduct of any other environmental 
review, analysis, opinion, or issuance of 
an environmental permit, license, or approval 
that requires an analysis of purpose and need, 
the agency conducting such review with respect 
to the highway project shall give due consideration 
to the project purpose and need as defined 
by the Secretary and the project applicant. 
(e) PARTICIPATION OF STATE AGENCIES.—For 
any project eligible for assistance under chapter 
1 of title 23, United States Code, a State, by operation 
of State law, may require that all State 
agencies that have jurisdiction by State or Federal 
law over environmental-related issues that 
may be affected by the project or must issue any 
environmental-related reviews, analyses, opinions, 
or determinations on issuing any permits, 
licenses, or approvals for the project be subject 
to the coordinated environmental review process 
provided for in this section unless the Secretary 
determines that a State’s participation would 
not be in the public interest. For a State to require 
State agencies to participate in the review 
process, all affected agencies of such State shall 
be subject to the review process. 
(f) ASSISTANCE TO AFFECTED FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
The Secretary may approve a request by 
a State to provide funds made available under 
chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, to the 
State for the project subject to the review process 
established by this section to affected Federal 
agencies to provide the resources necessary 
to meet any time limits established by this section. 
Such requests shall only be approved for 
the additional amounts that the Secretary determines 
are necessary for such affected Federal 
agencies to meet the time limits for environmental 
review where such time limits are less 
than the customary time necessary for such review. 
(g) FEDERAL AGENCY DEFINED.—For the purposes 
of this section, the term ‘‘Federal agency’’ 
means any Federal agency or any State agency 
carrying out affected responsibilities required by 
operation of Federal law. 
(h) JUDICIAL REVIEW AND SAVINGS CLAUSE.— 
(1) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Nothing in this section 
shall affect the reviewability of any final Federal 
agency action in a district court of the 
United States or in the court of any State. 
(2) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to affect the applicability of 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
or any other Federal environmental statute or 
affect the responsibility of any Federal officer to 
comply with or enforce any such statute. 

(i) STATE ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW DELEGATION 
PILOT DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in cooperation 
with the Council on Environmental Quality, 
shall establish and implement a State environmental 
review pilot demonstration program. 
Such program shall permit the Secretary, in cooperation 
with the Council on Environmental 
Quality, to develop criteria for States to select 
up to 8 States for participation in the program. 
A State interested in participation in the program 
shall submit to the Secretary an application 
for participation. 
(2) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.—For each 
State selected to participate in the pilot program, 
the Secretary shall delegate and the State 
shall accept all of the responsibilities for conducting 
the Federal environmental review process 
required by the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 in the manner required if the 
projects were undertaken by the Secretary. 
(3) CERTIFICATION.—A State that is selected to 
participate in the pilot program shall, prior to 
assuming any responsibilities for the Secretary 
under this subsection, submit to the Secretary 
and the Secretary, in cooperation with the 
Council on Environmental Quality, shall approve 
a certification that shall, at a minimum— 
(A) be in a form acceptable to the Secretary; 
(B) be executed by the Chief Executive Officer 
of the recipient of assistance under this section 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the 
‘‘certifying officer’’); 
(C) specify that the certifying officer consents 
to assume the status of a responsible Federal officer 
under the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (and any applicable regulations 
issued by the Secretary or the Council on Environmental 
Quality implementing such Act) for 
the affected project; 
(D) accept jurisdiction of the Federal courts 
for the purpose of enforcement of the State’s responsibilities 
for the project; and 
(E) agree that the Secretary’s approval of 
such certification shall constitute the Secretary’s 
responsibilities under the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 and any other related 
provisions of law that the Secretary may 
specify for the affected project. 
(4) OVERSIGHT.—For each State selected to 
participate in the pilot program, the Secretary 
shall, in cooperation with the Council on Environmental 
Quality, conduct quarterly audits in 
the first year of such participation, and annual 
audits every year thereafter, to ensure that each 
selected State is complying with all elements of 
the certification provided for in this subsection 
and all requirements delegated pursuant to this 
subsection. 
(5) TERMINATION.—The Secretary, in cooperation 
with the Council on Environmental Quality, 
may immediately terminate the participation 
of any State if the Secretary, in cooperation 
with the Council on Environmental Quality, 
finds that such State is not complying with any 
responsibility or duty set forth in this subsection 
or that the State’s continued participation in 
the program would result in any adverse impact 
on the environment. 
(6) PERIOD OF APPLICABILITY.—The pilot program 
shall remain in effect for 3 years. The pilot 
program shall apply to all projects initiated 
within such 3-year period, and any such project 
shall be subject to the provisions of this subsection 
until the review of the project is completed 
under this subsection. 
(7) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary and 
Council on Environmental Quality shall transmit 
to Congress annual reports on the pilot program. 
SEC. 503. MAJOR INVESTMENT STUDY INTEGRATION. 


The Secretary shall eliminate the major investment 
study set forth in section 450.318 of 
title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, as a sepa


rate requirement and promulgate regulations to 
integrate such requirement, as appropriate, as 
part of each analysis undertaken pursuant to 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
for a project receiving assistance with funds 
made available under this Act (including any 
amendments made by this Act). 

SEC. 504. FINANCIAL PLAN. 

The Secretary shall require each recipient of 
Federal financial assistance for a highway or 
transit project with an estimated total cost of 
$1,000,000,000 or more to submit to the Secretary 
an annual financial plan. Such plan shall be 
based on detailed annual estimates of the cost to 
complete the remaining elements of the project 
and on reasonable assumptions, as determined 
by the Secretary, of future increases in the cost 
to complete the project. 

SEC. 505. UNIFORM TRANSFERABILITY OF FEDERAL-
AID HIGHWAY FUNDS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1 is amended by inserting 
after section 109 the following: 
‘‘§ 110. Uniform transferability of Federal-aid 
highway funds 

‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law but subject to subsections 

(b) and (c), if at least 50 percent of a State’s apportionment 
under section 104 or 144 for a fiscal 
year or at least 50 percent of the funds set-aside 
under section 133(d) from the State’s apportionment 
section 104(b)(3) may not be transferred to 
any other apportionment of the State under section 
104 or 144 for such fiscal year, then the 
State may transfer not to exceed 50 percent of 
such apportionment or set aside to any other 
apportionment of such State under section 104 
or 144 for such fiscal year. 
‘‘(b) APPLICATION TO CERTAIN SET-ASIDES.— 
This section shall not apply to funds subject to 
the last sentence of section 133(d)(1) and funds 
subject to sections 104(f) and 133(d)(3). The maximum 
amount that a State may transfer under 
this section of the State’s set-aside under section 
133(d)(2) for a fiscal year may not exceed 50 percent 
of (1) the amount of such set-aside, less (2) 
the amount of the State’s set-aside under section 
133(d)(3) for fiscal year 1996. 

‘‘(c) APPLICATION TO CERTAIN CMAQ 
FUNDS.—The maximum amount that a State 
may transfer under this section of the State’s 
apportionment under section 104(b)(2) for a fiscal 
year may not exceed 50 percent of (1) the 
amount of such apportionment, less (2) the 
amount of the State’s apportionment under section 
104(b)(2) for fiscal year 1997. Any such 
funds apportioned under section 104(b)(2) and 
transferred under this section may only be obligated 
in geographic areas eligible for the obligation 
of funds apportioned under section 
104(b)(2).’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 1 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 109 the following: 
‘‘110. Uniform transferability of Federal-aid 
highway funds.’’. 

SEC. 506. DISCRETIONARY GRANT SELECTION 
CRITERIA AND PROCESS. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF CRITERIA.—The Secretary 
shall establish criteria for all discretionary 
programs funded from the Highway 
Trust Fund (including the Mass Transit Account). 
To the extent practicable, such criteria 
shall conform to the Executive Order No. 12893 
(relating to infrastructure investment). In formulating 
such criteria, the Secretary shall provide 
that, if 2 or more applications for a discretionary 
grant are otherwise equal, then the 
grant shall be awarded to the application from 
a State that has a Highway Trust Fund (other 
than the Mass Transit Account) return of less 
than 90 percent. 
(b) SELECTION PROCESS.— 
(1) LIMITATION ON ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICA-
TION.—Before accepting application for grants 
under any discretionary program for which 

H1978 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

funds are authorized to be appropriated from 
the Highway Trust Fund (including the Mass 
Transit Account) by this Act (including the 
amendments made by this Act), the Secretary 
shall publish the criteria established under subsection 
(a). Such publication shall identify all 
statutory criteria and any criteria established 
by regulation that will apply to such program. 

(2) EXPLANATION.—At least 14 days before 
making a grant under a discretionary program 
described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
transmit to the respective committees of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate having 
jurisdiction over such program, and shall publish, 
an explanation of how projects will be selected 
based on the criteria established for such 
program under subsection (a). 
(c) MINIMUM PROGRAMS.—At a minimum the 
criteria established under subsection (a) and the 
process established by subsection (b) shall apply 
to the following programs: 
(1) The high cost Interstate System reconstruction 
and improvement program. 
(2) The research program under title VI of this 
Act. 
(3) The national corridor planning and development 
program. 
(4) The coordinated border infrastructure and 
safety program. 
(5) The construction of ferry boats and ferry 
terminal facilities. 
(6) The scenic byway program. 
(7) The discretionary bridge program. 
(8) New fixed guideway systems and extensions 
to existing fixed guideway systems under 
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code. 
(9) Transit research and planning. 
SEC. 507. ELIMINATION OF REGIONAL OFFICE RESPONSIBILITIES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall eliminate 
any programmatic responsibility of the regional 
offices of the Federal Highway Administration 
as part of the Administration’s efforts to 
restructure its field organization, including 
elimination of regional offices, creation of technical 
resource centers, and maximum delegation 
of authority to its State offices. 
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary 
shall transmit to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works of the Senate a detailed implementation 
plan not later than September 30, 
1998, and thereafter provide periodic progress reports 
to such Committees. 
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary shall 
begin implementation of the plan transmitted 
under subsection (b) not later than December 31, 
1998. 
SEC. 508. AUTHORITY FOR CONGRESS TO MAKE 

MIDCOURSE CORRECTIONS TO THE 

HIGHWAY AND TRANSIT PROGRAMS. 

The Secretary shall not apportion or allocate, 
prior to August 1, 2001, any funds authorized to 
be appropriated or made available for fiscal year 
2001 under title 23, United States Code (other 
than sections 125 and 157 and amounts necessary 
for the administration of the Federal 
Highway Administration under section 104(a)), 
title I and VI of this Act (other than section 
127(b)), section 31104(a) of title 49, United States 
Code, section 5338 of title 49, United States Code 
(other than amounts necessary for the administration 
of the Federal Transit Administration), 
and title III of this Act, unless a law has been 
enacted making midcourse corrections to the 
Federal-aid highway and transit programs authorized 
by this Act (including amendments 
made by this Act) which would, at a minimum— 

(1) approve a funding distribution for and any 
modifications to the high-cost interstate reconstruction 
and improvement program; 
(2) approve a proposed system of performance 
bonuses to States pursuant to the bonus program 
established under section 123 of this Act; 
(3) approve a cost estimate for States as part 
of the Appalachian development highway system 
program; 
(4) make any other appropriate programmatic 
changes and recommendations made to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
the House of Representatives and the Committees 
on Environment and Public Works and 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
Senate; 
(5) approve projects under the capital program 
for final design and construction of a new fixed 
guideway system or extension of an existing 
fixed guideway system; and 
(6) include a certification that such law meets 
the requirements of this section. 
TITLE VI—TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH 

SEC. 601. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 23, UNITED 
STATES CODE. 

Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
whenever in this title an amendment or repeal is 
expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision of law, the 
reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of title 23, United 
States Code. 

SEC. 602. APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23. 

Funds made available by subparagraphs (F) 
through (I) of section 127(a)(3) of this Act shall 
be available for obligation in the same manner 
as if such funds were apportioned under chapter 
1 of title 23, United States Code, except that 
the Federal share payable for a project or activity 
carried out using such funds shall be determined 
by the Secretary (unless otherwise expressly 
provided by this Act) and such funds 
shall remain available until expended. 

SEC. 603. TRANSFERS OF FUNDS. 

The Secretary may transfer not to exceed 10 
percent of the amounts made available by each 
of subparagraphs (F) through (I) of section 
127(a)(3) of this Act to the amounts made available 
by any other of such subparagraphs. 

Subtitle A—Surface Transportation Research, 

Technology, and Education 

PART I—HIGHWAY RESEARCH 
SEC. 611. RESEARCH. 

(a) RESEARCH.—Section 307(a) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking subparagraph 
(C); and 
(2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(3) AMOUNTS DEPOSITED BY COOPERATING ORGANIZATIONS 
AND PERSONS.—There shall be 
available to the Secretary for carrying out this 
subsection such funds as may be deposited by 
any cooperating organization or person in a 
special account of the Treasury of the United 
States established for such purpose.’’. 

(b) LONG-TERM PAVEMENT PERFORMANCE.— 
Section 307(b)(2) is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(2) LONG-TERM PAVEMENT PERFORMANCE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—As part of the highway research 
program under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall carry out a long-term pavement performance 
program to continue to completion the 
long-term pavement performance tests initiated 
under the strategic highway research program. 

‘‘(B) GRANTS, COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS, AND 
CONTRACTS.—In carrying out subparagraph (A), 
the Secretary shall make grants and enter into 
cooperative agreements and contracts for the 
following purposes: 

‘‘(i) To continue the monitoring, material-testing, 
and evaluation of the highway test sections 
established under the long-term pavement performance 
program. 

‘‘(ii) To carry out analyses of the data collected 
under the program. 

‘‘(iii) To prepare the products required to fulfill 
the original objectives of the program and to 
meet future pavement technology needs.’’. 

(c) ADVANCED RESEARCH.—Section 307(b)(4) is 
amended to read as follows: 

‘‘(4) ADVANCED RESEARCH.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The highway research pro


gram under subsection (a) shall include an advanced 
research program that addresses longer-
term, higher-risk research that shows potential 

benefits for improving the durability, efficiency, 
environmental impact, productivity, and safety 
(including bicycle and pedestrian safety) of 
highway and intermodal transportation systems. 
In carrying out this program, the Secretary 
shall strive to develop partnerships with the 
public and private sectors. 

‘‘(B) RESEARCH AREAS.—In carrying out the 
advanced research program under subparagraph 
(A), the Secretary may make grants and enter 
into cooperative agreements and contracts in 
such areas as the Secretary determines appropriate, 
including the following: 

‘‘(i) Characterization of materials used in 
highway infrastructure, including analytical 
techniques, microstructure modeling, and the 
deterioration processes. 

‘‘(ii) Diagnostics for evaluation of the condition 
of bridge and pavement structures to enable 
assessment of failure risks. 

‘‘(iii) Design and construction details for composite 
structures. 

‘‘(iv) Safety technology based problems in the 
areas of pedestrian and bicycle safety, roadside 
hazards, and composite materials for roadside 
safety hardware. 

‘‘(v) Particulate matter source apportionment, 
control strategy synthesis evaluation, and model 
development. 

‘‘(vi) Data acquisition techniques for system 
condition and performance monitoring. 

‘‘(vii) Prediction of the response of current 
and future travelers to new technologies.’’. 

(d) SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE.—Section 
307(b)(5) is amended— 
(1) by striking subparagraph (C); and 
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph 
(C). 
(e) REPEALS.—Section 307 is amended— 
(1) by striking subsections (c), (d), and (e); 
and 
(2) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and 
(h) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively. 
(f) SEISMIC RESEARCH PROGRAM.—Section 
307(c), as so redesignated, is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
a program to study the vulnerability of 
the Federal-aid highway system and other surface 
transportation systems to seismic activity 
and to develop and implement cost-effective 
methods to reduce such vulnerability.’’; 

(2) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(4) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
to carry out this section, the Secretary 
shall expend not more than $2,000,000 for each 
of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 to carry out 
this subsection, of which up to $2,500,000 may be 
used to upgrade earthquake simulation facilities 
as required to carry out the program.’’; and 

(3) by striking paragraph (5). 
(g) BIENNIAL REPORT.—Section 307(e), as so 
redesignated, is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and inserting 
‘‘BIENNIAL REPORT.—The Secretary’’; and 
(2) by inserting after ‘‘highway needs’’ the 
following: ‘‘, as well as the backlog of current 
highway needs,’’. 
(h) RECYCLED MATERIALS RESEARCH PROGRAM.—
Section 307 is further amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(f) RECYCLED MATERIALS RESEARCH PROGRAM.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
a program of research to determine— 

‘‘(A) the performance of asphalt pavement 
containing tire-derived carbonous asphalt modifiers 
under various climate and use conditions; 
and 

‘‘(B) the degree to which asphalt pavement 
containing tire-derived carbonous asphalt modifiers 
can be recycled. 

‘‘(2) DATE OF COMPLETION.—The Secretary 
shall complete the research program under this 
subsection not later than 3 years after the date 
of the enactment of the Building Efficient Surface 
Transportation and Equity Act of 1998.’’. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1979 

(i) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 3 is 
amended— 
(1) in the heading to section 307 by striking 
‘‘and planning’’; and 
(2) in the table of sections for such chapter by 
striking the item relating to section 307 and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘307. Research.’’. 

SEC. 612. STATE PLANNING AND RESEARCH. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 3 is amended by inserting 
after section 312 the following: 
‘‘§ 313. State planning and research 

‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—Two percent of the 
sums apportioned for each fiscal year beginning 
after September 30, 1997, under section 104 
(other than sections 104(f) and 104(h)) and 
under section 144 shall be available for expenditure 
by the State, in consultation with the Secretary, 
only for the following purposes: 

‘‘(1) Engineering and economic surveys and 
investigations. 

‘‘(2) The planning of future highway programs 
and local public transportation systems 
and the planning of the financing of such programs 
and systems, including statewide planning 
under section 135. 

‘‘(3) Development and implementation of management 
systems under section 303. 

‘‘(4) Studies of the economy, safety, and convenience 
of highway usage and the desirable 
regulation and equitable taxation thereof. 

‘‘(5) Research, development, and technology 
transfer activities necessary in connection with 
the planning, design, construction, management, 
and maintenance of highway, public 
transportation, and intermodal transportation 
systems and study, research, and training on 
the engineering standards and construction materials 
for such systems, including the evaluation 
and accreditation of inspection and testing 
and the regulation and taxation of their use. 

‘‘(b) MINIMUM EXPENDITURES ON RESEARCH, 
DEVELOPMENT, AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AC-
TIVITIES.—Not less than 25 percent of the funds 
which are apportioned to a State for a fiscal 
year and are subject to subsection (a) shall be 
expended by the State for research, development, 
and technology transfer activities described 
in subsection (a) relating to highway, 
public transportation, and intermodal transportation 
systems unless the State certifies to the 
Secretary for such fiscal year that total expenditures 
by the State for transportation planning 
under sections 134 and 135 will exceed 75 percent 
of the amount of such funds and the Secretary 
accepts such certification. Funds used for research 
provided under this subsection are not 
subject to an assessment under the Small Business 
Research and Development Enhancement 
Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–564). 

‘‘(c) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
on account of any project financed with 
funds which are subject to subsection (a) shall 
be 80 percent unless the Secretary determines 
that the interests of the Federal-aid highway 
program would be best served by decreasing or 
eliminating the non-Federal share. 

‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATION OF SUMS.—Funds which 
are subject to subsection (a) shall be combined 
and administered by the Secretary as a single 
fund which shall be available for obligation for 
the same period as funds apportioned under section 
104(b)(1).’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 3 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 312 the following: 
‘‘313. State planning and research.’’. 

(c) HIGHWAY NOISE RESEARCH CENTER.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in cooperation 
with a university with an ongoing program 
relating to noise control and acoustics research, 
shall carry out research on methods to reduce 
highway noise. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $1,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this subsection. 


SEC. 613. INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION 
OUTREACH PROGRAM. 

(a) ACTIVITIES.—Section 325(a) is amended— 
(1) by inserting after ‘‘expertise’’ the following: 
‘‘, goods, and services’’; 
(2) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(4); 
(3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(5) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(6) gathering and disseminating information 
on foreign transportation markets and industries.’’. 


(b) FUNDS.—Section 325(c) is amended to read 
as follows: 
‘‘(c) FUNDS.—Funds available to carry out 
this section shall include funds deposited by 
any cooperating organization or person in a 
special account for such purpose with the Secretary 
of the Treasury. The funds deposited in 
the special account and other funds available to 
carry out this section shall be available to cover 
the cost of any activity eligible under this section, 
including the cost of promotional materials, 
travel, reception and representation expenses, 
and salaries and benefits. Reimbursements 
for salaries and benefits of Department of 
Transportation employees providing services 
under this section shall be credited to the special 
account.’’. 

(c) ELIGIBILITY.—Section 325 is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(d) ELIGIBLE USE OF STATE PLANNING AND 
RESEARCH FUNDS.—A State, in coordination 
with the Secretary, may obligate funds made 
available to carry out section 313 for any activity 
authorized under subsection (a).’’. 

PART II—TRANSPORTATION EDUCATION, 

PROFESSIONAL TRAINING, AND TECH


NOLOGY DEPLOYMENT 

SEC. 621. NATIONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE. 

Section 321 is amended by striking subsection 

(f) and redesignating subsection (g) as subsection 
(f). 
SEC. 622. NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT 
INITIATIVE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 3 is further amended 
by inserting after section 321 the following: 
‘‘§ 322. National technology deployment initiative 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop 
and implement a national technology deployment 
initiative to expand adoption by the 
surface transportation community of innovative 
technologies to improve the safety, efficiency, 
reliability, service life, and sustainability of 
transportation systems and to reduce environmental 
impact. 

‘‘(b) INTEGRATION WITH OTHER PROGRAMS.— 
The Secretary shall integrate activities undertaken 
pursuant to this section with the efforts 
of the Department to disseminate the results of 
research sponsored by the Department and to 
facilitate technology transfer. 

‘‘(c) LEVERAGING OF FEDERAL RESOURCES.—In 
selecting projects to be carried out under this 
section, the Secretary shall give preference to 
projects that leverage Federal funds with other 
significant public or private resources. 

‘‘(d) GRANTS, CONTRACTS, AND COOPERATIVE 
AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary may carry out this 
section either independently or in cooperation 
with other Federal departments, agencies, and 
instrumentalities or by making grants to, or entering 
into contracts, cooperative agreements, or 
other transactions with any State or local agency, 
authority, association, institution, corporation 
(for-profit or nonprofit), organization, or 
person.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 3 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 321 the following: 
‘‘322. National technology deployment initiative.’’. 


SEC. 623. EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS. 

(a) LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.— 
Section 326(a) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘AUTHORITY’’ and inserting 
‘‘LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM’’; and 
(2) by striking ‘‘transportation assistance program’’ 
and inserting ‘‘local technical assistance 
program’’. 
(b) RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS.—Section 326 is 
further amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (c); 
(2) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection 
(c); and 
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following: 


‘‘(b) RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS.— 

‘‘(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
may, acting either independently or in cooperation 
with other Federal departments, agencies, 
and instrumentalities, make grants for research 
fellowships for any purpose for which research 
is authorized by this section. 

‘‘(2) DWIGHT DAVID EISENHOWER TRANSPORTATION 
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.—The Secretary 
shall establish and implement a transportation 
research fellowship program for the purpose of 
attracting qualified students to the field of 
transportation. Such program shall be known as 
the ‘Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation 
Fellowship Program’.’’. 

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 3 is 
amended— 
(1) in the heading to section 326 by striking 
‘‘program’’ and inserting ‘‘programs’’; and 
(2) in the table of sections for such chapter by 
striking the item relating to section 326 and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘326. Education and training programs.’’. 

SEC. 624. UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter 55 
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘§ 5505. University transportation research 

‘‘(a) REGIONAL CENTERS.—The Secretary of 
Transportation shall make grants to nonprofit 
institutions of higher learning to establish and 
operate 1 university transportation center in 
each of the 10 United States Government regions 
that comprise the Standard Federal Regional 
Boundary System. 

‘‘(b) OTHER CENTERS.—The Secretary shall 
make grants to nonprofit institutions of higher 
learning to establish and operate 10 university 
transportation centers, in addition to the centers 
receiving grants under subsection (a), to address 
transportation management and research 
and development, with special attention to increasing 
the number of highly skilled individuals 
entering the field of transportation. 

‘‘(c) SELECTION OF GRANT RECIPIENTS.— 

‘‘(1) APPLICATIONS.—In order to be eligible to 
receive a grant under this section, a nonprofit 
institution of higher learning shall submit to the 
Secretary an application that is in such form 
and contains such information as the Secretary 
may require. 

‘‘(2) SELECTION CRITERIA.—The Secretary 
shall select each recipient of a grant under this 
section through a competitive process on the 
basis of the following: 

‘‘(A) For regional centers, the location of the 
center within the Federal region to be served. 

‘‘(B) The demonstrated research and extension 
resources available to the recipient to carry 
out this section. 

‘‘(C) The capability of the recipient to provide 
leadership in making national and regional contributions 
to the solution of immediate and long-
range transportation problems. 

‘‘(D) The recipient’s establishment of a surface 
transportation program encompassing several 
modes of transportation. 

‘‘(E) The recipient’s demonstrated commitment 
of at least $200,000 in regularly budgeted institutional 
amounts each year to support ongoing 


H1980 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

transportation research and education programs. 


‘‘(F) The recipient’s demonstrated ability to 
disseminate results of transportation research 
and education programs through a statewide or 
regionwide continuing education program. 

‘‘(G) The strategic plan the recipient proposes 
to carry out under the grant. 

‘‘(d) OBJECTIVES.—Each university transportation 
center receiving a grant under this section 
shall conduct the following programs and 
activities: 

‘‘(1) Basic and applied research, the products 
of which are judged by peers or other experts in 
the field to advance the body of knowledge in 
transportation. 

‘‘(2) An education program that includes multidisciplinary 
course work and participation in 
research. 

‘‘(3) An ongoing program of technology transfer 
that makes research results available to potential 
users in a form that can be implemented, 
utilized, or otherwise applied. 

‘‘(e) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—In order to be 
eligible to receive a grant under this section, a 
recipient shall enter into an agreement with the 
Secretary to ensure that the recipient will maintain 
total expenditures from all other sources to 
establish and operate a university transportation 
center and related research activities at a 
level at least equal to the average level of such 
expenditures in its 2 fiscal years prior to award 
of a grant under this section. 

‘‘(f) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share of 
the costs of activities carried out using a grant 
made under this section is 50 percent of costs. 
The non-Federal share may include funds provided 
to a recipient under section 5307 or 5311 of 
this title or section 313, 322, or 326(a) of title 23, 
United States Code. 

‘‘(g) PROGRAM COORDINATION.— 

‘‘(1) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall coordinate 
the research, education, training, and 
technology transfer activities that grant recipients 
carry out under this section, disseminate 
the results of the research, and establish and 
operate a clearinghouse. 

‘‘(2) ANNUAL REVIEW AND EVALUATION.—At 
least annually, the Secretary shall review and 
evaluate programs the grant recipients carry 
out. 

‘‘(3) FUNDING LIMITATION.—The Secretary 
may use not more than 1 percent of amounts 
made available from Government sources to 
carry out this subsection. 

‘‘(h) LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF 
FUNDS.—Funds made available to carry out this 
program shall remain available for obligation 
for a period of 2 years after the last day of the 
fiscal year for which such funds are authorized. 

‘‘(i) SPECIAL RULE FOR FISCAL YEARS 1998 and 
1999.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out subsections 

(a) and (b) in fiscal years 1998 and 1999, the Secretary 
shall make grants to each university 
transportation center and university research 
institute that received a grant in fiscal year 1997 
under section 5316 or 5317 of this title, as in effect 
on the day before the date of the enactment 
of this section. 
‘‘(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this section, grants 
made pursuant to paragraph (1) in fiscal years 
1998 and 1999 shall be subject to the same terms 
and conditions as the fiscal year 1997 grants referred 
to in paragraph (1); except that the university 
research institutes at San Jose State University, 
North Carolina A&T State University, 
and the University of South Florida shall each 
receive $1,000,000 in grants under paragraph (1) 
in each of fiscal years 1998 and 1999. 

‘‘(j) UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INSTITUTES.—Any 
university research institute that received a 
grant under section 5316 of this title, as in effect 
on the day before the date of the enactment of 
this section, shall be eligible to receive grants 
made available to university transportation centers 
under this section. 

‘‘(k) APPLICATIONS THAT MAY BE CONSIDERED.—
In selecting grant recipients under subsection 
(b), the Secretary shall consider at a 
minimum applications submitted by the following: 


‘‘(1) Any university transportation center or 
university research institute described in subsection 
(i)(1). 

‘‘(2) The University of Denver and Mississippi 
State University. 

‘‘(3) The University of Arizona. 

‘‘(4) The University of Central Florida. 

‘‘(5) Carnegie Mellon and Lehigh Universities. 

‘‘(6) University of Southern California and 
California State University at Long Beach. 

‘‘(7) Pace University. 

‘‘(8) A consortium of historically black colleges 
in Alabama. 

‘‘(9) Lawson State Community College. 

‘‘(10) A consortium consisting of the University 
of Wisconsin, the University of Illinois, and 
Purdue University. 

‘‘(11) The University of New Hampshire. 

‘‘(12) A consortium consisting of George 
Mason University, along with the University of 
Virginia and Virginia Tech University. 

‘‘(13) The University of Tennessee. 

‘‘(14) The Alabama Transportation Institute. 

‘‘(15) A consortium consisting of Columbia 
University, City University of New York, Manhattan 
College, and New Jersey Institute of 
Technology. 

‘‘(16) Maritime College of the State University 
of New York. 

‘‘(17) University of New Orleans.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 55 of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 5504 the following: 
‘‘5505. University transportation research.’’. 

(c) APPALACHIAN TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE.— 
(1) GRANTS.—The Secretary shall make grants 
under section 5505 of title 49, United States 
Code, to Marshall University, West Virginia, on 
behalf of a consortium which also may include 
West Virginia University Institute of Technology, 
the College of West Virginia, and Blue-
field State College to establish and operate an 
Appalachian Transportation Institute. Such institute 
shall conduct research, training, technology 
transfer, and other transportation related 
activities in the development and enhancement 
of transportation systems in the Appalachian 
region, including the Appalachian Development 
Highway System. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of amounts made available to 
carry out such section 5505, $2,000,000 shall be 
available for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003 to carry out paragraph (1). 
(3) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
for the costs of the institute referred to in 
paragraph (1) shall be 80 percent; except that 
the non-Federal interest shall receive credit for 
the reasonable cost associated with the establishment 
and administration of the institute referred 
to in paragraph (1). 
(d) ITS INSTITUTE.— 
(1) GRANTS.—The Secretary shall make grants 
under section 5505 of title 49, United States 
Code, to the University of Minnesota to continue 
to operate and expand the ITS Institute. 
The ITS Institute shall continue to conduct research, 
education, and development activities 
that focus on transportation management, enhanced 
safety, human factors, and reduced environmental 
effects. The ITS Institute shall develop 
new or expanded programs to address 
emerging issues of ITS related to transportation 
policy, intermodalism, sustainable community 
development, and transportation telematics. 
(2) FUNDING.—Of amounts made available to 
carry out such section 5505, $2,000,000 shall be 
available for each of fiscal years 1998 through 
2003 to carry out paragraph (1). 
(3) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
for the costs of the institute referred to in 
paragraph (1) shall be 80 percent; except that 
the non-Federal interest shall receive credit for 
the reasonable cost associated with the establishment 
and administration of the institute referred 
to in paragraph (1). 

SEC. 625. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS. 

Of the amounts made available for each of fiscal 
years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(G) of this Act— 

(1) not to exceed $8,000,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available for the National Highway Institute 
under section 321 of title 23, United 
States Code; 
(2) not to exceed $10,000,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available for the local technical assistance 
program under section 326(a) of such title; 
(3) not to exceed $2,000,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available for the Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Transportation Fellowship Program under section 
326(b) of such title; 
(4) not to exceed $14,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998 and 1999 and $19,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2000 through 2003 shall be available 
for the national technology deployment initiative 
program under section 322 of such title; and 
(5) not to exceed $17,750,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available for university transportation 
centers under section 5505 of title 49, United 
States Code. 
PART III—BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION 

STATISTICS AND MISCELLANEOUS PRO


GRAMS 

SEC. 631. BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 111 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by striking the second sentence of subsection 
(b)(4); 
(2) in subsection (c)(1)— 
(A) in subparagraph (J) by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(B) in subparagraph (K) by striking the period 
and inserting ‘‘; and’’ ; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(L) transportation-related variables influencing 
global competitiveness.’’; 

(3) in subsection (c)(2)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘national transportation system’’ 
in the first sentence and inserting ‘‘Nation’s 
transportation systems’’; 
(B) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(A) be coordinated with efforts to measure 
outputs and outcomes of the Department of 
Transportation and the Nation’s transportation 
systems under the Government Performance and 
Results Act of 1993 (107 Stat. 285 et seq.);’’; and 

(C) in subparagraph (C) by inserting ‘‘, made 
relevant to the States and metropolitan planning 
organizations,’’ after ‘‘accuracy’’; 
(4) in subsection (c)(3) by adding at the end 
the following: ‘‘The Bureau shall review and report 
to the Secretary of Transportation on the 
sources and reliability of the statistics proposed 
by the heads of the operating administrations of 
the Department to measure outputs and outcomes 
as required by the Government Performance 
and Results Act of 1993 (107 Stat. 285 et 
seq.), and shall undertake such other reviews as 
may be requested by the Secretary.’’; 
(5) in subsection (c) by adding at the end the 
following: 
‘‘(7) SUPPORTING TRANSPORTATION DECISIONMAKING.—
Ensuring that the statistics compiled 
under paragraph (1) are relevant for transportation 
decisions by Federal, State, and local 
governments, transportation-related associations, 
private businesses, and consumers.’’; 

(6) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and 
(f) as subsections (h), (i) and (j), respectively; 
(7) by striking subsection (g); and 
(8) by inserting after subsection (c) the following: 
‘‘(d) INTERMODAL TRANSPORTATION DATA 
BASE.—The Director shall establish and maintain 
an intermodal transportation data base. 
The data base shall be suitable for analyses conducted 
by the Federal Government, the States, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1981 

and metropolitan planning organizations. The 
data base shall include, at a minimum— 

‘‘(1) information on the volumes and patterns 
of movement of goods, including local, interregional, 
and international movements, by all 
modes of transportation and intermodal combinations, 
and by relevant classification; 

‘‘(2) information on the volumes and patterns 
of movement of people, including local, interregional, 
and international movements, by all 
modes of transportation and intermodal combinations, 
and by relevant classification; and 

‘‘(3) information on the location and 
connectivity of transportation facilities and 
services and a national accounting of expenditures 
and capital stocks on each mode of transportation 
and intermodal combinations. 

‘‘(e) NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION LIBRARY.— 
The Director shall establish and maintain a national 
transportation library containing a collection 
of statistical and other information needed 
for transportation decisionmaking at the 
Federal, State, and local levels. 

‘‘(f) NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION ATLAS DATA 
BASE.—The Director shall develop and maintain 
geographic data bases depicting transportation 
networks; flows of people, goods, vehicles, and 
craft over those networks; and social, economic, 
and environmental conditions affecting or affected 
by those networks. These data bases shall 
be able to support intermodal network analysis. 

‘‘(g) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRANTS.— 
The Secretary may make grants to, or enter into 
cooperative agreements or contracts with, public 
and nonprofit private entities to support the 
programs and activities of the Bureau.’’; 

(9) by striking subsection (i), as so redesignated, 
and inserting the following: 

‘‘(i) PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN DISCLOSURES.— 

‘‘(1) INFORMATION OBTAINED UNDER LONGTERM 
DATA COLLECTION PROGRAM.—An officer 
or employee of the Bureau may not— 

‘‘(A) make any publication in which the data 
furnished by an individual or organization 
under paragraph (c)(2) can be identified; 

‘‘(B) use the information furnished under the 
provisions of subsection (c)(2) for a nonstatistical 
purpose; or 

‘‘(C) permit anyone other than the individuals 
authorized by the Director to examine individual 
reports furnished under subsection (c)(2). 

‘‘(2) COPIES OF REPORTS.—No department, bureau, 
agency, officer, or employee of the United 
States, except the Director in carrying out the 
purpose of this section, shall require, for any 
reason, copies of reports which have been filed 
under subsection (c)(2) with the Bureau or retained 
by any individual respondent. Copies of 
such reports which have been so retained or 
filed with the Bureau or any of its employees, 
contractors, or agents shall be immune from 
legal process, and shall not, without the consent 
of the individual concerned, be admitted as evidence 
or used for any purpose in any action, 
suit, or other judicial or administrative proceeding. 
This paragraph shall only apply to information 
that permits information concerning an 
individual or organization to be reasonable inferred 
by direct or indirect means. 

‘‘(3) COLLECTION OF DATA FOR NONSTATISTICAL 
PURPOSES.—In a case in which the Bureau is 
authorized by statute to collect data or information 
for nonstatistical purposes, the Director 
shall clearly distinguish the collection of such 
data or information by rule, and on the collection 
instrument, to inform a respondent requested 
or required to supply the data or information 
of the nonstatistical purposes.’’; and 

(10) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(k) DATA PRODUCT SALES PROCEEDS.—Notwithstanding 
section 3302 of title 31, United 
States Code, funds received by the Bureau from 
the sale of data products may be credited to the 
Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account) and shall be available for the 
purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses. 


‘‘(l) FUNDING.— 

‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated out of 
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass 
Transit Account) $31,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998 through 2003 to carry out this section, 
except that amounts for activities under 
subsection (g) may not exceed $500,000 in any 
fiscal year. Amounts made available under this 
subsection shall remain available for a period of 
3 fiscal years. 

‘‘(2) APPLICABILITY OF TITLE 23.—Funds authorized 
by this subsection shall be available for 
obligation in the same manner as if such funds 
were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
United States Code.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 5503 of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (d); and 
(2) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and 
(g) as subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively. 
SEC. 632. TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY INNO


VATION AND DEMONSTRATION PRO


GRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall carry 
out a transportation technology innovation and 
demonstration program in accordance with the 
requirements of this section. 
(b) CONTENTS OF PROGRAM.— 
(1) USE OF CONCRETE PAVEMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
research on improved methods of using concrete 
pavement in the construction, reconstruction, 
and repair of Federal-aid highways. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $10,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this 
paragraph. 
(2) MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY WARNING SYSTEM.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall expand 
and continue the study authorized by section 
358(c) of the National Highway System Designation 
Act of 1995 (23 U.S.C. 401 note; 109 Stat. 
625) relating to the development of a motor vehicle 
safety warning system and shall conduct 
tests of such system. 
(B) GRANTS.—In carrying out this paragraph, 
the Secretary may make grants to State and 
local governments. 
(C) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2000 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $700,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(3) STEEL BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants for research and construction to improve 
and demonstrate the use of steel bridge construction. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $10,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this 
paragraph. 
(C) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
on account of construction activities carried 
out using a grant made under this paragraph 
shall be 80 percent of the cost of such activities. 
(4) USE OF ASPHALT PAVEMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
research on improved methods of using asphalt 
pavement in the construction, reconstruction, 
and repair of Federal-aid highways. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $10,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this 
paragraph. 
(5) USE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MONITORING 
SYSTEMS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
research on improved methods of deploying and 
integrating existing ITS projects to include hazardous 
materials monitoring systems across various 
modes of transportation. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(I) of this Act, $1,500,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 


(6) MOTOR CARRIER ADVANCED SENSOR CONTROL 
SYSTEM.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
research on the deployment of a system of advanced 
sensors and signal processors in trucks 
and tractor trailers to determine axle and wheel 
alignment, monitor collision alarm, check tire 
pressure and tire balance conditions, measure 
and detect load distribution in the vehicle, and 
monitor and adjust automatic braking systems. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(I) of this Act, $700,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(7) OUTREACH AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER ACTIVITIES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall continue 
to support the Urban Consortium’s ITS 
outreach and technology transfer activities. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $500,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(8) TRANSPORTATION ECONOMIC AND LAND USE 
SYSTEM.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall continue 
development and deployment through the 
New Jersey Institute of Technology to metropolitan 
planning organizations of the Transportation 
Economic and Land Use System. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $1,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(9) GREAT LAKES ITS IMPLEMENTATION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to the State of Wisconsin to continue ITS 
activities in the corridor serving the Greater 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Chicago, Illinois, and 
Gary, Indiana, areas initiated under the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts allocated for 
each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 under section 
657(a) of this Act, $2,000,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(10) NORTHEAST ITS IMPLEMENTATION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to the States to continue ITS activities in 
the Interstate Route I–95 corridor in the northeastern 
United States initiated under the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
1991. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts allocated for 
each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 under section 
657(a) of this Act, $5,000,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(11) COMPOSITE MATERIALS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall conduct 
research in the use of composite materials for 
guardrails and bridge decking. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(F) of this Act, $700,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(12) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall carry 
out a program to advance the deployment of an 
operational intelligent transportation infrastructure 
system for the measurement of various 
transportation system activities to aid in the 
transportation planning and analysis while 
making a significant contribution to the ITS 
program under this title. This program shall be 
located in the 2 largest metropolitan areas in the 
State of Pennsylvania. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $1,700,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 

H1982 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(C) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share payable 
on account of the program carried out 
under this paragraph shall be 80 percent of the 
cost of such program. 
(13) CORROSION CONTROL AND PREVENTION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make a 
grant to conduct a study on the costs and benefits 
of corrosion control and prevention. The 
study shall be conducted in conjunction with an 
interdisciplinary team of experts from the fields 
of metallurgy, chemistry, economics, and others, 
as appropriate. Not later than September 30, 
2001, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report on the study results, together with any 
recommendations. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1999 and 2000 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $500,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(14) RECYCLED MATERIALS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to the University of New Hampshire to 
continue research on the use of recycled materials 
in the construction of transportation 
projects. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(F) of this Act, $1,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(15) TRANSLINK.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to the Texas Transportation Institute to 
continue the Translink Research program. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts allocated for 
each of fiscal years 1999 through 2001 under section 
657(a) of this Act, $1,300,000 per fiscal year 
shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(16) FUNDAMENTAL PROPERTIES OF ASPHALTS 
AND MODIFIED ASPHALTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall continue 
to carry out section 6016 of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. 
Additional areas of the program under such section 
shall be asphalt-water interaction studies 
and asphalt-aggregate thin film behavior studies. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1999 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(F) of this Act, $3,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 
(17) NATIONAL CENTER FOR TRANSPORTATION 
MANAGEMENT, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to design, develop, and implement research, 
training, and technology transfer activities 
to increase the number of highly skilled minority 
individuals and women entering the 
transportation workforce. The grant recipient 
shall be an institution with a predominantly minority 
student population, a dedicated graduate 
degree program in transportation studies, and a 
demonstrated record for at least 5 years in pursuing 
the objectives for which grants are authorized 
by this subparagraph. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
by section 127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $1,000,000 
shall be available to carry out this paragraph 
for fiscal year 2000, $1,250,000 for fiscal year 
2001, $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2002, and 
$1,750,000 for fiscal year 2003. 
(18) INFRASTRUCTURE TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to study techniques to evaluate and monitor 
infrastructure conditions, to improve information 
systems for infrastructure construction 
and management, and to study advanced materials 
and automated processes for constructing 
and rehabilitating public works facilities. The 
recipient shall be an institution with a demonstrated 
record for at least 5 years in pursuing 
the objectives for which grants are authorized 
by this subparagraph. 
(B) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 2000 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $3,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this paragraph. 


Subtitle B—Intelligent Transportation 
Systems 
SEC. 651. DEFINITIONS. 

As used in this subtitle, the following definitions 
apply: 

(1) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS; 
ITS.—The terms ‘‘intelligent transportation systems’’ 
and ‘‘ITS’’ mean electronics, communications, 
or information processing used singly or 
in combination to improve the efficiency and 
safety of surface transportation systems. 
(2) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.—
The term ‘‘intelligent transportation infrastructure’’ 
means fully integrated public sector 
ITS components, as defined by the Secretary. 
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means 
the Secretary of Transportation. 
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ has the meaning 
given such term under section 101 of title 23, 
United States Code. 
SEC. 652. SCOPE OF PROGRAM. 

(a) SCOPE.—Subject to the provisions of this 
subtitle, the Secretary shall conduct an ongoing 
ITS program to research, develop, and operationally 
test intelligent transportation systems 
and advance nationwide deployment of such 
systems as a component of the Nation’s surface 
transportation systems. 
(b) GOALS.—The goals of the ITS program include— 
(1) enhancement of surface transportation efficiency 
to enable existing facilities to meet a 
significant portion of future transportation 
needs and to reduce regulatory, financial, and 
other transaction costs to public agencies and 
system users; 
(2) enhancement of safe operation of motor vehicles, 
including motorcycles, and nonmotorized 
vehicles on the Nation’s surface transportation 
systems, with a particular emphasis on decreasing 
the number and severity of collisions; 
(3) protection and enhancement of the natural 
environment and communities affected by surface 
transportation, with particular emphasis 
on assisting States to attain air quality goals established 
pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 
U.S.C. 7401 et seq.); 
(4) accommodation of the needs of all users of 
the Nation’s surface transportation systems, including 
the operators of commercial vehicles, 
passenger vehicles, and motorcycles; 
(5) improvement of public access to employment, 
goods, and services; 
(6) development of a technology base and necessary 
standards and protocols for intelligent 
transportation systems; 
(7) improvement of the Nation’s ability to respond 
to emergencies and natural disasters and 
enhancement of national defense mobility; and 
(8) promotion of the access and use of data 
collected from projects conducted under the program 
by public and private organizations. 
SEC. 653. GENERAL AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS. 


(a) COOPERATION AND CONSULTATION REQUIREMENTS.— 
(1) COOPERATION WITH GOVERNMENTAL, PRIVATE, 
AND EDUCATIONAL ENTITIES.—The Secretary 
shall carry out the ITS program in cooperation 
with State and local governments and 
other public entities, the United States private 
sector, and colleges and universities, including 
historically black colleges and universities and 
other minority institutions of higher education. 
(2) CONSULTATION WITH FEDERAL OFFICIALS.— 
In carrying out the ITS program, the Secretary, 
as appropriate, shall consult with the Secretary 
of Commerce, the Secretary of the Treasury, the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, the Director of the National Science 
Foundation, and the heads of other Federal departments 
and agencies. 
(b) STANDARDS.— 
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL ITS ARCHITECTURE.—
The Secretary shall develop, implement, 
and maintain a national ITS architecture and 
standards and protocols to promote the widespread 
use and evaluation of ITS technology as 
a component of the Nation’s surface transportation 
systems. 

(2) INTEROPERABILITY AMONG ITS TECH-
NOLOGIES.—The national ITS architecture shall 
promote interoperability among ITS technologies 
implemented throughout the States. 
(3) USE OF SERVICES OF STANDARDS-SETTING 
ORGANIZATIONS.—In carrying out this subsection, 
the Secretary may use the services of 
standards-setting organizations. 
(4) ESTABLISHMENT OF DEDICATED SHORTRANGE 
VEHICLE TO WAYSIDE WIRELESS STANDARD.—
In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary, 
in consultation with the Secretary of 
Commerce, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
Federal Communications Commission, shall take 
such actions as may be necessary to secure the 
necessary spectrum for the near-term establishment 
of a dedicated short-range vehicle to wayside 
wireless standard. 
(c) EVALUATIONS.— 
(1) GUIDELINES AND REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary 
shall issue guidelines and requirements 
for the evaluation of field and related operational 
tests carried out under section 655 of 
this Act. 
(2) OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE.—The 
guidelines and requirements issued under paragraph 
(1) shall include provisions to ensure the 
objectivity and independence of the evaluator 
and to avoid any real or apparent conflict of interest 
or potential influence on the outcome by 
parties to the tests or any other formal evaluation 
conducted under this subtitle. 
(d) INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish 
and maintain a repository for technical 
and safety data collected as a result of federally-
sponsored projects under this subtitle and 
shall make, upon request, such information (except 
for proprietary information and data) readily 
available to all users of the repository at an 
appropriate cost. 
(2) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
may delegate the responsibility of the 
Secretary under this subsection, with continuing 
oversight by the Secretary, to an appropriate 
entity that is not within the Department 
of Transportation. Any entity to which such responsibility 
is delegated shall be eligible for Federal 
assistance under this subtitle. 
(e) ADVISORY COMMITTEES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may utilize 1 
or more advisory committees in carrying out this 
subtitle. 
(2) APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
ACT.—Any advisory committee utilized 
under this subsection shall be subject to the 
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App., 
86 Stat. 770). 
(3) FUNDING.—Funding provided for an advisory 
committee utilized under this subsection 
shall be available from moneys appropriated for 
advisory committees as specified in relevant appropriations 
Acts and from funds allocated for 
research, development, and implementation activities 
in connection with the ITS program. 
(f) CONFORMITY WITH STANDARDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure 
that ITS projects carried out using funds made 
available out of the Highway Trust Fund conform 
to the national ITS architecture and 
standards and protocols developed under subsection 
(b). 
(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
apply to projects carried out using funds authorized 
for specific research objectives in the 
National ITS Program Plan under section 654 of 
this Act. 
(g) LIFE-CYCLE COST ANALYSIS.—The Secretary 
shall require an analysis of the life-cycle 
costs of each project carried out using funds 
made available under this subtitle, and each 
project authorized in section 656 of this Act, for 
operations and maintenance of ITS elements, 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1983 

where the total initial capital costs of the such 
elements exceed $3,000,000. 

(h) PROCUREMENT METHODS.— 
(1) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary 
shall develop appropriate technical assistance 
and guidance to assist State and local agencies 
in evaluating and selecting appropriate methods 
of procurement for its projects carried out using 
funds made available from the Highway Trust 
Fund, including innovative and nontraditional 
methods of procurement. 
(2) ITS SOFTWARE.—To the maximum extent 
practicable, contracting officials shall use as a 
critical evaluation criterion the Software Engineering 
Institute’s Capability Maturity Model, 
or another similar recognized standard risk assessment 
methodology, to reduce the cost, schedule, 
and performance risks associated with the 
development, management, and integration of 
ITS software. 
SEC. 654. NATIONAL ITS PROGRAM PLAN. 

(a) NATIONAL ITS PROGRAM PLAN.— 
(1) UPDATES.—The Secretary shall maintain 
and update, as necessary, the National ITS Program 
Plan developed by the Department of 
Transportation and the Intelligent Transportation 
Society of America. 
(2) SCOPE.—The National ITS Program Plan 
shall— 
(A) specify the goals, objectives, and milestones 
for the deployment of intelligent transportation 
infrastructure in the context of major 
metropolitan areas, smaller metropolitan and 
rural areas, and commercial vehicle information 
systems and networks; 
(B) specify how specific programs and projects 
relate to the goals, objectives, and milestones referred 
to in subparagraph (A), including consideration 
of the 5-, 10-, and 20-year timeframes for 
the goals and objectives; 
(C) establish a course of action necessary to 
achieve the program’s goals and objectives; 
(D) provide for the evolutionary development 
of standards and protocols to promote and ensure 
interoperability in the implementation of 
ITS technologies; and 
(E) establish a cooperative process with State 
and local governments for determining desired 
surface transportation system performance levels 
and developing plans for national incorporation 
of specific ITS capabilities into surface 
transportation systems. 
(b) IMPLEMENTATION REPORTS.—Not later 
than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary 
shall transmit to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works of the Senate a report 
on implementation of the National ITS Program 
Plan. 
SEC. 655. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, PLANNING, 
RESEARCH, AND OPERATIONAL 
TESTS. 

(a) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING, AND IN-
FORMATION.—The Secretary may provide technical 
assistance, training, and information to 
State and local governments seeking to implement, 
operate, maintain, and evaluate ITS technologies 
and services. 
(b) TRANSPORTATION PLANNING.—The Secretary 
may provide funding to support adequate 
consideration of transportation system management 
and operations, including ITS, within metropolitan 
and statewide transportation planning 
processes. 
(c) RESEARCH AND OPERATIONAL TESTS.—The 
Secretary may provide funding for research and 
operational tests relating to ITS. 
(d) DEMONSTRATION AND EVALUATION OF INTELLIGENT 
VEHICLE HIGHWAY SYSTEMS.—The 
Secretary may conduct research and development 
activities for the purpose of demonstrating 
integrated intelligent vehicle highway systems 
and roadway safety systems. Such research 
shall include state-of-the-art systems and shall 
integrate collision avoidance, in-vehicle information, 
and other safety related systems (including 
infrastructure-based systems). Development 
work shall incorporate human factors research 
findings. 

SEC. 656. ITS DEPLOYMENT. 

(a) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE 
DEPLOYMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM.—
The Secretary shall conduct a program 
to promote the deployment of regionally integrated, 
intermodal intelligent transportation 
systems and, through financial and technical 
assistance under this subtitle, shall assist in the 
development and implementation of such systems. 
(b) GOALS.—In accordance with the National 
ITS Program Plan under section 654 of this Act, 
the Secretary shall provide incentives for the deployment 
of integrated applications of inter-
modal, intelligent transportation infrastructure 
and system technologies to— 
(1) stimulate sufficient deployment to validate 
and accelerate the establishment of national ITS 
standards and protocols; 
(2) realize the benefits of regionally integrated, 
intermodal deployment of intelligent 
transportation infrastructure and commercial 
vehicle operations, including electronic border 
crossing applications; and 
(3) motivate innovative approaches to overcoming 
non-technical constraints or impediments 
to deployment. 
(c) PROJECT SELECTION.—In order to be eligible 
for funding under this section, a project 
shall— 
(1) contribute to national deployment goals 
and objectives outlined in the National ITS Program 
Plan under section 654 of this Act; 
(2) demonstrate a strong commitment to cooperation 
among agencies, jurisdictions, and the 
private sector, as evidenced by signed memorandums 
of understanding that clearly define the 
responsibilities and relation of all parties to a 
partnership arrangement, including institutional 
relationships and financial agreements 
needed to support deployment, and commitment 
to the criteria provided in paragraphs (3) 
through (7); 
(3) demonstrate commitment to a comprehensive 
plan of fully integrated ITS deployment in 
accordance with the national ITS architecture 
and standards and protocols established under 
section 653(b) of this Act; 
(4) be part of approved plans and programs 
developed under applicable statewide and metropolitan 
transportation planning processes and 
applicable State air quality implementation 
plans, as appropriate, at the time Federal funds 
are sought; 
(5) minimize the relative percentage and 
amount of Federal contributions under this section 
to total project costs; 
(6) ensure continued, long-term operations 
and maintenance without continued reliance on 
Federal funding under this subtitle, along with 
documented evidence of fiscal capacity and commitment 
from anticipated public and private 
sources; 
(7) demonstrate technical capacity for effective 
operations and maintenance or commitment 
to acquiring necessary skills; and 
(8) identify the impacts on bicycle and pedestrian 
transportation and safety and evaluate 
options to mitigate any adverse impacts on bicycle 
and pedestrian transportation and safety. 
(d) FUNDING LIMITATIONS.— 
(1) PROJECTS IN METROPOLITAN AREAS.—Funding 
under this section for intelligent transportation 
infrastructure projects in metropolitan 
areas shall be limited to activities primarily necessary 
to integrate intelligent transportation infrastructure 
elements either deployed or to be 
deployed with other sources of funds. 
(2) OTHER PROJECTS.—For commercial vehicle 
projects and projects outside metropolitan areas, 
funding provided under this subtitle may also be 
used for installation of intelligent transportation 
infrastructure elements. 
(3) FISCAL YEAR LIMITATIONS.—Of the 
amounts made available to carry out this section 
in a fiscal year— 
(A) not more than $15,000,000 may be used for 
projects in a metropolitan area; 
(B) not more than $2,000,000 may be used for 
a project in a rural area; 
(C) not more than $5,000,000 may be used for 
a commercial vehicle information system and 
network project; and 
(D) not more than $35,000,000 may be used for 
projects in a State. 
(4) PRIORITIES.—In providing funding for 
projects under this section, the Secretary shall 
allocate— 
(A) not less than 25 percent of the funds made 
available to carry out this section to eligible 
State and local entities for the implementation 
of commercial vehicle information systems and 
networks, and international border crossing improvements, 
in support of public sector commercial 
vehicle operations nationwide; and 
(B) not less than 10 percent of such funds for 
other intelligent transportation infrastructure 
deployment activities outside of metropolitan 
areas. 
SEC. 657. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS. 

(a) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE 
DEPLOYMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM.— 
(1) ALLOCATION.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 
by section 127(a)(3)(I) of this Act, $75,000,000 per 
fiscal year shall be available to carry out section 
656 of this Act. 
(2) USE OF UNALLOCATED AMOUNTS.—In addition 
to amounts made available by subsection 
(b), any amounts made available under paragraph 
(1) and not allocated by the Secretary for 
carrying out section 656 of this Act may be used 
by the Secretary for carrying out other activities 
authorized under this subtitle. 
(b) ITS RESEARCH AND PROGRAM SUPPORT AC-
TIVITIES.—Of the amounts made available for 
each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(I) of this Act, $100,000,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out multi-year 
research and technology development initiatives 
under this subtitle (other than projects under 
section 656 of this Act). 
(c) FEDERAL SHARE PAYABLE.— 
(1) INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE 
DEPLOYMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM.—For 
activities funded with amounts allocated under 
subsection (a), the Federal share payable from 
such amounts shall not exceed 50 percent of the 
costs of the activities, and the total Federal 
share payable from all eligible sources (including 
subsection (a)) shall not exceed 80 percent of 
the costs of the activities. 
(2) OTHER PROGRAMS.—For activities funded 
with amounts allocated under subsection (b), 
unless the Secretary determines otherwise, the 
Federal share payable on account of such activities 
shall not exceed 80 percent of the costs of 
the activities. 
(3) LONG-RANGE ACTIVITIES.—For long-range 
activities undertaken in partnership with private 
entities for the purposes of section 655(d) of 
this Act, the Federal share payable from funds 
allocated under this subtitle on account of such 
activities shall not exceed 50 percent of the costs 
of the activities, and the total Federal share 
payable from all eligible sources (including subsection 
(a)) shall not exceed 80 percent of the 
costs of the activities. 
(4) PARTICIPATION OF OTHER PUBLIC AND PRIVATE 
SOURCES.—The Secretary shall seek maximum 
participation in the funding of activities 
under this subtitle from other public and private 
sources, and shall minimize the use of funds 
provided under this subtitle for the construction 
or long-term acquisition of buildings and 
grounds. 
(d) ADVANCED TRAFFIC MONITORING AND RESPONSE 
CENTER.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make 
grants to the Pennsylvania Transportation Institute, 
in conjunction with the Pennsylvania 

H1984 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Turnpike Commission, to establish an advanced 
traffic monitoring and emergency response center 
at Letterkenny Army Depot in Chambers-
burg, Pennsylvania. The center shall help develop 
and coordinate traffic monitoring and ITS 
systems on the entire Pennsylvania Turnpike 
system and I–81, coordinate emergency response 
with State and local governments in the Central 
Pennsylvania Region, and conduct research. 

(2) FUNDING.—Of the amounts made available 
for each of fiscal years 1998 through 2003 by section 
127(a)(3)(H) of this Act, $1,667,000 per fiscal 
year shall be available to carry out this subsection. 
SEC. 658. GLOBAL POSITIONING SATELLITE DATA. 

(a) MORATORIUM.—Before the last day of the 
2-year period beginning on the date of enactment 
of this Act or the 90th day after a study 
has been submitted under subsection (c), whichever 
is later, records produced by global positioning 
satellite systems shall not be subpoenaed 
or otherwise used by the Secretary in enforcement 
cases to verify compliance with hours-ofservice 
requirements for employees of motor carriers. 
(b) EXCEPTIONS TO MORATORIUM.—Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary may use 
such records in a case in which any of the following 
conditions exist: 
(1) Global positioning satellite systems are a 
motor carrier’s primary method of maintaining 
or verifying records of duty status. 
(2) State or Federal safety officials are investigating 
the cause of a fatal crash involving a 
motor carrier. 
(3) A motor carrier has an unacceptable safety 
profile as determined by the Secretary and the 
Secretary gives approval for an examination of 
the global positioning satellite records. 
In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary 
may seek access to data from an information 
technology provider only if access to such data 
cannot be obtained from the motor carrier. 

(c) INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall contract 
with an entity that is independent of the Department 
of Transportation to conduct a study 
to identify, examine, and evaluate current and 
future issues and policies related to government 
access to data produced by electronic systems 
for motor carriers. The entity shall have demonstrated 
knowledge about the motor carrier industry, 
motor carrier safety regulations, and the 
electronic information industry. 
(2) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—The Office of the Inspector 
General of the Department of Transportation 
shall approve the statement of work of 
the entity referred to in paragraph (1) and approve 
the contract award under paragraph (1). 
In carrying out its responsibilities under this 
paragraph, the Office of the Inspector General 
shall perform such overview and validation or 
verification of data as may be necessary to ensure 
that the study to be conducted under paragraph 
(1) meets the requirements of paragraph 
(1). 
(3) DEADLINE.—The study to be conducted 
under paragraph (1) shall be completed not later 
than 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act. A report containing the results of the 
study shall be submitted to the Secretary and 
Congress. 
(4) FUNDING.—Of amounts made available 
under section 127(a)(3)(H), $100,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, $200,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$200,000 for fiscal year 2000 shall be available to 
carry out this subsection. 
SEC. 659. REPEAL. 

Part B of title VI of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 
2189–2195) is repealed. 

TITLE VII—TRUTH IN BUDGETING 

SEC. 701. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF HIGHWAY 
TRUST FUND. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
(except the Line Item Veto Act of 1996), the re


ceipts and disbursements of the Highway Trust 
Fund established by section 9503 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986— 

(1) shall not be counted as new budget authority, 
outlays, receipts, or deficit or surplus 
for purposes of— 
(A) the budget of the United States Government 
as submitted by the President, 
(B) the congressional budget (including allocations 
of budget authority and outlays provided 
therein), or 
(C) the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985; and 
(2) shall be exempt from any general budget 
limitation imposed by statute on expenditures 
and net lending (budget outlays) of the United 
States Government. 
SEC. 702. APPLICABILITY. 

This title shall apply to fiscal years beginning 
after September 30, 1997. 

TITLE VIII—RECREATIONAL BOATING 
SAFETY PROGRAM 
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Recreational 
Boating Safety Improvement Act of 1998’’. 

SEC. 802. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO REC


REATIONAL BOATING SAFETY PRO


GRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 13106 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(1)’’ and all that follows 
through the first sentence and inserting the following: 
‘‘Except as provided in subsection (c) 
and subject to such amounts as are provided in 
appropriations laws, the Secretary may expend 
for each fiscal year the amount transferred for 
such fiscal year to the Boat Safety Account 
under section 9503(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9503(c)(4)).’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (2); and 
(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(c)(1) Of the amount transferred for each fiscal 
year to the Boat Safety Account under section 
9503(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 9503(c)(4))— 

‘‘(A) up to two percent is available to the Secretary 
to pay the costs of investigations, personnel, 
and activities related to administering State 
recreational boating safety programs; 

‘‘(B) up to two percent is available to the Secretary 
to ensure compliance with chapter 43 of 
this title; and 

‘‘(C) up to three percent is available to the 
Secretary to establish, operate, and maintain 
aids to navigation that promote primarily recreational 
boating safety. 

‘‘(2) Amounts made available by this subsection 
shall remain available until expended.’’. 

(b) COMPREHENSIVE SURVEYS.—Section 
13103(c) of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(c)’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall use amounts allocated 
under this subsection to conduct and report 
to the Congress the findings of a comprehensive 
survey of recreational boating in the 
United States, by not later than December 1 of 
1999 and of every fifth year thereafter. The 
amount expended for each survey may not exceed 
50 percent of the amounts allocated under 
this subsection for the fiscal year in which the 
survey is conducted.’’. 

(c) REQUIREMENT TO USE STATE PROGRAM ASSISTANCE 
FOR CERTAIN PUBLIC ACCESS FACILITIES.—
Section 13106 of title 46, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(d)(1) The Secretary shall require that of the 
amount appropriated for a fiscal year to which 
this subsection applies that is allocated and distributed 
under this chapter for State recreational 
boating safety programs, the amount 
described in paragraph (2) shall be available 
only for use pursuant to subsection (b)(4) for 

public access facilities for transient 
nontrailerable recreational vessels. 

‘‘(2) The amount referred to in paragraph (1) 
is equal to five percent of the portion of sums 
appropriated for the fiscal year to carry out this 
chapter that is in excess of $35,000,000. 

‘‘(3) This subsection applies to any fiscal year 
for which the total amount appropriated to 
carry out this chapter exceeds $35,000,000.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall take 
effect October 1, 1998. 
TITLE IX—RAILROADS 
SEC. 901. HIGH-SPEED RAIL. 

(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 
26104 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
(h); and 
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following 
new subsections: 
‘‘(d) FISCAL YEAR 1998.—(1) There are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$10,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, for carrying out 
section 26101 (including payment of administrative 
expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(2) There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, 
for carrying out section 26102 (including payment 
of administrative expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(e) FISCAL YEAR 1999.—(1) There are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$10,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, for carrying out 
section 26101 (including payment of administrative 
expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(2) There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
for carrying out section 26102 (including payment 
of administrative expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(f) FISCAL YEAR 2000.—(1) There are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$10,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, for carrying out 
section 26101 (including payment of administrative 
expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(2) There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, 
for carrying out section 26102 (including payment 
of administrative expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(g) FISCAL YEAR 2001.—(1) There are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$10,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, for carrying out 
section 26101 (including payment of administrative 
expenses related thereto). 

‘‘(2) There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, 
for carrying out section 26102 (including payment 
of administrative expenses related thereto).’’. 


(b) DEFINITION.—Section 26105(2) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(2) the term ‘high-speed rail’ means all forms 
of nonhighway ground transportation that run 
on rails or electromagnetic guideways providing 
transportation service which is— 

‘‘(A) reasonably expected to reach sustained 
speeds of more than 125 miles per hour; and 

‘‘(B) made available to members of the general 

public as passengers, 
but does not include rapid transit operations 
within an urban area that are not connected to 
the general rail system of transportation;’’. 

SEC. 902. LIGHT DENSITY RAIL LINE PILOT 
PROJECTS. 

(a) AMENDMENT.—Part B of subtitle V of title 
49, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new chapter: 
‘‘CHAPTER 223—LIGHT DENSITY RAIL LINE 
PILOT PROJECTS 

‘‘Sec. 
‘‘22301. Light density rail line pilot projects. 

‘‘§ 22301. Light density rail line pilot projects 

‘‘(a) GRANTS.—The Secretary of Transportation 
may make grants to States that have 
State rail plans described in section 22102 (1) 
and (2), to fund pilot projects that demonstrate 
the relationship of light density railroad services 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1985 

to the statutory responsibilities of the Secretary, 
including those under title 23. 

‘‘(b) LIMITATIONS.—Grants under this section 
may be made only for pilot projects for making 
capital improvements to, and rehabilitating, 
publicly and privately owned rail line structures, 
and may not be used for providing operating 
assistance. 

‘‘(c) PRIVATE OWNER CONTRIBUTIONS.—Grants 
made under this section for projects on privately 
owned rail line structures shall include contributions 
by the owner of the rail line structures, 
based on the benefit to those structures, 
as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(d) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study of the pilot projects carried out with grant 
assistance under this section to determine the 
public interest benefits associated with the light 
density railroad networks in the States and 
their contribution to a multimodal transportation 
system. Not later than March 31, 2003, 
the Secretary shall report to Congress any recommendations 
the Secretary considers appropriate 
regarding the eligibility of light density 
rail networks for Federal infrastructure financing. 


‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary to carry out this section $25,000,000 for 
each of the fiscal years 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 
2002, and 2003. Such funds shall remain available 
until expended.’’. 

(b) TABLE OF CHAPTERS.—The table of chapters 
of subtitle V of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to chapter 221 the following new item: 
‘‘223. LIGHT DENSITY RAIL LINE 
PILOT PROJECTS ..................... 22301’’. 

SEC. 903. MIAMI-ORLANDO-TAMPA CORRIDOR 
PROJECT. 

There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Transportation $200,000,000, to be 
made available to the Florida Department of 
Transportation to reimburse the Florida Overland 
Express project in the Miami-Orlando-
Tampa corridor for capital costs of that project. 
The Florida Department of Transportation shall 
deposit funds received under this section into a 
separate account which shall, to the extent not 
yet required for the purposes of this section, be 
invested in United States Treasury securities. 
Funds authorized under this section shall not be 
counted in calculating the allocation to the 
State of Florida under section 111. 

SEC. 904. ALASKA RAILROAD. 

(a) GRANTS.—The Secretary may make grants 
to the Alaska Railroad for capital rehabilitation 
of and improvements to its passenger services. 
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this section $5,250,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1998 through 2003. 
SEC. 905. RAILWAY-HIGHWAY CROSSING HAZARD 

ELIMINATION IN HIGH SPEED RAIL 

CORRIDORS. 

There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out section 104(d)(2) of title 23, United 
States Code, $5,250,000 for each of fiscal years 
1998 through 2003. 

SEC. 906. RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT 
FINANCING. 

(a) AMENDMENTS.—Title V of the Railroad Revitalization 
and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 
is amended— 
(1) by striking sections 501 through 504 and 
inserting the following new sections: 
‘‘SEC. 501. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘For purposes of this title: 

‘‘(1)(A) The term ‘cost’ means the estimated 
long-term cost to the Government of a direct 
loan or loan guarantee, calculated on a net 
present value basis, excluding administrative 
costs and any incidental effects on governmental 
receipts or outlays. 

‘‘(B) The cost of a direct loan shall be the net 
present value, at the time when the direct loan 
is disbursed, of the following cash flows: 

‘‘(i) Loan disbursements. 

‘‘(ii) Repayments of principal. 

‘‘(iii) Payments of interest and other payments 
by or to the Government over the life of 
the loan after adjusting for estimated defaults, 
prepayments, fees, penalties, and other recoveries. 


‘‘(C) The cost of a loan guarantee shall be the 
net present value when a guaranteed loan is 
disbursed, of the following cash flows: 

‘‘(i) Estimated payments by the Government to 
cover defaults and delinquencies, interest subsidies, 
or other payments. 

‘‘(ii) Estimated payments to the Government, 
including origination and other fees, penalties, 
and recoveries. 

‘‘(D) Any Government action that alters the 
estimated net present value of an outstanding 
direct loan or loan guarantee (except modifications 
within the terms of existing contracts or 
through other existing authorities) shall be 
counted as a change in the cost of that direct 
loan or loan guarantee. The calculation of such 
changes shall be based on the estimated present 
value of the direct loan or loan guarantee at the 
time of modification. 

‘‘(E) In estimating net present values, the discount 
rate shall be the average interest rate on 
marketable Treasury securities of similar maturity 
to the direct loan or loan guarantee for 
which the estimate is being made. 

‘‘(2) The term ‘direct loan’ means a disbursement 
of funds by the Government to a non-Federal 
borrower under a contract that requires the 
repayment of such funds. The term includes the 
purchase of, or participation in, a loan made by 
another lender. The term does not include the 
acquisition of a federally guaranteed loan in 
satisfaction of default claims. 

‘‘(3) The term ‘direct loan obligation’ means a 
binding agreement by the Secretary to make a 
direct loan when specified conditions are fulfilled 
by the borrower. 

‘‘(4) The term ‘intermodal’ means of or relating 
to the connection between rail service and 
other modes of transportation, including all 
parts of facilities at which such connection is 
made. 

‘‘(5) The term ‘loan guarantee’ means any 
guarantee, insurance, or other pledge with respect 
to the payment of all or a part of the principal 
or interest on any debt obligation of a 
non-Federal borrower to a non-Federal lender, 
but does not include the insurance of deposits, 
shares, or other withdrawable accounts in financial 
institutions. 

‘‘(6) The term ‘loan guarantee commitment’ 
means a binding agreement by the Secretary to 
make a loan guarantee when specified conditions 
are fulfilled by the borrower, the lender, or 
any other party to the guarantee agreement. 

‘‘SEC. 502. DIRECT LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES. 


‘‘(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Secretary 
may provide direct loans and loan guarantees to 
State and local governments, government sponsored 
authorities and corporations, railroads, 
and joint ventures that include at least 1 railroad. 


‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PURPOSES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Direct loans and loan guarantees 
under this section shall be used to— 

‘‘(A) acquire, improve, or rehabilitate inter-
modal or rail equipment or facilities, including 
track, components of track, bridges, yards, 
buildings, and shops; 

‘‘(B) refinance outstanding debt incurred for 
the purposes described in subparagraph (A); or 

‘‘(C) develop or establish new intermodal or 
railroad facilities. 

‘‘(2) OPERATING EXPENSES NOT ELIGIBLE.—Direct 
loans and loan guarantees under this section 
shall not be used for railroad operating expenses. 


‘‘(c) PRIORITY PROJECTS.—In granting applications 
for direct loans or guaranteed loans 
under this section, the Secretary shall give priority 
to projects that— 

‘‘(1) enhance public safety; 

‘‘(2) enhance the environment; 

‘‘(3) promote economic development; 

‘‘(4) enable United States companies to be 
more competitive in international markets; 

‘‘(5) are endorsed by the plans prepared under 
section 135 of title 23, United States Code, by the 
State or States in which they are located; or 

‘‘(6) preserve rail or intermodal service to 
small communities or rural areas. 

‘‘(d) EXTENT OF AUTHORITY.—The aggregate 
unpaid principal amounts of obligations under 
direct loans and loan guarantees made under 
this section shall not exceed $5,000,000,000 at 
any one time. Of this amount, not less than 
$1,000,000,000 shall be available solely for 
projects primarily benefiting freight railroads 
other than Class I carriers. 

‘‘(e) RATES OF INTEREST.— 

‘‘(1) DIRECT LOANS.—The Secretary shall require 
interest to be paid on a direct loan made 
under this section at a rate not less than that 
necessary to recover the cost of making the loan. 

‘‘(2) LOAN GUARANTEES.—The Secretary shall 
not make a loan guarantee under this section if 
the interest rate for the loan exceeds that which 
the Secretary determines to be reasonable, taking 
into consideration the prevailing interest 
rates and customary fees incurred under similar 
obligations in the private capital market. 

‘‘(f) INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS.— 

‘‘(1) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.—In lieu of or 
in combination with appropriations of budget 
authority to cover the costs of direct loans and 
loan guarantees as required under section 
504(b)(1) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
1990, the Secretary may accept on behalf of an 
applicant for assistance under this section a 
commitment from a non-Federal source to fund 
in whole or in part credit risk premiums with respect 
to the loan that is the subject of the application. 
In no event shall the aggregate of appropriations 
of budget authority and credit risk 
premiums described in this paragraph with respect 
to a direct loan or loan guarantee be less 
than the cost of that direct loan or loan guarantee. 


‘‘(2) CREDIT RISK PREMIUM AMOUNT.—The Secretary 
shall determine the amount required for 
credit risk premiums under this subsection on 
the basis of— 

‘‘(A) the circumstances of the applicant, including 
the amount of collateral offered; 

‘‘(B) the proposed schedule of loan disbursements; 


‘‘(C) historical data on the repayment history 
of similar borrowers; 

‘‘(D) consultation with the Congressional 
Budget Office; and 

‘‘(E) any other factors the Secretary considers 
relevant. 

‘‘(3) PAYMENT OF PREMIUMS.—Credit risk premiums 
under this subsection shall be paid to the 
Secretary before the disbursement of loan 
amounts. 

‘‘(4) COHORTS OF LOANS.—In order to maintain 
sufficient balances of credit risk premiums 
to adequately protect the Federal Government 
from risk of default, while minimizing the length 
of time the Government retains possession of 
those balances, the Secretary shall establish cohorts 
of loans. When all obligations attached to 
a cohort of loans have been satisfied, credit risk 
premiums paid for the cohort, and interest accrued 
thereon, which were not used to mitigate 
losses shall be returned to the original source on 
a pro rata basis. 

‘‘(g) PREREQUISITES FOR ASSISTANCE.—The 
Secretary shall not make a direct loan or loan 
guarantee under this section unless the Secretary 
has made a finding in writing that— 

‘‘(1) repayment of the obligation is required to 
be made within a term of not more than 25 years 
from the date of its execution; 

‘‘(2) the direct loan or loan guarantee is justified 
by the present and probable future demand 
for rail services or intermodal facilities; 

‘‘(3) the applicant has given reasonable assurances 
that the facilities or equipment to be acquired, 
rehabilitated, improved, developed, or 


H1986 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

established with the proceeds of the obligation 
will be economically and efficiently utilized; 

‘‘(4) the obligation can reasonably be repaid, 
using an appropriate combination of credit risk 
premiums and collateral offered by the applicant 
to protect the Federal Government; and 

‘‘(5) the purposes of the direct loan or loan 
guarantee are consistent with subsection (b). 

‘‘(h) CONDITIONS OF ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary 
shall, before granting assistance under 
this section, require the applicant to agree to 
such terms and conditions as are sufficient, in 
the judgment of the Secretary, to ensure that, as 
long as any principal or interest is due and payable 
on such obligation, the applicant, and any 
railroad or railroad partner for whose benefit 
the assistance is intended— 

‘‘(1) will not use any funds or assets from railroad 
or intermodal operations for purposes not 
related to such operations, if such use would impair 
the ability of the applicant, railroad, or 
railroad partner to provide rail or intermodal 
services in an efficient and economic manner, or 
would adversely affect the ability of the applicant, 
railroad, or railroad partner to perform 
any obligation entered into by the applicant 
under this section; 

‘‘(2) will, consistent with its capital resources, 
maintain its capital program, equipment, facilities, 
and operations on a continuing basis; and 

‘‘(3) will not make any discretionary dividend 
payments that unreasonably conflict with the 
purposes stated in subsection (b). 

‘‘SEC. 503. ADMINISTRATION OF DIRECT LOANS 
AND LOAN GUARANTEES. 

‘‘(a) APPLICATIONS.—The Secretary shall prescribe 
the form and contents required of applications 
for assistance under section 502, to enable 
the Secretary to determine the eligibility of the 
applicant’s proposal, and shall establish terms 
and conditions for direct loans and loan guarantees 
made under that section. 

‘‘(c) ASSIGNMENT OF LOAN GUARANTEES.—The 
holder of a loan guarantee made under section 
502 may assign the loan guarantee in whole or 
in part, subject to such requirements as the Secretary 
may prescribe. 

‘‘(d) MODIFICATIONS.—The Secretary may approve 
the modification of any term or condition 
of a direct loan, loan guarantee, direct loan obligation, 
or loan guarantee commitment, including 
the rate of interest, time of payment of interest 
or principal, or security requirements, if the 
Secretary finds in writing that— 

‘‘(1) the modification is equitable and is in the 
overall best interests of the United States; and 

‘‘(2) consent has been obtained from the applicant 
and, in the case of a loan guarantee or 
loan guarantee commitment, the holder of the 
obligation. 

‘‘(e) COMPLIANCE.—The Secretary shall assure 
compliance, by an applicant, any other party to 
the loan, and any railroad or railroad partner 
for whose benefit assistance is intended, with 
the provisions of this title, regulations issued 
hereunder, and the terms and conditions of the 
direct loan or loan guarantee, including 
through regular periodic inspections. 

‘‘(f) COMMERCIAL VALIDITY.—For purposes of 
claims by any party other than the Secretary, a 
loan guarantee or loan guarantee commitment 
shall be conclusive evidence that the underlying 
obligation is in compliance with the provisions 
of this title, and that such obligation has been 
approved and is legal as to principal, interest, 
and other terms. Such a guarantee or commitment 
shall be valid and incontestable in the 
hands of a holder thereof, including the original 
lender or any other holder, as of the date when 
the Secretary granted the application therefor, 
except as to fraud or material misrepresentation 
by such holder. 

‘‘(g) DEFAULT.—The Secretary shall prescribe 
regulations setting forth procedures in the event 
of default on a loan made or guaranteed under 
section 502. The Secretary shall ensure that 
each loan guarantee made under that section 
contains terms and conditions that provide 
that— 

‘‘(1) if a payment of principal or interest 
under the loan is in default for more than 30 
days, the Secretary shall pay to the holder of 
the obligation, or the holder’s agent, the amount 
of unpaid guaranteed interest; 

‘‘(2) if the default has continued for more 
than 90 days, the Secretary shall pay to the 
holder of the obligation, or the holder’s agent, 
90 percent of the unpaid guaranteed principal; 

‘‘(3) after final resolution of the default, 
through liquidation or otherwise, the Secretary 
shall pay to the holder of the obligation, or the 
holder’s agent, any remaining amounts guaranteed 
but which were not recovered through the 
default’s resolution; 

‘‘(4) the Secretary shall not be required to 
make any payment under paragraphs (1) 
through (3) if the Secretary finds, before the expiration 
of the periods described in such paragraphs, 
that the default has been remedied; and 

‘‘(5) the holder of the obligation shall not receive 
payment or be entitled to retain payment 
in a total amount which, together with all other 
recoveries (including any recovery based upon a 
security interest in equipment or facilities) exceeds 
the actual loss of such holder. 

‘‘(h) RIGHTS OF THE SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(1) SUBROGATION.—If the Secretary makes 
payment to a holder, or a holder’s agent, under 
subsection (g) in connection with a loan guarantee 
made under section 502, the Secretary 
shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the 
holder with respect to the obligor under the 
loan. 

‘‘(2) DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.—The Secretary 
may complete, recondition, reconstruct, 
renovate, repair, maintain, operate, charter, 
rent, sell, or otherwise dispose of any property 
or other interests obtained pursuant to this section. 
The Secretary shall not be subject to any 
Federal or State regulatory requirements when 
carrying out this paragraph. 

‘‘(i) ACTION AGAINST OBLIGOR.—The Secretary 
may bring a civil action in an appropriate Federal 
court in the name of the United States in 
the event of a default on a direct loan made 
under section 502, or in the name of the United 
States or of the holder of the obligation in the 
event of a default on a loan guaranteed under 
section 502. The holder of a guarantee shall 
make available to the Secretary all records and 
evidence necessary to prosecute the civil action. 
The Secretary may accept property in full or 
partial satisfaction of any sums owed as a result 
of a default. If the Secretary receives, through 
the sale or other disposition of such property, 
an amount greater than the aggregate of— 

‘‘(1) the amount paid to the holder of a guarantee 
under subsection (g) of this section; and 

‘‘(2) any other cost to the United States of 
remedying the default, 
the Secretary shall pay such excess to the obligor. 


‘‘(j) BREACH OF CONDITIONS.—The Attorney 
General shall commence a civil action in an appropriate 
Federal court to enjoin any activity 
which the Secretary finds is in violation of this 
title, regulations issued hereunder, or any conditions 
which were duly agreed to, and to secure 
any other appropriate relief. 

‘‘(k) ATTACHMENT.—No attachment or execution 
may be issued against the Secretary, or any 
property in the control of the Secretary, prior to 
the entry of final judgment to such effect in any 
State, Federal, or other court. 

‘‘(l) INVESTIGATION CHARGE.—The Secretary 
may charge and collect from each applicant a 
reasonable charge for appraisal of the value of 
the equipment or facilities for which the direct 
loan or loan guarantee is sought, and for making 
necessary determinations and findings. Such 
charge shall not aggregate more than one-half 
of 1 percent of the principal amount of the obligation.’’; 


(2) by striking sections 505 through 515 (other 
than 511(c)), 517, and 518; 
(3) in section 511(c) by striking ‘‘this section’’ 
and inserting ‘‘section 502’’; 
(4) by moving subsection (c) of section 511 (as 
amended by paragraph (3) of this section) from 
section 511 to section 503 (as inserted by paragraph 
(1) of this section), inserting it after subsection 
(a), and redesignating it as subsection 
(b); and 
(5) by redesignating section 516 as section 504. 
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING PROVISIONS.— 
(1) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
of title V of the Railroad Revitalization 
and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 is amended 
by striking the items relating to sections 502 
through 518 and inserting the following: 
‘‘Sec. 502. Direct loans and loan guarantees. 
‘‘Sec. 503. Administration of direct loans and 
loan guarantees. 
‘‘Sec. 504. Employee protection.’’. 

(2) SAVINGS PROVISION.—A transaction entered 
into under the authority of title V of the Railroad 
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act 
of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 821 et seq.) before the date of 
the enactment of this Act shall be administered 
until completion under its terms as if this Act 
were not enacted. 
(3) REPEAL.—Section 211(i) of the Regional 
Rail Reorganization Act of 1973 (45 U.S.C. 
721(i)) is repealed. 
TITLE X—CONDITIONS FOR 
IMPLEMENTATION OF FUNDING 

SEC. 1001. CONDITIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION 
OF FUNDING. 

(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section is 
to ensure that all additional spending provided 
by this Act above the levels assumed for those 
programs under section 257 of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 in the baseline projections contained in the 
Congressional Budget Office document entitled 
‘‘Revised Baseline Budget Projections for Fiscal 
Years 1999–2008,’’ dated March 3, 1998, except 
that for programs with discretionary outlays the 
projections shall assume obligation authority at 
the 1998 enacted level and that the programs 
shall be adjusted for the transfer of general 
fund programs to the trust fund, is fully offset 
through mandatory and discretionary offsets set 
forth in this Act. 
(b) DUTY IMPOSED ON SECRETARY.—The Secretary 
of Transportation shall not apportion, allocate, 
or obligate any funds authorized or provided 
by this Act unless it contains a section 
stating that the conditions set forth in subsection 
(c) have been met. 
(c) ENUMERATION OF SPECIFIC CONDITIONS.— 
The conditions referred to in subsection (b) are 
that this Act shall contain provisions that offset 
any increase in outlays from the Highway Trust 
Fund caused by this Act above the levels assumed 
for those programs under section 257 of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 in the baseline projections 
contained in the Congressional Budget Office 
document entitled ‘‘Revised Baseline Budget 
Projections for Fiscal Years 1999–2008,’’ dated 
March 3, 1998, except that for programs with 
discretionary outlays the projections shall assume 
obligation authority at the 1998 enacted 
level and that the programs shall be adjusted for 
the transfer of general fund programs to the 
trust fund, by reducing mandatory and discretionary 
spending. 
SEC. 1002. SENSE OF CONGRESS WITH RESPECT 
TO VETERANS PROGRAMS. 

It is the sense of the Congress that provisions 
referred to in section 1001(c) that are to be contained 
in this Act to offset increases described in 
that section in outlays from the Highway Trust 
Fund should not include any provision making 
a change in programs or benefits administered 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. 

TITLE XI—EXTENSION AND MODIFICA


TION OF HIGHWAY-RELATED TAXES AND 

TRUST FUND 

Sec. 1101. Short title; amendment of 1986 
Code. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1987 

Sec. 1102. Extension of highway-related 

taxes and trust fund. 

Sec. 1103. Modifications to Highway Trust 
Fund. 

Sec. 1104. Provisions relating to Aquatic Resources 
Trust Fund. 

Sec. 1105. Repeal of excise tax on tires. 

Sec. 1106. Repeal of 4.3 cent excise tax on 
diesel fuel and gasoline used in 
trains. 

Sec. 1107. Delay in effective date of new requirement 
for approved diesel 
or kerosene terminals. 

Sec. 1108. Simplified fuel tax refund procedures. 


Sec. 1109. Repeal of National Recreational 
Trails Trust Fund. 
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT OF 1986 

CODE. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited as 
the ‘‘Surface Transportation Revenue Act of 
1998’’. 
(b) AMENDMENT OF 1986 CODE.—Except as 
otherwise expressly provided, whenever in 
this title an amendment or repeal is expressed 
in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference 
shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986. 
SEC. 1102. EXTENSION OF HIGHWAY-RELATED 
TAXES AND TRUST FUND. 

(a) EXTENSION OF TAXES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The following provisions 
are each amended by striking ‘‘1999’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘2005’’: 
(A) Section 4041(a)(1)(C)(iii)(I) (relating to 
rate of tax on certain buses). 
(B) Section 4041(a)(2)(B) (relating to rate of 
tax on special motor fuels), as amended by 
section 907(a)(1) of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997. 
(C) Section 4041(m)(1)(A) (relating to certain 
alcohol fuels), as amended by section 
907(b) of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 
(D) Section 4051(c) (relating to termination). 
(E) Section 4081(d)(1) (relating to termination). 
(F) Section 4481(e) (relating to period tax 
in effect). 
(G) Section 4482(c)(4) (relating to taxable 
period). 
(H) Section 4482(d) (relating to special rule 
for taxable period in which termination date 
occurs). 
(2) TAX ON TIRES EXTENDED ONLY THROUGH 
SEPTEMBER 30, 2000.—Section 4071(d) (relating 
to termination) is amended by striking 
‘‘1999’’ and inserting ‘‘2000’’. 
(3) OTHER PROVISIONS.— 
(A) FLOOR STOCKS REFUNDS.—Section 
6412(a)(1) (relating to floor stocks refunds) is 
amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘1999’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2005’’, and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘2000’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2006’’. 
(B) INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS OF HIGHWAY USE 
TAX.—Section 6156(e)(2) (relating to installment 
payments of highway use tax on use of 
highway motor vehicles) is amended by striking 
‘‘1999’’ and inserting ‘‘2005’’. 
(b) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXEMPTIONS.— 
The following provisions are each amended 
by striking ‘‘1999’’ and inserting ‘‘2005’’: 
(1) Section 4221(a) (relating to certain tax-
free sales). 
(2) Section 4483(g) (relating to termination 
of exemptions for highway use tax). 
(c) EXTENSION OF DEPOSITS INTO, AND CERTAIN 
TRANSFERS FROM, TRUST FUND.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b), and paragraphs 
(2) and (3) of subsection (c), of section 
9503 (relating to the Highway Trust Fund) 
are each amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘1999’’ each place it appears 
(other than in subsection (b)(4)) and inserting 
‘‘2005’’, and 
(B) by striking ‘‘2000’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2006’’. 
(2) MOTORBOAT AND SMALL-ENGINE FUEL TAX 
TRANSFERS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Paragraphs (4)(A)(i) and 
(5)(A) of section 9503(c) are each amended by 
striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’. 
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO LAND AND 
WATER CONSERVATION FUND.—Section 201(b) of 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act 
of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l–11(b)) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’, 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘1998’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2004’’. 
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading 
for paragraph (3) of section 9503(c) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘(3) FLOOR STOCKS REFUNDS.—’’. 

(d) EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF EXPENDITURES 
FROM TRUST FUND.— 
(1) HIGHWAY ACCOUNT.— 
(A) EXTENSION OF EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.— 
Paragraph (1) of section 9503(c) is amended 
by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’. 
(B) EXPANSION OF PURPOSES.—Paragraph (1) 
of section 9503(c) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(C), and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘1991.’’ in subparagraph (D) 
and all that follows through the end of paragraph 
(1) and inserting ‘‘1991, or 
‘‘(E) authorized to be paid out of the Highway 
Trust Fund under the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act of 
1998. 
In determining the authorizations under the 
Acts referred to in the preceding subparagraphs, 
such Acts shall be applied as in effect 
on the date of the enactment of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998.’’. 

(2) MASS TRANSIT ACCOUNT.— 
(A) EXTENSION OF EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.— 
Paragraph (3) of section 9503(e) is amended 
by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’. 
(B) EXPANSION OF PURPOSES.—Paragraph (3) 
of section 9503(e) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(A), 
(ii) by adding ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(B), and 
(iii) by striking all that follows subparagraph 
(B) and inserting: 
‘‘(C) the Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998, 
as such sections and Acts are in effect on the 
date of the enactment of the Building Efficient 
Surface Transportation and Equity Act 
of 1998.’’. 

(e) TECHNICAL CORRECTION RELATING TO 
TRANSFERS TO MASS TRANSIT ACCOUNT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9503(e)(2) is 
amended by striking the last sentence and inserting 
the following: ‘‘For purposes of the 
preceding sentence, the term ‘mass transit 
portion’ means, for any fuel with respect to 
which tax was imposed under section 4041 or 
4081 and otherwise deposited into the Highway 
Trust Fund, the amount determined at 
the rate of— 
‘‘(A) except as otherwise provided in this 
sentence, 2.86 cents per gallon, 

‘‘(B) 1.43 cents per gallon in the case of any 
partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel (as 
defined in section 4041(m)) none of the alcohol 
in which consists of ethanol, 

‘‘(C) 1.86 cents per gallon in the case of liquefied 
natural gas, 

‘‘(D) 2.13 cents per gallon in the case of liquefied 
petroleum gas, and 

‘‘(E) 9.71 cents per MCF (determined at 
standard temperature and pressure) in the 
case of compressed natural gas.’’. 

(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made 
by paragraph (1) shall take effect as if included 
in the amendment made by section 
901(b) of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 
SEC. 1103. MODIFICATIONS TO HIGHWAY TRUST 
FUND. 

(a) DETERMINATION OF TRUST FUND BALANCES 
AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1998.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9503 (relating to 
Highway Trust Fund) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(f) DETERMINATION OF TRUST FUND BALANCES 
AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1998.—For purposes 
of determining the balances of the 
Highway Trust Fund and the Mass Transit 
Account after September 30, 1998— 

‘‘(1) the opening balance of the Highway 
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) 
on October 1, 1998, shall be 
$8,000,000,000, 

‘‘(2) the opening balance of the Mass Transit 
Account on such date shall be 
$5,500,000,000, and 

‘‘(3) no interest on any obligation held by 
such Fund shall be credited to such Fund if 
such interest accrues after September 30, 
1998. 

The Secretary shall cancel obligations held 
by the Highway Trust Fund to reflect the reduction 
in the balances under this subsection.’’. 


(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made 
by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 
1, 1998. 
(b) REPEAL OF LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURES 
ADDED BY TAXPAYER RELIEF ACT OF 1997.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section 
9503 (relating to expenditures from Highway 
Trust Fund) is amended by striking paragraph 
(7). 
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made 
by paragraph (1) shall take effect as if included 
in the amendments made by section 
901 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 
(c) LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURE AUTHOR-
ITY.—Subsection (b) of section 9503 (relating 
to transfers to Highway Trust Fund) is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(6) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS TO HIGHWAY 
TRUST FUND.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), no amount may be appropriated 
to the Highway Trust Fund on and 
after the date of any expenditure from the 
Highway Trust Fund which is not permitted 
by this section. The determination of whether 
an expenditure is so permitted shall be 
made without regard to— 

‘‘(i) any provision of law which is not contained 
or referenced in this title or in a revenue 
Act, and 

‘‘(ii) whether such provision of law is a subsequently 
enacted provision or directly or indirectly 
seeks to waive the application of this 
paragraph. 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR PRIOR OBLIGATIONS.— 
Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to any expenditure 
to liquidate any contract entered 
into (or for any amount otherwise obligated) 
before October 1, 2003, in accordance with 
the provisions of this section.’’. 

(d) MODIFICATION OF MASS TRANSIT ACCOUNT 
RULES ON ADJUSTMENTS OF APPORTIONMENTS.— 
Paragraph (4) of section 9503(e) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘(4) LIMITATION.—Rules similar to the rules 
of subsection (d) shall apply to the Mass 
Transit Account.’’. 
SEC. 1104. PROVISIONS RELATING TO AQUATIC 

RESOURCES TRUST FUND. 

(a) INCREASED TRANSFERS.— 
(1)(A) Effective with respect to taxes imposed 
after September 30, 1999, and before 
October 1, 2000, subparagraph (D) of section 
9503(b)(4) is amended by striking ‘‘11.5 cents’’ 
and inserting ‘‘14.9 cents’’. 

(B) Effective with respect to taxes imposed 
after September 30, 2000, paragraph (4) of 
section 9503(b) is amended by striking subparagraph 
(D) and by redesignating subparagraphs 
(E), (F), and (G) as subparagraphs (D), 
(E), and (F), respectively. 

H1988 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(2) Subparagraph (A) of section 9503(c)(4), 
as amended by section 1102(c)(2)(A), is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(A) TRANSFERS TO BOAT SAFETY ACCOUNT.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pay 
from time to time from the Highway Trust 
Fund into the Boat Safety Account in the 
Aquatic Resources Trust Fund amounts (as 
determined by the Secretary) equivalent to 
one-half of the motorboat fuel taxes received 
after September 30, 1998, and before October 
1, 2003. 

‘‘(ii) LIMIT ON AMOUNT IN FUND.—No amount 
shall be transferred under this subparagraph 
during any fiscal year if the Secretary determines 
that such transfer would result in increasing 
the unobligated balance in the Boat 
Safety Account to a sum in excess of one-half 
of the total amount received as motorboat 
fuel taxes during the preceding fiscal year.’’. 

(b) EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF EXPENDITURE 
AUTHORITY FROM BOAT SAFETY ACCOUNT.—
Section 9504(c) (relating to expenditures 
from Boat Safety Account) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’, 
and 
(2) by striking ‘‘October 1, 1988’’ and inserting 
‘‘the date of the enactment of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998’’. 
(c) LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURE AUTHOR-
ITY.—Section 9504 (relating to Aquatic Resources 
Trust Fund) is amended by redesignating 
subsection (d) as subsection (e) and by 
inserting after subsection (c) the following: 
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS TO AQUATIC 
RESOURCES TRUST FUND.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), no amount may be appropriated 
or paid to any Account in the Aquatic 
Resources Trust Fund on and after the date 
of any expenditure from any such Account 
which is not permitted by this section. The 
determination of whether an expenditure is 
so permitted shall be made without regard 
to— 

‘‘(A) any provision of law which is not contained 
or referenced in this title or in a revenue 
Act, and 

‘‘(B) whether such provision of law is a subsequently 
enacted provision or directly or indirectly 
seeks to waive the application of this 
subsection. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR PRIOR OBLIGATIONS.— 
Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any expenditure 
to liquidate any contract entered into 
(or for any amount otherwise obligated) before 
October 1, 2003, in accordance with the 
provisions of this section.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in this section, the amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the date of 
the enactment of this Act. 
(2) INCREASED TRANSFERS.—The amendment 
made by subsection (a)(2) shall take effect on 
October 1, 1998. 
SEC. 1105. REPEAL OF EXCISE TAX ON TIRES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter A of chapter 
32 (relating to automotive and related items) 
is amended by striking part II. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 4051 is amended by striking 
subsection (d). 
(2) Section 4218 is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(other than a tire taxable 
under section 4071)’’ in subsection (a), 
(B) by striking subsection (b), and 
(C) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
(b). 
(3)(A) The third sentence of section 4221(a) 
is amended to read as follows: ‘‘Paragraphs 

(4) and (5) shall not apply to the tax imposed 
by section 4051 on and after October 1, 2005.’’ 
(B) Subsection (e) of section 4221 is amended— 
(i) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3), 
(ii) by striking so much of such subsection 
as precedes the text of paragraph (1) and inserting: 
‘‘(e) RECIPROCITY REQUIRED IN CASE OF CIVIL 
AIRCRAFT.—’’, and 

(iii) by moving such text 2 ems to the left. 
(4) Paragraph (1) of section 4223(b) is 
amended by striking ‘‘section 4218(c)’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 4218(b)’’. 
(5)(A) Paragraph (1) of section 6412(a) is 
amended— 

(i) by striking ‘‘TIRES AND TAXABLE’’ in the 
heading and inserting ‘‘TAXABLE’’, and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘4071 or’’. 
(B) Subsection (c) of section 6412 is amended 
by striking ‘‘sections 4071 and’’ and inserting 
‘‘section’’. 
(6)(A) Paragraph (1) of section 6416(b) is 
amended— 

(i) by striking ‘‘or (C)’’ in subparagraph (A), 
and 
(ii) by striking subparagraph (C). 
(B) Paragraph (2) of section 6416(b) is 
amended by adding ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(D), by striking subparagraph (E), 
and by redesignating subparagraph (F) as 
subparagraph (E). 
(C) Subsection (b) of section 6416 is amended 
by striking paragraph (4) and redesignating 
paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs (4) 
and (5), respectively. 
(D) Subsection (d) of section 4216 is amended 
by striking ‘‘section 6416(b)(5)’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 6416(b)(4)’’. 
(7) Paragraph (1) of section 9503(b) is 
amended by striking subparagraphs (C) and 
(D) and by redesignating subparagraphs (E) 
and (F) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively. 
(8) Paragraph (5) of section 9503(b) is 
amended by striking ‘‘and (E)’’ and inserting 
‘‘and (C)’’. 
(9) The table of parts for subchapter A of 
chapter 32 is amended by striking the item 
relating to part II. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on October 
1, 2000; except that the amendment 
made by subsection (b)(6) shall not apply to 
amounts received in the Treasury with respect 
to taxes imposed before such date. 
SEC. 1106. REPEAL OF 4.3 CENT EXCISE TAX ON 
DIESEL FUEL AND GASOLINE USED 
IN TRAINS. 

(a) DIESEL FUEL.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Clause (ii) of section 
4041(a)(1)(C) (relating to rate of tax) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(ii) RATE OF TAX ON TRAINS.—In the case of 
any sale for use, or use, of diesel fuel in a 
train, the rate of tax imposed by this paragraph 
shall be— 

‘‘(I) 5.55 cents per gallon after September 
30, 1995, and before October 1, 1999, 
‘‘(II) 4.3 cents per gallon after September 
30, 1999, and before October 1, 2000, and 
‘‘(III) zero after September 30, 2000.’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subparagraph 
(B) of section 6427(l)(3) is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘(B) so much of the rate specified in section 
4081(a)(2)(A) as does not exceed— 
‘‘(i) 5.55 cents per gallon after September 
30, 1995, and before October 1, 1999, 
‘‘(ii) 4.3 cents per gallon after September 30, 
1999, and before October 1, 2000, and 
‘‘(iii) zero after September 30, 2000.’’. 

(b) GASOLINE.—Subparagraph (B) of section 
6421(f)(3) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(B) so much of the rate specified in section 
4081(a)(2)(A) as does not exceed— 
‘‘(i) 5.55 cents per gallon after September 
30, 1995, and before October 1, 1999, 
‘‘(ii) 4.3 cents per gallon after September 30, 
1999, and before October 1, 2000, and 
‘‘(iii) zero after September 30, 2000.’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
date of the enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 1107. DELAY IN EFFECTIVE DATE OF NEW 
REQUIREMENT FOR APPROVED DIE


SEL OR KEROSENE TERMINALS. 

Subsection (f) of section 1032 of the Taxpayer 
Relief Act of 1997 is amended to read 
as follows: 

‘‘(f) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 

‘‘(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
the amendments made by this section shall 
take effect on July 1, 1998. 

‘‘(2) The amendment made by subsection (d) 
shall take effect on July 1, 2000.’’. 
SEC. 1108. SIMPLIFIED FUEL TAX REFUND PRO


CEDURES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section 
6427(i)(2) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If, at the close of any 
quarter of the taxable year of any person, at 
least $750 is payable in the aggregate under 
subsections (a), (b), (d), (h), (l), and (q) of this 
section and section 6421 to such person with 
respect to fuel used— 

‘‘(i) during such quarter, or 

‘‘(ii) any prior quarter during such taxable 

year for which no other claim has been filed, 
a claim may be filed under this section with 
respect to such fuel.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Subsection (i) of section 6427 is amended 
by striking paragraph (4) and by redesignating 
paragraph (5) as paragraph (4). 
(2) Paragraph (2) of section 6427(k) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not 
apply to a payment of a claim filed under 
paragraph (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (i).’’. 

(3) Paragraph (2) of section 6421(d) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.— 
‘‘For payments per quarter based on aggregate 
amounts payable under this section and 
section 6427, see section 6427(i)(2).’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on October 
1, 1998. 
SEC. 1109. REPEAL OF NATIONAL RECREATIONAL 
TRAILS TRUST FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9511 (relating to 
National Recreational Trails Trust Fund) is 
repealed. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 9503(c) is amended by striking 
paragraph (6). 
(2) The table of sections for subchapter A of 
chapter 98 is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 9511. 
The CHAIRMAN. No amendment to 
the committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute is in order except 
those printed in Part II of the report. 
Each amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, by a 
Member designated in the report, shall 
be considered read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report, 
equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not 
be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of 
the question. 

The Chairman of the Committee of 
the Whole may postpone a request for a 
recorded vote on any amendment and 
may reduce to a minimum of 5 minutes 
the time for voting on any postponed 
question that immediately follows another 
vote, provided that the time for 
voting on the first question shall be a 
minimum of 15 minutes. 

It is now in order to consider amendment 
number 1 printed in Part II of the 
House report 105–476. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1989 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. SHUSTER 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Part II, amendment numbered 1 offered by 
Mr. SHUSTER: 

In section 109(b)— 

(1) redesignate paragraphs (1) through (4) 
as paragraphs (2) through (5), respectively; 
and 
(2) insert before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated) 
the following: 
(1) by striking ‘‘that was designated as a 
nonattainment area under section 107(d) of 
the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7407(d)) during 
any part of fiscal year 1994’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘that is or was designated as 
a nonattainment area for ozone, carbon monoxide, 
or particulate matter under section 
107(d) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7407(d)) 
and classified pursuant to section 181(a), 
186(a), 188(a), or 188(b) of the Clean Air Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7511(a), 7512(a), 7513(a), or 7513(b)) 
or is or was designated as a nonattainment 
area under such section 107(d) after December 
31, 1997,’’; 
In section 109 of the bill— 

(1) redesignate subsection (c) as subsection 
(d); and 
(2) insert after subsection (b) the following: 
(c) PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.—Section 
149 is amended by adding at the end the 
following: 
‘‘(e) PARTNERSHIPS WITH NONGOVERNMENTAL 
ENTITIES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this title and in accordance 
with this subsection, a metropolitan 
planning organization, State transportation 
department, or other project sponsor may 
enter into an agreement with any public, private, 
or nonprofit entity to cooperatively 
implement any project carried out under this 
section. 

‘‘(2) FORMS OF PARTICIPATION BY ENTITIES.— 
Participation by an entity under paragraph 

(1) may consist of— 
‘‘(A) ownership or operation of any land, 
facility, vehicle, or other physical asset associated 
with the project; 

‘‘(B) cost sharing of any eligible project expense; 
and 

‘‘(C) any other form of participation approved 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(3) ALLOCATION OF ENTITIES.—A State may 
allocate funds apportioned under section 
104(b)(2) to an entity described in paragraph 
(1). 

‘‘(4) ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROJECTS.—In the 
case of a project that will provide for the use 
of alternative fuels by privately owned vehicles 
or vehicle fleets, activities eligible for 
funding under this subsection— 

‘‘(A) may include the costs of vehicle refueling 
infrastructure, including infrastructure 
that would support the development, 
production, and use of innovative water-
phased hydrocarbon fuel emulsion technologies, 
and other capital investments associated 
with the project; 

‘‘(B) shall include only the incremental 
cost of an alternative fueled vehicle compared 
to a conventionally fueled vehicle that 
would otherwise be borne by a private party; 
and 

‘‘(C) shall apply other governmental financial 
purchase contributions in the calculation 
of net incremental cost. 

‘‘(5) PROHIBITION ON FEDERAL PARTICIPATION 
WITH RESPECT TO REQUIRED ACTIVITIES.—A 
Federal participation payment under this 
subsection may not be made to an entity to 
fund an obligation imposed under the Clean 
Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) or any other 
Federal law. 

‘‘(6) WATER-PHASED HYDROCARBON FUEL 
EMULSION.—In this subsection, the term 
‘water-phased hydrocarbon fuel emulsion’ 
consists of a hydrocarbon base and water in 
an amount not less than 20 percent by volume 
of the total water-phased fuel emulsion.’’. 


In the matter proposed to be inserted as 
section 206(e)(1)(K) of title 23, United States 
Code, by section 114(a) of the bill, insert ‘‘of 
1969’’ after ‘‘National Environmental Policy 
Act’’. 

In the last sentence of section 111(d) of the 
bill, strike ‘‘fiscal year 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 
2002, or 2003, as the case may be’’ and insert 
‘‘the fiscal year beginning after September 
30, 1997’’. 

In section 117(b) of the bill— 

(1) strike ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(1); 
(2) redesignate paragraph (2) as paragraph 
(3); and 
(3) insert after paragraph (1) the following: 
(2) in subsection (d)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘INDIAN RESERVATION 
ROADS.—’’ after ‘‘(d)’’; 
(B) by inserting ‘‘(1) FOR FISCAL YEARS ENDING 
BEFORE OCTOBER 1, 1999.—’’ before ‘‘On October’’; 
(C) by inserting after ‘‘each fiscal year’’ 
the following: ‘‘ending before October 1, 
1999’’; 
(D) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) FISCAL YEAR 2000 AND THEREAFTER.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—All funds authorized to 
be appropriated for Indian reservation roads 
shall be allocated among Indian tribes for 
fiscal year 2000 and each subsequent fiscal 
year in accordance with a formula established 
by the Secretary of the Interior under 
a negotiated rulemaking procedure under 
subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 5. 

‘‘(B) REGULATIONS.—Notwithstanding sections 
563(a) and 565(a) of title 5, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall issue regulations 
governing the Indian reservation roads program, 
and establishing the funding formula 
for fiscal year 2000 and each subsequent fiscal 
year under this paragraph, in accordance 
with a negotiated rulemaking procedure 
under subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 5. 
The regulations shall be issued in final form 
not later than April 1, 1999, and shall take effect 
not later than October 1, 1999. 

‘‘(C) NEGOTIATED RULEMAKING COMMITTEE.— 
In establishing a negotiated rulemaking 
committee to carry out subparagraph (B), 
the Secretary of the Interior shall— 

‘‘(i) apply the procedures under subchapter 
III of chapter 5 of title 5 in a manner that reflects 
the unique government-to-government 
relationship between the Indian tribes and 
the United States; and 

‘‘(ii) ensure that the membership of the 
committee includes only representatives of 
the Federal Government and of geographically 
diverse small, medium, and large Indian 
tribes. 

‘‘(D) BASIS FOR FUNDING FORMULA.—The 
funding formula established for fiscal year 
2000 and each subsequent fiscal year under 
this paragraph shall be based on factors that 
reflect— 

‘‘(i) the relative needs of the Indian tribes, 
and reservation or tribal communities, for 
transportation assistance; and 

‘‘(ii) the relative administrative capacities 
of, and challenges faced by, various Indian 
tribes, including the cost of road construction 
in each Bureau of Indian Affairs area, 
geographic isolation and difficulty in maintaining 
all-weather access to employment, 
commerce, health, safety, and educational 
resources.’’; and 

(E) by indenting paragraph (1), as designated 
by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, 
and aligning paragraph (1) with paragraph 
(2), as added by subparagraph (D) of 
this paragraph; and 

In section 117(d) of the bill— 

(1) strike ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(3); 
(2) strike the period at the end of paragraph 
(4) and insert ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) add at the end the following: 
(5) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(k) SET-ASIDE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
OF INDIAN TRIBES.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Up to 1 percent of the 
funds made available for Indian reservation 
roads for each fiscal year shall be set aside 
by the Secretary of the Interior for transportation-
related administrative expenses of Indian 
tribal governments. 

‘‘(2) DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary of the 
Interior shall make available to each Indian 
tribal government with an approved application 
under paragraph (3) an equal percentage 
of any sum set aside pursuant to paragraph 
(1). 

‘‘(3) APPLICATIONS.—To receive funds under 
this paragraph, an Indian tribal government 
must submit to the Secretary of the Interior 
for approval an application in accordance 
with the requirements of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act. 
The Secretary of the Interior shall approve 
any such application that demonstrates that 
the applicant has the capability to carry out 
transportation planning activities or is in 
the process of establishing such a capability. 

‘‘(l) APPROVAL OF INDIAN RESERVATION 
ROAD PROJECTS BY THE SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PILOT PROGRAM.— 
The Secretary shall establish a pilot program 
(hereinafter in this subsection referred 
to as the ‘program’) for the purposes described 
in paragraph (2) and shall carry out 
such program in each of fiscal years 1999 
through 2003. 

‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the program 
shall be to permit an Indian tribal government 
to apply directly to the Secretary for 
authorization to conduct projects on Indian 
reservation roads using amounts allocated to 
the Indian tribal government under the Indian 
reservation roads program. 

‘‘(3) TREATMENT AS STATES.—Except as otherwise 
provided by the Secretary, an Indian 
tribal government submitting an application 
to the Secretary under the program shall be 
subject to the same requirements as a State 
applying for approval of a Federal-aid highway 
project. 

‘‘(4) SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS.— 

‘‘(A) APPLICATIONS.—An Indian tribal government 
seeking to participate in the program 
shall submit to the Secretary an application 
which is in such form and contains 
such information as the Secretary may require. 


‘‘(B) MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS.— 
The Secretary shall select not more than 10 
Indian tribal governments to participate in 
the program. 

‘‘(5) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary, 
in cooperation with the Secretary of 
the Interior, shall provide technical assistance 
to Indian tribal governments participating 
in the program. 

‘‘(6) TRANSITIONAL ASSISTANCE.—Upon request 
of the Secretary, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall provide to the Secretary such 
assistance as may be necessary for implementation 
of the program. 

‘‘(7) REPORT.—Not later than September 30, 
2001, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress 
a report on the results of the program. 
In developing such report, the Secretary 
shall solicit the comments of Indian tribal 
governments participating in the program.’’. 

In section 120 of the bill— 

(1) redesignate subsections (a), (b), and (c), 
as subsections (b), (c), and (d), respectively; 
and 

H1990 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(2) insert before subsection (b) (as so redesignated) 
the following: 
(a) INCREASED FEDERAL SHARE FOR CERTAIN 
SAFETY PROJECTS.—The first sentence of section 
120(c) is amended by inserting ‘‘and 
transit vehicles’’ after ‘‘emergency vehicles’’. 
In the matter proposed to be inserted after 
the second sentence of paragraph (1) of section 
135(f) of title 23, United States Code, by 
section 125(d)(1) of the bill, strike ‘‘elected’’ 
each place it appears. 

In section 127(b) of the bill, strike ‘‘Section 
104’’ and all that follows through the first 
colon and insert the following: 

(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 104 is amended by 
redesignating subsection (j) as subsection 
(k), and by inserting after subsection (i) the 
following: 
At the end of section 127(b) of the bill, insert 
the following: 

(2) DIVISION OR SEGMENTATION OF 
PROJECTS.—Section 145 is amended— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘(a) PROTECTION OF STATE 
SOVEREIGNTY.—’’ before ‘‘The authorization’’; 
and 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b) DIVISION OR SEGMENTATION OF 
PROJECTS.— 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A State carrying out a 
project with funds made available by section 
104(j) of this title or section 1103, 1104, 1105, 
1106, 1107, or 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 or section 
149(b) or 149(c) of the Surface Transportation 
and Uniform Relocation Assistance 
Act of 1987 may divide or segment the 
project if such division or segmentation 
meets the standards established by the Secretary 
for division or segmentation (as the 
case may be) of projects under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969. 

‘‘(2) AUTHORITY OF STATES TO CONSTRUCT 
WITHOUT FEDERAL ASSISTANCE.—Any portion 
of any project divided or segmented under 
this section may be constructed without 
Federal assistance.’’. 

In the table contained in section 127(c) of 
the bill— 

(1) in item 3 strike ‘‘0.750’’ and insert 
‘‘1.000’’; 
(2) in item 5 strike ‘‘2 miles south of 
Biwabik’’ and insert ‘‘CR–535’’; 
(3) in item 6 strike ‘‘7.000’’ and insert 
‘‘6.000’’; 
(4) in item 8 after ‘‘$2,000,000’’ insert the 
following: ‘‘for the S. 277th St./UP project in 
Auburn/Kent, $2,000,000 for the S. 180th St. 
project in Tukwila, $1,000,000 for the 8th St. 
E/B SNF project in Pierce Co., and $1,500,000 
for the Shaw Rd. extension and Puyallup’’; 
(5) in item 11 strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘Los’’and insert ‘‘Upgrade 
access to Sylmar/San Fernando 
Metrolink Station and Westfield Village, Los 
Angeles’’; 
(6) in item 19 strike ‘‘15.000’’ and insert 
‘‘8.150’’; 
(7) in item 32— 
(A) strike ‘‘to establish’’ and insert a 
comma; 
(B) strike ‘‘and center’’; and 
(C) insert ‘‘Bayonne,’’ before ‘‘Elizabeth’’; 
(8) in item 43— 
(A) strike ‘‘Missouri’’ and insert ‘‘West 
Virginia’’; 
(B) strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘St. Louis’’ and insert ‘‘Construct I– 
73/74 Corridor, including an interchange with 
US–460, Mercer County’’; and 
(C) strike ‘‘1.200’’ and insert ‘‘15.000’’; 
(9) in item 74 strike ‘‘1.520’’ and insert 
‘‘1.920’’; 
(10) in item 80 strike ‘‘Bibb’’ and insert 
‘‘Perry’’; 
(11) in item 90 strike ‘‘5.290’’ and insert 
‘‘3.385’’; 
(12) in item 95— 
(A) strike ‘‘work’’ and insert ‘‘construction’’; 
and 
(B) strike ‘‘I–65’’ and insert ‘‘city of Huntsville’’; 
(13) in item 104 strike ‘‘5.000’’ and insert 
‘‘19.200’’; 
(14) in item 108 strike ‘‘Design’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘bypass,’’ and insert 
‘‘Preliminary engineering and right-of-way 
acquisition for ‘Intertown South’ route of US 
31 bypass, Emmet County; 
(15) in item 129— 
(A) strike ‘‘209’’ and insert ‘‘290’’; and 
(B) strike ‘‘16.000’’ and insert ‘‘18.000; 
(16) in item 133 strike ‘‘Kaumualili’’ and insert 
‘‘Kaumualii’’; 
(17) in item 135— 
(A) strike ‘‘Illinois’’ and insert ‘‘West Virginia’’; 
(B) strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘Chicago’’ and insert ‘‘Construct 
Shawnee Parkway between junction with I– 
73/74 corridor and I–77’’; and 
(C) strike ‘‘1.000’’ and insert ‘‘5.000’’; 
(18) in item 142 strike ‘‘to Bowstring 
River’’ and insert ‘‘and Highway 1’’; 
(19) in item 143 strike ‘‘0.500’’ and insert 
‘‘4.500’’; 
(20) in item 148 strike ‘‘I–69’’ and insert ‘‘I– 
96’’; 
(21) in item 162 strike ‘‘Bro’’ and insert 
‘‘Brownsville’’; 
(22) in item 194 strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘replacement)’’ and insert 
‘‘Replacement and renovation of Carlton 
Bridge, Bath/Woolwich’’; 
(23) in item 196 strike ‘‘Tutilla Island’’ and 
insert ‘‘Tutuila/Manua Islands’’; 
(24) in item 208— 
(A) strike ‘‘on’’ and insert ‘‘an’’; and 
(B) strike ‘‘1.600’’ and insert ‘‘1.200’’; 
(25) in item 216 strike ‘‘8.000’’ and insert 
‘‘14.000’’; 
(26) in item 227 strike ‘‘14.000’’ and insert 
‘‘19.000’’; 
(27) in item 237 insert ‘‘on Telegraph Road’’ 
after ‘‘boulevard’’; 
(28) strike item 244 and insert the following: 
244. Indiana ..... Upgrade 93rd Avenue in Merrillville ................................................................ 5.900 
(31) in item 258 strike ‘‘0.170’’ and insert (33) strike item 286 and insert the follow(
29) in item 248 strike ‘‘3.000’’ and insert ‘‘0.400’’; ing: 
‘‘4.000’’; 
(32) in item 262 insert ‘‘, San Ysidro’’ after 
(30) in item 254 strike ‘‘Angelese’’ and in‘‘
Yard’’;

sert ‘‘Angeles’’; 

286. Indiana ..... Construct Marina Access Road in East Chicago .............................................. 1.000 
(34) in item 300 strike ‘‘7.000’’ and insert 
‘‘8.000’’; 
(35) in item 303 strike ‘‘13.000’’ and insert 
‘‘12.000’’; 
(36) in item 342— 
(A) strike ‘‘Construct’’ and insert ‘‘Reconstruct’’; 
(B) strike ‘‘to’’ and insert ‘‘at’’; and 
(C) strike ‘‘8.000’’ and insert ‘‘15.000’’; 
(37) in item 381 strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘Westfield’’ and insert 
‘‘Design, engineer, and right-of-way acquisition 
of the Great River Bridge, Westfield’’; 
(38) in item 391 strike ‘‘Kapkowsk’’ and insert 
‘‘Kapowski’’; 
(39) in item 394 strike ‘‘10.310’’ and insert 
‘‘2.000’’; 
(40) in item 415 after ‘‘College’’ insert ‘‘, including 
a new interchange on S.R. 0029’’; 
(41) in item 444— 
(A) after ‘‘Project’’ insert ‘‘in Passaic 
County’’; and 
(B) after ‘‘for the Route’’ the last place it 
appears insert ‘‘46/Union Blvd. Interchange 
reconstruction project’’; 
(42) in item 447 strike ‘‘Destrehan Ave. and 
Lapalco Blvd.’’ and insert ‘‘Barataria Blvd. 
and US Hwy. 90’’; 
(43) in item 474 strike ‘‘9.500’’ and insert 
‘‘7.500’’; 
(44) in item 478 insert ‘‘in Murfreesboro’’ 
after ‘‘River’’; 
(45) in item 482 strike ‘‘Kawahihee’’ and insert 
‘‘Kawaihae’’; 
(46) in item 484 strike ‘‘Upgrade’’ and insert 
‘‘Operational improvements on’’; 
(47) in item 497 strike ‘‘40’’ and insert ‘‘45’’; 
(48) in item 535 strike ‘‘2.000’’ and insert 
‘‘4.500’’; 
(49) in item 544 strike ‘‘3.500’’ and insert 
‘‘1.900’’; 
(50) in item 558 strike ‘‘4.000’’ and insert 
‘‘5.000’’; 
(51) in item 564 strike ‘‘0.250’’ and insert 
‘‘0.500’’; 
(52) in item 596 strike ‘‘1.000’’ and insert 
‘‘0.500’’; 
(53) in item 610 strike ‘‘Upgrade’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘Hill’’ and insert ‘‘Alternative 
transportation systems’’; 
(54) in item 613 strike ‘‘Upgrade’’ and insert 
‘‘Operational improvements on’’; 
(55) in item 615 strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘Los Angeles’’ and insert 
‘‘Upgrade CA Rt. 2 Southern Freeway 
terminus and transportation efficiency improvements 
to Glendale Blvd. in Los Angeles’’; 
(56) in item 619— 
(A) strike ‘‘George’’ and insert ‘‘Georgia’’; 
and 
(B) strike ‘‘4.000’’ and insert ‘‘5.000’’; 
(57) in item 625— 
(A) strike ‘‘Ohio’’ and insert ‘‘West Virginia’’; 
(B) ‘‘Construct’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘Lorain’’ and insert ‘‘Construct I–73/ 
74 Corridor including connectors with WV 
Rt. 44 and Co. Rt. 13 (Gilbert Creek), Mingo 
County’’; and 
(C) strike ‘‘2.400’’ and insert ‘‘10.000’’; 
(58) in item 636 strike ‘‘2.000’’ and insert 
‘‘2.197’’; 
(59) strike item 662 and insert the following: 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1991 

662. Louisiana Construct the Zachary Taylor Parkway project ............................................. 1.000 
(61) in item 735 strike ‘‘the airport’’ and in-(62) strike item 738 and insert the follow(
60) in item 717 strike ‘‘0.750’’ and insert sert ‘‘Commerce Blvd.’’; ing: 
‘‘1.000’’; 
738. North Upgrade US–158 in Warren and Halifax Counties ............................................. 3.000 
Carolina. 
(70) in item 872 strike ‘‘5.000’’ and insert (76) in item 971 strike ‘‘12.000’’ and insert 
(63) in item 759 strike ‘‘Williamsport’’ and ‘‘5.250’’; ‘‘7.000’’. 
insert ‘‘Lycoming County’’; 
(71) in item 887 strike ‘‘Hourma’’ and insert (77) in item 993 strike ‘‘1.500’’ and insert
(64) in item 831 strike ‘‘23.500’’ and insert 
‘‘Houma’’; ‘‘23.500’’;

‘‘1.500’’; 

(72) in item 913 strike ‘‘Engineering’’ and (78) in item 1033 strike ‘‘12.000’’ and insert
(65) in item 846 strike ‘‘14.750’’ and insert 
all that follows through ‘‘construction of’’ ‘‘11.000’’;

‘‘12.000’’; 

and insert ‘‘Engineer, acquire right-of-way, (79) in item 1044 after ‘‘Kentucky’’ the first

(66) in item 847 insert ‘‘Construct’’ before 
and construct’’; place it appears, insert ‘‘and Indiana’’;

‘‘Ontario’’; 

(73) in item 926 strike ‘‘Construct’’ and in-(80) strike item 1049 and insert the follow(
67) in item 857 strike ‘‘10.000’’ and insert 
sert ‘‘Acquire right-of-way and construct’’; ing:

‘‘15.000’’; 

(74) in item 939 insert after ‘‘FM521’’ insert 
10’’; ‘‘and dedicate $630,000 to the acquisition of 
(68) in item 884 strike ‘‘I–15’’ and insert ‘‘I– 
(69) in item 859 strike ‘‘4.300’’ and insert right-of-way in Brazoria County’’; 
‘‘2.000’’; (75) in item 961 strike ‘‘County’’; 
1049. New York .. Construct CR–3 at Southern State Parkway overpass between Long Island 
Expressway and Colonial Springs ................................................................. 1.400 

(84) in item 1150— ‘‘by extending 36th Street, improving 48th 
(81) in item 1079 strike ‘‘10.200’’ and insert (A) strike ‘‘to Adirondack’’; and Street, and constructing the I–96/ 
‘‘12.500’’; (B) strike ‘‘14.000’’ and insert ‘‘14.200’’; Whitneyville Interchange’’; 
(82) in item 1103 strike ‘‘Evergreen Coun-(85) in item 1197 strike ‘‘Conduct’’ and all (87) in item 1213 strike ‘‘4.800’’ and insert 
ty’’ and insert ‘‘the city of Evergreen in Jef-that follows through ‘‘of’’ and insert ‘‘Con-‘‘5.410’’; 
ferson County’’; struct’’; (88) strike item 1238 and insert the follow


(83) in item 1125 strike ‘‘I–80’’ and insert (86) in item 1206 insert after ‘‘Michigan’’ ing: 
‘‘I–180’’; the second place it appears the following: 
1238. Alabama ... Construct Eastern Black Warrior River Bridge and acquire right-of-way and 
construct an extension of the Black Warrior Parkway from US–82 to US–43 
in Tuscaloosa County ................................................................................... 23.000 

(90) in item 1353 strike ‘‘in Hancock’’ and (91) strike item 1362 and insert the follow(
89) in item 1291 strike ‘‘15.000’’ and insert insert ‘‘from SR–235 in Hancock County to ing: 
‘‘16.000’’; the Ontario Bypass in Richland County’’; 
1362. Pennsyl-Conduct preliminary engineering on the relocation of exits 4 and 5 on I–83 in 
vania. York County ................................................................................................. 2.000 

(94) in item 1379 strike ‘‘US–127’’ and insert (98) in item 1443 strike ‘‘Construct’’ and all 
(92) in item 1368 strike ‘‘6.000’’ and insert ‘‘US–231’’; that follows through ‘‘Road’’ and insert the 
‘‘5.000’’; (95) in item 1387 strike ‘‘San Bernardino’’ following: ‘‘Conduct preliminary engineer(
93) in item 1373 strike ‘‘Reconstruct’’ and and insert ‘‘Victorville/Apple Valley’’; ing, acquire right-of-way, and construct I–75/ 
all that follows through ‘‘Yakima’’ and in-(96) in item 1412 insert a slash after ‘‘Of-North Down River Road interchange’’; 
sert the following: ‘‘Reconstruct I–82/SR–24 fice’’; (99) in item 1444 strike ‘‘CR–96’’ and insert 
‘‘CR–82’’; and

intersection and add lanes on SR–24 to Keys (97) in item 1423 strike ‘‘4.825’’ and insert 

(100) after item 1467 insert the following:
Road’’; ‘‘4.740’’; 

1468. Kansas ...... Construct Phase II improvements to US–59 from US–56 to Ottawa ................. 10.000 
1469. Pennsyl-Rehabilitate Kenmawr Bridge, Swissvale ........................................................ 0.450 
vania. 
1470. Pennsyl-Construct Steel Heritage Trail between Glenwood Bridge to Clairton via 
vania. McKeesport ................................................................................................... 0.482 
1471. Illinois ...... Construct Technology Ave. between US Rt. 45 East to Willenborg St., 
Effingham ..................................................................................................... 2.735 
1472. Pennsyl-Conduct preliminary engineering and design for US–219 bypass of Bradford .. 1.000 

vania. 
1473. Texas ........ Construct relief route around Alice ................................................................ 0.250 
1474. Ohio .......... Upgrade State Rt. 18 between I–71 and I–77 ..................................................... 2.400 
1475. Illinois ...... Upgrade St. Marie Township Rd., Jasper County ............................................ 0.036 


H1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

1476. Illinois ...... Upgrade US 40 in Martinsville ......................................................................... 0.094 
1477. Michigan .. Repair 48th Ave., Menominee .......................................................................... 0.270 
1478. Illinois ...... Undertake improvements to Campus Transportation System, Chicago ......... 2.000 
1479. Maine ....... Construct I–95/Stillwater Avenue interchange ................................................ 2.000 
1480. Maine ....... Improve Route 26 ............................................................................................. 1.500 
1481. Maine ....... Improve Route 23 ............................................................................................. 0.500 
1482. Massachu-Construct Minuteman Commuter Bikeway—Charles River Bikeway connecsetts. 
tor, Cambridge and Watertown .................................................................... 0.750 
1483. Massachu-Construct Cambridge Roadways Improvement project, Cambridge ................ 3.000 
setts. 
1484. Massachu-Upgrade Sacramento Street underpass, Somerville ........................................ 0.250 
setts. 
1485. Massachu-Reconstruct roadways, Somerville .................................................................. 3.000 
setts. 
1486. Michigan .. Construct improvements to 23 Mile Rd. between Mound Rd. and M–53, 
Macomb ........................................................................................................ 3.000 
1487. Minnesota Conduct study of potential for diversion of traffic from the I–35 corridor to 
commuter rail, Chisago County north of Forest Lake along I–35 corridor 
to Rush City ................................................................................................. 0.500 
1488. Minnesota Construct Elk River bypass from 171st Ave. at Highway 10 to intersection of 
County Roads 12 and 13 at Highway 169 ........................................................ 3.200 
1489. Minnesota Construct grade separated interchange at south junction of TH 371/Brainerd 
bypass ........................................................................................................... 1.000 
1490. New York .. Construct Fordham University regional transportation facility .................... 3.000 
1491. New York .. Construct bike paths in the Riverdale section of the Bronx ........................... 0.500 
1492. New York .. Construct Phase II of the City of Mount Vernon’s New Haven Railroad Redevelopment 
..................................................................................................... 2.000 
1493. New York .. Construct Bike Paths along the Bronx River in Bronx Park .......................... 0.500 
1494. New York .. Rehabilitate transportation facilities in CO–OP City ..................................... 1.000 
1495. New York .. Construct sound barriers on both sides of Grand Central Parkway between 
172nd St. to Chevy Chase Rd ......................................................................... 1.940 
1496. New York .. Construct sound barriers on east side of Clearview Expressway between 15th 
Rd. and Willets Point Blvd. .......................................................................... 0.400 
1497. New York .. Construct sound barriers on Grand Central Parkway between 244th St. and 
Douglaston Parkway .................................................................................... 0.500 
1498. New York .. Rehabilitate roads, Village of Great Neck ...................................................... 0.160 
1499. Tennessee Construct pedestrian and bicycle pathway to connect with the Mississippi 
River Trail, and restore adjacent historic cobblestones on riverfront, 
Memphis ....................................................................................................... 3.000 
1500. Texas ........ Expand Winters Freeway (US83/84) in Abilene between Southwest Drive and 
US 277 ........................................................................................................... 11.200 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1993 

1501. New York .. Reconstruct Springfield Blvd. between the Long Island Rail main line south 

to Rockaway Blvd., Queens County .............................................................. 4.000 

1502. Pennsyl-Construct Frazier Township interchange on SR–28 in Allegheny .................... 3.000 
vania. 
1503. Minnesota Reconstruct St. Louis CSAH 9 (Wallace Avenue) in Duluth ............................ 0.600 
1504. California Reimburse costs associated with the relocation and protection work performed 
relating to pipelines, cables, and other facilities impacted by the 
construction of the Mid-Trench section of the Alameda Corrido project ..... 5.350 
1505. Ohio .......... Construct grade separation at Dille Road in Euclid ........................................ 5.000 
1506. Nevada ...... Widen I–15 from the California State line to Las Vegas .................................. 2.500 
1507. Nevada ...... Improve at-grade railroad crossings in Reno .................................................. 2.500 

At the end of section 133 of the bill, add the 
following: 

(h) SURVEY OF STATE PRACTICES ON SPECIFIC 
SERVICE SIGNING.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study to determine the practices in the 
States for specific service food signs described 
in sections 2G–5.7 and 2G–5.8 of the 
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices 
for Streets and Highways. The study shall, at 
a minimum, examine— 
(A) the practices of States for determining 
businesses eligible for inclusion on such 
signs; 
(B) whether States allow businesses to be 
removed from such signs and the circumstances 
for such removal; 
(C) the practices of States for erecting and 
maintaining such signs, including the time 
required for erecting such signs; 
(D) whether States contract out the erection 
and maintenance of such signs; and 
(E) a survey of States’ practices on the 
issues identified in subparagraphs (A) 
through (D). 
(2) REPORT.—Before the last day of the 1year 
period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall 
transmit to Congress a report on the results 
of the study, including such recommendations 
and modifications to the Manual as the 
Secretary determines appropriate as a result 
of the study. Such modifications may be 
made as part of any revision to the Manual. 
In section 136(a)(1) of the bill, redesignate 
subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), (E), and (F) as 
subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (F), and (G), respectively, 
and strike subparagraph (A) and 
insert the following: 

(A) by striking paragraph (5)(B)(iii)(I)(ff) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(ff) South Carolina State line to the Myrtle 
Beach Conway region to Georgetown, 
South Carolina, including a connection to 
Andrews following the route 41 corridor and 
to Manning following the U.S. Route 521 corridor; 
and’’; 

(B) by striking paragraph (5)(B)(iii)(II)(hh) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(hh) South Carolina State line to the 
Myrtle Beach Conway region to Georgetown, 
South Carolina.’’. 

In the matter proposed to be inserted as 
paragraph (34) of section 1105(c) of the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act 
of 1991 by section 136(a)(1)(F) of the bill— 

(1) insert after ‘‘Alameda Corridor East’’ 
the following: ‘‘and Southwest Passage, California. 
The Alameda Corridor East is’’; and 
(2) insert after ‘‘Bernardino.’’ the following: 
‘‘The Southwest Passage shall follow I– 
10 from San Bernardino to the Arizona State 
line and I–8 from San Diego to the Arizona 
State line.’’. 
Strike the closing quotation marks and 
the final period at the end of the matter proposed 
to be inserted as paragraph (39) of section 
1105(c) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 by section 
136(a)(1)(F) of the bill and insert the following: 


‘‘(40) United States Route 277/United 
States Route 83 Corridor between I–44 in 
Wichita Falls, Texas, and I–20 in Abilene, 
Texas.’’. 

In section 140 of the bill— 

(1) insert ‘‘(a) CONTRACTING PROCEDURES.— 
’’ before ‘‘Section 112(b)(2)’’; and 
(2) insert at the end the following: 
(b) SELECTION PROCESS.—Section 112 is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(g) SELECTION PROCESS.—A State may 
procure, under a single contract, the services 
of a consultant to prepare any environmental 
impact assessments or analyses required, 
including environmental impact 
statements, as well as subsequent engineering 
and design work on the same project if 
the State has conducted a review that assesses 
the objectivity of any analysis, environmental 
assessment, or environmental impact 
statement prior to its submission to the 
Secretary.’’. 

After section 143 of the bill, insert the following: 
SEC. 144. SUBSTITUTE PROJECT. 

(a) APPROVAL OF PROJECT.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, upon the request 
of the Mayor of the District of Columbia, 
the Secretary may approve substitute 
highway and transit projects under section 
103(e)(4) of title 23, United States Code, as in 
effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
of this Act, in lieu of construction 
of the Barney Circle Freeway project in the 
District of Columbia, as identified in the 1991 
Interstate Cost Estimate. 
(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE.— 
Upon approval of any substitute project or 
projects under subsection (a)— 
(1) the cost of construction of the Barney 
Circle Freeway Modification project shall 
not be eligible for funds authorized under 
section 108(b) of the Federal-Aid Highway 
Act of 1956; and 
(2) substitute projects approved pursuant 
to this section shall be funded from interstate 
construction funds apportioned or allocated 
to the District of Columbia that are 
not expended and not subject to lapse on the 
date of the enactment of this Act. 
(c) FEDERAL SHARE.—The Federal share 
payable on account of a project or activity 
approved under this section shall be 85 percent 
of the cost thereof; except that the exception 
set forth in section 120(b)(2) of title 
23, United States Code, shall apply. 
(d) LIMITATION ON ELIGIBILITY.—Any substitute 
project approved pursuant to subsection 
(a) (for which the Secretary finds 
that sufficient Federal funds are available) 
must be under contract for construction, or 
construction must have commenced, before 
the last day of the 4-year period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this section. 
If the substitute project is not under contract 
for construction, or construction has 
not commenced, by such last day, the Secretary 
shall withdraw approval of the substitute 
project. 
SEC. 145. USE OF HOV LANES BY ELECTRIC VEHICLES. 


Section 102(a) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: ‘‘Notwithstanding the preceding 
sentence, before September 30, 2003, a 
State may permit an electric vehicle with 
fewer than 2 occupants to operate in high occupancy 
vehicle lanes if the vehicle is certified 
and labeled as an Inherently Low 
Emission Vehicle pursuant to section 88.313– 
93 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, 
provided that such permission may be revoked 
by the State should the State determine 
it necessary.’’. 

Conform the table of contents of the bill 
accordingly. 

At the end of section 202 of the bill, add the 
following: 

(f) HIGHWAY SAFETY EDUCATION AND INFORMATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—For fiscal years 1999 and 
2000, the Secretary shall allow any State to 
use funds apportioned to it under section 402 
of title 23, United States Code to purchase 
television and radio time for the placement 
of highway safety public service messages. 
(2) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a 
study of the effectiveness of the public service 
messages and transmit a report on the results 
of the study together with the transmittal 
under section 508 of this Act. 
At the end of section 207, add the following: 


(c) EVALUATION AND ASSESSMENT OF ALTERNATIVES.— 
(1) EVALUATION.—The Secretary shall 
evaluate the implementation of chapter 303 
of title 49, United States Code, and the programs 
under sections 31106 and 31309 of such 
title and identify alternatives to improve 
the ability of the States to exchange information 
about unsafe drivers and to identify 
drivers with multiple licenses. 
(2) TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT.—The Secretary, 
in conjunction with the American 

H1994 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, 
shall conduct an assessment of available 
electronic technologies to improve access 
to and exchange of motor vehicle driving 
records. The assessment may consider alternative 
unique motor vehicle driver identifiers 
that would facilitate accurate matching 
of drivers and their records. 

(3) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 2 
years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress 
a report on the results of the evaluation 
and technology assessment, together 
with any recommendations for appropriate 
administrative and legislative actions. 
In section 306(g) of the bill, strike ‘‘amended—’’ 
and all that follows through ‘‘(2) by’’ 
and insert ‘‘amended by’’. 

In section 332(a) of the bill— 

(1) in paragraph (43) after ‘‘East-West’’ insert 
‘‘Intermodal’’; 
(2) strike paragraph (58), relating to Oklahoma 
City—MAPS Link; 
(3) in paragraph (90)— 
(A) strike ‘‘Commuter Rail’’; 
(B) after ‘‘Northstar’’ insert ‘‘Corridor’’; 
and 
(C) strike the parenthetical phrase and insert 
the following: ‘‘(Downtown, Minneapolis-
Anoka County-St. Cloud)’’; 
(4) redesignate succeeding paragraphs accordingly; 
and 
(5) add at the end the following: 
(96) Pittsburgh North Shore-Central Business 
District Corridor. 
(97) Pittsburgh—Stage II Light Rail. 
(98) Boston—North-South Rail Link. 
(99) Spokane—South Valley Corridor Light 
Rail. 
(100) Miami—Palmetto Metrorail. 
In section 332(b) of the bill— 

66. 

New York, NY West 72nd St. Intermodal Station 

(6) in item 73— 
(A) strike ‘‘1.750’’ the first place it appears 
and insert ‘‘2.250’’; and 
(B) strike ‘‘1.750’’ the second place it appears 
and insert ‘‘2.750’’; 
(7) strike the line relating to item 77 (Mobile); 
150. 

Allegheny County, PA buses 

Redesignate the items in the table contained 
in section 333 of the bill accordingly. 
In title III of the bill, insert after section 
339 the following: 

SEC. 340. CLEAN FUEL VEHICLES. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study of the various low and zero 
emission fuel technologies for transit vehicles, 
including compressed natural gas, 
liquified natural gas, biodiesel fuel, battery, 
alcohol based fuel, hybrid electric, fuel cell, 
and clean diesel to determine the status of 
the development and use of such technologies, 
the environmental benefits of such 
technologies under the Clean Air Act, and 
the cost of such technologies and any associated 
equipment. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than January 1, 
2000, the Comptroller General shall transmit 
to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Banking, Housing and 
Urban Affairs of the Senate a report on the 
results of the study, together with recommendations 
for incentives to encourage 
the use of low and zero emission fuel technology 
for transit vehicles. 
Conform the table of contents of the bill 
accordingly. 
In title IV of the bill, insert after section 
422 the following: 

SEC. 423. ELECTRONIC DATA STUDY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall contract 
with an entity that is independent of 
the Department of Transportation to conduct 
a study to identify, examine, and evaluate 
current and future issues and policies related 
to government access to data produced 
by electronic systems for motor carrier regulatory 
enforcement. The entity shall have 
demonstrated knowledge about the motor 
carrier industry, motor carrier safety regulations, 
and the electronic information industry. 
(b) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—The Office of the 
Inspector General of the Department of 
Transportation shall approve the statement 
of work of the entity referred to in subsection 
(a) and approve the contract award 
under subsection (a). In carrying out its re............................... 


(8) strike the line relating to item 86 (Norwalk); 
(9) in item 103— 
(A) strike ‘‘1.000’’ and insert ‘‘1.250’’; and 
(B) strike ‘‘0.000’’ and insert ‘‘1.250’’; 
(10) in item 121 strike ‘‘Stapleton, CO’’ and 
insert ‘‘Denver, CO Stapleton’’; 
............................................................... 

sponsibilities under this subsection, the Office 
of the Inspector General shall perform 
such overview and validation or verification 
of data as may be necessary to ensure that 
the study to be conducted under subsection 

(a) meets the requirements of subsection (a). 
(c) DEADLINE.—The study to be conducted 
under subsection (a) shall be completed not 
later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. A report containing the results 
of the study shall be submitted to the 
Secretary and Congress. 
(d) FUNDING.—Of amounts made available 
under section 127(a)(3)(H), $100,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, $200,000 for fiscal year 1999, and 
$200,000 for fiscal year 2000 shall be available 
to carry out this subsection. 
Conform the table of contents of the bill 
accordingly. 

In section 508 of the bill— 

(1) redesignate paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) 

as paragraphs (6), (7), and (8), respectively; 
and 

(2) insert after paragraph (3) the following: 
(4) determine whether to approve a revised 
formula for the distribution of funds under 
section 104(b)(2) of title 23, United States 
Code, for the congestion mitigation and air 
quality improvement program due to the 
designation of new nonattainment areas by 
the Environmental Protection Agency; 
After section 603 of the bill, insert the following: 


SEC. 604. NOTICE. 

(a) NOTICE OF REPROGRAMMING.—If any 
funds authorized for carrying out this title 
or the amendments made by this title are 
subject to a reprogramming action that requires 
notice to be provided to the Appropriations 
Committees of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate, notice of such 
action shall concurrently be provided to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
and the Committee on Science of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation of the Senate. 
(b) NOTICE OF REORGANIZATION.—The Secretary 
of Transportation shall provide notice 
to the Committee on Transportation and In(
1) strike paragraph (35), relating to 
Miami—Palmetto Metrorail, and paragraph 
(57), relating to Pittsburgh—Stage II Light 
Rail Reconstruction; 
(2) redesignate succeeding paragraphs accordingly; 
and 
(3) add at the end the following: 
(70) California—North Bay Commuter Rail. 
In the table contained in section 333 of the 
bill— 

(1) in item 7 strike ‘‘0.000’’ and insert 
‘‘0.200’’; 
(2) in item 41 strike ‘‘0.000’’ and insert 
‘‘0.500’’; 
(3) in item 62 strike ‘‘0.000’’ and insert 
‘‘0.300’’; 
(4) in item 65 strike ‘‘1.625’’ each place it 
appears and insert ‘‘1.250’’; 
(5) strike item 66 and insert the following: 
1.750 

(11) strike the line relating to item 126 
(Tucson); 
(12) in item 142 strike ‘‘buses’’ and insert 
‘‘Bus Facility’’; 
(13) after item 149 insert the following: 
0.000 

1.500 

frastructure and the Committee on Science 
of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, 
not later than 15 days before any major reorganization 
of any program, project, or activity 
of the Department of Transportation for 
which funds are authorized by this title or 
the amendments made by this title. 

SEC. 605. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE YEAR 2000 
PROBLEM. 

With the year 2000 fast approaching, it is 
the sense of Congress that the Department of 
Transportation should— 

(1) give high priority to correcting all 2digit 
date-related problems in its computer 
systems to ensure that those systems continue 
to operate effectively in the year 2000 
and beyond; 
(2) assess immediately the extent of the 
risk to the operations of the Department of 
Transportation posed by the problems referred 
to in paragraph (1), and plan and budget 
for achieving Year 2000 compliance for all 
of its mission-critical systems; and 
(3) develop contingency plans for those systems 
that the Department of Transportation 
is unable to correct in time. 
In section 611(c) of the bill, in the matter 
proposed to be inserted as section 307(b)(4)(A) 
of title 23, United States Code, insert ‘‘, consistent 
with the plan developed under section 
5506 of title 49,’’ after ‘‘advanced research 
program’’. 

In section 611(c) of the bill, in the matter 
proposed to be inserted as section 
307(b)(4)(B)(ii) of title 23, United States Code, 
strike ‘‘assessment of failure risks’’ and insert 
‘‘the assessment of risks of failure, including 
from seismic activity, vibration, and 
weather’’. 

In section 611(c) of the bill, in the matter 
proposed to be inserted as section 
307(b)(4)(B)(v) of title 23, United States Code, 
strike ‘‘Particulate’’ and insert ‘‘Environmental 
research, including particulate’’. 

In section 611(c) of the bill, in the matter 
proposed to be inserted as section 
307(b)(4)(B)(vii) of title 23, United States 
Code, strike ‘‘Prediction’’ and insert 
‘‘Human factors, including prediction’’. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1995 

Strike paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
611(d) of the bill and insert the following: 

(1) by amending subparagraph (A) to read 
as follows: 
‘‘(A) Methods, materials, and testing to 
improve the durability of surface transportation 
infrastructure facilities and extend 
the life of bridge structures, including new 
and innovative technologies to reduce corrosion 
and tests simulating seismic activity, 
vibration, and weather.’’; 

(2) by striking subparagraph (C); 
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
subparagraph (C); and 
(4) by adding after subparagraph (C), as so 
redesignated, the following new subparagraphs: 
‘‘(D) Research on the use of recycled materials, 
such as paper and plastic fiber reinforcement 
systems. 

‘‘(E) New innovative technologies to enhance 
and facilitate field construction and 
rehabilitation techniques for minimizing disruption 
during repair and maintenance of 
structures. 

‘‘(F) Expansion of knowledge of implementing 
life cycle cost assessment, including 
establishing the appropriate analysis period 
and discount rates, learning how to value 
and properly consider user costs, determining 
tradeoffs between reconstruction and rehabilitation, 
and establishing methodologies 
for balancing higher initial costs of new 
technologies and improved or advanced materials 
against lower maintenance costs. 

‘‘(G) Standardized estimates of useful life 
under various conditions for advanced materials 
of use in surface transportation. Such 
estimates shall be developed in conjunction 
with the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology and other appropriate organizations.’’. 


In section 611(e) of the bill, strike paragraphs 
(1) and (2) and insert the following: 

(1) by striking subsections (c), (d), and (e) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(c) STUDY OF FUTURE STRATEGIC HIGHWAY 
RESEARCH PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) STUDY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days 
after the date of enactment of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998, the Secretary shall make a grant 
to, or enter into a cooperative agreement or 
contract with, the Transportation Research 
Board of the National Academy of Sciences 
(referred to in this subsection as the 
‘‘Board’’) to conduct a study to determine 
the goals, purposes, research agenda and 
projects, administrative structure, and fiscal 
needs for a new strategic highway research 
program to replace the program established 
under section 307(d) (as in effect on the day 
before the date of enactment of the Building 
Efficient Surface Transportation and Equity 
Act of 1998), or a similar effort. 

‘‘(B) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the 
study, the Board shall consult with the 
American Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials and such other entities 
as the Board determines to be necessary 
to the conduct of the study. 

‘‘(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after 
making a grant or entering into a cooperative 
agreement or contract under subsection 
(a), the Board shall submit a final report on 
the results of the study to the Secretary, the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
and the Committee on Science of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works of 
the Senate.’’; and 

(2) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and 
(h) as subsections (d), (e), and (f). 
In section 611(f) of the bill, strike ‘‘307(c)’’ 
and insert ‘‘307(d)’’. 
In section 611(g) of the bill, strike ‘‘307(e)’’ 
and insert ‘‘307(f)’’. 

In section 611(h) of the bill, in the matter 
proposed to be added at the end of section 307 
of title 23, United States Code, redesignate 
subsection (f) as subsection (g). 

At the end of section 611 of the bill, add the 
following new subsection: 

(j) TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION.—Section 
307 is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection: 
‘‘(h) TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION.—The programs 
and activities carried out under this 
section shall be consistent with the plan developed 
under section 5506 of title 49.’’. 

In section 612 of the bill, at the end of the 
matter proposed to be inserted as section 313 
of title 23, United States Code, strike the 
closing quotation marks and the final period 
and insert the following: 

‘‘(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—Each State shall report 
annually to the Secretary on the level 
of its funding for research and development 
activities described in subsection (a)(5). A 
State may provide such information as part 
of another report that the State provides to 
the Secretary.’’. 

In section 623(b) of the bill, redesignate 
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as paragraphs (2), 
(3), and (4), respectively. 

In section 623(b) of the bill, insert before 
paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following 
new paragraph: 

(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, including 
information obtained pursuant to section 
307(b)(5)(F) and (G)’’ after ‘‘modern highway 
technology’’; 
In section 623(b)(3) of the bill, as so redesignated, 
insert ‘‘, and in paragraph (1) of that 
subsection, by inserting ‘concrete,’ after 
‘pavement,’’’ after ‘‘as subsection (c)’’. 

In section 624 of the bill, in the matter proposed 
to be inserted as section 5505(c)(2) of 
title 49, United States Code, insert ‘‘, except 
as provided in subsection (i),’’ after ‘‘competitive 
process’’. 

In section 624 of the bill, in the matter proposed 
to be inserted as section 5505(g)(2) of 
title 49, United States Code, insert ‘‘and consistent 
with the plan developed under section 
5506’’ after ‘‘least annually’’. 

In section 624 of the bill, at the end of the 
matter proposed to be inserted as section 
5505 of title 49, United States Code, strike 
the closing quotation marks and the final period 
and insert the following: 

‘‘(18) University of Maine. 

‘‘(19) Tennessee Technological University. 

‘‘(20) Middle Tennessee State University. 

‘‘(21) The University of Maryland.’’. 

After section 632 of the bill, insert the fol


lowing (and conform the table of contents of 
the bill accordingly): 

SEC. 633. TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH AND 
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter 
55 of title 49, United States Code, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘§ 5506. Surface transportation research planning 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Transportation 
shall— 

‘‘(1) establish a strategic planning process, 
consistent with section 306 of title 5, United 
States Code, for the Department of Transportation 
to determine national transportation 
research and technology development 
priorities related to surface transportation; 

‘‘(2) coordinate Federal surface transportation 
research and technology development 
activities; 

‘‘(3) measure the results of those activities 
and how they impact the performance of the 
national surface transportation system; and 

‘‘(4) ensure that planning and reporting activities 
carried out under this subchapter are 
coordinated with all other surface transportation 
planning and reporting requirements. 

‘‘(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary 
shall— 

‘‘(1) provide for the integrated planning, 
coordination, and consultation among the 
operating administrations, all other Federal 
agencies with responsibility for surface 
transportation research and technology development, 
State and local governments, institutions 
of higher education, industry, and 
other private and public sector organizations 
engaged in surface transportation-related research 
and development activities; 

‘‘(2) ensure that the Department’s surface 
transportation research and technology development 
programs do not duplicate other 
Federal, State, or private sector research 
and development programs; and 

‘‘(3) provide for independent validation of 
the scientific and technical assumptions underlying 
the Department’s surface transportation 
research and technology development 
plans. 

‘‘(c) SURFACE TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH 
AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC 
PLAN.— 

‘‘(1) DEVELOPMENT.—The Secretary shall 
develop an integrated surface transportation 
research and technology development strategic 
plan. 

‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—The plan shall include— 

‘‘(A) an identification of the general goals 
and objectives of the Department of Transportation 
for surface transportation research 
and development; 

‘‘(B) a description of the roles of the Department 
of Transportation and other Federal 
agencies in achieving the goals identified 
under subparagraph (A), in order to 
avoid unnecessary duplication of effort; 

‘‘(C) a description of the Department’s 
overall strategy, and the role of each of the 
operating administrations in carrying out 
the plan over the next 5 years including a description 
of procedures for coordination of 
its efforts with the operating administrations 
and with other Federal agencies; 

‘‘(D) an assessment of how State and local 
research and technology development activities 
are contributing to the achievement of 
the goals identified under subparagraph (A); 

‘‘(E) details of the Department’s surface 
transportation research and technology development 
programs, including performance 
goals, resources needed to achieve those 
goals, and performance indicators as described 
in section 1115(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, for the next 5 years for each 
area of research and technology development; 


‘‘(F) significant comments on the plan and 
its contents obtained from outside sources; 
and 

‘‘(G) responses to significant comments obtained 
from the National Research Council 
and other advisory bodies, and a description 
of any corrective actions taken pursuant 
thereto. 

‘‘(3) NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL REVIEW.— 
The Secretary shall enter into an agreement 
for the review by the National Research 
Council of the details of each— 

‘‘(A) strategic plan or revision required 
under section 306 of title 5, United States 
Code; 

‘‘(B) performance plan required under section 
1115 of title 31, United States Code; and 

‘‘(C) program performance report required 
under section 1116 of title 31, United States 
Code, 

with respect to surface transportation research 
and technology development. 

‘‘(4) PERFORMANCE PLANS AND REPORTS.—In 
complying with sections 1115 and 1116 of title 
31, United States Code, the Secretary shall 
include— 

‘‘(A) a summary of the results for the previous 
fiscal year of surface transportation 
research and technology development programs 
to which the Department of Transportation 
contributes, along with— 


H1996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

‘‘(i) an analysis of the relationship between 
those results and the goals identified under 
paragraph (2)(A); and 

‘‘(ii) a description of the methodology used 
for assessing the results; and 

‘‘(B) a description of significant surface 
transportation research and technology development 
initiatives, if any, undertaken 
during the previous fiscal year which were 
not in the plan developed under paragraph 
(1), and any significant changes in the plan 
from the previous year’s plan. 

‘‘(d) MERIT REVIEW AND PERFORMANCE 
MEASUREMENT.—The Secretary shall, within 
one year after the date of the enactment of 
this section, transmit to the Congress a report 
describing competitive merit review 
procedures for research and technology development, 
and performance measurement 
procedures for surface transportation research 
and technology development and 
demonstrations. 

‘‘(e) PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES.—The Secretary 
shall— 

‘‘(1) develop model procurement procedures 
that encourage the use of advanced technologies; 
and 

‘‘(2) develop model transactions for carrying 
out and coordinating Federal and State 
surface transportation research and technology 
development activities. 

‘‘(f) CONSISTENCY WITH GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE 
AND RESULTS ACT OF 1993.—The 
plans and reports developed under this section 
shall be consistent with and incorporated 
as part of the plans developed under 
section 306 of title 5, United States Code, and 
sections 1115 and 1116 of title 31, United 
States Code. 

‘‘§ 5507. Surface transportation-environment 
cooperative research program 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Transportation 
shall establish and carry out a surface 
transportation and environment cooperative 
research program. 

‘‘(b) CONTENTS.—The program to be carried 
out under this section shall include research 
designed to— 

‘‘(1) develop more accurate models for evaluating 
transportation control measures and 
transportation system designs that are appropriate 
for use by State and local governments, 
including metropolitan planning organizations, 
in designing implementation 
plans to meet Federal, State, and local environmental 
requirements; 

‘‘(2) improve understanding of the factors 
that contribute to the demand for transportation, 
including transportation system design, 
demographic change, land use planning, 
and communications and other information 
technologies; and 

‘‘(3) develop indicators of economic, social, 
and environmental performance of transportation 
systems to facilitate analysis of potential 
alternatives. 

‘‘(c) ADVISORY BOARD.— 

‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—In consultation with 
appropriate Federal agencies, the Secretary 
shall establish an advisory board to recommend 
environmental and energy conservation 
research, technology, and technology 
transfer activities related to surface 
transportation. 

‘‘(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The advisory board 
shall include— 

‘‘(A) representatives of State transportation 
and environmental agencies; 

‘‘(B) transportation and environmental scientists 
and engineers; and 

‘‘(C) representatives of metropolitan planning 
organizations, transit operating agencies, 
and environmental organizations. 

‘‘(d) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.—The 
Secretary may make grants to, and enter 
into cooperative agreements with, the National 
Academy of Sciences to carry out 

such activities relating to the research, technology, 
and technology transfer activities 
described in subsection (b) as the Secretary 
determines to be appropriate. 

‘‘(e) FUNDING.—Funding for carrying out 
this section shall be derived from funds made 
available under section 127(a)(3)(F) of the 
Building Efficient Surface Transportation 
and Equity Act of 1998.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 55 of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 5505 the following: 
‘‘5506. Surface transportation research plan


ning. 
‘‘5507. Surface transportation-environment co


operative research program.’’. 

In section 652(b)(4) of the bill, insert ‘‘, and 
including the handicapped’’ after ‘‘and motorcycles’’. 


In section 652(b)(7) of the bill, strike ‘‘and’’ 
at the end. 

In section 652(b)(8) of the bill, strike the 
period and insert ‘‘; and’’. 

At the end of section 652 of the bill, add the 
following new paragraph: 

(9) the development of a workforce capable 
of developing, operating, and maintaining intelligent 
transportation systems. 
In section 654 of the bill, amend subsection 

(b) to read as follows: 
(b) REPORTING.—The plan described in subsection 
(a) shall be transmitted and updated 
as part of the plan developed under section 
5506 of title 49, United States Code. 
At the end of section 655(c) of the bill, add 
the following: 
Such tests shall be designed for the collection 
of data to permit objective evaluation 
of the results of the tests and the derivation 
of cost-benefit information that is useful to 
others contemplating the deployment of 
similar systems. 

In section 655(d) of the bill, strike ‘‘work 
shall incorporate human factors research 
findings’’ and insert ‘‘work— 

‘‘(1) shall incorporate human factors research, 
which may include research in the 
science of the driving process, to improve the 
operational efficiency and safety of intelligent 
transportation systems; 

‘‘(2) may incorporate research on environmental, 
weather, and natural conditions that 
impact intelligent transportation systems, 
including the effects of cold climates; and 

‘‘(3) may incorporate materials or magnetics 
research’’. 

Strike section 658 of the bill and redesignate 
section 659 as section 658. Conform the 
table of contents of the bill accordingly. 

After section 802 of the bill, insert the following: 


SEC. 803. AMENDMENT OF NATIONAL SEA GRANT 
COLLEGE PROGRAM ACT. 

Section 203 of the National Sea Grant College 
Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1122) is amended— 


(1) by striking paragraph (5); 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through 
(17) as paragraphs (5) through (16), respectively; 
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) 
through (F) of paragraph (7), as so redesignated, 
as subparagraphs (D) through (G), respectively; 
and 
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (B) of 
paragraph (7), as so redesignated, the following: 
‘‘(C) Lake Champlain (to the extent that 
such resources have hydrological, biological, 
physical, or geological characteristics and 
problems similar or related to those of the 
Great Lakes);’’. 

Conform the table of contents of the bill 
accordingly. 

MODIFICATION TO AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED 
BY MR. SHUSTER 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent that my amendment 
be modified with the modification 
that I have placed at the desk. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will re


port the modification. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

Modification offered by Mr. Shuster 
to the Shuster amendment number 1, 
printed in Part II of House Report 105– 
476: 

Modify the manager’s amendment to correct 
the following errors: 

(1) on page 15, paragraph (26), strike ‘‘227’’ 
and insert ‘‘277’’. 
(2) on page 25, in item 1504, strike 
‘‘Corrido’’ and insert ‘‘Corridor’’. 
(3) on page 25, insert the following two new 
items at the end of the table: 
1508 New Reconstruct Flushing Avenue 5.000 
York. between Humboldt Street 
and Cypress Avenue, and between 
Porter Street and Cypress 
Avenue. 
1509 New Reconstruct Flushing Avenue 3.000 
York. between Wycoff Avenue and 
Gates Street. 

(4) on page 25, insert the following paragraph 
after the table: 
(101) In the table contained in section 
127(c) of the bill: 
(A) in item 241, strike ‘‘32.000’’ and insert 
‘‘24.000’’. 
(B) in item 248, strike ‘‘intermodal center 
at Stapleton’’ and insert ‘‘Broadway Viaduct’’. 
(C) in item 257, strike ‘‘lande’’ and insert 
‘‘lanes’’. 
(D) in item 708, strike ‘‘3.000’’ and insert 
‘‘6.000’’. 
(E) in item 398, strike ‘‘Little Blue Expressway’’ 
and insert ‘‘the Eastern Jackson 
Co. Expressway’’. 
(F) in item 398, strike ‘‘3.000’’ and insert 
‘‘6.000’’. 
(G) in item 312, strike ‘‘8.000’’ and insert 
‘‘4.000’’. 
(H) strike item 205 (relating to the Missouri 
Connector). 
(I) in item 774, strike ‘‘2.230’’ and insert 
‘‘4.000’’. 
(J) in item 1081, strike ‘‘4.000’’ and insert 
‘‘2.000’’. 
(K) in item 1221, strike ‘‘7.500’’ and insert 
‘‘1.770’’. 
(L) in item 1337, strike ‘‘1.770’’ and insert 
‘‘2.330’’. 
(M) in item 1384, strike ‘‘2.000’’ and insert 
‘‘7.500’’. 
(5) on page 34, in paragraph (5), insert 
‘‘1.750’’ in the third column (relating to fiscal 
year 2000). 
(6) on page 34, insert after paragraph (13) 
the following: 
(14) strike the line relating to item 24 
(Chatham, GA). 
Mr. SHUSTER (during the reading). 
Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent 
that the modification be considered 
as read and printed in the RECORD. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the modification offered by the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) and a 
Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER). 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1997 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

(Mr. SHUSTER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. Chairman, this is a manager’s 
amendment, technical in nature. It has 
been cleared both on our side and with 
the minority. 

I rise in support of the committee amendment 
to H.R. 2400. 

The Committee amendment contains issues 
worked out in cooperation with other committees 
that had jurisdictional claims over H.R. 
2400—the Science Committee, the Resources 
Committee and the Commerce Committee. 

I am pleased that we were able to include 
several provisions that were worked out on a 
bipartisan basis with those committees. 

I particularly want to thank Chairman YOUNG 
of the Resources Committee, Chairman BLILEY 
of the Commerce Committee and Chairman 
SENSENBRENNER of the Science Committee for 
their cooperation in expediting the consideration 
of BESTEA. 

The amendment also contains several noncontroversial 
issues and project description 
changes. 

All provisions in the committee amendment 
have been worked out in a bipartisan manner 
and are acceptable to the Democratic members. 


There are several Members who had urged 
that certain provisions be included that we 
were unable to work out in the short time 
available. We will continue to work with those 
Members to resolve their issues when we go 
to conference with the other body. 

I am including a full summary of the committee 
amendment for the RECORD. 

I urge my colleagues to adopt the amendment. 


SUMMARY OF COMMITTEE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 

2400 

TITLE I—HIGHWAYS 

Provides that newly-designated nonattainment 
areas are eligible for CMAQ funding 
(but not part of the CMAQ formula). 

Provides that the Secretary of the Interior 
develop a new formula for the distribution of 
Indian Reservation Road funds by fiscal year 
2000. 

Establishes a pilot program to allow Indian 
tribes to directly administer their Indian 
Reservation Road funds. 

Adds transit vehicles signal prioritization 
projects to Federal share provisions under 
section 120(c) of title 23. 

Makes clarifying amendment to section 
125(d)(1) of the bill regarding provisions relating 
to cooperation of local officials in developing 
State transportation plan. 

Clarifies that States can continue to divide 
or segment projects, in accordance with current 
regulations regarding division of segmenting 
of projects, in carrying out high priority 
projects designated by Congress. 

Makes various corrections and additions to 
high priority projects as designated in section 
127(c) of the bill. 

Directs the Secretary to conduct a study 
on practices of States relating to service 
food signs. 

Amends current, and adds additional, High 
Priority Corridors. 

Clarifies that States can procure under a 
single contract environmental and engineering 
and design work if the State reviews the 
objectivity of the analysis. 

Allows the District of Columbia to construct 
a substitute project in lieu of Barney 
Circle Freeway project. 

Allows States to permit electric vehicles 
with fewer than two occupants to operate on 
high occupancy vehicle lanes. 

Makes technical and conforming changes. 
TITLE II—HIGHWAY SAFETY 
Allows States for two years to use section 
402 funds to purchase television and radio 
time for highway safety public services messages 
and requires a study on the effectiveness 
of the messages. 
TITLE III—TRANSIT 
Amends sec. 306 to restore current law with 
regard to false claims made under the transit 
title. 
Amends sec. 332 to alter project descriptions 
of new start transit projects. 
Amends sec. 333 to alter project descriptions 
and funding levels of bus and bus facility 
projects. 
Directs the Comptroller General to study 
the various clean fuel technologies for transit 
vehicles and make recommendations regarding 
incentives to encourage the use of 
such technologies. 
TITLE IV—MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY 
Adds new section 423 to direct the Secretary 
to contract with an independent entity 
to conduct a study on government access 
to electronic data for motor carrier regulatory 
enforcement (amended and relocated 
from Title VI). 
TITLE V—PROGRAMMATIC REFORMS AND 
STREAMLINING 

Provides that a revised formula for distribution 
of CMAQ funds shall be considered 
for mid-course corrections bill. 

TITLE VI—TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH 
The Manager’s Amendment contains several 
provisions developed in cooperation 
with the Committee on Science: 
Section 604 requires notice to Congress if 
the Department of Transportation reprograms 
research funds or reorganizes programs 
authorized by Title 6 of BESTEA. 
Section 605 contains a sense of Congress regarding 
the year 2000 computer problem. 
Requires a study on future research requirements 
for highway pavement. 
Section 633 establishes a planning process, 
consistent with the Government Performance 
and Results Act, at the Department of 
Transportation to oversee surface transportation 
research. 
Establishes a surface transportation-environment 
cooperative research program. 
Makes some additional minor technical 
changes to the research title of BESTEA. 
TITLE VIII—RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY 
PROGRAM 

Amends National Sea Grant College Program 
Act relating to research funds for Lake 
Champlain. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield to my good 
friend, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR). 

(Mr. OBERSTAR asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, first, I want 
to thank Chairmen SHUSTER and PETRI and 
Ranking Member RAHALL for the cooperative 
manner in which we developed this amendment. 
Through their willingness to address 
Member concerns, we were able to agree on 
a significant number of Member requests. We 
have developed a good package that further 
strengthens BESTEA. I want to highlight a few 
of the provisions. 

First, the manager’s amendment includes 
provisions that will provide CMAQ funding for 
newly-designated non-attainment communities. 
Because the EPA is currently reviewing the 

criteria for non-attainment, it is important that 
our bill clarify that if the new criteria lead to 
designation of additional non-attainment areas, 
those areas would qualify for funding. 

Also, the amendment ensures continued 
CMAQ funding for communities that progress 
from non-attainment to maintenance status. 

At the request of our friends on the Science 
Committee, this amendment adds several provisions 
from their surface transportation research 
bill, H.R. 860. For example, the provisions 
clarify the Department of Transportation’s 
responsibility to develop a strategic 
planning process for surface transportation research 
and technology development activities. 
I want to note that these provisions are designed 
to be consistent with the Government 
Performance and Results Act requirements 
and not a separate effort. 

Also, the Science Committee provisions establish 
a cooperative research program to develop 
better tools for State and local governments 
to use when evaluating the complex 
economic, social, and environmental impacts 
various transportation alternatives have on 
communities. 

The amendment includes a number of additional 
provisions to continue fine tuning 
BESTEA. These include limited changes to 
Member highway and transit project requests 
and we will continue to address their concerns 
about these very important projects. 

I again thank Chairman SHUSTER and PETRI, 
Ranking Member RAHALL, and all the Members 
of the Committee who worked with us to 
improve BESTEA and I urge adoption of the 
en bloc amendment. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment, as modified, offered by 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER). 

The amendment, as modified, was 
agreed to. 

The CHAIRMAN. It is now in order to 
consider amendment number 2 printed 
in Part II of House Report 105–476. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. DAVIS OF 
ILLINOIS 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I offer an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Part II, amendment numbered 2 offered by 
Mr. DAVIS of Illinois: 

In section 330(j), strike ‘‘$42,000,000’’ and insert 
‘‘$150,000,000’’. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. DAVIS) and a Member opposed 
each will control 10 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS). 

b1645 
Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield myself 3 minutes. 
Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to offer 
this amendment which seeks to expand 
and improve the Access to Jobs Grant 
program. This amendment would increase 
funding for this program by $108 
million per year. The Access to Jobs 
legislation assists welfare recipients 
and low-income individuals to commute 
from where they live to where 


H1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

jobs are located. This increase in moneys 
is designated to address the fact 
that in too many cases, in both urban 
and rural areas, welfare recipients and 
low-income individuals are isolated 
from the jobs they want and need. 

Last year Congress enacted legislation 
to move people from welfare to 
work. We imposed strict time limits 
and other restrictions that will result 
in the termination of benefits for an estimated 
2 million people by the year 
2002. One of the greatest obstacles 
many current welfare recipients face in 
getting work is literally getting to the 
jobs. 

Welfare recipients and low-income 
individuals often live, almost by definition, 
in impoverished communities devoid 
of job opportunities. Ninety-four 
percent of welfare recipients do not 
have cars, low wage earners often do 
not have cars. They are dependent on 
public transportation to get to areas 
with jobs. If the public transit is inadequate, 
the jobs become inaccessible. 
People cannot move from welfare to 
work if the people on welfare cannot 
get to work. 

Currently, two-thirds of all new jobs 
are being created in the suburbs. Many 
suburban communities report severe 
labor shortages because they cannot 
find enough workers looking for entry-
level jobs. This amendment helps to 
ensure that those welfare recipients 
who want jobs will not be denied because 
they do not have access to transportation 
to get to and from work. 

Too many welfare recipients and low-
income individuals are isolated from 
potential job opportunities because existing 
public transportation systems 
are either inadequate or nonexistent. 
The Community Transportation Association 
of America has found that 40 
percent of all rural communities have 
no public transportation whatsoever. 
When transit is present, it often does 
not operate at night or on weekends, 
times when many low-wage or entry-
level jobs are performed. By filling the 
gaps in transit services, we can give 
people the chance to get to the jobs 
they seek. 

For example, in Chicago an innovative 
Suburban Jobs Links program is 
doing just that. Buses carry workers 
from the cities to their jobs in neighboring 
suburbs. An increase in funding 
for this program would allow it to expand 
and help other communities. If 
only one out of three welfare families 
are successful in getting to a job and 
are able to work, then America wins 
and this program will have paid big 
dividends. Therefore, I urge its immediate 
adoption. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS). 

Mr. Chairman, it is interesting that 
in the course of the discussion of the 
rule of this bill, in the course, a lot of 

people came to the floor of the House 
of Representatives in the course of the 
last few weeks, as well, saying that the 
scope of this bill is too large, that an 
increase of over 40 percent in transportation 
funds over 6 years is a budget 
buster. And yet the amendment we 
have before us indicates that the bill is 
not large enough, and the hope of the 
gentleman in offering this amendment 
is that we add some additional hundred 
plus million dollars to the bill to meet 
a particular need, that despite the fact 
that we do include a $42 million Access 
to Jobs pilot program in the bill, and 
in addition in this bill there is some $20 
billion, $20 billion in formula funds for 
over 6 years that can be used for the 
needs of people who want to go from 
welfare to work and to meet their 
transportation needs. 

Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that 
we have mass transit and many other 
transit operations of a particular nature 
already in existence around the 
United States, we do not need to pile 
on a lot of money that will ultimately 
be used for administration rather than 
help real people find real jobs. We are 
willing to experiment in this bill with 
a pilot program, but I think before we 
know what we are talking about we 
should not start throwing additional 
money at it. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Missouri (Mrs. EMERSON). 

Mrs. EMERSON. Mr. Chairman, I 
really want to commend the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS) for this 
amendment because I am from a very 
rural district that has 26 counties, 3 of 
which are among the highest welfare 
counties in the State of Missouri, and 
after numerous meetings with my welfare 
recipients the biggest stumbling 
block they have to getting a job is, like 
the gentleman says, transportation, 
and they might have to drive an hour 
and a half, 2 hours to get to a job and 
they have no means of transportation 
because we do not have the funds in 
Missouri, particularly in my district, 
to beef up our very minimal transportation 
systems. And certainly they are 
not presently in use for this particular 
purpose. 

So I just want to ask my colleagues 
to really think about this because if we 
truly want our welfare recipients to 
lead productive, independent lives, 
then we really need to also put our 
money where our mouths are and help 
make a real job a reality for these 
folks. So I will happily support the 
amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS). 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
such time as he might consume to the 
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. PEASE), a 
member of the committee. 

Mr. PEASE. Mr. Chairman, with the 
greatest personal respect for my colleagues 
from Illinois and Missouri, I 
oppose the gentleman from Illinois’ 
amendment to increase funding for this 

program from the $42 million included 
in the bill to approximately $150 million 
per year. 

While I agree that providing transportation 
for welfare recipients to get 
to jobs is critical, I question whether 
increasing the funding for the pilot 
program contained in this bill is the 
best approach to achieving this worthy 
result. 

This pilot program promotes new and 
innovative approaches to providing 
transportation and makes funding 
available to nontraditional transit 
grant recipients in addition to public 
transit agencies. There is concern 
among some in the transit community 
that a new program that is large and 
proscriptive is not only unnecessary 
but would take flexibility and control 
away from transit agencies whose very 
mission it is to provide access to jobs. 

There also are significant transportation 
resources for access to jobs activities 
under a number of federally 
funded social services programs already 
in place. These include the Department 
of Health and Human Services 
Temporary Assistance for Needy 
Families, the Department of Labor’s 
Welfare to Work program comprising 
$3 billion over 2 years and the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development’s 
Bridges to Work program. 

Should the pilot program contained 
in this bill prove to be successful in 
conjunction with these many other 
programs of Federal agencies, we can 
then reevaluate whether to increase 
the funding in future transportation 
legislation. But I believe at the moment 
it is premature to raise the funding 
level to the amount proposed in the 
amendment, and I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield 1 minute to the distinguished 
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. 
BROWN). 

Ms. BROWN of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise today to strongly support 
the amendment by my colleague from 
Illinois. Mr. Chairman, today I had 
lunch with the CEO of United Airlines, 
Jerry Greenwald, who sits on the President’s 
Welfare to Work Task Force. I 
want to commend United for employing 
500 former welfare recipients with 
the goal of 2,000 by the year 2000. This 
is a success story. 

But he told me what many of us already 
know, that the most serious barriers 
for former welfare workers entering 
the work force are, one, child care, 
and transportation. Through reverse 
commuter programs, transit vouchers 
and van pools many of these people can 
get to work. 

Mr. Chairman, let us put our money 
where our mouth is and get welfare to 
work going. Increase this budget and 
support this amendment. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I have no further requests 
for time. I recognize the other 
side is entitled to close debate on their 
amendment, so I just would proceed to 
conclude by saying that while I understand 
the gentleman’s interest in this 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1999 

program, we have included funds in 
this bill for this program. 

A lot of Members have expressed concern 
in debate, and a lot of others who 
have looked at this bill, that we are already 
spending more than we feel is 
prudent. To increase spending beyond 
what the committee has asked for is 
something that I think is highly problematic. 


I would think that this would be an 
interesting test to see whether Congress 
would like to stay within the parameters 
of this bill or feels that the 
committee sort of undershot and we 
should be spending even more than we 
have been asked for in this bill. I think 
it best to plan and see that we walk before 
we run. We do have $42 million in 
this bill plus $20 billion that is eligible 
if State and local transit authorities 
feel these needs are needs that need to 
be addressed. We do not need to add another 
$100 million dollars to a bill that 
is already quite generous in the transportation 
area. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, will 
the gentleman yield? 

Mr. PETRI. I yield to the gentleman 
from Minnesota. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
just want to specify that the chairman 
does understand that this is an authorization, 
these are not contract authority 
dollars? 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I understand 
it is an authorization, but we had 
the senior member of the committee 
from my State and others in the authorization 
committee, appropriation 
committee, which would have to actually 
appropriate money, saying that 
this was taking away from priorities 
that they felt were important. Now we 
are adding to their burden, I think. 

But I would be interested to see how 
they vote on this amendment because 
if they really are concerned and consistent, 
this would receive a ‘‘no’’ vote, 
not a ‘‘yes’’ vote from those gentlemen. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL). 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of the excellent amendment of 
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
DAVIS). 

The simple fact of the matter is that 
lack of transportation is frequently a 
barrier to employment whether one resides 
in an urban or rural environment. 
This amendment would raise the general 
fund authorization contained in 
the bill for the welfare to work program. 


I know that from a rural perspective 
these programs hold great promise. In 
my home State of West Virginia we 
have undertaken four welfare to work 
pilot programs already, including in 
Greenbrier and Wayne Counties which I 
have the honor of representing. This 
amendment is about access to jobs, 
about access to training, about access 
to a better life for many Americans, 
and I urge my colleagues to accept it. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. FOX). 

Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise today in support of the 
Davis amendment to BESTEA. This 
would further build upon the committee’s 
commitment to encouraging access 
to jobs and moving people from 
welfare to work. 

I commend the gentleman for offering 
this amendment which enhances an 
already strong portion of the underlying 
bill. I was pleased to see the Senate 
also acted, through the efforts of the 
Senators from Pennsylvania, Illinois 
and New York, to include a strong 
commitment to moving people from 
welfare to work. 

The gentleman from Illinois shows a 
great commitment and vision in offering 
his amendment as he recognizes the 
need for a national approach to this 
problem. Few people on welfare own 
cars and few can afford other transportation 
means to get to jobs and job 
training. BESTEA and the gentleman’s 
perfecting amendment further our belief 
in empowering people with the jobs 
and training they need to achieve self-
sufficiency. I strongly urge support for 
the Davis amendment. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL). 

b1700 
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in strong support of the Davis amendment. 
First of all, we must go to the 
appropriations. There are checks and 
balances. That is something we have to 
do. This is a general fund authorization. 
Second of all, we have spoken in the 
last 4 years about welfare reform. It is 
time for us to put our money where our 
mouth is. The argument that this bill 
is a pilot program and cannot increase 
too quickly, forget about it. We have 
told people in 5 years they have to be 
off welfare, by the year 2002. We do not 
have that much time. 
Let us have bipartisan agreement 
that we are going to get people to jobs 
that exist. There are 2 million people 
out there that are going to be removed 
from welfare to work over the next 5 
years, and only 6 percent of them have 
cars. 
Now, what are you going to do about 
that? This amendment goes right to 
the heart of that situation. This is getting 
people to work. This is what we 
want, work, not welfare. 
Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield one minute to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. MILLENDERMCDONALD). 
Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD. Mr. 
Chairman, I would like to thank the 
distinguished gentleman from Illinois 
for offering this amendment and for 
yielding me time. 
Mr. Chairman, last year we passed a 
welfare-to-work bill, knowing that that 
bill was not the sound bill it should be 
for those who are moving from welfare 
to work. This amendment that my 
friend has put on the floor is one that 
will help us to move this generation of 
welfare recipients to work. 

One in 20 welfare recipients in this 
country own a car. That is a frightening 
statistic. When one considers that 
when we passed welfare reform we 
placed strict time limits on the welfare 
recipients, we can ill-afford to not pass 
this amendment. I urge all Members to 
pass the Davis amendment. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I would ask the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI) if he would yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Iowa 
(Mr. BOSWELL). 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Iowa 
(Mr. BOSWELL). 

Mr. BOSWELL. Mr. Chairman, I 
think it comes down to this: Do we 
really want people to go off of welfare 
and on to workfare? As probably some 
Members know, some of us in the 
States got into that a little bit ahead 
of even the national level. 

I am like the gentlewoman from Missouri 
(Mrs. EMERSON). I have 27 counties, 
and we have no mass transportation. 
One thing we discovered is if we 
are serious about getting people from 
welfare to work, they have got to have 
child care and they have got to have 
transportation, or it is not going to 
work. It simply is not going to work. 

So I encourage support of the amendment 
of the gentleman from Illinois, 
Mr. Davis. It is something we have to 
do if we are going to get this job done. 
I think we all want very much to get 
this job done, to get people to work. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I would ask the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI) if he would yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. ANDREWS). 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I am delighted 
to yield 1 minute to my esteemed 
colleague, the gentleman from 
New Jersey (Mr. ANDREWS). 

(Mr. ANDREWS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman from Wisconsin, 
who contributes so much to the educational 
issues, and I thank the author 
of this amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support 
of the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS). I 
introduced legislation earlier this year 
which incorporates this same concept, 
and I frankly would have put more 
money into this if we had been able to. 
But I commend the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. DAVIS) and the leadership of 
the minority side for supporting this. 

Here is why this is such a good idea. 
If one out of every 300 families on welfare 
in America, one out of every 300, 
gets a job as a result of this program, 
as a result of being moved from where 
they live to where the jobs are, this 
pays for itself as a result of people 
leaving the welfare rolls and paying 
taxes. 

In other words, the success level for 
this to be budget-neutral is very, very 
low. It is a great idea. 

In my area, United Parcel Company 
is helping to do a similar thing, where 


H2000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

they are moving welfare recipients 
from Camden, New Jersey, to a UPS 
terminal at the Philadelphia airport. It 
works, the Davis amendment works, 
and I urge my colleagues to support it. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield 2 minutes, the balance of my 
time, to the distinguished ranking 
member, the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR). 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, this 
is a reality check amendment. If you 
voted for welfare reform, then look in 
the mirror and say, did I really mean 
it? Was I serious about that? If you 
were, then you really ought to be serious 
about providing the means for people 
to get from where they are to where 
the jobs are. 

We made a start on it in this legislation 
with a pilot program of $42 million. 
I think it is well-crafted, I think 
it is a good initiative, but it is woefully 
inadequate in dollars to do the job that 
needs to be done. 

A study of 43 large metropolitan 
areas found that communities with the 
longest job commute times had the 
highest rates of unemployment. In 
Cleveland, inner-city residents can 
reach only about 8 to 15 percent of 
entry level jobs in a reasonable time 
with current public transportation. 
There are many other similar examples. 


Mr. Chairman, I want to emphasize, 
this is a general fund authorization. It 
does not require offsets. It is under the 
caps for the budget hawks. 

The Committee on Appropriations 
will decide among the many priorities 
that they have to contend with which 
of the funds will go to this program 
and which to other programs. It will 
not come out of contract authority dollars. 
It is reasonable and fair. It is far 
less than the Senate is providing in 
their version of this legislation. 

Mr. Chairman, finally, I want to say 
in Chicago, and the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER) and 
I were there a year ago to look at their 
transportation, we saw their effective 
welfare-to-work program. It was a 
pilot, if you will. It was the spark of 
imagination for the program we have 
in this basic legislation. 

But, fundamentally, I drew this idea 
from my daughter and I who works for 
Jubilee Jobs in Northeast-Northwest 
Washington, in the Adams Morgan 
area. Trying to place people in work 
who are coming out of the welfare shelters, 
who are coming out, dropouts 
from the welfare system, she cannot 
get them to their jobs because they 
cannot afford transportation. If you 
cannot match the person with the job 
through a means of transport, then you 
have failed. 

Let us not fail. Let us pass this 
amendment. 

Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Chairman, I rise today 
in support of this vital amendment that will enable 
thousands of people in my community to 
obtain access to employment opportunities 
they may otherwise be denied. 

The additional $108 million that this amendment 
will provide for welfare-to-work programs 
is crucial if our nation is to ensure that our 
current prosperity benefits all people in America. 


Back in my hometown of Chicago, less than 
10 percent of welfare recipients own or have 
access to an automobile. 

That’s right less than 10 percent. 

At the same time, job growth in the Chicago 
metropolitan area is greatest in areas that are 
accessible only by car. 

Obviously, this poses a significant obstacle 
to the people who need employment most. 

A serious mismatch exists in Chicago and 
countless other urban areas in our nation between 
job growth and the location of low-income 
communities. 

The lack of affordable housing in many 
growing suburbs ensures that low-income people, 
the people who would fill the myriad service 
jobs that are being created in new suburban 
strip malls and office parks, can’t live 
where job creation is most dynamic. 

So we must address this problem. 

We must take action to get people to where 
the jobs are. 

Failure to do so means we are cutting off 
from jobs and financial security the very people 
who we have mandated to work under 
new welfare reform regulations. 

So we cannot fail in this task and we cannot 
fail to pass this important amendment that is 
fundamental to building a fairer economy that 
includes all Americans. 

I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. 
America can only work if we enable all 
our people access to jobs. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS). 

The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the ayes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, further proceedings on 
the amendment will be postponed. 

It is now in order to consider Amendment 
No. 3 printed in part II of House 
Report 105–476. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MRS. ROUKEMA 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
offer an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 3 offered by Mrs. Roukema: 


Strike subsection (b) of section 102 and insert 
the following: 

(b) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ENCOURAGED; DISCRIMINATION 
OR PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT 
PROHIBITED.— 
(1) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION ENCOURAGED.—It is 
the policy of the United States— 
(A) to expand the applicant pool for transportation 
contracts in order to increase competition; 
(B) to encourage participation by businesses 
owned by women and minorities in 
bidding for transportation contracts; 
(C) to recruit qualified women and minorities 
into the applicant pool for transportation 
contracts; and 
(D) to encourage transportation contractors— 
(i) to request businesses owned by women 
and minorities to bid for transportation contracts; 
and 
(ii) to include qualified women and minorities 
into an applicant pool for transportation 
contracts; 
so long as such expansion, encouragement, 
recruitment, request, or inclusion does not 
involve granting a preference, based in whole 
or in part on race, color, national origin, or 
sex, in selecting any person for the relevant 
contract. 

(2) PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION OR 
PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, no governmental 
entity shall, in connection with a transportation 
contract— 
(A) intentionally discriminate against, or 
grant a preference to, any person or group 
based in whole or in part on race, color, national 
origin, or sex; or 
(B) require or encourage a contractor or 
subcontractor to discriminate intentionally 
against, or grant a preference to, any person 
or group based in whole or in part on race, 
color, national origin, or sex. 
(3) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this subsection— 
(A) the term ‘‘transportation contract’’ 
means any contract or subcontract in connection 
with any project paid for in whole or 
in part with funds derived from amounts authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act; and 
(B) the term ‘‘preference’’ means an advantage 
of any kind, and includes a quota, set-
aside, numerical goal, timetable, or other 
numerical objective. 
The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. Roukema) and a 
Member opposed each will control 30 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA). 


Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


Mr. Chairman, my amendment, as 
has been submitted and printed, would 
end the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
Program under BESTEA. 

The amendment reaffirms, and I 
want to be very clear about this, reaffirms 
our encouragement of affirmative 
action through expansion of the 
applicant pool and active recruitment, 
and I stress active recruitment, of 
qualified women and minorities. 

At the same time, this amendment 
makes it clear that such encouragement 
and recruitment does not involve 
granting a preference or fulfilling a 
quota or a set-aside. 

In other words, and I want my colleagues 
to understand this, in other 
words, we are reforming affirmative action 
as we know it today. That is, it 
should go back to its initial roots of 
nondiscrimination. 

We are not suggesting that there is 
no discrimination. In other words, we 
are reforming affirmative action as we 
know it while protecting the civil 
rights of all people. 

Now, the preference program, DBE as 
it is known, the preference program at 
the heart of this issue is a provision of 
BESTEA, and it states that, and we 
should be clear about this, because 
there is misinformation being spread 
around. It states that not less than 10 
percent shall be expended with small 
businesses owned and controlled by 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2001 

‘‘socially and economically disadvan-for all qualified people, and expansion (Mr. SHUSTER asked and was given 
taged individuals.’’ and strengthening of efforts to promote permission to revise and extend his re-
This is a floor set by the Department full equality of employment oppor-marks.) 
of Transportation that must be met. If tunity. Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, 

it is not met, then the administration 
can and does sanction. 

The bill itself says, ‘‘Not less than 10 
percent of the amounts authorized 
shall be expended’’ to small businesses 
controlled by socially and economically 
disadvantaged. It is a clear quota. 

At a hearing held recently this past 
year in the Committee on the Judiciary, 
Mr. Chairman, we heard that this 
preference resulted in many subcontractors 
being denied a transportation 
contract, despite having by far 
the lowest bid. To represent only one 
subcontractor, Malcolm Drilling, Inc., 
he testified that they were discriminated 
against merely because the general 
contractor did not use enough minority 
or women-owned subcontractors. 


As a result, the contract was awarded 
to the next lowest bidder at a bid of $3 
million more. This was just one relatively 
small contract. So the Federal 
dollars at work cost the taxpayers $3 
million more in this specific case. 

There are many other instances. I 
will not go into them now, but I do 
want them to be included in the 
RECORD, a company in Wyoming to the 
tune of $345,000, and another one in 
Iowa and so on. These qualified under 
the 10 percent set-aside for disadvantaged 
business enterprises. 

This is a waste, a clear waste, of taxpayer 
dollars. Competitive bidding is 
intended to save money. Not requiring 
at least a 10 percent set-aside has made 
the point of competitive bidding moot, 
if not some would say a joke. 

Governments have been imposing 
quotas, preferences and set-asides in 
the goal of eliminating discrimination, 
but instead the actual real world has 
resulted in reverse discrimination. 

Now, my amendment explicitly reaffirms 
the original concept of our Affirmative 
Action Program that 
through vigorous and systematic outreach, 
recruitment and marketing efforts 
among qualified women and minorities, 
we would be reaching those 
who are out of the loop, so-to-speak. 
The amendment explicitly reaffirms 
and requires outreach programs. 

The amendment also seeks to restore 
the color-blind principle to Federal law 
by prohibiting the Federal Government 
from granting any preference to any 
person based on whose qualifications 
were either race, color or national origin 
or sex-based. 

When affirmative action, and this I 
thought was very interesting in doing 
my research for this amendment, going 
back to the Kennedy Administration’s 
Executive order that established this 
principle in 1963. It was specifically applied 
through the Civil Rights Act of 
1964. The goals were promotion and assurance 
of equal opportunity without 
regard to race, creed, color or national 
origin, encouragement of positive 
measures towards equal opportunity 

b1715 

That, to me, is a reflection of exactly 
what we have here in my amendment. 
That was the original Kennedy initiative. 


Before opponents of my amendment 
raise their voices, let me also add for 
clarity, here, that this legislation absolutely 
maintains this Nation’s existing 
antidiscrimination laws. If it did not, I 
would not be proposing it here on the 
floor today. But it maintains existing 
civil rights laws which are there as a 
remedy for individuals who are victims 
of discrimination. Further, it is consistent 
with civil rights laws that prohibit 
any discrimination. 

Mr. Chairman, I want Members to 
know that over time I have been a 
strong supporter of affirmative action. 
However, over the course of the years I 
have watched the implementation of 
affirmative action amount to the use of 
discriminatory quotas, set-asides, preferences, 
and timetables based on sex 
and race. This is evidence, I believe, of 
the law of unintended consequences. 

That is why we should be reforming 
comprehensively affirmative action. 
But we have been unable to get that to 
the floor, a total reform. Indeed, I had 
fervently hoped that by this time in 
our session the Committee on the Judiciary 
would have reported that. In the 
absence of an overall reform, I thought 
this was the best vehicle to bring the 
issue before the public. It is very precise 
in this bill, as I have outlined it. 

I know, of course, that discrimination 
exists today in America. There is 
no denying it. But we cannot attack 
discrimination with a different style of 
discrimination. Discrimination, that 
is, the reverse discrimination that I 
see, is the consequence of these set-
asides and quotas. Discrimination in 
the name of equal treatment is, in my 
opinion, an oxymoron. 

Mr. Chairman, affirmative action did 
its job in its day, but the day it became 
more quotas than opportunity is the 
day that, in my opinion, it became part 
of the problem and not part of the solution. 


Equal opportunity has always been 
at the core of the American spirit. It is 
time that we return to that core, and 
apply it equally for all people in our society, 
while protecting the civil rights 
of those who need continued protecting, 
and assure that the law is applied 
equally to all people. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
am opposed to the amendment, and request 
the time in opposition. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman 
from California (Mrs. TAUSCHER) is recognized 
for 30 minutes. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield such time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER). 

thank the gentlewoman for yielding to 
me. 

Mr. Chairman, in accordance with 
the agreement we made in the committee 
with negotiating a delicately-balanced 
compromise in this bill, we 
agreed, and the bipartisan leadership of 
our committee, to oppose all amendments 
that the bipartisan leadership 
did not agree to. 

I, therefore, must reluctantly state 
my opposition to this amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I am sympathetic to my colleague’s 
position opposing continuation of the 
DBE requirement in BESTEA. 

However, I have made an agreement to oppose 
any DBE reforms in exchange for a balanced, 
bipartisan bill that provides maximum 
funding for America’s transportation needs. 

There have been a number of court challenges 
to the DBE program including a decision 
by the Supreme Court that casts doubt 
on the constitutionality of the program. 

I have been concerned that attempts to repeal 
the DBE requirement could backfire—resulting 
in findings that could potentially 
strengthen claims that the program is constitutional. 


I believe the best approach is to allow the 
courts to resolve the issue. 

I am pleased that we have included language 
in BESTEA, similar to language included 
in the Senate-passed bill, that would 
prohibit DOT from withholding funds from 
grant recipients where a Federal court has 
issued a final order finding the DBE requirement 
unconstitutional. This provision should 
ensure that transit agencies, such as Houston 
Metro, that are under such orders, do not 
have their Federal funds withheld. 

BESTEA also requires a GAO study that 
would examine whether there is continued evidence 
of discrimination against small businesses 
owned and controlled by socially and 
economically disadvantaged individuals. I believe 
that this study will lay the groundwork for 
future reforms. 

For these reasons, I must reluctantly oppose 
the gentlelady’s amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the Roukema amendment. The amendment 
offered by the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) would 
recklessly end an important program 
that has successfully increased the participation 
of minority-owned businesses 
in the Federal-aid highway and 
transit programs. 

Let us be clear, the DBE program 
does not involve set-asides, preferences, 
or quotas. Indeed, the DBE 
program requires States to establish 
their own voluntary DBE goals and 
make a good-faith effort to achieve 
these goals. The DBE goals can be 
waived if there are not sufficient minority 
contractors available to meet 
the targets. In addition, the Department 
of Transportation has never punished 
a State for failing to meet its 
voluntary goals. 


H2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
program ensures that small businesses 
that are owned and controlled 
by socially and economically disadvantaged 
individuals will have a fair opportunity 
to compete for federally-
funded highway and transit contracts. 

Prior to enactment of the DBE program 
in 1982, minority-owned businesses 
participated in only about 2 percent 
of all contracts in the Federal-aid 
highway program. Following enactment 
of DBE, minority participation 
has risen to roughly 9 percent of all 
contracts. 

Since 1987, women-owned businesses 
have also benefited greatly from the 
DBE program. According to Federal 
Highway Administration figures, contracts 
to women-owned businesses have 
increased from 2.6 percent in fiscal 
year 1986 to 6.7 percent in fiscal year 
1996. Nevertheless, while women own 
one-third of all construction firms, 
they still only get 19 percent of business 
receipts. 

The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
program has been instrumental in 
promoting equal opportunity for all 
citizens to fully participate in our national 
economy. Now is not the time to 
turn back this effort. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. CHARLES CANADY), chairman 
of the Subcommittee on the Constitution 
of the Committee on the Judiciary. 


Mr. CANADY of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding me the time. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support 
of the amendment of the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA). 


The ideal of equality under the law 
for all Americans is an ideal supported 
by the overwhelming majority of the 
American people. That ideal is at the 
heart of the American experience. We 
all know that in our history as Americans 
we have not fully lived up to that 
ideal, but we also know that future 
generations of Americans will judge us 
by how well we ground the laws of the 
land on that fundamental principle. 

The amendment now before this 
House is solidly based on the ideal of 
equality under the law. Like the historic 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, this 
amendment recognizes that each American 
has the right to be treated by our 
government not as a member of a particular 
race or gender group, but as an 
individual citizen, equal in the eyes of 
the law. 

The amendment is based on the conviction 
that it is morally wrong for the 
United States government to give some 
Americans benefits because of their 
race or gender, while denying other 
Americans opportunities because they 
belong to the wrong groups. 

Let us be clear about it, despite the 
denials that we hear, under the transportation 
program, that is exactly 

what is happening every day. Contracts 
and subcontracts are awarded because 
of the race or gender of the people who 
are receiving those contracts or subcontracts. 
That is an undeniable fact. 

Race and gender preferences undermine 
the dignity of all Americans. To 
some Americans, the system of preferences 
says, your government will 
deny you a job or some other opportunity 
because you are the wrong gender 
or ethnic background. To other 
Americans, the system of preferences 
says, you will not be expected to compete 
as an equal, but will be measured 
by a lower standard than individuals of 
another gender or race. 

Both messages are hurtful, both messages 
are demeaning, both messages 
are demoralizing, and both messages 
are contrary to the basic American 
principle of respect for the individual. 

We will never overcome discrimination 
by practicing discrimination. The 
way to mend affirmative action is by 
eliminating the divisive system of preferences 
based on race and gender, and 
reaffirming the original concept of affirmative 
action through vigorous and 
systematic outreach, recruitment, and 
marketing efforts. 

Preferential policies are a dead end. 
As the Federal Government classifies, 
sorts, and divides Americans by their 
race and gender, it sends a powerful 
and perverse message to the American 
people that we should judge one another 
on the basis of race and gender. 
That is exactly the wrong message for 
us to be sending. That is a message 
which only reinforces prejudice and 
discrimination in our society. 

President Clinton has quite rightly 
called on Americans to transform the 
problem of prejudice into the promise 
of unity. He has spoken of our primary 
allegiance to the values America 
stands for, calling for us to build one 
America. 

The system of race and gender preferences 
stands as a massive impediment 
to a united America, in which all 
Americans are treated as individuals 
who are equal in the eyes of the law. 
Congress can demonstrate its allegiance 
to fundamental American values 
by adopting this amendment, and 
ending the use of race and gender preferences 
in the transportation program. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON). 


Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise to oppose 
this amendment. I want the record to 
be clear. This is a proposal that has 
been worked out. It is the same language 
that is in the Senate bill. It was 
an agreement within the committee. 
Clearly, this is meant to be corrective 
action. 

If it was true that we no longer needed 
the DBE program, I would be the 
first person to want to give it up. All of 
my political career I have had to come 
to the forefront to try to defend and 
make opportunities; not to be better 

than anyone else, and certainly not to 
lower standards, but to make opportunities 
for those women and those minorities 
who do not get them without a 
program. 

It is unconscionable that we would 
stand to deny people who can work 
hard, people that just do not look like 
white men, and defend their ability as 
Americans, as citizens, as persons who 
work just as hard, to get a simple opportunity. 


This is a sad day to see that we still 
have people who are willing to deny 
people who work hard, who take on the 
same responsibility, are not asking for 
anything, they are only asking for an 
opportunity. I oppose this amendment. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. CAMPBELL). 

Mr. CAMPBELL. Mr. Chairman, the 
bill provides in section 102, ‘‘Not less 
than 10 percent of the amounts authorized 
to be appropriated under titles I, 
III, and VI of this Act shall be expended 
with small business concerns 
owned and controlled by socially and 
economically disadvantaged individuals.’’ 


The underlying statute defines, at 15 

U.S.C. 637, ‘‘The contractor shall presume 
that socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals include 
black Americans, Hispanic Americans, 
Native Americans, Asian Pacific Americans, 
and other minorities. * * *’’ 
This bill sets aside a quota on the basis 
of race. 
The facts are uncontrovertible: race 
determines who gets contracts under 
this statute, and it is wrong. We cannot 
do good by doing bad. We cannot lift 
some people up on the basis of their 
race without putting other people down 
on the basis of their race. It is inherently 
unfair. 

In the new biography of Jackie Robinson, 
there is a very touching 
quotation of a letter. 

I quote: ‘‘Late in his career he wrote 
an eloquently spare letter to a white 
New Orleans journalist who had abused 
him in print: ‘I wish you could comprehend 
how unfair and un-American it 
is for the accident of birth to make 
such a difference to you.’ ’’ 

Are there other ways of taking care 
of the fact that we do not start life 
equally? Of course there are. The 
amendment of the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) does that: 
Take a look at somebody’s actual effort 
to try to overcome the obstacles 
that they have been presented with; 
give a preference on the basis of someone 
who has never had a contract before; 
take account of the individual. 
But do not judge on the basis of their 
race. 

How can we explain to somebody that 
it is fair that ‘‘You would have had had 
this contract, but your skin is the 
wrong color’’? 

Mr. Chairman, it was not that long 
ago that this issue was brought to the 
Supreme Court on the fundamental 
question of whether it was acceptable 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2003 

for the units of government in our 
country to use race. In 1954 the Supreme 
Court said it was not. 

In Brown vs. The Board of Education, 
the Supreme Court reversed the horror 
of Plessy versus Ferguson, in which the 
Supreme Court had said separate but 
equal was okay. And in striking down 
Plessy versus Ferguson, the Supreme 
Court of the United States said it is 
stigmatizing, it is inherently wrong, 
for the government to make distinctions 
on the basis of race. 

b1730 
Justice Douglas, nobody’s right-wing 
conservative, himself put it this way in 
1974: ‘‘There is no constitutional right 
for any race to be preferred. There is 
no superior person by constitutional 
standards. A * * * [person] * * * who is 
white is entitled to no advantage by 
reason of that fact; nor is he subject to 
any disability, no matter what his race 
or color. Whatever his race, he had a 
constitutional right to have his application 
considered on its individual 
merits in a racially neutral manner.’’ 
We have a chance today to do what is 
right. But we cannot do right by doing 
wrong. We have other means provided 
in this amendment to help those who 
are disadvantaged, but let us today put 
an end to the use of race by government, 
let us never again look at someone 
and say, ‘‘You have something that 
another may not because of the color 
of your skin.’’ 
Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 21/2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia (Ms. 
NORTON). 
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentlewoman from California (Mrs. 
TAUSCHER) for yielding me this time. 
Mr. Chairman, shame on the gentleman 
from California (Mr. CAMPBELL), 
my good friend and fellow law 
professor, for racializing this issue. Not 
once, not once did the gentleman allude 
to anything but race. This issue 
does not involve race. This issue involves 
race and sex. My good friend and 
colleague puts a woman’s face on an 
antiwoman amendment. 
Mr. CAMPBELL. Mr. Chairman, will 
the gentlewoman yield? 
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, the 
gentleman from California would not 
yield to me, and I will not yield to the 
gentleman one moment or one word. 
Mr. Chairman, I warn my colleagues, 
hundreds of thousands of women’s faces 
are trained on us now, particularly the 
faces of women small business owners. 
They are taking names and they are 
counting votes and they want to know 
which side my colleagues are on. 
Mr. Chairman, I want my colleagues 
to listen to them. Roberta Verdun, 
president, Summit Graphics, North 
Brunswick, New Jersey: 
Without the DBE program, I would not 
have opportunities to bid against the big 
businesses out here. 
Deborah Ayars, A-TECH Engineering, 
Vineland, New Jersey: 
Without the DBE provisions of ISTEA, the 
ever-larger majority firms would let none of 

the work out of their firms. The DBE program 
is one of the most successful programs 
the government has developed.’’ 

Elaine Martin, MarCon, Inc., Nampa, 
Indiana: 

I was low bidder on a job in 1987 where the 
owner told the estimator to give the job to a 
larger, male-owned firm that had a higher 
bid than mine. The estimator told the owner 
that the job had DBE goals and as low bidder, 
I should be given the opportunity to perform. 
In the 10 years since that one $100,000 
job that I would have lost without the DOT 
DBE program, my company has grown from 
$200,000 to $3 million annually.’’ 

Finally, Joanna Pierson, Joanna 
Trucking, Inc., Sioux City, Iowa: 

My company is very good at what it does, 
but that does not mean anything. What does 
mean something is that I am a ‘‘foolish female,’’ 
‘‘stupid woman,’’ I’m sure you’ve 
heard them all. To get rid of this program 
means putting me and other women like me 
out of business along with 25 of my employees. 


Mr. Chairman, these are the voices of 
women small business owners. This 
amendment would end the program for 
socially and economically disadvantaged 
white men who also qualify for 
DBE. 

Mr. Chairman, they will not be 
counting quotas in this bill, because 
there are none, but votes to see which 
side my colleagues were on when this 
amendment came up for vote. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume 
only to say I am sorry the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia 
(Ms. NORTON) totally misunderstands 
my amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Washington 
(Ms. DUNN). 

Ms. DUNN. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today to address a very tough issue for 
women, with friends on both sides of 
this amendment. 

I know as a woman that special and 
very difficult challenges confront businesswomen 
trying to launch enterprises 
in fields that have traditionally 
been male-dominated. That is a fact of 
life for businesswomen, despite that 
fact women continue today to form 
businesses at twice the rate of men. 

Mr. Chairman, I also know there are 
serious constitutional questions involved 
whenever the government tries 
to guarantee outcomes, because that 
government action usually amounts to 
a quota and consequent legal challenges. 


The truth is, Mr. Chairman, that 
when women are given an equal playing 
field we have proven that we can 
succeed. Women now employ more individuals 
than all the Fortune 500 companies 
in the world combined, and we 
want to be able to say we have 
achieved those successes because of our 
brains, not our gender. 

Quotas have the perverse effect of undermining 
the credibility of minority 
businesses because people believe that 
they got that contract on some basis 
other than merit. For women, that 
would set our movement back. 

The Roukema amendment clearly 
states that it is the policy of the 
United States to recruit qualified 
women and minorities into the applicant 
pool for transportation contracts. 
This approach will move us beyond divisive 
government-sanctioned preferences 
and discrimination to a system 
of equality under the law, while continuing 
the original intent of affirmative 
action to reach out to those who 
are disadvantaged. 

Mr. Chairman, my bottom line is 
this: I want my party and this Congress 
to embrace public policy that lets 
women know they are welcome, even 
encouraged, to enter and compete for 
business. My party and this Congress 
should be about expanding opportunities 
for women. Toward that end, I believe 
the gentlewoman from New Jersey 
has struck the proper balanced approach 
that is pro-woman, pro-minority 
opportunity, pro-affirmative action. 


Nobody in this body can question the 
long and positive record of the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) 
on women’s rights and opportunities. 
I urge my colleagues to support 
her balanced approach to affirmative 
action in the Roukema amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. POSHARD). 

Mr. POSHARD. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in opposition to the Roukema amendment 
and strongly urge my colleagues 
to vote against it. The gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) seeks 
to discontinue the Disadvantaged Business 
Enterprises program, which has 
the goal of providing at least 10 percent 
of transportation contracts to small 
businesses owned by socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals. 

For almost 20 years, the DBE program 
has enjoyed great success and 
provided critical opportunities for 
qualified women and people of color to 
compete for and perform Federal construction 
contracts. This is a good program 
and it deserves our continued 
support. 

Mr. Chairman, although I dearly wish 
that it were not the case, the fact is 
that women and minority-owned firms 
remain underrepresented in the field of 
construction. The DBE program has 
been instrumental in increasing the 
percentage of contracts awarded to 
these firms which are participating 
more than ever in the construction and 
maintenance of our Nation’s highways. 
Now is not the time to dismantle the 
successful program which has helped so 
many and can continue to help even 
more. 

The DBE program does not impose 
quotas or set-asides but relies instead 
on flexible targets and allows States 
and local governments to set their own 
goals based upon the particular circumstances 
of their local markets. 
Ending this program would create turmoil 
in the firms which have relied 
upon it, resulting in failing businesses 
and thousands of jobs lost. 


H2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. Chairman, I hope my colleagues 
will recognize the critical role that the 
DBE program can continue to play in 
the promotion of equal opportunities 
for all business owners and join me in 
opposing the Roukema amendment. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. COX). 

Mr. COX of California. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise in support of the amendment offered 
by the gentlewoman from New 
Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA). I congratulate 
her for bringing to the floor such a useful 
way to improve ISTEA, our transportation 
bill, so that it promotes affirmative 
action and so that it outlaws 
discrimination. 

First, let us focus on what this 
amendment really does. It would declare 
the policy of the Federal Government 
in favor of affirmative action. 
That means encouraging bidding by 
minority-owned and women-owned 
businesses, expanding the applicant 
pool, recruiting qualified women and 
minorities into the applicant pool, and 
encouraging contractors to do the 
same. That is what affirmative action 
is all about. 

In 1964, in the other body, the Democratic 
floor manager of the 1964 Civil 
Rights Act, Hubert Humphrey, told a 
critic of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, a 
critic of affirmative action, ‘‘If you can 
find anything in this legislation that 
would require people to hire on the 
basis of percentages or quotas, I will 
start eating the pages one after another.’’ 
He knew that quotas are the 
enemy of affirmative action. 

Mr. Chairman, I heard a Member in 
defense of this discrimination provision 
say that it is a voluntary program, 
but the law says, as it is proposed to be 
passed on the floor, 10 percent. That is 
a quota. It has nothing to do with disadvantaged 
people. The definition of 
‘‘disadvantaged’’ in the bill says if a 
company has sales of $16 million, year 
after year after year, they are disadvantaged. 
As the Federal court said 
when it struck down a provision just 
like this as unconstitutional, under 
this standard the Sultan of Brunei 
could qualify. 

Mr. Chairman, let us not cheat those 
who are really disadvantaged. Let us 
do something for them with affirmative 
action. Let us get rid of discrimination 
and let us make it illegal. Let 
us vote for the amendment offered by 
the gentlewoman from New Jersey. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. BONIOR), the Democratic 
whip. 

Mr. BONIOR. Mr. Chairman, there is 
an unfortunate pattern that has developed 
here. We have had almost an impossible 
scenario of trying to get colleagues 
on this side of the aisle to support 
the minimum wage bill. Just a few 
minutes ago, my colleagues on this 
side of the aisle stood up to oppose an 
amendment that would help facilitate 
the transportation of people on welfare 
so they could get to work and reach for 

their dreams. And now we have an 
amendment that would destroy a program 
that has helped create $1.4 billion 
worth of the economy, putting 62,000 
people to work. 

This program that we are talking 
about is based on a simple premise of 
equal opportunity. It requires all contractors 
bidding for Federal highway 
projects to do so on an equal footing, 
regardless of gender or of race. It also 
establishes a goal, a goal that says 10 
percent of Federal highway projects 
should be awarded to companies owned 
by individuals who for decades, for decades 
were effectively shut out from 
this industry. 

Mr. Chairman, this 10 percent goal is 
not mandatory. It is not a set-aside. It 
is not a quota. It is a goal. It is a worthy 
goal. It is a goal encouraging all 
Americans to work hard and to pursue 
their dreams. 

This is a success story. This side of 
the aisle talks about appealing to 
women. They have to address that 
problem because they do not get very 
many votes from women in this country. 
Well, just as the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia (Ms. 
NORTON) said, this is a key vote and the 
American people and women in this 
country will be watching to see who 
stands with them when it comes to getting 
a fair share of the pie. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman 
from California (Mrs. TAUSCHER) has 20 
minutes remaining, and the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) 
has 10 minutes remaining. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 11/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ). 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Chairman, we 
set goals in many of our initiatives, 
whether it be Goals 2000 or in the Clean 
Water Act. Goals do not guarantee 
giveaways, they generate participation. 


The DBE’s goal is to provide opportunity 
to all Americans. Let us talk 
about what the DBE is and is not. It is 
not a quota. It is not a set-aside. It is 
not a guarantee of contracts or dollars. 
And if it was, I would not support it. 
What it is is an opportunity for all 
Americans to participate in building 
the Nation’s infrastructure and future. 

The Roukema amendment would, in 
fact, eliminate opportunity for all 
Americans to be part of a program they 
pay for. It would eliminate talented 
and competent women, African-Americans 
and Hispanic Americans from simply 
having an opportunity to compete, 
to compete in the bidding process. 

b1745 

But the Roukema amendment not 
only denies opportunity to all Americans, 
it actually promotes the interests 
of the privileged few. This is not the 
Roukema amendment, it is the general 
contractors’ amendment. The contractors 
and others are willing to accept 
the votes of women, Hispanic Ameri


cans and African Americans in this 
Congress to pass this bill, but want to 
lock us out of the benefits. If this Congress 
cannot accept the simple goal of 
equality of opportunity for all Americans, 
what a sad day it will be. 

When my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle talk about privilege, they 
are referring to the privilege that has 
been enjoyed by the majority for a long 
period of time with very few benefits to 
anyone in the minority. Let us promote 
participation, not prohibit it, by 
defeating this amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ). 

Ms. VELA ´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentlewoman for yielding me 
the time. 

I rise in strong opposition to this 
amendment. The Department of Transportation 
DBE program has provided 
over 20,000 firms with contracts worth 
over $2 billion in 1996 alone. As a result, 
tens of thousands of jobs have 
been created, providing economic development 
in cities, rural areas and in 
communities desperately in need of 
hope and opportunity. This important 
program has provided opportunity for 
women and minorities working in nontraditional 
fields like construction and 
deserves our support. 

As the ranking member of the Committee 
on Small Business, I can tell my 
colleagues that this program is effective, 
valuable, and most importantly, 
it is fair. I must remind my colleagues 
that this is not a quota program; it is 
not a set-aside. It is an economic development 
program that is goal-based and 
focused on outcomes. It uses competitive 
bidding that includes white males, 
minorities and women business owners 
competing for transportation contracts. 
This program enjoys bipartisan 
support in this body, including the 
chairman of the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure and the 
subcommittee of jurisdiction. 

Recently the other body overwhelmingly 
rejected a similar amendment to 
destroy this valuable and necessary 
program. This amendment threatens to 
undermine a bill that will help us meet 
the goal of rebuilding this Nation’s infrastructure 
and providing for our 
transportation needs. 

Mr. Chairman, many of my colleagues 
engage in rhetoric about empowerment 
and opportunity. Well, this 
program is all about opportunity and 
empowerment. By providing opportunity 
in the transportation bidding 
process, small local firms are creating 
jobs, teaching skills and reaching the 
tax base and helping communities literally 
rebuild themselves. 

I strongly urge my colleagues to oppose 
this amendment. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Florida (Mrs. FOWLER). 

Mrs. FOWLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in support of the Roukema amendment. 
It is time to stop dividing our 
country along race and gender lines. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2005 

Initiatives like the Disadvantaged 
Business Enterprise Program harm our 
society, both by lowering standards 
and by leaving the beneficiaries of the 
program in doubt of their own ability. 
The DBE program reinforces negative 
stereotypes because it is based on the 
implicit assumption that members of 
certain groups cannot measure up to 
an objective standard and must be 
given special treatment in order to succeed. 


Some contend that there are really 
no quotas or set-asides in Federal law. 
Well, I encourage anyone who believes 
that to read the bill. The language is 
an explicit 10 percent set-aside. The 
Roukema amendment eliminates the 
set-aside, but it does not prohibit the 
Federal Government from making affirmative 
efforts targeted at minorities 
and women to increase the size of the 
applicant pool for transportation contracts. 


The Department of Transportation 
can still educate and mentor these 
firms in their effort to learn how to 
compete for contracts. In the end, 
though, all candidates must be judged 
by the same standard and requirements. 


We all strongly support equal opportunity. 
We should create a level playing 
field, but we should never guarantee 
the final score. 

I encourage my colleagues to prohibit 
discrimination and preferential 
treatment when awarding transportation 
contracts by supporting the 
Roukema amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield such time as he may consume to 
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
DAVIS). 

(Mr. DAVIS of Illinois asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise in opposition to this amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to an 
amendment to eliminate the Department of 
Transportation’s Disadvantage Business Enterprise 
program. The DBE program ensures 
that small business concerns which are owned 
and controlled by socially and economically 
disadvantaged individuals will have a fair opportunity 
to compete for federally-funded highway 
and transit contracts. 

Much has happened since the Department’s 
first efforts to bring fundamental fairness to 
contracting with federal transportation construction 
dollars. Minority and women owned 
small and disadvantaged business participation 
in federally assisted highway construction 
contracting stood at a mere 1.9 percent in 
1978 and rose to 14.8 percent in 1996. 

In 1985 on the 4th day of this very month 
my Mayor Harold Washington, the Mayor of 
the great city of Chicago ordered city agencies 
to award 30 percent of their contracts to companies 
owned by minority group members and 
women. He had to threaten to impose financial 
penalties on contractors who try to avoid this 
minority goal. He suffered death threats and 
humiliation from the media from his actions. 
However because of his actions minority businesses 
were able to break an inefficient, archaic 
system that favored a handful of con


tractors and prevented minorities and women 
from obtaining city business. 

There is good reason for concern that without 
a federal program in place, minority participation 
will decline substantially. When DBE 
programs end, many prime contractors return 
to the same exclusionary practices that denied 
minorities and women the chance to compete 
for business before the DBE program was created 
and will completely destroy what Mayor 
Harold Washington and the city of Chicago 
worked for. Why must we continue to allow 
certain members of this Congress to hinder a 
person’s efforts to overcome poverty and adversity 
and other such obstacles to achieving 
excellence. 

Mr. Chairman, I am told truth is proper and 
beautiful in all times and in all places. Well 
now is the time, and the place. Let us be 
truthful to the all American business people 
and give them the right and responsibility to 
access the roads to prosperity. Vote no to the 
Roukema amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW). 

Ms. STABENOW. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise with my colleagues and friends to 
oppose this amendment. This amendment 
is anti-small business. When I 
chaired the Michigan Small Business 
Committee in the House, we heard over 
and over again the concerns of small 
businesses about coming particularly 
into the field of transportation and 
competing with the large firms. The 
majority of small businesses today are 
being opened by women and minority 
firms. This gives the opportunity not 
for a guarantee, not for a quota, but for 
the opportunity to get started in a 
multibillion-dollar business. 

This is a transportation package that 
will provide jobs and billions of dollars 
in contracts. What we are asking, what 
the committee reported out was the opportunity 
to make sure that small and 
disadvantaged businesses have the opportunity 
to get started in this business. 
We are talking about those who 
do not have a long track record and relationships 
over years and years being 
able to be given a chance as a small 
business to get that first contract so 
then they can go on to get the second 
and the third and get bigger and bigger. 


I urge a no vote on this amendment. 
It is anti-small business. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I include 
for the RECORD a letter of a small 
businessman in New Jersey, who indicates 
the discrimination he endured 
and was denied equal opportunity. 

I also include for the RECORD the letter 
of Ward Connerly of the American 
Civil Rights Coalition in support of my 
amendment. 

GEOD CORPORATION, 

Newfoundland, NJ, April 1, 1998. 

Hon. MARGE ROUKEMA, 

U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE ROUKEMA: I urge 
you to please support congresswoman Roukema’s 
amendment H.R. 2400, the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act 
(ISTEA). This amendment will end the racially 
divisive policy of imposing race pref


erence quotas on every transportation related 
public works project. These race/gender 
preference programs have had a devastating 
negative impact on my small business. I am 
the owner of a 35 person land surveying firm 
located in New Jersey. My firm has been repeatedly 
denied opportunities to bid or submit 
my company’s qualifications on public 
works projects due to my white male ownership 
status. Time and time again my prospective 
clients have said ‘‘sorry John we 
know your company does good work but we 
have to meet the required quota percentage’s 
in order to be selected, all our subcontractors 
have to be MBE, WBE or DBE firms’’. 

Through the Freedom of Information Act, 
I obtained lists of executed contracts by both 
New York and New Jersey Department’s of 
Transportation for the last 3 years: 95, 96 & 

97. Incredibly more than 80% of subconsultants 
on all contracts were D/M/WBE firms. In 
my industry—Land Surveying, 95% of the 
survey firms used as subconsultants were D/ 
M/WBE’s. My firm has been denied an equal 
opportunity to provide our services on public 
works projects due to Affirmative Action’s 
race and gender preference programs. 
I urge you to please support Congresswoman 
Roukema’s amendment H.R. 2400. 
Sincerely, 
JOHN F. EMILIUS, President. 

AMERICAN CIVIL RIGHTS COALITION, 

Sacramento, CA, March 30, 1998. 

Hon. NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR SPEAKER GINGRICH: Tomorrow the 
House Rules Committee will decide to 
whether or not to make in order an amendment 
from Representative Marge Roukema 
to the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act (ISTEA) bill to eliminate provisions 
inserted by the Senate that contain 
racial preferences and set asides. I would ask 
that you do everything in your power to ensure 
that this amendment is made in order. 

As you noted on ABC’s ‘‘This Week’’ last 
September we should have competitive bidding 
in federal contracts, not quotas or set 
asides. The Supreme Court agreed in the 
Adarand decision, ruling that programs 
granting racial preferences and set asides are 
unconstitutional unless they can meet a specific 
and compelling state interest. Aside 
from being ineffective, using discriminatory 
federal policies as a method of redressing 
past discrimination is counterproductive. 
Discrimination is wrong, no matter where it 
occurs. As public servants, we have an obligation 
to protect people’s civil rights, 
whether it is through your authority as 
House Speaker or mine as a university regent. 


What some people in our nation have forgotten 
is that civil rights are individual 
rights. As you know, our constitution guarantees 
the rights of individuals, not groups. 
When government confers benefits on groups 
of people on the basis of race, ethnicity or 
gender, it injects a bit of poison into the 
body politic. 

Please let me know if I or the American 
Civil Rights Coalition can be of any help to 
you as you consider action on this important 
issue. 

Sincerely, 

WARD CONNERLY, Chairman. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Iowa (Mr. BOSWELL). 

Mr. BOSWELL. Mr. Chairman, 
thank the gentlewoman from California 
for yielding me the time. 


H2006 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Inherently unfair? I have heard that 
said several times today. I thought I 
would not have too many surprises 
when I came here, but today I have 
been surprised. Equal pay for equal 
work, have my colleagues ever heard 
that question raised? I, too, chaired, in 
our Senate the Committee on Small 
Business for a number of years. I can 
tell my colleagues, there is some inequities 
out there. If they do not believe 
that, come and see me after we 
have got through here. I have got some 
swampland for sale. 

I do not understand why we have to 
debate this issue and try to not be 
seemingly aware that there is some inequities. 
Why would we want to do 
this? It is permissive. It is a goal. We 
have the opportunity to do what is 
right. I hope that we will defeat this 
amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), ranking member 
of the Subcommittee on the Constitution. 


Mr. SCOTT. Mr. Chairman, we know 
exactly what will happen if this amendment 
is passed. Similar legislation was 
passed before and the result is always 
the same. Opportunities for minorities 
and women will disappear. For example, 
in Michigan, when they eliminated 
their program, minority businesses 
were totally shut out of billions of dollars 
of State contracting dollars. 

Mr. Chairman, we do not live in a 
color-blind world. According to a study 
by the Department of Transportation, 
a white-owned construction firm will 
likely receive 50 times more bonding 
authority than an identically situated 
black-owned firm. 

In addition, we know that minorities 
and women are discriminated against 
in access to capital and are still excluded 
from many business opportunities 
and social circles where many important 
business decisions take place. 
That is why white males who represent 
one-third of the population already get 
over 90 percent of the contracts. 

This amendment does nothing to deal 
with that vile discrimination. We can 
dress up this amendment by describing 
it in glowing rhetorical terms, but we 
know what it will do. It will devastate 
the future opportunities for minorities 
and women. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I 
ask for a no vote on this amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. LAMPSON). 

Mr. LAMPSON. Mr. Chairman, I adamantly 
oppose the Roukema amendment 
to strike provisions of BESTEA 
that continue the Transportation Department’s 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises 
Program. I represent the part 
of Houston which is currently embroiled 
in a lawsuit regarding this 
exact program. In fact, the citizens of 
Houston overwhelmingly supported a 
referendum to continue the DBE program 
as recently as this spring. Houston 
is not in a vacuum. This is an issue 
that has captured the attention of cit


ies nationwide. The DBE program is 
fair and it is constitutional. It does not 
include any set-asides or any quotas. 
Rather, it is a goal-setting economic 
development program. It uses a competitive 
bidding process, which includes 
qualified minority and women-
owned businesses vying for transportation 
dollars. There is a need for the 
DBE program. Minority and women 
owned businesses are still underrepresented 
in the construction industry. 

The Senate recognized the validity of 
the program when it defeated Senator 
MCCONNELL’s efforts to eliminate the 
program. The Roukema amendment 
will have a devastating effect on the 
opportunities for DBEs to participate 
in federally funded highway and transit 
projects. I urge my colleagues to op


pose the Roukema amendment to 
eliminate the DBE included in 
BESTEA. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY). 

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Chairman, I have heard the debate on 
the House floor and I hear a lot of talk 
about free enterprise and free markets. 
I would like to point out that it was 
President Ronald Reagan that signed 
this bill into law. The fact of the matter 
is that if we look at the system we 
have in place today, what we have in 
place is very simple. We have socialism 
for white contractors and free enterprise 
for everybody else. 

Let us look at the whole idea of what 
goes behind this. If we have got some 
idea that we want to have a poor black 
entrepreneur in Boston or California 
or, yes, New Jersey bid on one of these 
contracts, if we want a woman to feel 
that she can compete, how are they 
going to do it? We have an entire tax 
system that allows you to depreciate 
all of your equipment as a contractor. 

You cannot walk in and start a new 
construction company and be able to 
bid on any of these Federal contracts 
and be able to effectively compete. If 
you start up with all the capital requirements 
that are necessary to bid 
on these big jobs, there is no way that 
unless you are already in the club you 
can get in the club. 

So what we do is we pretend, by a lot 
of rhetoric, that if we take a program 
that has no quotas, that has no timetables, 
that just says that if there is a 
qualified minority or a qualified 
woman that wants to bid on a contract, 
we ought to provide her or him or that 
individual with a competitive environment 
in order to get it. It has not lessened 
the quality of the workmanship of 
our highway program throughout the 
Nation. In fact, it has strengthened it. 

What we are doing, make no mistake 
about it, is we are saying this is for 
white boys only. That is all this 
amendment is about. It is trying to 
say, we are going to put up a wall between 
women and minorities and the 
work and the taxes that they pay in 
order to be able to build our highway 
system. 

Let us be honest with the system we 
have got. Let us encourage minorities 
and our women to go out and get competitive, 
get business contracts, start 
their own companies and employ the 
people of our country. 

b1800 
Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. CANADY). 
Mr. CANADY of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the gentlewoman for 
yielding. 
We are hearing a lot of things today 
about what is happening and what is 
not happening. One of the things that 
is important for us to understand is 
what affirmative action originally 
meant. If we go back to what President 
Kennedy said when he issued the original 
affirmative action executive order, 
it involved this provision. It said, ‘‘The 
contractor will take affirmative action 
to assure that applicants are employed 
and that employees are treated during 
employment without regard to their 
race, creed, color, or national origin.’’ 
Without regard to their race, creed, 
color, or national origin. That is the 
principle of nondiscrimination. That is 
the principle of affirmative action as it 
was originally embodied in the policy 
of this land, and that is the policy of 
this amendment. 
Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield such time as she may consume to 
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. 
JACKSON-LEE). 
(Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas asked and 
was given permission to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 
Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman 
for yielding to me. 
The Roukema amendment turns back 
the clock and destroys the very viable 
constitutional DBE program. I rise in 
vigorous opposition. 

Mr. Chairman, I am rising today to speak 
against the Roukema Amendment that would 
abolish the Department of Transportation’s 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program. 
For almost two decades, the DOT’s DBE Program 
has been providing equal opportunities 
for women and minorities competing for highway 
and transit contracts. By reaching out to 
women and minority-owned firms and fostering 
business relationships, the program has countered 
the effects of discrimination and good 
old boy networks which have been road 
blocks for many legitimately competitive minority-
owned businesses. 

The fact remains that as a result of continued 
discrimination, women and minority-
owned firms remain underrepresented in the 
construction field, even today. Now is not the 
time to discontinue DOT’s equal opportunity 
program. It is still an essential tool in paving 
the road to equal opportunity for many ‘‘socalled’’ 
disadvantaged businesses. This program 
does not impose quotas or set-asides of 
any kind on those seeking to receive a government 
contract, it merely gives the government 
a reachable goal to achieve and a standard 
to measure in regards to women and minority 
participation in our vast federal economic 
apparatus. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2007 

Furthermore, the Adarand decision has put 
forth a clear groundwork of which affirmative 
action programmatic agendas genuinely 
produce diversity without unfairly harming others 
and which do not. The law is clear, affirmative 
action is neither illegal nor inappropriate. 
It is frankly a necessary means in trying to 
achieve true multi-cultural and multi-gender diversity 
amongst those people this government 
chooses to do business with. The DBE program 
is about creating points of access and 
opportunity for those groups who would otherwise 
not have them. We have mended affirmative 
action to meet the needs of our changing 
world and its law, but we can not end it. Opportunity 
is as essential to success in this 
world as air is in our lungs; give people a fair 
chance to maximize their potential. Vote down 
the Roukema Amendment. This amendment is 
bad for Texas and bad for Houston. This is 
not reverse discrimination. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. EDWARDS). 

Mr. EDWARDS. Mr. Chairman, this 
highway bill will spend over $200 billion 
of taxpayers’ money. The fact is that 
well over half of those taxpayers are 
women and minorities. 

It is only a matter of basic fairness 
that groups comprising a majority of 
American taxpayers should have a realistic 
chance to compete for 10 percent 
of the highway programs paid for by 
their tax dollars. It was that very fundamental 
issue of fairness that caused 
58 Democrats and Republicans in the 
other body to vote ‘‘no’’ on this unfair 
amendment. 

The DBE program is not a quota. I 
oppose quotas. But what is good for 
America and good for our highway program 
is that when we are spending billions 
of American taxpayer dollars we 
should at least make it a goal to not 
exclude women and minorities from 
these programs. That is the right thing 
to do. 

Mr. Chairman, I have heard a few 
Members today talk about reverse discrimination 
in the highway business. 
Well, I have a suggestion for them: Go 
across this country and visit highway 
contractors and come back to me and 
tell me if they really think there are 
too many Hispanics and African-Americans 
and women owning and managing 
highway contractor firms. And while 
they are at it, take a look at those 
States who had gotten rid of goals and 
see what has happened. Then they and 
I can talk about real discrimination. 

Mr. Chairman, I have reservations 
about this bill, quite frankly. To all of 
those supporting this actively, I would 
suggest that the passage of this amendment 
would be seen as an insult by the 
vast majority of Hispanics, African-
Americans, and women in this House 
voting, at least right now, planning on 
voting for this bill. 

If they want to see the wheels fall off 
this highway bill today, simply pass 
this amendment, sit back and watch. 
This amendment is not about quotas. 
It is not about reverse discrimination. 
It is about simple fairness. Vote ‘‘no’’ 
on this amendment. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 11/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. EHRLICH). 

Mr. EHRLICH. Mr. Chairman, I felt 
compelled to come over here just to 
congratulate the gentlewoman for not 
indulging in threats and for not being 
politically correct and for doing the 
right thing and for having the guts to 
stand up and speak her mind. And I 
congratulate the gentleman from California 
for his usual articulate manner 
with respect to this issue. 

Mr. Chairman, we know what quotas 
do. And quota language is in the bill. It 
is a fact. And the gentleman from Florida 
talked about the history of quotas 
in this country, and facts are dangerous. 
Facts are particularly dangerous 
on this floor. Quotas lead to 
taxpayers getting the short run, and we 
all know it. Low bidders are subject to 
reverse discrimination, as the gentlewoman 
originally stated. 

The American people lose in the 
process, and the American people are 
divided again in the process. If there is 
anything we can least afford in these 
days and times is to again divide the 
American public. 

Civil rights should mean and always 
mean equal rights. That is what it used 
to mean before PC came about. I truly 
congratulate the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey, whom I am very proud to 
serve with on the Committee on Banking 
for doing the right thing for all of 
the American people. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Florida (Ms. Brown). 

Ms. BROWN of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
today I rise in opposition to this 
amendment. The vote on this amendment 
is a no-brainer. Even though 
today might be April Fools, in 14 days 
it will be tax time; and on this day, 
every single person will contribute 
their share to the pot. 

This pot reminds me of my grandmother’s 
sweet potato pie. We all contribute 
to that pot every year. So when 
it comes time to cut it up, we should 
all get a piece. That includes women 
and minorities. Women and minorities 
contribute their share to the Federal 
Government, so why should they be excluded 
from getting part of the goods 
and services? 

The DBE program is simply one tool 
to make sure that we are on a level 
playing field when it comes to competing. 
Vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, may 
I ask how much time is remaining on 
each side, please? 

The CHAIRMAN (Mr. HASTINGS of 
Washington). The gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) has 6 minutes 
remaining, and the gentlewoman 
from California (Mrs. TAUSCHER) has 
71/2 minutes remaining. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, and I 
will have the right to close? 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman 
from California (Mrs. TAUSCHER) has 
the right to close. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
New Jersey (Mr. ANDREWS). 

(Mr. ANDREWS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Chairman, 
thank my friend from California for 
yielding me the time. 

I rise in strong opposition to this 
amendment. The program under consideration 
here is not a perfect program, 
but we are not a perfect Union 
either. One of the ways that we are imperfect 
is that people have not had real 
economic opportunity. They have been 
shut out. If we leave this program in 
place, people will have the chance to be 
included and participate. 

But perhaps even more importantly 
than what this program does for people 
is we should oppose the amendment for 
what it says to people. Do we really believe 
and are we really prepared to say 
that enough has been done, that women 
and people of color and people that 
have been left out of this process have 
enough now, that we have gone as far 
as we can go and have done all that we 
can do to rectify decades of discrimination 
in this country? 

I think the answer to that question is 
‘‘absolutely not.’’ We have a long way 
to go. The approval of this amendment 
would be a step in the wrong direction. 
The defeat of this amendment is a step 
in the right direction. I urge its defeat. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise to oppose the amendment 
offered by my colleague from New Jersey, 
which would end the Transportation Department’s 
efforts to give disadvantaged businesses 
the opportunity to bid for transportation 
contracts. 

The current law promotes economic growth 
and advances social justice through the Disadvantaged 
Business program, by giving disadvantaged 
businesses the chance to compete 
for up to 10% of federal transportation 
spending, which would be as much as $20 billion 
over the next five years. Many small businesses 
have been unable to participate in federal 
transportation contracting in the past, including 
companies owned by minorities, 
women, people with disabilities, and others. 
These companies deserve a chance to get 
started in the process, to get their first contract, 
and to begin growing and hiring more 
workers. This is the best way to create jobs 
and promote justice. 

The Roukema Amendment would undercut 
the goals of growing the economy and ensuring 
justice. This proposal would cut out many 
of these disadvantaged businesses that deserve 
a chance to get their foot in the door. 
The Roukema Amendemnt embraces the rhetoric 
of affirmative action, but it would abolish 
the current practice of affirmatively reaching 
out to help disadvantaged businesses get a 
fair start. 

This amendment eliminates a law which 
guarantees that the government works to include 
people who have been excluded from a 
program which builds our economy and builds 
small businesses. This disadvantaged business 
law is the only approach that works. It 
works to build the best roads in the world, and 
it works to give minorities, women, people with 
disabilities, and other disadvantaged Americans 
a chance to compete for contracts. When 


H2008 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

they win these bids, these companies create 
jobs for disadvantaged citizens across our 
country, at the same time they are helping to 
build the highest-quality highways for our people. 
It is a grave mistake to think that we can 
do without it. 

For these reasons, I strongly oppose the 
Roukema Amendment and urge my colleague 
to vote against it. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. MILLENDERMCDONALD). 


Ms. MILLENDER-McDONALD. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank my colleague from 
California for yielding to me. 

A distinguished Member of this 
House once wrote that ‘‘In politics we 
have no permanent friends, no permanent 
enemies, just permanent interests.’’ 
It gives me no great pleasure to 
rise in opposition to one of my Women 
Caucus colleagues, but I do have permanent 
interests, and that is the economically 
disadvantaged. 

As the co-chair of the Women-owned 
Business of the Women’s Caucus, I held 
a hearing the top of the year because 
women were complaining that, though 
we have mandated about 5 percent of 
the procurement contracts, they have 
only gotten 1.8 percent of the contracts. 


This is what DBE is all about. It allows 
women and others, irrespective of 
their race, the opportunity to apply for 
contracts if they qualify. The DBE program 
is not a set-aside, it is not 
quotas, it is simply giving them an opportunity 
to qualify for contracts for 
those who are economically disadvantaged. 


The disadvantaged business enterprise 
provisions of BESTEA are sound 
and were passed out by the full committee 
with bipartisan support. I join 
the Senate in saying ‘‘no’’ on the Roukema 
amendment and ‘‘yes’’ for moving 
an agenda for women-owned businesses. 


Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 11/2 minutes to our colleague, the 
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. 
MCINTOSH). 

Mr. McINTOSH. Mr. Chairman, I 
want to thank the gentlewoman from 
New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) for bringing 
this amendment to the floor, and I 
wholeheartedly support it. 

Let us be very clear. The Supreme 
Court has stated that the current set-
aside program is unconstitutional because 
it violates the 14th amendment 
guarantee that all Americans will be 
treated equally regardless of race, 
color, or gender. By setting aside a certain 
number of contracts to be allocated 
on those bases, current law flies 
in the face of our constitutional mandate 
that all Americans be treated 
equal under the law. 

Now, President Clinton has suggested 
that we need to mend, not end, affirmative 
action to bring it in compliance 
with the Supreme Court rulings and to 
bring it in compliance with our notion 
that has been since the founding of our 
country that every person is of equal 
dignity. 

I think the Roukema amendment 
does exactly that. It removes the unconstitutional 
provision that sets up a 
quota and says that certain contracts 
will not be awarded based on merit, 
based on free competition, not based on 
what color your skin is or whether you 
are a woman, not a man. That is wrong 
and needs to be removed from law. 

What her amendment does, which is 
absolutely necessary, is puts into place 
an effective affirmative action program 
that says we are going to reach out to 
disadvantaged contractors, reach out 
to minorities, reach out to women and 
make available to them every opportunity 
to compete on a free and equal 
basis. 

I heartily encourage my fellow colleagues 
to vote for the Roukema 
amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. RODRIGUEZ). 

Mr. RODRIGUEZ. Mr. Chairman, we 
have to recognize that there is still disparity 
out there. And if we do not recognize 
it, we do not see it. 

For them to stand up there and talk 
in terms of being in favor of affirmative 
action, in favor of trying to do the 
right thing reminds me of the slave 
owner who basically said, you are better 
off in slavery because we will be 
able to take care of you. It is appalling 
in terms of the comments that I hear 
when I stand up here before my colleagues. 


It is not a quota. We need to recognize 
the fact that there is preferential 
treatment that is occurring out there 
and that is discrimination that is happening, 
and we need to see how we can 
best respond to that. And this program 
is one of the programs that has been 
proven to make sure that the individuals 
have an opportunity to be able to 
participate. 

My colleagues cannot tell me that 
women are having a fair deal out there, 
because they are not; and for my colleagues 
to stand up there to say that 
they are is contrary to what is actually 
happening. It is contrary to what the 
statistics will show and tell us. I would 
ask that my colleagues consider what 
has been done too. 

To say that it is contrary to the Supreme 
Court decision, I would ask my 
colleagues to also consider the Adarand 
decision, because this particular decision 
does not deal with this particular 
item, and it is a safe item, and we 
should continue to support it. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


I am afraid the gentleman from 
Texas is the only one that I know of 
who interprets the Adarand decision 
that way. 

Mr. Chairman, what is the balance of 
my time? 

The CHAIRMAN. Each side has 41/2 
minutes remaining. The gentlewoman 
from California (Mrs. TAUSCHER) has 
the right to close. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


I would simply say that I think our 
colleagues have been listening to this 
debate, but in no way are we denying 
affirmative action. We are really mending 
it and bringing it up to date because 
it has resulted in unintended 
consequences. And my amendment 
carefully protects outreach, as well as 
the civil rights and anti-discrimination 
elements of affirmative action and literally 
goes back to our original intention. 
As we know now, the courts are 
clearly coming to terms with this. And 
if we do not act upon it, the courts certainly 
will. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Florida (Mrs. MEEK). 

(Mrs. MEEK of Florida asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 

Mrs. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
it is amazing the fundamental ignorance 
that goes behind this amendment 
and particularly to people who 
have responded in debate tonight. 

First of all, it is very obvious that 
they do not know that there are no 
quotas in this bill. There are no quotas 
in this bill. They feel that there are. 
They feel that there are some set-
asides. There are no set-asides in this 
bill, only goals. They do not understand, 
obviously, that this bill is not 
all for minorities and women. It is for 
disadvantaged. Anyone can be disadvantaged. 
Even some white males 
have been disadvantaged. 

So this is a spurious argument that 
they are using here today. It is not 
even based on fact. If they are trying 
to bring to the floor a bill which one of 
our colleagues from Florida has been 
trying to tack onto everything that 
has come through this House, then do 
it. But this is no way to do it. They are 
doing it on a bill that is going to benefit 
a lot of people in this particular 
body. 

So if that is what they are doing to 
try to kill the transportation bill, then 
kill it. But kill it in such a way that is 
noble and noteworthy and not cloaked 
behind something that is not true. 

I say to each of my colleagues to vote 
against this bill. This is a terrible bill, 
and they know it. They have got one of 
their moderates to present it, but it is 
presented under the wrong title. 

b1815 
Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. FAZIO). 
Mr. FAZIO of California. Mr. Chairman, 
despite an overwhelming bipartisan 
defeat in the Senate, unfortunately 
we have before us another attempt to 
gut a program that gives women and 
minorities the chance to compete for 
Federal highway dollars. 
The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
program works. It puts women 
and minorities to work. It gives them 
the chance to compete in an industry 
that has traditionally shut them out. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2009 

It is not a quota. It is not a set-aside. 
If it were, do we really think that Ronald 
Reagan’s administration would 
have created this program? I think a 
not. 

The highway bill offers so much to so 
many. It is wrong to turn back the 
clock on women and minority-owned 
businesses. Let us not put a tollgate on 
the road to opportunity for these aspiring 
entrepreneurs. 

We can further refine this program. 
As the President has said, mend it, do 
not end it. But this amendment goes 
too far. I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote and, frankly, 
a return to the kind of bipartisan 
spirit that has allowed us to begin to 
make some progress against the legacy 
of discrimination. This program should 
be reaffirmed and not eliminated. 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I 
just want to set the record straight. 
Nobody sought me out as a moderate, 
dirty word, moderate to do this amendment. 
I have been advocating this procedure 
for more than a year. In addition, 
the Senate proposal was not this 
proposal at all, the one that was defeated. 
It was a far more complicated 
one. It created a whole new program. It 
was not my amendment that was defeated. 


Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of 
my time to Speaker GINGRICH. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Georgia, the Speaker of the 
House, is recognized for 31/2 minutes. 

Mr. GINGRICH. Mr. Chairman, I hope 
that everybody who is listening carefully 
to this debate has listened to our 
good friends over here, because they 
are now caught in an inherent contradiction. 
They say to us they are 
against quotas. Member after Member 
got up and said, ‘‘I am against quotas.’’ 
They say to us there is nothing in this 
program that is a quota. They say to 
us, ‘‘We are against the government 
discriminating.’’ They say there is 
nothing in this program that requires 
the government to discriminate. 

I want to thank the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA), for 
having the courage to stand up here 
and to offer a very, very important 
amendment. Notice what it says. It 
says it is for affirmative action. Affirmative 
action: ‘‘to expand the applicant 
pool for transportation contracts 
in order to increase competition; to encourage 
participation by businesses 
owned by women and minorities in bidding 
for transportation contracts.’’ 

Affirmative action: ‘‘to recruit qualified 
women and minorities into the applicant 
pool for transportation contracts.’’ 
And it goes on to say, an affirmative 
action ‘‘to encourage transportation 
contractors to request businesses 
owned by women and minorities 
to bid for transportation contracts’’ 
and affirmative action ‘‘to include 
qualified women and minorities into an 
applicant pool for transportation contracts.’’ 
Everything we are told our 
friends over here believe in. 

But here is what it then goes on to 
say. It then says, but it cannot involve 

granting a preference. This is the nub 
of this thing. Should an American citizen 
be discriminated against? Should 
an American citizen be discriminated 
for by their own government? Should 
the Government of the United States 
say to you, well, you were the lowest 
competitive bidder, but you did not fit 
the preference this week. 

Let me point out, in California, when 
this broke down, when Senator CAMPBELL 
at that time first got involved in 
this fight, it was because it was Asian 
women who were being discriminated 
against at law school and could not get 
in because the quota was filled. And it 
was Asian women who were being discriminated 
against, not white males, 
not the old boy network. They frankly 
were not studying enough. But Asian 
women. 

So let us go ahead. What does the 
gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. 
ROUKEMA) do? She says it is a ‘‘prohibition 
against discrimination or preferential 
treatment.’’ We have been told 
by our friends over here they do not 
have any preferential treatment. There 
is no quota. 

All right. What would the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA) 
do? She says no governmental 
entity, the very government of our own 
country, no governmental entity shall, 
in connection with a transportation 
contract, in other words, in giving out 
the money of the American people, the 
Government of the United States shall 
not, one, ‘‘intentionally discriminate 
against, or grant a preference to, any 
person or group based in whole or in 
part on race, color, national origin, or 
sex,’’ which by the way is what Hubert 
Humphrey said in 1964 was the essence 
of the Civil Rights Act. 

So what does this say? We are not 
going to ask you to tell us that you are 
black. We are not going to ask you to 
tell us you are white. We are not going 
to ask you to tell us that you are 
Asian. We are not going to ask you to 
tell us you are Hispanic. 

We are going to ask you to tell us 
what will you charge for this contract. 
And the lowest competitive bidder 
should get the contract. Why should 
the lowest competitive bidder be told, 
well, you know, you would build the 
best highway, you would do the best 
job for the taxpayer. You went to 
school and you learned how to do it 
and you worked hard and you founded 
your own little company, and, you 
know, you would have gotten the contract, 
but this week you do not fit. 

Oh, it is not a quota anymore. I am 
not sure what you all would call it. A 
preference, a ripe banana, a kumquat. I 
mean, what is this year’s code word? 
What is the newest phrase? Because 
you cannot defend quotas. You know 
you cannot get up here and say, yep, I 
want to make sure my political friends 
that give to my campaign get a quota. 
Yep, I want to make sure that my 
friends get their contract, even if they 
are not the lowest bidder. Yep, in fact 
they could be the highest bidder, but if 

they fit the right quota; you cannot 
say that anymore. 

So my colleagues come down here 
and misdescribe what she does. What 
she does is very straightforward. It is 
right here, and my colleagues cannot 
refute it. She says the Government of 
the United States will not discriminate. 


When I was an Army brat growing up 
from Pennsylvania to Kansas to France 
to Germany, and I arrived in Georgia 
in 1960, we had government-imposed 
segregation. It was totally wrong. I 
have lived in an integrated system 
called the United States Army, and I 
go into an integrated system called 
military dependent schools. 

But to set up a new system of discrimination, 
to set up a new approach 
by which the Government of the United 
States cheats the people of this country, 
no longer gives away the contract 
to the lowest competitive bidder, but 
picks out a political winner. 

So we say to our children, do not go 
and study engineering, study how to 
fill out the application. Do not go and 
study business, fill out how to make 
sure you are in the right quota. 

We saw it happen in San Francisco 
when people began to apply as firemen 
and had new ancestors who happened 
to fit the quotas. 

So I want to commend the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey. This is the 
right step. It is very simple. The Government 
of the United States should 
not discriminate against any American. 
The taxpayers of the United 
States should expect that the lowest 
competitive bidder will get the grant. 

I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote for the Roukema 
amendment. 

Mrs. TAUSCHER. Mr. Speaker, I 
have here a letter from the President 
of the United States sent by fax this 
morning from Dakar where he says, 

The DBE program is not a quota. The existing 
statute explicitly provides the Secretary 
of Transportation may waive the 10 
percent goal for any reason and that this 
benchmark is not to be imposed on any State 
or locality. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield the balance of 
my time to the distinguished gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
ranking member of the committee. 


The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota is recognized for 2 minutes. 


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, when 
all else fails, read the language of the 
legislation. The inherent contradiction 
that our esteemed Speaker talked 
about is in the amendment itself, not 
in the arguments on this side. The inherent 
contradiction is that the 
amendment goes on for line after line 
talking about all the good things it 
wants to do. Then in the end it defines 
preference in the last four lines as an 
advantage of any kind, a quota, set-
aside, numerical goal, timetable, other 
numerical objective. Does it also mean 
outreach? They want to protect outreach? 
They do not do that in this legislation. 



H2010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

The DBE program has worked wonderfully 
for the 6 years of ISTEA. The 
10 percent goal is a national target. 
State and local recipients of DOT funds 
set their own goals for DOT participation 
and construction projects based on 
the availability of disadvantaged businesses 
in their markets. There is no absolute 
requirement that a particular 
goal be met. 

In fact, it is very acceptable business 
practice to set goals. Goals are a standard 
tool of good management worldwide. 
But by prohibiting goals, the 
amendment prevents States and localities 
from measuring progress against 
discrimination. That is what this is all 
about, progress against discrimination. 

I have heard all sorts of conversation 
today from the advocates of this 
amendment about freedom, freedom to 
choose, freedom to move, mobility. Let 
me just say, Mr. Chairman, rich and 
poor alike have the freedom to leap 
under a bridge. Only the poor wind up 
under the bridge. Do not stuff people 
under a bridge with this amendment. 
Let us defeat this amendment. Let us 
stand up for what is good in America 
and give poor, minorities, women, an 
opportunity to bid on this great highway 
program, this $270 billion program 
of ours that moves America forward 
into the next century. 

Mr. DELAY. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support 
of this amendment. 

BESTEA is a terrific bill. I salute Chairman 
Shuster and his committee for the many hours 
of hard work they put in on this bill over the 
last year. 

I thank the committee for including a very 
important provision which will exempt from 
federal DBE requirements any transit authorities 
that are under court order preventing them 
from complying with these requirements. 

This is a step in the right direction, but it 
doesn’t quite go far enough. 

It is time to completely put an end to discrimination 
in the awarding of transportation 
contracts. 

Mr. Chairman, race-based discrimination is 
wrong. And gender-based discrimination is 
wrong. And it is wrong regardless of whether 
the victim is male, female, black, or white. 

The DBE program is a federally-mandated 
quota program that commands highway and 
transit contractors to discriminate based on 
race and gender. 

A federal court in Texas recognized that this 
kind of discrimination is wrong when it ordered 
the city of Houston’s metro transit authority to 
cease awarding contracts based on race and 
gender. 

Houston METRO complied with this court 
order, and as a result, it went 18 months without 
its share of federal funding. 

The BESTEA bill prevents this kind of thing 
from happening again. It guarantees that transit 
agencies will not lose their funding when a 
court orders them not to discriminate. That’s 
great. I support that. 

If we pass this amendment, we will take an 
even bigger step in rooting out discrimination. 
Getting rid of the DBE program will ensure 
that agencies continue to receive funding if 
they refuse to discriminate—even without a 
court order. 

I urge my colleagues to stomp out government-
enforced discrimination. I urge them to 
vote yes on this amendment. 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong 
opposition to the Roukema Amendment to the 
Building Efficient Surface Transportation and 
Equity Act to eliminate the Disadvantaged 
Business Enterprise Program. I strongly support 
the DBE Program which was first signed 
into law by President Reagan in 1983. The 
goal of the DBE Program is to eradicate the 
lingering effects of discrimination in the construction 
industry, and provide equal opportunities 
for minority and women-owned business 
to compete for federal highway and construction 
contracts. 

Although the playing field is still far from 
level, we have made progress since the inception 
of the DBE Program. The percentage of 
women and minority-owned firms participating 
in the construction of America’s highways has 
increased. By reaching out to minority and 
women-owned firms and forging business relationships, 
this program has been successful in 
countering the effects of ‘‘good old boys’’ network. 
Despite the success of the DBE program, 
non-DBE firms still get over 85% of federal 
highway and construction contracts. If we 
eliminate this program now, we will reverse 
modest gains for women and minorities in the 
construction industry. 

Make no mistake, when Members say that 
they want to eliminate this program in order to 
ensure fair competition for all firms, including 
those owned by minorities and women, they 
are deliberately misleading the American people. 
If they do not believe that discrimination 
exists in the construction industry, they are 
blind. If they do not believe that majority-
owned firms, advantaged by a network good 
old boys, have a historical advantage, they are 
either blind or naive, or both. If they say that 
elimination of the DBE Program will not result 
in a sharp decline in the percentage of minority 
and women-owned firms participating in 
federal construction projects, they are insincere. 


Mr. Chairman, both the Reagan and Bush 
administrations supported the Disadvantaged 
Business Enterprise Program. The President, 
under the stewardship of Transportation Secretary 
Rodney Slater, has urged Congress to 
continue its support for the DBE Program. The 
DBE program does not impose quotas or set-
asides. Instead, it simply sets a national goal 
that 10% of highway and transit funds be used 
for services rendered by disadvantaged businesses. 
However, the goals are flexible. The 
program allows state and local governments to 
set their own goals based on the numbers of 
disadvantaged businesses in their markets. 
And a state can waive the goal if it cannot find 
a qualified disadvantaged business. 

The DBE program is consistent with President 
Clinton’s ‘‘mend it, don’t end it’’ policy on 
affirmative action, and the Supreme Court’s 
Adarand decisions which allowed the use of 
affirmative action programs by the federal government 
to meet a ‘‘compelling government interest’’ 
to combat the ‘‘lingering effects of discrimination.’’ 


I urge my colleagues to follow the lead of 
the House authorizing Committee, which recommends 
that this program be continued. I 
urge you to follow the Senate’s lead, which 
voted overwhelmingly to retain it. And finally, 
I urge my colleagues to follow the lead of the 
two past Presidents and our current President, 
all of whom support this valuable program. I 
urge the rejection of this amendment. 

Mr. DIXON. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong 
opposition to the Roukema amendment. How 

ironic that the GOP—who recently led the effort 
that resulted in renaming Washington National 
Airport to the Ronald Reagan National 
Airport—now seeks to eliminate a vital program 
which President Reagan himself signed 
into law. The Department of Transportation’s 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) 
Program is about providing opportunities—an 
ideal our Republican colleagues often champion 
as one of their goals. It is not about 
quotas, set asides, unqualified businesses receiving 
preferential treatment, nor about violations 
of Supreme Court rulings. 

The DBE program was created by Section 
105 (f) of the Surface Transportation Act of 
1982 (P.L. 97–424) in order to increase the 
share of qualified, ‘‘socially and economically 
disadvantaged’’ businesses in the transportation 
construction industry. Under the program, 
state Departments of Transportation 
and state and local mass transit agencies 
must establish a goal of awarding 10 percent 
of all funds spent on federal-aid highway 
projects to certified firms owned by ‘‘socially 
and economically disadvantaged individuals.’’ 
However, if a state agency or prime contractor 
is unable to find enough qualified subcontractors 
to reach the goals, they are allowed to 
apply for a waiver to lower the goal. There are 
no penalties or sanctions for failure to meet a 
goal. 

The Roukema amendment would gut DOT’s 
ability to address a problem that still plagues 
our nation: the paucity of minority and women-
owned firms who receive transportation dollars. 
For those who naively believe that American 
has fully realized her dream of a colorblind 
society, a society in which there no 
longer exists a need to ensure an equitable 
playing field in the economic marketplace for 
disadvantaged persons, I submit that they are 
mistaken. Discrimination is alive and well and 
manifesting itself through the difficulties minorities 
and women continue to face in securing 
access to contracts and capital. 

Consider that minorities make up 20 percent 
of the population, yet represent only 9 percent 
of all construction firms and 5 percent of all 
construction receipts. Women own one-third of 
all firms, but receive only 19 percent of the 
business receipts. White-owned construction 
firms receive 50 times more loan dollars than 
black-owned firms with identical equity. 

Without goals, women- and minority-owned 
businesses have been shut out of transportation 
construction projects. In 1989 in Michigan, 
within nine months of terminating the 
state DBE program, no minority businesses 
received contracts. Seven years later, in 1996, 
DBEs still had received no more than 1.1 percent 
of state highway contract dollars. 

These disturbing statistics further underscore 
the reality that America has yet to reach 
the honorable state of a truly color-blind society, 
and that in order to ensure absolute parity 
in the contracting process, we must legislate 
fairness through programs such as the one 
before us today. Think about the following example: 
since the inclusion of women in the 
DBE program in 1987, women have enhanced 
their procurement dollars by approximately 
175 percent. In FY 1994, the DBE program 
generated nearly $87 million in contracting opportunities 
for women-owned businesses. 
These contracting opportunities resulted in the 
creation of 62,000 new jobs. When racial/ethnic 
minority-owned firms are added, the DBE 
program in FY 94 generated $3.4 billion and 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2011 

resulted in the creation of approximately 
146,000 new jobs. 

This program does not set aside a specific 
amount of money for any one population 
group, nor does it guarantee that a specific 
number of businesses will receive contracts. 
And let me reiterate: there are no penalties for 
not meeting the 10 percent goal. This amendment 
is strongly opposed by the Administration, 
and the Senate recently defeated a similar 
amendment by a vote of 58 to 37. I share 
the view of Transportation Secretary Rodney 

E. Slater who has said that ‘‘[r]emoval of the 
DBE program from H.R. 2400 would be a serious 
blow to our efforts to assure fundamental 
fairness to the citizens of this country.’’ I urge 
defeat of this amendment. 
Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD. Mr. Chairman, 
a distinguished Member of this House 
once wrote that ‘‘in politics, we have no permanent 
enemies, just permanent interests.’’ It 
gives me no great pleasure to rise in opposition 
to one of my Women’s Caucus colleagues, 
but I do have permanent interests— 
the economically disadvantaged. The Disadvantaged 
Business Enterprise provisions of 
BESTEA are sound and were passed out of 
the full Committee with bi-partisan support. 
The DBE programs in this bill do not include 
set asides or quotas. These DBE programs 
use a competitive bidding process to include 
minority and women-owned businesses. 

As Co-Chair of the Women’s Caucus 
Women-Owned Businesses Legislative Task 
Force, I held a hearing on the lack of procurement 
opportunities for women-owned businesses 
because women were complaining that 
they did not have access to federal contracts. 

The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise 
program is fair, flexible and complies with the 
Supreme Court’s ‘‘strict scrutiny’’ standard. It 
serves as the model program for federal agencies 
aspiring to extend contracting opportunities 
for women and minority-owned firms who 
receive disproportionately fewer contracts and 
subcontracts than their qualifications and ability 
warrant. 

It sets the goal of 10 percent of highway 
and transit funds be used for services rendered 
by disadvantaged businesses. State 
and local governments then set their own 
goals based on the numbers of disadvantaged 
businesses in their local markets. And if a 
prime contractor cannot find a qualified disadvantaged 
business, the state can waive the 
goal entirely. 

Any individual owning a business may demonstrate 
that she or he is socially and economically 
disadvantaged, even if that individual 
is not a woman or minority. In fact, businesses 
owned by white males have qualified 
for DBE status. 

Since the inclusion of women in the DBE 
program in 1987 under President Ronald 
Reagan, women have enhanced their procurement 
dollars by approximately 175 percent. 
The participation of women and minority-
owned small and disadvantaged businesses in 
federally assisted highway construction contracting 
has grown from a mere 1.9 percent in 
1978 to 14.8 percent in 1996. 

In fiscal year 1996, 6.7 percent of contracts 
were awarded to women-owned businesses 
under the DBE program, generating $1.4 billion 
for women-owned businesses and producing 
62,000 new jobs in highway and transit industries. 


Between 1987 and 1996, women-owned 
businesses in the field of construction grew by 

Linder Pickering Smith (TX) 
Livingston Pitts Smith, Linda

171 percent. During that same time period, 

contracts to women-owned businesses in-

LoBiondo Pombo Snowbargercreased from 2.6 percent to 6.7 percent in Lucas Porter Solomon 
1996. Manzullo Portman Spence 
McCollum Pryce (OH) Stearns

As of 1996, there were more than one mil-

McCrery Ramstad Stenholm

lion women-owned businesses in the state of 

McHugh Redmond Stump 
California—that is a 77.7 percent growth since McInnis Regula Sununu 
McIntosh Riggs Talent

1987 when Ronald Reagan signed into law 

McKeon Riley Tauzin

the inclusion of women in the DBE program. 

Metcalf Rogan Taylor (MS)
In California, women-owned businesses re-Mica Rogers Taylor (NC) 

ceived less than 4 percent of the DBE dollars. Miller (FL) Rohrabacher Thomas 
Moran (KS) Roukema Thornberry

We need the DBE program. White-owned 

Myrick Ryun Thune 
construction firms received 50 times as many Nethercutt Salmon Tiahrt 

loan dollars as black-owned firms with iden-Neumann Sanford Upton 
Ney Saxton Wamp

tical equity. At least 492 firms have grown 

Northup Scarborough Watkins

from subcontractors to prime contractors after 

Norwood Schaefer, Dan Weldon (FL)
entering the DBE program. Nussle Schaffer, Bob Weldon (PA) 
The Senate voted 58 to 37 to defeat an 

Oxley Sensenbrenner Weller 
Packard Sessions White

amendment to replace the DBE program. I 

Pappas Shadegg Whitfield 
urge the House to follow their bipartisan lead Parker Shaw Wicker 

and maintain this fair, effective and constitu-Paul Shimkus Wolf 
Paxon Skeen Young (AK)

tional program. 

Pease Smith (MI) Young (FL)

The CHAIRMAN. All time has ex-

Peterson (PA) Smith (NJ) 
pired. 

NOES—225

The question is on the amendment 

Abercrombie Fox McDermott

offered by the gentlewoman from New 

Ackerman Frank (MA) McGovern 
Jersey (Mrs. ROUKEMA). Allen Frost McHale 

The question was taken; and the Andrews Furse McIntyre 
Baesler Gejdenson McKinney

Chairman announced that the noes ap-

Baldacci Gephardt McNultypeared to have it. Barcia Gibbons Meehan 

Barrett (WI) Gilchrest Meek (FL) 
Becerra Gilman Meeks (NY) 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mrs. ROUKEMA. Mr. Chairman, I de-

Bentsen Goode Menendez 
mand a recorded vote. Berman Gordon Millender-
Berry Green McDonald

A recorded vote was ordered. 

Bishop Gutierrez Miller (CA)

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 

Blagojevich Hall (OH) Minge 
Resolution 405, the Chair announces Blumenauer Hamilton Mink 
that he will reduce to a minimum of 5 

Boehlert Harman Moakley 
Bonior Hastings (FL) Mollohan

minutes the period of time within 

Borski Hefner Moran (VA)
which a vote by electronic device will Boswell Hilliard Morella 

be taken on Amendment No. 2 offered Boucher Hinchey Murtha 
Boyd Hinojosa Nadler

by the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 

Brown (CA) Holden Neal

DAVIS) which will be taken imme-

Brown (FL) Hooley Oberstar 
diately after this vote. Brown (OH) Houghton Obey 
Capps Hoyer Olver

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Cardin Jackson (IL) Ortiz

vice, and there were—ayes 194, noes 225, 

Carson Jackson-Lee Owens 
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 11, as Castle (TX) Pallone 
follows: Clay John Pascrell 
Clayton Johnson (CT) Pastor

[Roll No. 93] 

Clement Johnson (WI) Pelosi 
AYES—194 Clyburn Johnson, E. B. Peterson (MN) 
Condit Kanjorski Petri

Aderholt Coburn Goss 

Conyers Kaptur Pickett

Archer Collins Graham 

Costello Kelly Pomeroy

Armey Combest Granger 

Coyne Kennedy (MA) Poshard

Bachus Cook Greenwood 

Cramer Kennedy (RI) Price (NC)

Baker Cooksey Gutknecht 

Cummings Kennelly Quinn

Ballenger Cox Hall (TX) 

Danner Kildee Rahall

Barr Crane Hansen 

Davis (FL) Kilpatrick Reyes

Barrett (NE) Crapo Hastert 

Davis (IL) Kim Rivers

Bartlett Cubin Hastings (WA) 

Davis (VA) Kind (WI) Rodriguez

Barton Cunningham Hayworth 

DeFazio Kleczka Roemer

Bass Deal Hefley 

DeGette Klink Rothman

Bateman DeLay Herger 

Delahunt Kucinich Roybal-Allard

Bereuter Dickey Hill 

DeLauro LaHood Rush

Bilbray Doolittle Hilleary 

Deutsch Lampson Sabo

Bilirakis Dreier Hobson 

Diaz-Balart Lantos Sanchez

Bliley Duncan Hoekstra 

Dicks LaTourette Sanders

Blunt Dunn Horn 

Dingell Lazio Sandlin

Boehner Ehrlich Hostettler 

Dixon Leach Sawyer

Bonilla Emerson Hulshof 

Doggett Levin Schumer

Brady Ensign Hunter 

Dooley Lewis (GA) Scott

Bryant Everett Hyde 

Doyle Lipinski Serrano

Bunning Ewing Inglis 

Edwards Lofgren Shays

Burr Fawell Istook 

Ehlers Lowey Sherman

Burton Foley Jenkins 

Engel Luther Shuster

Buyer Fossella Johnson, Sam 

English Maloney (CT) Sisisky

Callahan Fowler Jones 

Eshoo Maloney (NY) Skaggs

Calvert Franks (NJ) Kasich 

Etheridge Manton Skelton

Camp Frelinghuysen King (NY) 

Evans Markey Slaughter

Campbell Gallegly Kingston 

Farr Martinez Smith (OR)

Canady Ganske Knollenberg 

Fattah Mascara Smith, Adam

Chabot Gekas Kolbe 

Fazio Matsui Snyder

Chambliss Gillmor Largent 

Filner McCarthy (MO) Souder

Chenoweth Gingrich Latham 

Forbes McCarthy (NY) Spratt

Christensen Goodlatte Lewis (CA) 

Ford McDade Stabenow

Coble Goodling Lewis (KY) 


H2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Stark Torres Watts (OK) 
Stokes Towns Waxman 
Strickland Traficant Wexler 
Stupak Turner Weygand 
Tanner Velazquez Wise 
Tauscher Vento Woolsey 
Thompson Visclosky Wynn 
Thurman Walsh Yates 
Tierney Watt (NC) 

ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1 
Radanovich 

NOT VOTING—11 

Cannon Klug Ros-Lehtinen 
Gonzalez LaFalce Royce 
Hutchinson Payne Waters 
Jefferson Rangel 

b1844 

Mr. Martinez and Mr. McDade 
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

Messrs. Dan Schaefer of Colorado, 
Young of Alaska, Snowbarger and 
Whitfield changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ 
to ‘‘aye.’’ 

Mr. Radanovich changed his vote 
from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘present.’’ 

So the amendment was rejected. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. DAVIS OF 
ILLINOIS 

The CHAIRMAN. The pending business 
is the demand for a recorded vote 
on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. DAVIS) on 
which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the ayes prevailed 
by voice vote. 

The Clerk will redesignate the 
amendment. 

The Clerk redesignated the amendment. 


RECORDED VOTE 

The CHAIRMAN. A recorded vote has 
been demanded. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The CHAIRMAN. This is a 5-minute 
vote. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 242, noes 175, 
not voting 13, as follows: 

[Roll No. 94] 
AYES—242 
Abercrombie Clement Farr 
Ackerman Clyburn Fattah 
Allen Condit Fawell 
Andrews Conyers Fazio 
Baesler Costello Filner 
Baldacci Coyne Forbes 
Barcia Cramer Ford 
Barrett (WI) Cummings Fox 
Bartlett Danner Frank (MA) 
Becerra Davis (FL) Franks (NJ) 
Bentsen Davis (IL) Frost 
Berman DeFazio Furse 
Berry DeGette Gejdenson 
Bilbray Delahunt Gephardt 
Bishop DeLauro Gilchrest 
Blagojevich Deutsch Gillmor 
Blumenauer Dickey Gilman 
Boehlert Dicks Gordon 
Bonior Dingell Green 
Borski Dixon Gutierrez 
Boswell Doggett Hall (OH) 
Boucher Dooley Hamilton 
Boyd Doyle Harman 
Brown (CA) Edwards Hastings (FL) 
Brown (FL) Ehlers Hefner 
Brown (OH) Emerson Hilliard 
Calvert Engel Hinchey 
Capps English Hinojosa 
Cardin Ensign Holden 
Carson Eshoo Hooley 
Clay Etheridge Horn 
Clayton Evans Houghton 

Hoyer 
Hulshof 
Hutchinson 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
John 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson (WI) 
Johnson, E.B. 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kelly 
Kennedy (MA) 
Kennedy (RI) 
Kennelly 
Kildee 
Kilpatrick 
Kind (WI) 
Kingston 
Kleczka 
Klink 
Kucinich 
LaHood 
Lampson 
Lantos 
Lazio 
Leach 
Levin 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Lofgren 
Lowey 
Luther 
Maloney (CT) 
Maloney (NY) 
Manton 
Markey 
Martinez 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy (MO) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHale 
McHugh 
McIntyre 
McKinney 

Aderholt 
Archer 
Armey 
Bachus 
Baker 
Ballenger 
Barr 
Barrett (NE) 
Barton 
Bass 
Bateman 
Bereuter 
Bilirakis 
Bliley 
Blunt 
Boehner 
Bonilla 
Brady 
Bryant 
Bunning 
Burr 
Burton 
Buyer 
Callahan 
Camp 
Campbell 
Canady 
Castle 
Chabot 
Chambliss 
Chenoweth 
Christensen 
Coble 
Coburn 
Collins 
Combest 
Cook 
Cooksey 
Cox 
Crane 
Crapo 
Cubin 
Cunningham 
Davis (VA) 
Deal 
DeLay 
Diaz-Balart 

McNulty 
Meehan 
Meek (FL) 
Meeks (NY) 
Menendez 
Millender-

McDonald 
Miller (CA) 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Mollohan 
Moran (VA) 
Morella 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Neal 
Nussle 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 
Ortiz 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pappas 
Pascrell 
Pastor 
Pelosi 
Peterson (MN) 
Pickett 
Pombo 
Pomeroy 
Poshard 
Price (NC) 
Quinn 
Rahall 
Redmond 
Reyes 
Rivers 
Rodriguez 
Roemer 
Rogers 
Rothman 
Roybal-Allard 
Rush 
Sabo 
Sanchez 
Sanders 
Sandlin 
Sawyer 

NOES—175 

Doolittle 
Dreier 
Duncan 
Dunn 
Ehrlich 
Everett 
Ewing 
Foley 
Fossella 
Fowler 
Frelinghuysen 
Gallegly 
Ganske 
Gekas 
Gibbons 
Goode 
Goodlatte 
Goodling 
Goss 
Graham 
Granger 
Greenwood 
Gutknecht 
Hall (TX) 
Hansen 
Hastert 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Hefley 
Herger 
Hill 
Hilleary 
Hobson 
Hoekstra 
Hostettler 
Hunter 
Hyde 
Inglis 
Istook 
Jenkins 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Kasich 
Kim 
King (NY) 
Knollenberg 
Kolbe 

Schumer 
Scott 
Serrano 
Shaw 
Shays 
Sherman 
Shimkus 
Sisisky 
Skaggs 
Skeen 
Skelton 
Slaughter 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (OR) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith, Adam 
Smith, Linda 
Snyder 
Souder 
Stabenow 
Stark 
Stenholm 
Stokes 
Strickland 
Stupak 
Tanner 
Tauscher 
Thompson 
Thurman 
Tierney 
Torres 
Towns 
Traficant 
Turner 
Upton 
Velazquez 
Vento 
Visclosky 
Walsh 
Watt (NC) 
Waxman 
Weldon (PA) 
Weller 
Weygand 
Wise 
Woolsey 
Wynn 
Yates 

Largent 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (KY) 
Linder 
Livingston 
Lucas 
Manzullo 
McCollum 
McCrery 
McDade 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McKeon 
Metcalf 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Moran (KS) 
Myrick 
Nethercutt 
Neumann 
Ney 
Northup 
Norwood 
Oxley 
Packard 
Parker 
Paul 
Paxon 
Pease 
Peterson (PA) 
Petri 
Pickering 
Pitts 
Porter 
Portman 
Pryce (OH) 
Radanovich 
Ramstad 
Regula 
Riggs 
Riley 
Rogan 
Rohrabacher 
Roukema 
Ryun 

Salmon Stearns Watkins 
Sanford Stump Watts (OK) 
Saxton Sununu Weldon (FL) 
Schaefer, Dan Talent Wexler 
Schaffer, Bob Tauzin White 
Sensenbrenner Taylor (MS) Whitfield 
Sessions Taylor (NC) Wicker 
Shadegg Thomas Wolf 
Shuster Thornberry Young (AK) 
Snowbarger Thune Young (FL) 
Solomon Tiahrt 
Spence Wamp 
NOT VOTING—13 
Cannon Payne Smith (MI) 
Gonzalez Rangel Spratt 
Jefferson Ros-Lehtinen Waters 
Klug Royce 
LaFalce Scarborough 

b1853 
Mr. EWING and Mr. FOLEY changed 
their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 
Mr. ORTIZ changed his vote from 
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ 
So the amendment was agreed to. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
The CHAIRMAN. It is now in order to 
consider Amendment No. 4 printed in 
part II of House Report 105–476. 

AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. GRAHAM 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 4 offered by Mr. GRAHAM: 

(a) HIGHWAY PROJECT AUTHORIZATION.— 
(1) In section 102(8), strike all after the parenthetical 
and insert ‘‘$596,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, $816,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
$885,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $885,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2001, $885,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002 and $885,000,000 for fiscal year 2003.’’ 
(2) In section 103(b), strike the ‘‘and’’ and 
all that follows after paragraph (7) and insert 
‘‘and’’ after paragraph (6). 
(3) Strike sections 127(b) and 127(c) and re-
designate sections of the bill accordingly. 
(b) TRANSIT PROJECT AUTHORIZATIONS.— 
(1) In section 328(a) in the matter proposed 
to be inserted as section 5338(b)(1) of title 49, 
strike all that follows after ‘‘to carry out 
section 5309’’ through the end of such subsection 
and insert ‘‘(1) $878,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1998, (2) $964,800,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
and (3) $1,045,200,000 for fiscal years 2000 
through 2003.’’ 
(2) In section 329(a) strike ‘‘shall not exceed’’ 
through the end of such subsection and 
insert ‘‘(1) $800,000,000 for fiscal year 1998; (2) 
$856,000,000 for fiscal year 1999; and (3) 
$1,045,200,000 for fiscal year 2000–2003.’’ 
(3) Strike sections 332 and 333 and redesignate 
sections of the bill accordingly. 
The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) and a 
Member opposed each will control 10 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM). 

b1900 
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. LARGENT). 
Mr. LARGENT. Mr. Chairman, 
would like to speak in support of this 
amendment that would strike out all of 
the special projects in the current bill 
before this committee. 
I want to say that I am opposed to 
the bill itself for three principal reasons: 
One, it is bad process; two, it is 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2013 

bad precedent; and three, it is a bad 
product. 

Let me speak about bad process first. 
I would ask the question, is it right 
that the campaign committee chairmen 
are consulted before the special 
road projects are given to Members 
who live or represent politically sensitive 
districts where they have tough 
races coming up in November? 

Is it right to dangle millions of dollars 
in front of Members for no specific 
projects, just a blank check? 

Is it right to award the States of 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
Members an average of 
$253 million, versus $54 million if there 
is not a Member on the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure 
from one’s State? 

It is bad precedent because this bill 
exceeds the budget caps put in place 
last summer by $26 billion, that is with 
a capital B, billions of dollars. What 
happens when we use the budget caps 
as a defense when anybody else wants 
to raise spending in any other level? 
Are we going to say, no, we cannot do 
that because of the budget caps? We 
cannot do it if we pass this bill. 

What happens when we begin building 
deficits as a result of this fiscal insanity? 
We will raise taxes. It is bad 
precedent. 

It is a bad product. What do I mean 
by that? Is it responsible to increase 
the total funding for infrastructure by 
42 percent, which is what this bill does? 
The Balanced Budget Agreement, 
which we voted on, again, last summer, 
calls for a 20 percent increase in infrastructure 
funding. How much is 
enough? 

What happens when the Senate does 
not agree with the offsets? What are we 
going to do then? 

Do we really think a high-priority 
project is a transportation museum in 
Pennsylvania, an Appalachian Transportation 
Institute at Marshall University, 
or $800,000 for a train station? Are 
these really high-priority projects? 

The chairman of this committee is a 
zealous advocate for roads. I appreciate 
that and respect him for it. But I believe 
he has crossed the center line. 
The House’s own rules say it shall not 
be in order for any bill to contain any 
provision for any specific road. 

The rule was never waived until 1982. 
Then, in 1982, it was waived: ten special 
projects, at a cost of $386 million; in 
1987, 152 for $1.3 billion; in 1991, 539 
projects, for $6.2 billion; this year, 1,450 
projects for $9.3 billion. 

Support the amendment of the gentleman 
from South Carolina to strike 
these projects. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in opposition to the amendment. 

THE CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) is 
recognized for 10 minutes. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent that I may yield 5 
of my minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR), 
to control blocks of time. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) will 
control half the time in opposition. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER). 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the 
principle of Members of Congress being 
able to recommend to our committee 
specific projects, and our committee in 
turn being able to vet those projects 
and determine ones which are worthy. 

It is very important to emphasize 
that only 5 percent of the total funding 
in this bill is dedicated to high-priority 
congressional projects. That means, 
and let me be even more specific, 88 
percent of the decisions being made as 
to where the highways and transit systems 
are being built will be made by 
the States: by governors and by the 
legislatures and the departments of 
transportation. Seven percent of the 
money goes downtown, to be made by 
the Secretary of Transportation. 

The decisions to build highways and 
transit systems are not decisions made 
by angels up in heaven. These are decisions 
made in the political process. 
Governors decide where it is best to 
put highways. State legislators decide. 

There is nothing wrong with Members 
of Congress, who are the ones that 
have to cast the tough votes to create 
the programs, having some say. To 
have a 5 percent say does not seem unreasonable. 


In fact, I would point out that if indeed 
this amendment were to pass, and 
$18 billion less were to be available, 
then we would be violating the principle 
of spending gas tax dollars for improvements 
to infrastructure. We 
would be back in the same old game we 
were in previously, where the American 
people were being flim-flammed. 
They were paying their gas taxes at 
the pump, but the money was building 
up in the Trust Fund, and this would 
increase the balance in the Trust Fund. 

Conversely, if we strike the projects 
but do not strike the money, then 
there is no saving. We would be back 
keeping faith with the people in terms 
of saying that the money paid by the 
gas tax would be available to be spent, 
and that is all, only the revenue coming 
in the gas tax; honesty in budgeting, 
that is all. Then we would be saying 
the money can be spent, but zero 
decisions would be made by Members of 
Congress, and all of the decisions would 
be made by those governors and legislators 
and the Secretary of Transportation 
downtown. 

I think it is not reasonable to believe 
that somehow there is a non-political, 
pure process back in the State Houses, 
as compared to the decisions that are 
made here. In fact, if a Member of Congress 
does not know what is important 
to his district, then I do not think he is 
going to be a Member of Congress very 
long. 

Let me say, I do not agree with some 
of the projects that have been submitted. 
But that is not my decision to 
make. In fact, I would respectfully suggest 
it is a bit arrogant for someone to 
say that we know better what is important 
for Members’ congressional districts 
than they know. 

Indeed, we have a vetting process. 
The vetting process is a 14-point vetting 
process, which includes recommendation 
by the Secretary of 
Transportation in the State, which includes 
recommendation by the mayors. 

Indeed, what I find so mystifying is 
my good friend, the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM), submitted 
four projects to us. I have the letter 
right here from him, saying that 
the South Carolina Route 72 project is 
vital and would provide additional traffic 
capacity resulting in safe and efficient 
roadways in three counties, a letter 
asking for the project. 

And my good friend, the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. LARGENT), signed 
a letter asking for projects. In fact, I 
do have a letter from the Governor of 
Oklahoma received just yesterday saying, 
‘‘On behalf of all Oklahomans, I 
want to express our appreciation for 
the successful committee action on the 
bill to do so much to restore Federal 
funding dollars and to move the vital 
Interstate 40 crosstown project forward.’’ 


That is the project which was requested 
by two members of the Oklahoma 
delegation who took this floor or 
took a press conference last week to 
attack our integrity, suggesting that 
we were offering projects in exchange 
for votes. At the time I challenged 
somebody to come forward and to name 
one Member of Congress to whom I 
said, I will give you a project in exchange 
for your vote, or conversely, 
threatened, you will not get a project if 
you do not vote for it. None has come 
forward? Why, because it never happened. 


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. PETRI). 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, this is 
also worth pointing out, that this was 
an open process, with 4 full days of 
hearing, 170 Members of Congress testifying 
in public, supported by hundreds 
of local mayors and officials from 
across the United States, pointing out 
the merits of these particular projects. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, speaking 
of angels and governors, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Delaware 
(Mr. CASTLE). 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Chairman, I would 
like to speak in support of the Graham 
amendment. I believe that what we 
have here is a violation of the Balanced 
Budget Agreement. I think the committee, 
by the way, did a good job on 
this legislation. They just went too far. 
They went about $26 billion too far, 
and that is money which we do not 
presently have. 

About $18 billion of that can be found 
in these special demonstration 


H2014 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

projects. I disagree with the Chairman 
on this. I believe the special demonstration 
projects are wrong. I believe 
they are pork. I believe these decisions 
should be made by the States and by 
the officials who live in the States, 
who are qualified to make decisions 
about where their highways should go. 

How are we going to pay for this? I 
ask Members to ask themselves that 
before they support this legislation. We 
are going to pay for it because education 
is going to suffer, defense is 
going to suffer, housing may suffer, the 
environment may suffer. Maybe we will 
not balance the budget. Alan Greenspan 
will tell us that interest rates will 
go up 2 percent if we do not get a balanced 
budget. 

I think these are extraordinarily important 
issues. I hope before anybody 
here votes, whether they have demonstration 
projects or not, they will 
consider the enormity of what we are 
doing. This has just gone too far, and it 
is too bad, because an extraordinary 
amount of good work was done here. 

However, the bottom line is, all of us 
should unite to support this amendment 
and take this $18 billion off the 
table. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 21/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL), a 
ranking member of the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and 
an architect of this legislation. 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. 

Mr. Chairman, let us get some facts 
on the table. The gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Chairman SHUSTER) has 
laid out very well how funds for highways 
are apportioned under this bill. 
Eighty-eight percent would be distributed 
to the States by formula through 
apportionments, by going to States. 
Basically, this money goes to governors 
and State legislators. Seven percent 
would stay here in Washington for 
administration of the Federal Highway 
Administration. 

Let us get it straight, only 5 percent, 
the remaining 5 percent of the highway 
funds in BESTEA, are for these 
projects that are deemed to be high-
priority projects by Members of this 
body. That is the same as in the current 
law, ISTEA. The bottom line is 
that governors and State legislators 
get to spend 88 percent of the highway 
dollars, while House Members get to direct 
only 5 percent. 

Yet some in the media, and I think 
perhaps the sponsors of this amendment, 
ought to look at these facts, instead 
of paying attention to those in 
the editorial pages in some of the national 
newspapers or those in the 
media who would portray this as pork 
and something evil. Let us look at the 
facts. They ignore the fact that 88 percent 
of these dollars are going directly 
to the State governors and State legislators 
for their disbursements. 

Are these individuals angels? Let us 
get real. The last time I checked, gov


ernors were elected like we are elected, 
politicians. They have to run for election. 
I do not know of any governor 
that has been appointed from some 
holier-than-thou source to serve. So 
these guys are politicians. Get real. 

I would submit that Members of this 
body, Democrat and Republican alike, 
know his or her district better than 
any State governor who has to make 
those decisions on a Statewide basis. If 
anybody in this body does not know his 
or her district better than the governor 
of their State, I doubt if they are going 
to be here very long. 

These projects are worthwhile. They 
have been through a rigorous vetting 
process. They have answered a series of 
14 tough questions that we instituted 
back when we started reauthorizing 
ISTEA. They have been part of the 
transportation plan of every State. 

We have reviewed the requests. We 
have held public hearings. There has 
been nothing secretive about the process, 
there has been nothing dishonest 
about the process, there has been nothing 
corrupt about the process; some of 
the words being thrown around here. 

So the proof is in the pudding. This 
legislation has passed the muster. It 
has passed the muster with the Surface 
Transportation Policy Project, a liberal 
group comprised of environmentalists, 
in line with the Conference of 
Mayors and League of Cities. The Surface 
Transportation Policy Project has 
endorsed this legislation, and they 
have said that these projects are 
worthwhile. 

I would urge rejection of this amendment. 


b1515 
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself 5 seconds, just to say that Citizens 
Against Government Waste and 
the National Taxpayers Union support 
my amendment. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. 
COBURN). 
Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of this amendment. I would 
like for the American public to know 
what was left on a voice mail in my office 
by the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure: 
‘‘Matt, this is Darryl Wilson with the 
Transportation Committee. I’m calling 
about the BESTEA bill, which is the 
transportation measure that is moving 
through the committee. We have a deal 
for you on the funding levels for that. 
I originally spoke to your office last 
September and we said there was $10 
million in this bill for your boss. Well, 
we are upping that by $5 million, so 
now you have $15 million. I just want 
to know where your boss wants to 
spend that money.’’ 
Mr. Chairman, I want to tell my colleagues 
that if we apply this logic that 
we get to dole out 5 percent of the 
transportation funds, then we should 
apply the same logic elsewhere. Let us 
dole out 5 percent of the Defense Department 
funds in our district. Let us 

dole out 5 percent of the funds for 
Medicare in our district, for Medicaid, 
for food stamps, where the Congressman 
could surely know how to control 
that. 

Mr. Chairman, this is a corrupt process 
that is used to extend the political 
careers and situations of Members of 
this body. It ought to stop. I support 
this amendment. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentlewoman from 
North Carolina (Mrs. MYRICK). 

Mrs. MYRICK. Mr. Chairman, when 
we came here and became a majority, 
we said we were going to change 
things. We were going to be different. 
We were going to balance the budget, 
which we finally did now for the first 
time in 30 years. And now we are getting 
ready to break that commitment 
by $26 billion, $18 billion of it in special 
pork projects. 

That is, in my mind, business as 
usual. What has changed? It is wrong, 
and I urge my colleagues to support 
this amendment. That is the right 
thing to do. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Arizona 
(Mr. SHADEGG). 

Mr. SHADEGG. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. GRAHAM) for yielding me this 
time. I rise in strong support of the 
gentleman’s amendment, and I want to 
make the point that the people get this 
issue back home. 

The editorial in the Mesa Tribune 
today: ‘‘Pork barrel bribery. Transit 
bill is out of whack.’’ The editorial in 
yesterday’s Wall Street Journal: 
‘‘Highway robbery.’’ Today’s front page 
Arizona Republic: ‘‘Pork deal raw.’’ 

The answer is this bill breaks every 
promise we made when we got here. We 
came here and said we would not do 
business as usual, but this bill has us 
spending money the same way money 
used to be spent. It is pure and simple 
bribery. 

Mr. Chairman, if we allow Members 
of Congress to control how the money 
is spent in this bill, why not allow 
Members of Congress to control how 
the money is spent in every bill? This 
is the kind of project where it is pork 
by definition because of the way the 
support was built. 

The truth is these decisions need to 
be made on merit. They need to be 
based on the real need for these transportation 
projects. They should not be 
such that one State with a powerful 
committee chairman gets hundreds of 
millions of dollars more, even billions 
of dollars more than another State 
which has no Member on the committee. 
That is the way Washington used 
to work and under this bill, it is sadly 
the way this bill still works. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. INGLIS). 

Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) for yielding 
me this time. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2015 

Mr. Chairman, this is probably the 
most embarrassing night that I have 
ever spent in this Congress, to realize 
that we came here to change things 
and we are not. We are participating in 
the big old trough that has characterized 
this place in the past, and it is a 
terrible embarrassment to be part of 
the new majority and to stand here and 
have to support this amendment that 
would take care of that trough that we 
are seeing. 

Mr. Chairman, there are 31 States 
who will be cheated as a result of this 
bill and the demonstration projects in 
it. Not an opinion; it is a mathematical 
fact. If a Member is from South Carolina 
and votes for this bill, they are 
cheating the State of South Carolina. 
So it is for 30 other States. Unless 
Members happen to have the big dig 
going on in their State or are from 
Pennsylvania, they are being cheated 
in this bill. 

Demonstration projects cheat their 
State, and in return they are getting a 
press release. So they get a press release 
and their State gets cheated. 
That is a lousy deal for their State and 
it is a lousy deal for America. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues 
to vote for this amendment and fix this 
lousy bill. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Indiana 
(Mr. SOUDER). 

Mr. SOUDER. Mr. Chairman, I too 
am very embarrassed for this House. 
We came here in the Class of 1994 in 
particular claiming that we were willing 
to trade about anything to balance 
the budget and cut taxes. Tonight we 
are the people busting the budget. We 
are the people with the proposal billions 
of dollars higher than the United 
States Senate. 

I am embarrassed at what is before 
us. I see media reports in Indiana of 
Members of Congress who are getting 
money that is going to be allocated to 
their county commissioners. That was 
not a carefully scrutinized thing. It is 
up to the county commissioners now to 
decide whether they have potholes on 
their roads. Any Member of Congress 
can have such a thing. 

It was not a carefully scrutinized 
process. Everybody here, whether it 
was direct or indirect, knew that if 
they supported this bill they would 
have access to certain funds. We all advocate 
different projects at different 
times within the context of the balanced 
budget. This busts the budget. 
This is contrary to what we ran on. By 
the time we get done with this, the 
House and the Senate and the President, 
we are going to have spent the 
supposed surplus and undermined everything 
we claimed to have come here 
to do, and I am embarrassed for this 
body tonight. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from South Carolina is recognized for 
21/2 minutes. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I would 
say to the gentleman from Pennsyl


vania (Chairman SHUSTER), listen up. 
You have used my name, and that is 
okay. You talked about a letter I 
wrote, and that is okay. Last year your 
committee called me and said there 
was $7 million for projects in my district. 
I submitted a list of projects 
after talking with the highway commissioner 
in the Third Congressional 
District, and I appreciated the $7 million. 


Two weeks ago I got a call from your 
committee, unsolicited, that said I now 
have $15 million. I said no. You told me 
I had by 5 o’clock two weeks ago to 
take the money or lose it, and I said 
no. And the reason I said no is because 
the bill you put together spends $26 billion 
more than we can afford to spend. 

What you are doing is, you are allowing 
this House to slip down a slippery 
slope because your committee wants to 
take more of the balanced budget pie 
than we gave it. And the next chairman 
and the next worthy cause is 
going to do that. 

You are going to make us take it out 
of somebody else’s hide, because you 
have an amendment in this package 
that requires this bill to be offset. So 
we have to go to somebody else in this 
government and say, ‘‘Give us $26 billion 
because we overspent on highways, 
but we are not going to give a dime 
ourselves.’’ 

Mr. Chairman, my amendment says 
give up the demonstration projects and 
we reduce the amount we have to offset 
by 69 percent. But we are not going to 
do that. We are going to go to other 
people in the government and say, 
‘‘Give it up. But not us, buddy.’’ 

Mr. Chairman, we reduce spending by 
8 percent if we do away with the demonstration 
projects. All of them are 
probably worthwhile. I am not up here 
shaming anybody. Let us assume all 
1,467 of them are worthwhile. Look 
what has happened since the last time 
we did this. Look how the number of 
projects has grown. Look how much 
money. We have tripled the number of 
projects and increased the spending by 
a third. 

I am not here to shame anyone and 
say that their project is not worthwhile. 
I am here to say we cannot afford 
it. Families cannot afford a lot of 
things they would like. But not us. 
Somebody in this government is going 
to pay for this bill, but it will not be 
us. We will not give one penny. We are 
going to take every penny we can get 
and put it in the ground, in the asphalt, 
and somebody else is going to 
have to give it up. 

Mr. Chairman, that is what is wrong 
with this country. That is why we cannot 
lead. The gentleman has taken the 
balanced budget agreement and has 
made a sham out of it and we all 
should be ashamed. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota is recognized for 2 minutes. 


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
just wish to observe that it is inappro


priate for a Member to address directly 
another Member, and that all remarks 
should be addressed to the Chair in 
proper debate. 

Mr. Chairman, when all else fails, try 
the facts. The facts that are this committee 
went through a very appropriate 
process of asking all Members 
about projects that are priorities and 
important in their district, priorities 
that their State has not addressed. 
Point 8 of our 14-point questionnaire: 
‘‘Is the project included in the metropolitan 
and/or State transportation improvement 
plan or the State long-range 
plan? Is it scheduled for funding?’’ And 
on through a very objective analysis of 
each project. 

That is a fair way to do it. Who said 
that all wisdom resides in the State? A 
statement was made earlier in this debate, 
decisions should be made by the 
States, who know what the needs and 
priorities are in their State. Well, the 
States will have the choice to match 
the required 20 percent or not to match 
it, to start projects under construction 
or not to start those projects. Those 
are decisions that are left to the 
States. 

But let me tell my colleagues what 
kind of wisdom there is in State government. 
There was a stretch of highway 
in my district on which, over 15 
years, 57 people have died. Where did 
that appear on the State priority list? 
Nowhere, until I got involved in it and 
brought them together, and now we are 
going to address long-term and immediate 
needs on Highway 8, and there 
are not going to be any more deaths if 
I have my way and if we have the funding 
that is in this legislation. 

All of this talk about we are spending 
over the amount. Listen, we give up $9 
billion of the Highway Trust Fund, 
taxes already paid by drivers in America 
who have been carrying for 30 years 
the burden of government on their 
back, and we give up the future interest, 
$13 billion dollars. We paid for it. 
The drivers of America paid for this 
bill over and over and over again, and 
now it is time to get their due and let 
us invest in America. We know what 
projects are good and important for our 
districts every bit as well as those governors 
do. 

The CHAIRMAN. All time has expired. 


The question is on the amendment 
offered by the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM). 

The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, further proceedings on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. 
GRAHAM) will be postponed. 

It is now in order to consider amendment 
No. 5 offered by the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT) 
printed in Part II of report 105–476. 


H2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

AMENDMENT NO. 5 IN THE NATURE OF A 
SUBSTITUTE OFFERED BY MR. SPRATT 

Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. 


The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment in the nature of 
a substitute. 

The text of the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute is as follows: 

Part II amendment No. 5 in the nature 
of a substitute offered by Mr. 
SPRATT: 

Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SECTION 1. TWO-MONTH EXTENSION OF TRANSPORTATION 
PROGRAMS. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, there is authorized to be appropriated 
out of the Highway Trust Fund such sums as 
may be necessary to continue funding for an 
additional two months each of the programs 
for which an extension was provided under 
the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 
1997 (111 Stat. 2552 et seq.) at the same 
monthly rate for which funds were provided 
for each such program under such Act. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT) and a 
Member opposed will each control 10 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT). 

Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I am for spending 
more on highways and mass transit, 
but we have a process for deciding how 
much more and which priorities we will 
pare back or preclude to make room for 
more spending on highways so that we 
can keep the budget in balance. 

The purpose of this amendment is 
basic and simple. It is just to let this 
process work. What it calls for is regular 
order, nothing more. Let us pass a 
budget resolution. Let us go through 
the 302(B) allocation process. Let us 
identify $26 billion in offsets, or whatever 
the amount may be, and then let 
us come back to this floor and pass this 
bill. 

Mr. Chairman, I feel compelled to 
offer this amendment because I am the 
ranking member of the Committee on 
the Budget, and this bill does not just 
skirt or evade the budget process, it is 
a frontal assault upon it. It violates 
the Balanced Budget Agreement of 
1997, which we only voted for a few 
months ago, and trumpeted by all of us 
who voted for it, by authorizing $40 billion 
more for contracting authority 
than the BBA provides and $26 billion 
in outlays over the next 5 years above 
and beyond the BBA. 

Mr. Chairman, it radically departs 
from the appropriations process by letting 
the transportation conferees decide 
some $26 billion in offsets to pay 
for their increases. All of these offsets 
are outside their jurisdiction. It violates 
the Congressional Budget Act by 
being brought to the floor ahead of the 
budget resolution. It violates the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990 by providing 
$9.3 billion in mandatory spending 
for demonstration projects without 
identifying $9.3 billion in offsets. And 

it dismantles the budget structure that 
we built up so painstakingly over the 
last 15 years, which has brought us to 
a balanced budget, by taking transportation 
off budget, removing it from any 
strictures whatsoever. 

To those who say there is not the 
time to do this process, this amendment 
provides an answer. 

b1930 
It extends the Surface Transportation 
Extension Act for another 2 
months. This act was temporary in the 
first place. It runs out on May 1. It will 
have to be extended because it is highly 
unlikely that we will have a conference 
report by then and, in any 
event, States will not get any more 
budget authority under BESTEA than 
they will get under this because the 
levels for 1998 are the same. 
What we are proposing here once 
again, Mr. Chairman, is budget discipline, 
the budget process that we 
built up over time. In the end, I am 
sure transportation will get more. 
They have demonstrated that Members 
from all parts of the country and all 
places on the spectrum support more 
spending. But we will do it in a regular 
order procedure, and we will do it in a 
process so we can determine exactly 
which priorities will have to be displaced 
to give transportation more. 
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in opposition to the amendment. 
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) is 
recognized for 10 minutes. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
5 minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR), and I ask unanimous 
consent that he may control 
that time. 
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 
There was no objection. 
Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 
minutes to the gentleman from Connecticut 
(Mr. SHAYS), and I ask unanimous 
consent that he may control and 
allocate the time. 
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
South Carolina? 
There was no objection. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
This is a terrible amendment because 
particularly for the Northern States, it 
will destroy the opportunity to have 
funding as they prepare for the winter 
season. It is wrong to pass another 
short-term extension. Now that the 
May 1 deadline is before us, it is irresponsible 
to impose additional short-
term extensions. 
An extension is going to interrupt 
the State’s critical summer contracting 
season. It is going to force the 
Northern tier States to virtually lose 
an entire construction season. There 
will be insufficient funds available for 
the States to have the certainty to go 
forward with critical projects. 

This amendment will delay any implementation 
of BESTEA until the last 
quarter of fiscal 1998 and will put out 
additional funds, get this, additional 
funds under the unfair Senate-imposed 
formula that was included in the short-
term bill that is now before us. 

Many more States will receive more 
apportionments and obligation authority 
than they would receive for the entire 
year under BESTEA. This will preclude 
a full formula change for this 
year. Donor States will have to wait 
another year for the formula, the fair 
formula, which we have in this bill, to 
take, fully take effect. 

This will completely upset the minimum 
allocation program and apportion 
more funds that are not subject to any 
equity adjustment. 

Members’ projects will not be able to 
begin. They will lose a whole season before 
these projects can be implemented. 
BESTEA simply spends the 
new gas tax revenues coming into the 
Highway Trust Fund over the next 6 
years. That is what the people who pay 
these taxes expect. Rather than upset 
the budget process, BESTEA, in fact, 
restores honesty and fairness to the 
budget process. 

In sum, this amendment will wreak 
additional havoc with the States, virtually 
every State, but most particularly 
the Northern tier States. It is unfair 
and unnecessary. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose the 
amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
First, I want to thank both the ranking 
member and chairman. They believe in 
what they are doing. We happen to disagree. 
But in every instance that I 
have dealt with them they have always 
been gentlemen. I just think they are 
wrong. 

Mr. Chairman, I totally disagree with 
the arguments outlined by my chairman 
from the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. This amendment 
extends the temporary ISTEA 
bill for 2 months. We anticipate that 
we will be able to pass a full bill before 
then. But what we are being asked to 
do in this legislation is to spend and allocate 
$217 billion without having the 
offsets to pay for the new money. I 
think that is wrong. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 11/2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Delaware (Mr. 
CASTLE). 

Mr. CASTLE. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. 

This is a good amendment. Let me 
use an analogy. Take a hot summer 
day and there is a picnic and there are 
sandwiches and potato chips and cookies 
there. And somebody comes along 
with ice tea, and it is 95 degrees out 
and that ice tea looks awfully good, 
and they fill your glass. That is absolutely 
wonderful. But they make a mistake 
and they fill it too much, and it 
spills on the sandwiches and on the potato 
chips and the cookies, and it ruins 
them. That is what is happening here. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2017 

This is good legislation. This is good 
ISTEA. To the extent that this Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
to their great credit, put together 
a formula and put together the 
numbers that we handled in the budget 
agreement, they did a wonderful job. 
But they went too far. They went too 
far by about $26 billion. 

What this amendment is doing is saying 
let us wait for 2 months so we can 
see how much money we are really 
going to have to be able to spend on 
transportation, which we all agree 
should be done. We have heard all manner 
of examples all afternoon of how we 
should spend money on transportation. 
That is absolutely correct. But the bottom 
line is that the glass has overflowed 
here and we have $26 billion too 
much in it. 

I just spoke a moment ago on the 
demonstration projects. I think that is 
poor public policy. Beyond that, we are 
looking at that additional money. 
Where is it going to come from? We are 
about to vote blindly for a piece of legislation 
in which we are not at all sure 
what the offsets are. Let me remind 
Members of what we just went through 
with about $2.5 billion, which we could 
not find offsets. What are we going to 
go through on $26 billion? Who is going 
to suffer on that? 

As I stated earlier, will education 
suffer? Will the environment suffer? 
Will housing suffer? Will defense suffer? 
Will the balanced budget suffer? 
Any of these things could suffer. The 
Spratt amendment makes all the sense 
in the world. The 2-month month delay 
will not hurt anything, and it will let 
us do what is the most important thing 
we are going to do this year, balance 
our budget. Support the Spratt amendment. 


Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 21/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL), 
ranking member of the Subcommittee 
on Surface Transportation. 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Minnesota for 
yielding the time to me. 

I commend the gentleman from 
South Carolina, the ranking member 
on our Committee on the Budget, for 
the work that he does on that committee. 
He is proposing an amendment 
here that would allow the normal congressional 
budget process to work its 
will prior to enactment of BESTEA. 
Unfortunately, highway construction 
seasons across our country do not necessarily 
allow themselves, because of 
the seasons through which they go, to 
follow our normal budget processes in 
Congress. 

The other body decided to proceed 
full steam ahead with this legislation 
prior to consideration of their budget 
resolution. And I think our House leadership 
made the appropriate decision in 
consultation with our House budget 
chairman, to proceed forthwith on this 
legislation at this time. We are facing 
a May 1 deadline. 

After May 1, the States will lose 
their ability to obligate spending au


thority and in many States much 
more, so in our Northern States and 
other States, this will truly wreak 
havoc in their transportation planning 
decisions. 

Not only will it wreak havoc in the 
States, but there could very well be a 
problem with the FHWA here in Washington. 
There are staffing problems to 
consider. We do not want to face any 
type of a government shutdown at 
FHWA, which would truly be devastating 
to our road mapping processes and 
transportation decisions across this 
country. 

There is no way to plan if the States 
are faced with a cutoff of obligational 
authority come May 1. It is truly a 
drop-dead date. We do not have the luxury 
of trying to comply with the budget 
process or time frames that have 
been set up here in this Congress. 

We are talking about spending what 
the American taxpayers and the American 
motorists in particular have already 
paid at the gas pump and that is 
why we must proceed here forthwith 
without waited for any budget resolutions. 
It is no way to plan America’s 
future. It is no way to plan for the safety 
on our Nation’s highways. 

If we are to delay this process and 
find come May 1, or a couple of weeks 
thereafter if we face a slippage that the 
States do not have the definitive schedule 
upon which to base the letting of 
contracts within their borders. So I 
would submit that while the chairman 
of, the ranking member of our Committee 
on the Budget has noble goals in 
mind, this is perhaps a back-door effort 
used by some on the other side of the 
aisle to truly kill this bill. 

I would urge defeat. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Chair would remind 
Members that the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT) has 
2 minutes remaining, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) has 21/2 
minutes remaining, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) has 
21/2 minutes remaining, and the gentleman 
from Connecticut (Mr. SHAYS) 
has 3 minutes remaining. 

The gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER) has the right to close. 

Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from California 
(Mr. FAZIO). 

Mr. FAZIO of California. Mr. Chairman, 
this vote is not just about bridges 
and highways. We are all for them. It is 
a vote about priorities, a vote about 
fiscal discipline and a promise we made 
to America just last year. Unfortunately, 
as the majority leader put it 
the other day, the leadership of the 
House is more concerned about haste 
rather than substance. 

As a result, we may unravel the first 
balanced budget in a generation. This 
is no way to write a budget. The cart is 
way before the horse. If we approve 
this bill we are going to have to make 
substantial cuts in the budget. Where 
do we get the $26 billion from; defense? 
From senior citizen housing, again, another 
day? From our kids health care? 

From education or maybe our seaports 
or airports, as we did the other day? 

Those of us on the Committee on the 
Budget and the Committee on Appropriations 
already knew we were going 
to have to shave billions of dollars 
from the Federal budget just based on 
last year’s budget deal. Now we will 
have to find billions of dollars more to 
cut. 

Mr. Chairman, it boils down for us 
today to a question of courage. Let us 
be responsible about spending. Let us 
set our budget priorities in the manner 
they should be set and let us show the 
American people we have the courage 
to live within our means. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
11/2 minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI), distinguished chairman 
of our subcommittee. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I would 
just like to make several points. First 
of all, I have watched one-minutes 
sometimes and hear the spin people are 
trying to give to this Congress. Some 
Members are saying we are a do-nothing 
Congress. And then Members are 
stepping forward and saying we should 
not do something. 

We are trying to meet a major need 
of our country by passing this bill at 
an appropriate time, as asked by the 
national Governors who wanted us, if 
we possibly can, to get this done so 
that they can go forward with their 
construction seasons and plans this 
summer by May 1. If we had some assurances 
that the budgeteers would act 
in a reasonable and timely way, that is 
one thing. But knowing how these 
things work around here, they are not 
going to, I do not think. 

We do not have any assurance that 
we will have a budget resolution passed 
and ready to guide Congress by May 1 
or thereby. We will be lucky, last year 
I think it slipped into June or July. So 
that means if we waited for this process, 
we are into September or October 
and Congress will be gone. 

This is saying we do not want to address 
the needs of the country. We do 
not want to deal with the donor State 
question in this Congress. That is what 
it is saying. They want to be a do-nothing 
Congress, not a do-something Congress. 
I think that is just plain wrong. 

I have some suggestions for our budget 
friends as they say where we can 
find this money. We are giving up $9 
billion, writing it off the debt of the 
United States. No scoring for that. We 
are lowered, by the budget resolution, 
the caps, by about $9 billion below 
what we are actually spending. That 
mistake could be corrected. That is not 
really an increase in spending, when we 
just continue in constant levels, yet 
they score us with cuts. We are giving 
up $14 billion of interest over the life of 
this bill. That is not being scored either. 


Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Arizona 
(Mr. SHADEGG). 


H2018 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Mr. SHADEGG. Mr. Chairman, this 
amendment is not about roads. We desperately 
need roads. My State of Arizona 
is a growing State and it has 
great need for roads. But I rise in support 
of the Spratt amendment. It is a 
matter of process. This amendment 
sets the cart right. The bill, as it currently 
is proceeding before Congress, 
has the cart before the horse, simply 
put. 

As a matter of budget discipline, we 
cannot pass this bill at this time without 
grave consequences. Alan Greenspan, 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve, 
came before the Committee on the 
Budget, of which, and the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT) are 
members and said, whatever you do in 
this Congress, you must not break the 
caps. He did not say you must not 
break them by a large amount. He said 
you must not break the caps. The signal 
you will send to this economy is 
dynamic. If you break the caps at all, 
you will destroy the discipline you 
have established. 

This amendment will allow us the 
time to get the budget figures in mid 
month, to look at where we are and to 
do the process in an orderly fashion. 
The bill, in its current form, spends $26 
billion above the budget caps. We have 
to find offsets that are nowhere in this 
current legislation. 

It includes demonstration projects 
which, as we can see by the debate, are 
highly controversial. We need to identify 
those offsets and to proceed in a 
regular order. And if this bill were so 
correct and so fitting within the current 
figures, why does it spend $30 billion 
more than we authorized just 10 
months ago in the balanced budget 
agreement? I support the amendment. 

Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
30 seconds to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. SABO). 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 
seconds to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. SABO). 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. SABO) is recognized 
for 1 minute. 

b1945 
Mr. SABO. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me the 
time. 
As someone who voted for the gas tax 
to reduce the deficit in both 1990 and 
1993, I have to say to my friends on the 
Republican side, if Democrats had 
brought a bill to the floor with mandatory 
spending and no offsets, or spending 
and no offsets, they would have 
laughed us off the floor. We never tried 
it. We did not try it. I cannot believe 
this process. 
Why do we not deal with it honestly? 
There are people who prefer spending 
transportation money to other expenditures. 
That is a legitimate decision. 
But let us deal with the reality of the 
spending cuts that we then have to 
make. Let us be honest. This is not 
money from heaven. There are trade-
offs. Let us understand those trade-

offs. Let us pay some attention to the 
process that we are breaking here 
today. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


Mr. Chairman, the distinguished gentleman 
from South Carolina offers a 
very appealing and even compelling, 
rational, thoughtful argument. It is a 
neatly constructed syllogism which I 
appreciate. The horse should be before 
the cart, in very plain terms, the horse 
being the budget. 

We did that last year. We had the debate 
on the budget resolution. We had 
the Shuster-Oberstar amendment, 
which asked Members to make choices, 
to prioritize, to decide where they 
wanted to pin dollars on their values. 
We came within two votes of prevailing 
because we offered something that was 
very reasonable and very responsible. 
We had an across-the-board minuscule 
cut. 

Everybody is going to have a little 
cut. Little bit less in taxes, little bit 
less in defense, little bit less on domestic 
discretionary. And we exempted the 
mandatory programs and the entitlements. 
And we should have won. 

I think that the reason that we are 
not doing it that way this year, I say 
to my good friend, the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT), is there 
some way up there in the White House 
and in the clouds above Mount GINGRICH 
who are afraid that we will win, 
that we will win that battle, that our 
values will prevail; and, so, they did 
not want to have it that way. 

Now, this 3-month extension, that is 
a nice idea, buy a little time. Let me 
tell my colleagues what that buys. In 
my State we have two seasons, winter 
and road construction. And this is 
going to put us right through road construction 
into winter again, and it is 
going to do that for a whole northern 
tier of the United States. I do not 
think that makes a whole lot of sense. 

We have had the debate. We have had 
all the numbers spelled out here. I 
think the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI) and the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) have 
spelled it out; and I said it myself, 
look, we gave up $9 billion of taxes paid 
by the driving public of America that 
are in the Trust Fund. Commitments 
made, not delivered on. That is going 
to go off there into the ether somewhere 
to reduce that $3 trillion debt. 

I hope everyone feels good about 
that. It is not going to build any roads. 

Then we yield another $15 billion out 
into the future in interest on the dollars 
coming into the Trust Fund. I 
hope my colleagues feel awfully good 
about that, because that is not going to 
build any roads either. 

This bill builds roads and bridges and 
transit systems and keeps America mobile 
and productive, and we ought to 
defeat this amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN (Mr. HASTINGS of 
Washington). The gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT) has 30 

seconds remaining. The gentleman 
from Connecticut (Mr. SHAYS) has 11/2 
minutes remaining. And the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) has 1 
minute remaining and the right to 
close. 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 
seconds to the gentleman from Maryland 
(Mr. HOYER). 

Mr. SPRATT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
30 seconds to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. HOYER) also. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Maryland is recognized for 1 
minute. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, from 1981 
to 1992, we increased the debt of America 
by 437 percent. We did so doing good 
things the wrong way. 

Yesterday, we passed a $2.9 billion 
bill and the majority demanded offsets 
before it passed. Today, we add $26 billion 
to the deficit, with offsets unknown. 
We should have, my friends, 
the discipline to pass a budget prior to 
adding $26 billion in spending before 
the caps. 

My colleagues, we have come a long 
way in balancing the budget. Let us 
not fail now. Let us show the discipline 
to say, yes, we want these things; yes, 
we want to invest in the infrastructure 
of America; but let us determine how 
we are going to pay for it before we do 
it. That 437 percent increase in the 
debt was because we did not answer 
that question first. 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 30 
seconds to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. MINGE), who was my partner 
in trying to put forward a balanced 
budget amendment. 

Mr. MINGE. Mr. Chairman, I would 
just like to briefly say that all of us 
support transportation. We think it is 
vital in our country; it is important; it 
is our infrastructure. At the same 
time, all of us are sensitive to the practical 
needs of the States. 

I think the important thing to recognize 
is that the bill reported out of 
Committee does not increase the 
spending in 1998 above the budget 
agreement. We do not have to worry 
about ruining the States’ ability to 
construct roads in 1998 or let contracts. 
That is not what is at issue here. That 
is a red herring. 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

We spent 11 years trying to get our 
country’s financial house in order. We 
are so close. And now we are spending 
the surplus we do not even have. We 
gave the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure $20 billion above 
last year’s agreement. We are giving 
them another $26 to $33 billion this 
year. We do not even have offsets. 

For me, this is an amazing time. I salute 
my colleagues on the other side 
who have done this in a bipartisan way. 
But we spent 30 years having deficits in 
a bipartisan way. I thought we had 
ended that. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

A 2-month short-term extension is 
terrible policy for our State transportation 
departments, for the people 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2019 

across America. This will destroy the 
construction season for many if not all 
of the States. There will be insufficient 
funding for the States to have certainty 
to proceed with projects. And, 
indeed, this will extend the unfair Senate-
imposed formulas which we are living 
with now. And most importantly in 
that regard, the donor States will have 
to wait another year for the formula 
changes to take place; and Member 
projects will be delayed for another 
year. 

Now, my good friend on the other 
side said, ‘‘This is not money from 
heaven.’’ How true that is. This is not 
money from heaven. This is money 
from the gas tax paid by the American 
people at the pump, and we do not 
spend one penny more than the revenue 
coming in. 

Defeat this amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. All time has expired. 


The question is on the amendment in 
the nature of a substitute offered by 
the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. SPRATT). 

The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. SHAYS. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, further proceedings on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. 
SPRATT) will be postponed. 

It is now in order to consider Amendment 
No. 6 printed in Part II of House 
Report 105–476. 

AMENDMENT NO. 6 IN THE NATURE OF A 
SUBSTITUTE OFFERED BY MR. KASICH 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. 


The Clerk will designate the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute. 

The text of the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute is as follows: 

Part II amendment No. 6 in the nature of 
a substitute offered by Mr. KASICH: 

Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Transportation 
Empowerment Act’’. 

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) the objective of the Federal highway 
program has been to facilitate the construction 
of a modern freeway system that promotes 
efficient interstate commerce by connecting 
all States; 
(2) that objective has been attained and the 
Interstate System connecting all States is 
near completion; 
(3) each State has the responsibility of providing 
an efficient transportation network 
for the residents of the State; 
(4) each State has the means to build and 
operate a network of transportation systems, 
including highways, that best serves 
the needs of the State; 
(5) each State is best capable of determining 
the needs of the State and acting on 
those needs; 
(6) the Federal role in highway transportation 
has, over time, usurped the role of the 
States by taxing fuels used in the States and 
then distributing the proceeds to the States 
based on the Federal Government’s perceptions 
of what is best for the States; 

(7) the Federal Government has used the 
Federal gasoline tax revenues to force all 
States to take actions that are not necessarily 
appropriate for individual States; 
(8) the Federal distribution, review, and 
enforcement process wastes billions of dollars 
on unproductive activities; 
(9) Federal mandates that apply uniformly 
to all 50 States, regardless of the different 
circumstances of the States, cause the 
States to waste billions of hard-earned tax 
dollars on projects, programs, and activities 
that the States would not otherwise undertake; 
and 
(10) Congress has expressed a strong interest 
in reducing the role of the Federal Government 
by allowing each State to manage 
its own affairs. 
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this Act 
are— 
(1) to return to the individual States maximum 
discretionary authority and fiscal responsibility 
for all elements of the national 
transportation systems that are not within 
the direct purview of the Federal Government; 
(2) to preserve Federal responsibility for 
the Dwight D. Eisenhower National System 
of Interstate and Defense Highways; 
(3) to preserve the responsibility of the Department 
of Transportation for— 
(A) design, construction, and preservation 
of transportation facilities on Federal public 
lands; 
(B) national programs of transportation research 
and development and transportation 
safety; and 
(C) emergency assistance to the States in 
response to natural disasters; 
(4) to eliminate to the maximum extent 
practicable Federal obstacles to the ability 
of each State to apply innovative solutions 
to the financing, design, construction, operation, 
and preservation of State and Federal 
transportation facilities; and 
(5) with respect to transportation activities 
carried out by States, local governments, 
and the private sector, to encourage— 
(A) competition among States, local governments, 
and the private sector; and 
(B) innovation, energy efficiency, private 
sector participation, and productivity. 
SEC. 3. CONTINUATION OF FUNDING FOR CORE 
HIGHWAY PROGRAMS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) FUNDING.—For the purpose of carrying 
out title 23, United States Code, the following 
sums are authorized to be appropriated 
out of the Highway Trust Fund: 
(A) INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.— 
For the Interstate maintenance program 
under section 119 of title 23, United States 
Code, $5,100,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
$5,300,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $5,400,000,000 
for fiscal year 2001, $5,600,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2002, and $5,700,000,000 for fiscal year 
2003. 
(B) INTERSTATE AND INDIAN RESERVATION 
BRIDGE PROGRAM.—For the Interstate and Indian 
reservation bridge program under section 
144 of that title $1,217,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1999, $1,251,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, 
$1,286,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, $1,321,000,000 
for fiscal year 2002, and $1,360,000,000 for fiscal 
year 2003. 
(C) FEDERAL LANDS HIGHWAYS PROGRAM.— 
(i) INDIAN RESERVATION ROADS.—For Indian 
reservation roads under section 204 of that 
title $202,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
$208,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $214,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2001, $220,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002, and $225,000,000 for fiscal year 2003. 
(ii) PUBLIC LANDS HIGHWAYS.—For public 
lands highways under section 204 of that 
title $182,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
$187,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $192,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2001, $197,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002, and $201,000,000 for fiscal year 2003. 

(iii) PARKWAYS AND PARK ROADS.—For 
parkways and park roads under section 204 of 
that title $89,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, 
$91,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, $94,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2001, $97,000,000 for fiscal year 
2002, and $99,000,000 for fiscal year 2003. 
(iv) HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.—For highway 
safety programs under section 402 of 
that title $171,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1999 through 2003. 
(v) HIGHWAY SAFETY RESEARCH AND DEVEL-
OPMENT.—For highway safety research and 
development under section 403 of that title 
$44,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1999 
through 2003. 
(2) TRANSFERABILITY OF FUNDS.—Section 
104 of title 23, United States Code, is amended 
by striking subsection (g) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(g) TRANSFERABILITY OF FUNDS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To the extent that a 
State determines that funds made available 
under this title to the State for a purpose 
are in excess of the needs of the State for 
that purpose, the State may transfer the excess 
funds to, and use the excess funds for, 
any surface transportation (including mass 
transit and rail) purpose in the State. 

‘‘(2) ENFORCEMENT.—If the Secretary determines 
that a State has transferred funds 
under paragraph (1) to a purpose that is not 
a surface transportation purpose as described 
in paragraph (1), the amount of the improperly 
transferred funds shall be deducted from 
any amount the State would otherwise receive 
from the Highway Trust Fund for the 
fiscal year that begins after the date of the 
determination.’’. 

(3) FEDERAL-AID SYSTEM.—Section 103(a) of 
title 23, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ‘‘systems are the Interstate System 
and the National Highway System’’ and inserting 
‘‘system is the Interstate System’’. 
(4) INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.— 
(A) FUNDING.—Section 104(b)(5) of title 23, 
United States Code, is amended by striking 
subparagraph (B) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(B) INTERSTATE MAINTENANCE.—For each 
of fiscal years 1999 through 2003, for the 
Interstate maintenance program under section 
119, 1 percent to the Virgin Islands, 
Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth 
of the Northern Mariana Islands and 
the remaining 99 percent apportioned as follows: 


‘‘(i)(I) For each State with an average population 
density of 20 persons or fewer per 
square mile, and each State with a population 
of 1,500,000 persons or fewer and with 
a land area of 10,000 square miles or less, the 
greater of— 

‘‘(aa) a percentage share of apportionments 
equal to the percentage listed for the State 
in subclause (II); or 

‘‘(bb) a share determined under clause (ii). 

‘‘(II) The percentage referred to in sub-
clause (I)(aa) is as follows: 
‘‘States: Percentage: 

Alabama ................................... 2.02 
Alaska ...................................... 1.24 
Arizona ..................................... 1.68 
Arkansas ................................... 1.32 
California .................................. 9.81 
Colorado ................................... 1.23 
Connecticut .............................. 1.00 
Delaware ................................... 0.40 
District of Columbia ................. 0.13 
Florida ...................................... 4.77 
Georgia ..................................... 3.60 
Hawaii ...................................... 0.55 
Idaho ......................................... 0.70 
Illinois ...................................... 3.71 
Indiana ..................................... 2.63 
Iowa .......................................... 1.13 


H2020 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Kansas ...................................... 1.10 
Kentucky .................................. 1.91 
Louisiana .................................. 1.63 
Maine ........................................ 0.50 
Maryland .................................. 1.64 
Massachusetts .......................... 1.68 
Michigan ................................... 3.34 
Minnesota ................................. 1.56 
Mississippi ................................ 1.23 
Missouri .................................... 2.45 
Montana ................................... 0.95 
Nebraska ................................... 0.73 
Nevada ...................................... 0.67 
New Hampshire ......................... 0.48 
New Jersey ............................... 2.28 
New Mexico ............................... 1.05 
New York .................................. 4.27 
North Carolina .......................... 2.83 
North Dakota ........................... 0.63 
Ohio .......................................... 3.77 
Oklahoma ................................. 1.55 
Oregon ...................................... 1.23 
Pennsylvania ............................ 4.12 
Puerto Rico .............................. 0.50 
Rhode Island ............................. 0.55 
South Carolina ......................... 1.63 
South Dakota ........................... 0.70 
Tennessee ................................. 2.30 
Texas ........................................ 7.21 
Utah .......................................... 0.71 
Vermont ................................... 0.43 
Virginia .................................... 2.61 
Washington ............................... 1.75 
West Virginia ............................ 0.76 
Wisconsin .................................. 1.91 
Wyoming ................................... 0.66. 

‘‘(ii) For each State not described in clause 
(i), a share of the apportionments remaining 
determined in accordance with the following 
formula: 

‘‘(I) 1/9 in the ratio that the total rural lane 
miles in each State bears to the total rural 
lane miles in all States with an average population 
density greater than 20 persons per 
square mile and all States with a population 
of more than 1,500,000 persons and with a 
land area of more than 10,000 square miles. 

‘‘(II) 1/9 in the ratio that the total rural vehicle 
miles traveled in each State bears to 
the total rural vehicle miles traveled in all 
States described in subclause (I). 

‘‘(III) 2/9 in the ratio that the total urban 
lane miles in each State bears to the total 
urban lane miles in all States described in 
subclause (I). 

‘‘(IV) 2/9 in the ratio that the total urban 
vehicle miles traveled in each State bears to 
the total urban vehicle miles traveled in all 
States described in subclause (I). 

‘‘(V) 3/9 in the ratio that the total diesel 
fuel used in each State bears to the total diesel 
fuel used in all States described in sub-
clause (I).’’. 

(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
119(f) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘If’’ and inserting 
‘‘For each of fiscal years 1991 through 
1997, if’’; and 
(ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting 
‘‘through fiscal year 1997’’ after ‘‘thereafter’’. 
(5) INTERSTATE BRIDGE PROGRAM.—Section 
144 of title 23, United States Code, is amended— 
(A) in subsection (d)— 
(i) by inserting ‘‘on the Federal-aid system 
as described in subsection (c)(3)’’ after ‘‘highway 
bridge’’ each place it appears; and 
(ii) by inserting ‘‘on the Federal-aid system 
as described in subsection (c)(3)’’ after 
‘‘highway bridges’’ each place it appears; 
(B) in the second sentence of subsection 
(e)— 
(i) in paragraph (1), by adding ‘‘and’’ at the 
end; 
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking the 
comma at the end and inserting a period; and 
(iii) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4); 
(C) in the first sentence of subsection (l), 
by inserting ‘‘on the Federal-aid system as 
described in subsection (c)(3)’’ after ‘‘any 
bridge’’; 
(D) in subsection (m), by inserting ‘‘on the 
Federal-aid system as described in subsection 
(c)(3)’’ after ‘‘any bridge’’; and 
(E) in the first sentence of subsection (n), 
by inserting ‘‘for each of fiscal years 1991 
through 1997,’’ after ‘‘of law,’’. 
(6) NATIONAL DEFENSE HIGHWAYS.—Section 
311 of title 23, United States Code, is amended— 
(A) in the first sentence, by striking 
‘‘under subsection (a) of section 104 of this 
title’’ and inserting ‘‘to carry out this section’’; 
and 
(B) by striking the second sentence. 
(7) TERMINATION OF MINIMUM ALLOCATION.— 
Section 157 of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(A) in subsection (a)(4), by striking ‘‘fiscal 
year 1992 and each fiscal year thereafter’’ 
and inserting ‘‘each of fiscal years 1992 
through 1997’’; and 
(B) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘the fiscal 
years ending on or after September 30, 
1983’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal years 1983 through 
1997’’. 
(8) MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS.—Section 
31104 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(A) in subsection (a), by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(6) not more than $90,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 1999 through 2003.’’; and 

(B) in subsection (g)(1)— 
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘1993– 
1997’’ and inserting ‘‘1993 through 2003’’; 
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘1993– 
1997’’ and inserting ‘‘1993 through 2003’’; and 
(iii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘1996, 
and 1997’’ and inserting ‘‘1996 through 2003’’. 
(b) EXTENSION OF HIGHWAY-RELATED TAXES 
AND HIGHWAY TRUST FUND.— 
(1) EXTENSION OF TAXES.—The following 
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 are each amended by striking ‘‘1999’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2004’’: 
(A) Section 4041(a)(1)(C)(iii)(I) (relating to 
rate of tax on certain buses). 
(B) Section 4041(a)(2)(B) (relating to rate of 
tax on special motor fuels), as amended by 
section 907(a)(1) of the Taxpayer Relief Act 
of 1997. 
(C) Section 4041(m)(1)(A) (relating to certain 
alcohol fuels), as amended by section 
907(b) of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 
(D) Section 4051(c) (relating to termination). 
(E) Section 4071(d) (relating to termination). 
(F) Section 4081(d)(1) (relating to termination). 
(G) Section 4481(e) (relating to period tax 
in effect). 
(H) Section 4482(c)(4) (relating to taxable 
period). 
(I) Section 4482(d) (relating to special rule 
for taxable period in which termination date 
occurs). 
(2) OTHER PROVISIONS.— 
(A) FLOOR STOCKS REFUNDS.—Section 
6412(a)(1) of such Code (relating to floor 
stocks refunds) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘1999’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2004’’, and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘2000’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2005’’. 
(B) INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS OF HIGHWAY 
USE TAX.—Section 6156(e)(2) of such Code (relating 
to installment payments of highway 
use tax on use of highway motor vehicles) is 
amended by striking ‘‘1999’’ and inserting 
‘‘2004’’. 
(3) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXEMPTIONS.— 
The following provisions of such Code are 
each amended by striking ‘‘1999’’ and inserting 
‘‘2004’’: 

(A) Section 4221(a) (relating to certain tax-
free sales). 
(B) Section 4483(g) (relating to termination 
of exemptions for highway use tax). 
(4) EXTENSION OF DEPOSITS INTO, AND CERTAIN 
TRANSFERS FROM, TRUST FUND.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b), and paragraphs 
(2) and (3) of subsection (c), of section 
9503 of such Code (relating to the Highway 
Trust Fund) are each amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘1999’’ each place it appears 
(other than in subsection (b)(4)) and inserting 
‘‘2003’’, and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘2000’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2004’’. 
(B) MOTORBOAT AND SMALL-ENGINE FUEL 
TAX TRANSFERS.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—Paragraphs (4)(A)(i), 
(5)(A), and (6)(E) of section 9503(c) of such 
Code are each amended by striking ‘‘1998’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2003’’. 
(ii) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO LAND AND 
WATER CONSERVATION FUND.—Section 201(b) of 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act 
of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l–11(b)) is amended— 
(I) by striking ‘‘1997’’ and inserting ‘‘2003’’, 
and 
(II) by striking ‘‘1998’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘2004’’. 
(C) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading 
for paragraph (3) of section 9503(c) of such 
Code is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(3) FLOOR STOCKS REFUNDS.—’’. 

(5) EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF EXPENDITURES 
FROM TRUST FUND.— 
(A) EXTENSION OF EXPENDITURE AUTHORITY.—
Paragraph (1) of section 9503(c) of such 
Code is amended by striking ‘‘1998’’ and inserting 
‘‘2003’’. 
(B) EXPANSION OF PURPOSES.—Paragraph (1) 
of section 9503(c) of such Code is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(C), and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘1991.’’ in subparagraph (D) 
and all that follows through the end of paragraph 
(1) and inserting ‘‘1991, or 
‘‘(E) authorized to be paid out of the Highway 
Trust Fund under the Transportation 
Empowerment Act. 

In determining the authorizations under the 
Acts referred to in the preceding subparagraphs, 
such Acts shall be applied as in effect 
on the date of the enactment of the Transportation 
Empowerment Act.’’. 

(c) TERMINATION OF TRANSFERS TO MASS 
TRANSIT ACCOUNT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9503(e)(2) of such 
Code (relating to Mass Transit Account) is 
amended by striking ‘‘2.85 cents’’ and inserting 
‘‘2.85 cents (zero, on and after October 1, 
1998)’’. 
(2) AUTHORIZATION TO EXPEND REMAINING 
BALANCES IN ACCOUNT.—Section 9503(e)(3) of 
such Code is amended by striking ‘‘before October 
1, 1998’’. 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section take effect on October 
1, 1998. 
SEC. 4. INFRASTRUCTURE SPECIAL ASSISTANCE 
FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9503 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(f) ESTABLISHMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE 
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE FUND.— 

‘‘(1) CREATION OF FUND.—There is established 
in the Highway Trust Fund a separate 
fund to be known as the ‘Infrastructure Special 
Assistance Fund’ consisting of such 
amounts as may be transferred or credited to 
the Infrastructure Special Assistance Fund 
as provided in this subsection or section 
9602(b). 

‘‘(2) TRANSFERS TO INFRASTRUCTURE SPECIAL 
ASSISTANCE FUND.—On the first day of 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2021 

each fiscal year after 1998 and before 2003, 
the Secretary shall transfer $300,000,000 from 
the Highway Trust Fund to Infrastructure 
Special Assistance Fund. 

‘‘(3) EXPENDITURES FROM INFRASTRUCTURE 
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE FUND.— 

‘‘(A) TRANSITIONAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clause (iv), during fiscal years 1999 through 
2002, the amount in the Infrastructure Special 
Assistance Fund shall be available to 
States for transportation-related program 
expenditures. 

‘‘(ii) STATE SHARE.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
clause (v), each State is entitled to a share of 
the $1,200,000,000 specified in paragraph (2) 
upon enactment of legislation providing 1 of 
the 2 funding mechanisms described in 
clause (iii). 

‘‘(II) DETERMINATION OF STATE SHARE.—For 
purposes of subclause (I), each State’s share 
shall be determined in the following manner: 

‘‘(aa) Multiply the percentage of the 
amounts appropriated in the latest fiscal 
year for which such data are available to the 
Highway Trust Fund under subsection (b) 
which is attributable to taxes paid by highway 
users in the State, by the amount specified 
in paragraph (2). If the result does not 
exceed $15,000,000, the State’s share equals 
$15,000,000. If the result exceeds $15,000,000, 
the State’s share is determined under item 
(bb). 

‘‘(bb) Multiply the percentage determined 
under item (aa), by the amount specified in 
clause (i) reduced by an amount equal to 
$15,000,000 times the number of States the 
share of which is determined under item (aa). 

‘‘(iii) LEGISLATIVE FUNDING MECHANISMS.— 
A funding mechanism is described in this 
clause as follows: 

‘‘(I) A funding mechanism which results in 
revenues for transportation-related projects 
in the State for fiscal year 2003 and each succeeding 
fiscal year which are equal to the excess 
of— 

‘‘(aa) the mean annual average of distributions 
from the Highway Trust Fund to the 
State for fiscal years 1992 through 1997; over 

‘‘(bb) the distributions from the Highway 
Trust Fund to the State for such fiscal year 
attributable to the core programs financing 
rate for such year. 

‘‘(II) A funding mechanism which results in 
an increase in the State rate of tax on motor 
fuels equal to the decrease in the rate of tax 
on such fuels under section 4081 for fiscal 
year 2003 and any succeeding fiscal year. 

‘‘(iv) DISTRIBUTION OF REMAINING AMOUNT.— 
If after September 30, 2002, a portion of the 
amount specified in paragraph (2) remains, 
the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Transportation, shall, on October 1, 
2002, apportion the portion among the States 
which received a share of such amount under 
clause (ii) and which are not described in 
clause (v) using the percentages determined 
under clause (ii)(II)(aa) for such States. 

‘‘(v) ENFORCEMENT OF FUNDING MECHANISM 
REQUIREMENT.—If a State, which enacted legislation 
providing for a funding mechanism 
described in clause (iii), terminates such 
mechanism before fiscal year 2003, the 
State’s share determined under clauses (ii) 
and (iv) shall be deducted from any amount 
the State would otherwise receive from the 
Highway Trust Fund for fiscal year 2003. 

‘‘(B) ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURES FROM 
FUND.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the Infrastructure 
Special Assistance Fund, in excess 
of the amount specified in paragraph (2), 
shall be available, as provided by appropriation 
Acts, to the States for any surface 
transportation (including mass transit and 
rail) purpose in such States, and the Secretary 
shall apportion such excess amounts 

among all States using the percentages determined 
under clause (ii)(II)(aa) for such 
States. 

‘‘(ii) ENFORCEMENT.—If the Secretary determines 
that a State has used amounts 
under clause (i) for a purpose which is not a 
surface transportation purpose as described 
in clause (i), the improperly used amounts 
shall be deducted from any amount the State 
would otherwise receive from the Highway 
Trust Fund for the fiscal year which begins 
after the date of the determination.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section takes effect on October 
1, 1998. 
SEC. 5. RETURN OF EXCESS TAX RECEIPTS TO 
STATES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 9503 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘(g) RETURN OF EXCESS TAX RECEIPTS TO 
STATES FOR SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PURPOSES.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On the first day of each 
of fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, and 2002, the 
Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Transportation, shall determine— 

‘‘(A) the excess highway receipts for such 
year, and 

‘‘(B) allocate such excess highway receipts 
among the States (as defined in section 101 of 
title 23, United States Code) in proportion to 
their respective shares of the amount described 
in paragraph (2)(A) in the latest fiscal 
year for which such data are available 
which is attributable to highway users in the 
State. 

Amounts allocated to a State under this 
paragraph may be used only for surface 
transportation (including mass transit and 
rail) purposes. 

‘‘(2) EXCESS HIGHWAY TAX RECEIPTS.—For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘excess 
highway tax receipts’ means, with respect to 
any fiscal year, the excess of— 

‘‘(A) the aggregate amount which would be 
appropriated to the Highway Trust Fund if 
each of the rates specified in section 
4081(a)(2)(A) were reduced by 4.3 cents, over 

‘‘(B) the sum of— 

‘‘(i) the aggregate amount which would be 
appropriated to the Highway Trust Fund if 
each of such rates equaled the core programs 
financing rate for such year, plus 

‘‘(ii) the aggregate of the amounts transferred 
from the Highway Trust Fund under 
paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) of subsection (c) 
for such year. 

‘‘(3) CORE PROGRAMS FINANCING RATE.—For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘core 
programs financing rate’ means— 

‘‘(A) after September 30, 1998, and before 
October 1, 1999, 12 cents per gallon, 

‘‘(B) after September 30, 1999, and before 
October 1, 2000, 7 cents per gallon, 

‘‘(C) after September 30, 2000, and before 
October 1, 2001, 4 cents per gallon, and 

‘‘(D) after September 30, 2001, 3 cents per 
gallon. 

‘‘(4) ENFORCEMENT.—If the Secretary determines 
that a State has used amounts under 
subparagraph (A) for a purpose which is not 
a surface transportation purpose as described 
in paragraph (1), the improperly used 
amounts shall be deducted from any amount 
the State would otherwise receive from the 
Highway Trust Fund for the fiscal year 
which begins after the date of the determination.’’. 


(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section takes effect on October 
1, 1998. 
SEC. 6. INTERSTATE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
COMPACTS. 

(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) INFRASTRUCTURE BANK.—The term ‘‘infrastructure 
bank’’ means a surface transportation 
infrastructure bank established 
under an interstate compact under subsection 
(b)(5) and described in subsection (d). 

(2) PARTICIPATING STATES.—The term ‘‘participating 
States’’ means the States that are 
parties to an interstate compact entered into 
under subsection (b). 
(3) SURFACE TRANSPORTATION.—The term 
‘‘surface transportation’’ includes mass transit 
and rail. 
(4) SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT.— 
The term ‘‘surface transportation project’’ 
means a surface transportation project, program, 
or activity described in subsection (b). 
(b) CONSENT OF CONGRESS.—In order to increase 
public investment, attract needed private 
investment, and promote an intermodal 
transportation network, Congress grants 
consent to States to enter into interstate 
compacts to— 
(1) promote the continuity, quality, and 
safety of the Interstate System; 
(2) develop programs to promote and fund 
surface transportation safety initiatives and 
establish surface transportation safety 
standards for the participating States; 
(3) conduct long-term planning for surface 
transportation infrastructure in the participating 
States; 
(4) develop design and construction standards 
for infrastructure described in paragraph 
(3) to be used by the participating 
States; and 
(5) establish surface transportation infrastructure 
banks to promote regional or other 
multistate investment in infrastructure described 
in paragraph (3). 
(c) FINANCING.—An interstate compact established 
by participating States under subsection 
(b) to carry out a surface transportation 
project may provide that, in order to 
carry out the compact, the participating 
States may— 
(1) accept contributions from a unit of 
State or local government or a person; 
(2) use any Federal or State funds made 
available for that type of surface transportation 
project; 
(3) on such terms and conditions as the 
participating States consider advisable— 
(A) borrow money on a short-term basis 
and issue notes for the borrowing; and 
(B) issue bonds; and 
(4) obtain financing by other means permitted 
under Federal or State law, including 
surface transportation infrastructure banks 
under subsection (d). 
(d) INFRASTRUCTURE BANKS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—An infrastructure bank 
may— 
(A) make loans; 
(B) under the joint or separate authority of 
the participating States with respect to the 
infrastructure bank, issue such debt as the 
infrastructure bank and the participating 
States determine appropriate; and 
(C) provide other assistance to public or 
private entities constructing, or proposing to 
construct or initiate, surface transportation 
projects. 
(2) FORMS OF ASSISTANCE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—An infrastructure bank 
may make a loan or provide other assistance 
described in subparagraph (C) to a public or 
private entity in an amount equal to all or 
part of the construction cost, capital cost, or 
initiation cost of a surface transportation 
project. 
(B) SUBORDINATION OF ASSISTANCE.—The 
amount of any loan or other assistance described 
in subparagraph (C) that is received 
for a surface transportation project under 
this section may be subordinated to any 
other debt financing for the surface transportation 
project. 
(C) OTHER ASSISTANCE.—Other assistance 
referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (B) includes 
any use of funds for the purpose of— 

H2022 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(i) credit enhancement; 
(ii) a capital reserve for bond or debt instrument 
financing; 
(iii) bond or debt instrument financing 
issuance costs; 
(iv) bond or debt issuance financing insurance; 
(v) subsidization of interest rates; 
(vi) letters of credit; 
(vii) any credit instrument; 
(viii) bond or debt financing instrument security; 
and 
(ix) any other form of debt financing that 
relates to the qualifying surface transportation 
project. 
(3) NO OBLIGATION OF UNITED STATES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The establishment under 
this section of an infrastructure bank does 
not constitute a commitment, guarantee, or 
obligation on the part of the United States 
to any third party with respect to any security 
or debt financing instrument issued by 
the bank. No third party shall have any right 
against the United States for payment solely 
by reason of the establishment. 
(B) STATEMENT ON INSTRUMENT.—Any security 
or debt financing instrument issued by 
an infrastructure bank shall expressly state 
that the security or instrument does not 
constitute a commitment, guarantee, or obligation 
of the United States. 
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section takes effect 
on October 1, 1998. 
SEC. 7. FEDERAL-AID FACILITY PRIVATIZATION. 

(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) EXECUTIVE AGENCY.—The term ‘‘Executive 
agency’’ has the meaning provided in 
section 105 of title 5, United States Code. 
(2) PRIVATIZATION.—The term ‘‘privatization’’ 
means the disposition or transfer of a 
transportation infrastructure asset, whether 
by sale, lease, or similar arrangement, from 
a State or local government to a private 
party. 
(3) STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—The 
term ‘‘State or local government’’ means the 
government of— 
(A) any State; 
(B) the District of Columbia; 
(C) any commonwealth, territory, or possession 
of the United States; 
(D) any county, municipality, city, town, 
township, local public authority, school district, 
special district, intrastate district, regional 
or interstate government entity, 
council of governments, or agency or instrumentality 
of a local government; or 
(E) any federally recognized Indian tribe. 
(4) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE 
ASSET.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘transportation 
infrastructure asset’’ means any surfacetransportation-
related asset financed in 
whole or in part by the Federal Government, 
including a road, tunnel, bridge, or mass-
transit-related or rail-related asset. 
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term does not include 
any transportation-related asset on the 
Interstate System (as defined in section 101 
of title 23, United States Code). 
(b) PRIVATIZATION INITIATIVES BY STATE 
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.—The head of each 
Executive agency shall— 
(1) assist State and local governments in 
efforts to privatize the transportation infrastructure 
assets of the State and local governments; 
and 
(2) subject to subsection (c), approve requests 
from State and local governments to 
privatize transportation infrastructure assets 
and waive or modify any condition relating 
to the original Federal program that 
funded the asset. 
(c) CRITERIA.—The head of an Executive 
agency shall approve a request described in 
subsection (b)(2) if— 
(1) the State or local government demonstrates 
that a market mechanism, legally 
enforceable agreement, or regulatory mechanism 
will ensure that the transportation infrastructure 
asset will continue to be used 
for the general objectives of the original 
Federal program that funded the asset 
(which shall not be considered to include 
every condition required for the recipient of 
Federal funds to have obtained the original 
Federal funds), so long as needed for those 
objectives; and 

(2) the private party purchasing or leasing 
the transportation infrastructure asset 
agrees to comply with all applicable conditions 
of the original Federal program. 
(d) LACK OF OBLIGATION TO REPAY FEDERAL 
FUNDS.—A State or local government shall 
have no obligation to repay to any agency of 
the Federal Government any Federal funds 
received by the State or local government in 
connection with a transportation infrastructure 
asset that is privatized under this section. 
(e) USE OF PROCEEDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), a 
State or local government may use proceeds 
from the privatization of a transportation 
infrastructure asset to the extent permitted 
under applicable conditions of the original 
Federal program. 
(2) RECOVERY OF CERTAIN COSTS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the 
State or local government shall be permitted 
to recover from the privatization of a transportation 
infrastructure asset— 
(A) the capital investment in the transportation 
infrastructure asset made by the 
State or local government; 
(B) an amount equal to the unreimbursed 
operating expenses in the transportation infrastructure 
asset paid by the State or local 
government; and 
(C) a reasonable rate of return on the investment 
made under subparagraph (A) and 
expenses paid under subparagraph (B). 
SEC. 8. REDUCTION IN MOTOR FUEL TAXES ON 
OCTOBER 1, 2002. 

(a) REDUCTION IN TAX RATES.—Section 
4081(a)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (relating to rates of tax) is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘18.3 cents’’ and inserting 
‘‘7.3 cents’’, 
(2) by striking ‘‘19.3 cents’’ and inserting 
‘‘8.3 cents’’, and 
(3) by striking ‘‘24.3 cents’’ and inserting 
‘‘7.3 cents’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 
4041(a)(2)(B) of such Code are each amended 
by striking the number of cents specified 
therein and inserting ‘‘4.3 cents’’. 
(2) Section 6427(b)(2)(A) of such Code is 
amended by striking ‘‘7.4 cents’’ and inserting 
‘‘0.1 cent’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to fuel removed 
after September 30, 2002. 
(d) FLOOR STOCK REFUNDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—If— 
(A) before October 1, 2002, tax has been imposed 
under section 4081 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 on any liquid; and 
(B) on such date such liquid is held by a 
dealer and has not been used and is intended 
for sale; 
there shall be credited or refunded (without 
interest) to the person who paid such tax (in 
this subsection referred to as the ‘‘taxpayer’’) 
an amount equal to the excess of the 
tax paid by the taxpayer over the amount of 
such tax which would be imposed on such liquid 
had the taxable event occurred on such 
date. 

(2) TIME FOR FILING CLAIMS.—No credit or 
refund shall be allowed or made under this 
subsection unless— 
(A) claim therefor is filed with the Secretary 
of the Treasury before April 1, 2003; 
and 
(B) in any case where liquid is held by a 
dealer (other than the taxpayer) on October 
1, 2002— 
(i) the dealer submits a request for refund 
or credit to the taxpayer before January 1, 
2003; and 
(ii) the taxpayer has repaid or agreed to 
repay the amount so claimed to such dealer 
or has obtained the written consent of such 
dealer to the allowance of the credit or the 
making of the refund. 
(3) EXCEPTION FOR FUEL HELD IN RETAIL 
STOCKS.—No credit or refund shall be allowed 
under this subsection with respect to any 
liquid in retail stocks held at the place 
where intended to be sold at retail. 
(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, 
the terms ‘‘dealer’’ and ‘‘held by a 
dealer’’ have the respective meanings given 
to such terms by section 6412 of such Code; 
except that the term ‘‘dealer’’ includes a producer. 
(5) CERTAIN RULES TO APPLY.—Rules similar 
to the rules of subsections (b) and (c) of section 
6412 and sections 6206 and 6675 of such 
Code shall apply for purposes of this subsection. 
SEC. 9. MASS TRANSPORTATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5338 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘§ 5338. Authorizations 

‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary of Transportation to carry 
out this chapter— 

‘‘(1) $868,000,000 for fiscal year 1999, of 
which— 

‘‘(A) $304,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
sections 5307 and 5309; 

‘‘(B) $95,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
section 5311; and 

‘‘(C) the amount remaining after allocation 
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be 
used at the discretion of the Secretary, including 
for capital expenditure under this 
chapter; 

‘‘(2) $889,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, of 
which— 

‘‘(A) $212,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
sections 5307 and 5309; 

‘‘(B) $97,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
section 5311; and 

‘‘(C) the amount remaining after allocation 
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be 
used at the discretion of the Secretary, including 
for capital expenditure under this 
chapter; 

‘‘(3) $916,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, of 
which— 

‘‘(A) $119,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
sections 5307 and 5309; 

‘‘(B) $100,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
section 5311; and 

‘‘(C) the amount remaining after allocation 
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be 
used at the discretion of the Secretary, including 
for capital expenditure under this 
chapter; 

‘‘(4) $941,000,000 for fiscal year 2002, of 
which— 

‘‘(A) $27,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
sections 5307 and 5309; 

‘‘(B) $103,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
section 5311; and 

‘‘(C) the amount remaining after allocation 
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be 
used at the discretion of the Secretary, including 
for capital expenditure under this 
chapter; and 

‘‘(5) $961,000,000 for fiscal year 2003, of 
which— 

‘‘(A) $0 shall be used to carry out sections 
5307 and 5309; 

‘‘(B) $105,000,000 shall be used to carry out 
section 5311; and 

‘‘(C) the amount remaining after allocation 
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2023 

used at the discretion of the Secretary, including 
for capital expenditure under this 
chapter.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section takes effect on October 
1, 1998. 
SEC. 10. REPORT TO CONGRESS. 

Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, after consultation 
with the appropriate committees of Congress, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall 
submit a report to Congress describing such 
technical and conforming amendments to titles 
23 and 49, United States Code, and such 
technical and conforming amendments to 
other laws, as are necessary to bring those 
titles and other laws into conformity with 
the policy embodied in this Act and the 
amendments made by this Act. 

SEC. 11. EFFECTIVE DATE CONTINGENT UPON 

CERTIFICATION OF DEFICIT NEU


TRALITY. 

(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section 
is to ensure that— 
(1) this Act will become effective only if 
the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget certifies that this Act is deficit 
neutral; 
(2) discretionary spending limits are reduced 
to capture the savings realized in devolving 
transportation functions to the 
State level; and 
(3) the tax reduction made by this Act is 
not scored under pay-as-you-go and thereby 
inadvertently trigger a sequestration. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE CONTINGENCY.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this Act, 
this Act and the amendments made by this 
Act shall take effect only if— 
(1) the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget (referred to in this section 
as the ‘‘Director’’) submits the report as required 
in subsection (c); and 
(2) the report contains a certification by 
the Director that the reduction in discretionary 
outlays resulting from the enactment 
of this Act (assuming appropriation 
amounts described in paragraph (2)(B)) is at 
least as great as the sum of the net reduction 
in receipts and direct spending provided 
in this Act for each fiscal year through 2003. 
(c) OMB ESTIMATES AND REPORT.— 
(1) REQUIREMENTS.—Not later than 7 calendar 
days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, 
and legal holidays) after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Director shall— 
(A) estimate the net change in receipts and 
in direct spending resulting from the enactment 
of this Act for each fiscal year through 
2003; 
(B) estimate the net change in discretionary 
outlays resulting from the reduction 
in budget authority under this Act for each 
fiscal year through 2003; 
(C) determine, based on those estimates, 
whether the reduction in discretionary outlays 
resulting from the enactment of this 
Act (assuming appropriation amounts described 
in paragraph (2)(B)) is at least as 
great as the sum of the net reduction in receipts 
and direct spending provided in this 
Act for each fiscal year through 2003; and 
(D) submit to the Congress a report setting 
forth the estimates and determination. 
(2) APPLICABLE ASSUMPTIONS AND GUIDELINES.— 
(A) REVENUE AND DIRECT SPENDING ESTIMATES.—
The revenue and direct spending estimates 
required under paragraph (1)(A) shall 
be predicated on the same economic and 
technical assumptions and scorekeeping 
guidelines that would be used for estimates 
made pursuant to section 252(d) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 902(d)). 
(B) OUTLAY ESTIMATES.—The outlay estimates 
required under paragraph (1)(B) shall 
be determined by comparing the estimated 
amounts of discretionary outlays that would 
flow from the new budget authority authorized 
in this Act on the assumption that subsequent 
appropriation Acts will provide 
amounts consistent with this Act (and that 
obligation limitations set forth in such appropriation 
Acts, if any, equal the corresponding 
levels of contract authority provided 
in this Act) and the corresponding 
amounts of discretionary outlays assumed in 
House Concurrent Resolution 84 (105th Congress) 
and House Report 105–116. 

(d) CONFORMING ADJUSTMENT TO DISCRETIONARY 
SPENDING LIMITS.—Upon compliance 
with the requirements specified in subsection 
(b), the Director shall adjust the adjusted 
discretionary spending limits for each 
fiscal year under section 251(c) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(c)) by the estimated 
reductions in discretionary outlays under 
subsection (c)(1)(B). 
(e) PAYGO INTERACTION.—Upon compliance 
with the requirements specified in subsection 
(b), no changes in receipts or direct 
spending estimated to result from the enactment 
of this Act shall be counted for the 
purposes of section 252(d) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 902(d)). 
The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. KASICH) and a Member opposed 
each will control 15 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. KASICH). 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself 6 minutes. 

Well, the first thing I want to do is 
just point out to the House and to my 
colleagues on the floor tonight who 
may study government, I think it is 
very interesting and think even a cause 
for optimism to recognize the fact that 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
SHUSTER) and I have been locked in a 
titanic struggle now for the course of 
the last several years; and I think what 
we can conclude from this is that it has 
been possible for two people to be able 
to take opposite positions based firmly 
on their principles and yet at the same 
time to be able to maintain a good relationship 
and never to make the fight 
personal. 

I hope that in some small way maybe 
down the road this debate will serve as 
somewhat of a model to those that engage 
at times on this floor in very 
heated debates based on very firmly 
held principles. So I think this is a 
very bright day for the House of Representatives 
from the standpoint of 
how, in fact, we conduct our debates. 

Let me start and talk to those who 
are actually watching this now and let 
me just start with a quote that was uttered 
on January 3, 1956. 

‘‘If we are to solve our mounting traffic 
problem, the whole interstate system must 
be authorized as one project to be completed 
approximately within the specified time of 10 
years. 

In 1956, those words were uttered by 
Dwight David Eisenhower. And, in fact, 
the legislation that passed the United 
States Congress authorized the Interstate 
Highway System Program for a 
period of 12 years, to be ended at the 
period at the end of 12 years. And, of 

course, that would have meant the program 
would have been ended in 1968. 
And here we are going into the next 
century, and the program still continues. 


What I wanted to propose today is 
what I believe will ultimately happen 
in this country. And I must tell my 
colleagues, I am disappointed that our 
Republicans who want to turn power, 
money, and influence back to people in 
local communities and to the States 
have not actually adopted this proposal. 
I call it the turn-back proposal. 
What it does, and I do not want anybody 
back in the offices to be confused 
about precisely the way this works, 
what we would do over the period of 
the next 4 years is to wrap up the 
projects that are currently under contract 
and then to begin to block grant 
money back to the States, their money 
back to the States. 

At the end of 4 years, we would essentially 
repeal the entire Federal gas tax 
program, except for 3 cents. We would 
leave 2 cents still coming to Washington 
for purposes of maintaining the 
interstate system, and we would also 
leave one additional penny in Washington 
to help those States that have 
unique transportation needs. 

At the same time, what we would 
argue is that we would repeal this 
whole Federal program; and we would 
essentially say to the States, they tax 
themselves at the pump, they pave 
their own roads, they make their own 
decisions, and they use their own regulatory 
authority to decide how they 
are going to do things. 

In a nutshell, what we are suggesting 
is rather than the States tax themselves 
at the pump and send their 
money to Washington so that we can 
then send it back, what we are suggesting 
is they never send the money to 
Washington in the first place. Because 
we all know what happens when we 
send our money to Washington expecting 
it to come back. It never comes 
back the way we want, and it never 
comes back in the amount we want. 

So what we are suggesting going into 
the next century is that they get to 
keep their money at home, they get to 
make their decisions based on what 
their transportation needs are, that 
the Federal Government will only have 
the responsibility for maintaining the 
current interstate system and helping 
those States that are in trouble. 

And how do they come out? At the 
end of the day, bingo, 32 States in 
America would benefit from this program. 
If they live in Texas, if they live 
in California, if they live in Florida, if 
they live in Ohio, they will get to tax 
themselves, keep their own money, and 
we will also not have these onerous 
Federal regulations that the State Department 
of Transportation argues 
costs as much as 20 percent on each 
project. 

There would be six States that would 
break even. But that would not be true, 
because when we cut the Federal regulations, 
the States would be far ahead. 


H2024 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

There would also be 12 States that 
would have special needs. That is why 
we would keep that extra penny in 
Washington to help those States. 

But when we take a view at the 
United States of America, 38 States are 
going to be clear winners under this 
program. What does that mean for us? 

b2000 
It means that we will have more 
money at home without sending it to 
Washington so we can all figure out 
what is best. We will be able to tax ourselves 
to the limit that we want to 
meet the highway needs that we have. 
At the end of the day, we will not 
only have more money to spend on our 
own roads, but we will not have all the 
Federal bureaucrats that sit around 
day and night trying to figure out all 
those silly regulations that drive the 
cost up of the projects, and we will be 
ahead. If we want to look towards the 
future that is the way it ought to go. 
We had a big debate today. Is a 43 
percent increase in highway funding 
justified? We had another debate today 
about these special projects. We would 
not have that debate anymore if we 
just turned the program back to where 
we lived. 
To my Republican colleagues, we 
want to turn welfare back to people 
where they live. We want to turn education 
back to where they live. We 
wanted to turn public housing back to 
where they live. You know what, I 
think we can turn concrete back to 
where they live, because they will, not 
only have more money, and they will 
not only be able to pave more roads, 
but they will be able to use their own 
local judgment to decide what their 
needs really are. 
I would urge my Republican colleagues 
and many of my Democratic 
colleagues to come to the floor and 
vote for the future. Vote for the future 
where we can be in control of our own 
destiny in so many ways. 
This fits the idea that really Washington 
does not know best. But who 
really knows best are the people that 
get up and go to work and earn a living 
and pay the taxes. They ought to be 
the ones that decide what our real 
needs are. We ought not to ask them to 
send their money here so when they 
get it back they are always disappointed. 
Let us just call the whole 
thing off, and let us pass the Kasich 
amendment. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in opposition to the amendment. 
The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. SHUSTER) is 
recognized for 15 minutes. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent that 71/2 minutes be 
allotted to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. OBERSTAR) and that he be 
permitted to control that time. 
The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 
There was no objection. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition 
to this amendment. Interestingly 
enough, while this would simply turn 
things back to the States, ironically 
there is a greater need for us to have a 
coordinated, tied-together national 
transportation system than ever. Why? 
Because more people and more goods 
are moving interstate than ever before. 
I think it is important. 

I think it is important to recognize 
that 64 percent of all truck traffic travels 
interstate now. I think it is important 
to recognize, as I mentioned earlier 
today, a great example, Oklahoma 
City, where two interstates intersect, 
60 percent of the license plates are out 
of State license plates. 

Indeed, there is a greater need to 
have this tied together than ever before. 
Our bill not only does that, but it 
also gives flexibilities to the States 
and the cities by saying that 50 percent 
of the funding in each category can be 
flexibly moved about to other categories. 


Beyond that, understand, this 
amendment keeps the 4.3 cents here in 
Washington and does not spend it. So 
we are back to the same old game, the 
shell game of taxing the American people 
for gas taxes; and, yet, keeping that 
money here and not spending it. 

Beyond that, this amendment has 
not been scored by the Congressional 
Budget Office. This amendment exempts 
the pay-go provisions of the bill 
for which we have been criticized. 

So for all of these reasons, it is very 
important that we reject this amendment. 
It is very important, also, to recognize 
that, of the money that comes 
to Washington now, only 1 percent 
stays here down at the Department of 
Transportation for administrative purposes, 
88 percent goes back to the 
States to be spent, 5 percent goes to 
the Secretary of Transportation to be 
sent back to the States for high cost 
discretionary projects, 5 percent goes 
back to the States through the congressional 
projects, and only 1 percent 
stays in Washington. 

Further, State regulations, which in 
many cases are as onerous, if not more 
onerous, than Federal regulations, 
would obviously stay in place. Indeed, 
we have no assurance whatsoever that, 
if we turn this back to the States, that 
the States would pass and increase 
their gas taxes. 

Indeed, I am told that, on the average, 
each State would have to pass the 
State gas tax increasing it by 15 cents 
per gallon. So what assurance do we 
have? No, this is simply destroying 
what must be a national program 
which is to tie our country together 
from a transportation point of view. 
For those reasons, I say we should defeat 
this amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself 30 seconds. 

Mr. Chairman, let us make no mistake 
about it. Under this proposal, first 
of all, it is deficit-neutral. Secondly, 

for those who have been struggling to 
repeal the 4.3 cent gas tax, we would 
take that to the Committee on Ways 
and Means and, in fact, repeal the 4.3 
cents. Make no mistake about it. 

In addition to it, let me just suggest 
one thing. I believe our Governors of 
our States are actually capable of 
being able to coordinate the transportation 
needs of our Nation. We believe 
that they can do this as Republicans 
and conservatives for a whole variety 
of functions. We absolutely believe 
they can get it right in highways. In 
fact, if we pass this amendment, they 
will have more money and less Federal 
regulations in order to get the job 
done. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. SALMON). 

Mr. SALMON. Mr. Chairman, I have 
got a news flash for the American people, 
and that is the American two-
party system we have loved for so long. 
It is clear with today’s goings on it is 
dead and gone. 

The Republicans and the Democrats 
have been replaced by one big mammoth 
party called the ‘‘republicrats’’, 
and they have one interest, and that is 
business as usual. 

My support for the Kasich amendment 
is typified by this story. It appears 
there was a young boy who wrote 
a letter to God asking for $10 because 
he wanted to buy something. The post 
office did not know where else to send 
it, so they sent it to the White House. 

The President got a kick out of that. 
He put a dollar in the mail back to the 
boy. The boy quickly wrote another 
letter back to God. He said, God, thank 
you so much for the money that you 
sent me, but it went by way of Washington, 
D.C., and they took out $9 and 
only gave me $1. Could you please send 
it to me directly next time? 

I think that is what we are after. We 
just want to make sure that the money 
stays in the States, and we cut out the 
Federal middleman, and all of the 
money goes to transportation, the 
needs appropriated by the citizens of 
the States we live in. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself 15 seconds to simply make the 
point that this amendment does not repeal 
the 4.3 cents. It keeps that money 
here in Washington. Secondly, all 50 
Governors support our bill. Those are 
facts. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, may 
I inquire what the distribution of time 
is at this point. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. OBERSTAR) has 71/2 
minutes. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
West Virginia (Mr. RAHALL), ranking 
member on the Subcommittee on Surface 
Transportation. 

Mr. RAHALL. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Minnesota, the 
ranking member, for yielding to me. 

Mr. Chairman, the previous speaker 
had just spoken of the formation of two 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2025 

parties today. He said ‘‘republicrats’’, I 
believe is what he called those of us 
working for the future of America by 
these investments we are making 
today. I would suggest perhaps the 
other party that he did not refer to 
should be called the ‘‘RWWK’’, the 
‘‘right wing whacko kids’’ for some of 
the philosophy they have been espousing 
here today. 

I commend the gentleman from Ohio 
for his tenacity. I do not agree with his 
amendment, but certainly his tenacity 
is to be commended. He has testified 
before our committee before. This is 
not his first time of putting this proposal 
forward. 

I would also note that I have been 
waiting for this day for a long, long 
time. I want to see a rollcall vote 
taken on the gentleman from Ohio’s 
amendment, because I think we need to 
clear once and for all where things 
stand on this particular issue. 

This amendment is, indeed, a thinly 
veiled attempt to turn back almost all 
highway responsibilities to our States, 
to devolve the Federal responsibility. 
So it just pertains to interstates and 
roads within our national parks, our 
public lands, and Indian reservations. 
That is it. There would be no other 
Federal highway-related responsibilities. 


Under the gentleman’s amendment, 
to accomplish this goal, the Federal 
motor fuels tax would be reduced to a 
little more than 7 cents per gallon and 
ultimately phased down to 3 cents a 
gallon. 

The obvious problem with his approach 
is that it does nothing, it does 
nothing to address the existing shortfall 
and spending to address our deficient 
highway infrastructure. In fact, 
it would worsen that shortfall. 

Considering the 18.3 cents per gallon 
Federal gas tax that is reserved for 
transportation investments, that is 
simply to maintain our status quo. 
Simply to maintain that status quo, 
many States are going to have to then 
increase their State gasoline taxes by 
at least 15 cents per gallon under this 
turn-back proposal, devolution, States 
opt out, or whatever description they 
want to give it. 

If my colleagues believe that the majority 
of our State Governors in their 
legislative bodies are prepared to take 
this type of action of increasing their 
State gasoline taxes to make up for 
this shortfall, if we believe State Governors 
and legislators are going to do 
that, then welcome to la-la land. 

There are numerous other problems 
with this approach as well. The fundamental 
problem, however, is that it 
simply throws crumbs at our crumbling 
infrastructure. That is all this 
approach does. 

There is a Federal responsibility, in 
my opinion, a pressing need on the 
Federal level to improve our roads, 
highways, and bridges. It goes to more 
than just our interstate system. 

Every day our people cross State 
lines on a noninterstate highway or 

roadway. These principal arterial 
routes, along with our interstates, are 
part of the national highway system. 
Interstates play only a small part of 
that national highway system we designated 
in 1995. I urge that we continue 
this Federal responsibility to maintaining 
our interstates and national 
highway systems. Vote no on this 
amendment. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from California 
(Mr. COX). 

Mr. COX of California. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the gentleman for yielding to 
me. 

Mr. Chairman, everything that was 
just said makes a great deal of sense 
provided that we stipulate that the 
Federal Government is the low-cost 
provider, that the most efficient way 
to get the most roads, the most 
bridges, and the most transportation is 
to send the money to Washington first 
where the freight charges can be deducted 
or where it can be run through 
the bureaucracy here and then shipped 
pack to the States. 

If we think that Washington is the 
best way to do it, getting the Washington 
bureaucracy involved is the most 
efficient way to do it, then, by all 
means, keep sending our gas taxes to 
Washington, D.C., even after the Interstate 
Highway Program was all finished, 
which it was in 1991. 

If we think the Washington bureaucracy 
is the low-cost provider, then, by 
all means, vote for the status quo. If 
we think Washington knows best, send 
all our money back here. But if we 
want more transportation, more highways, 
more bridges, more infrastructure, 
more transit, then take the full 
dollar of gas tax and spend it at home. 

This program guarantees us a full 90 
percent of what we send to Washington. 
It is time to get 100 percent. That 
is what this amendment will do. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. BLUMENAUER). 

Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Chairman, 
since the founding of this Republic, the 
Federal Government has been integrally 
involved with developing an infrastructure 
system: railroads, freeways, 
airports, ports, and inland waterways. 
And it has provided us a national 
system that has made this country 
great. But today, it is fraying at the 
edges. 

This proposal, the turn-back proposal, 
I think is appropriately named, 
because just when we are on the verge 
of getting it right under the ISTEA formula, 
we would be turning back to 
States that have varied, highly restricted 
constitutional provisions on 
how they can spend the money. They 
would be turning their back on many 
of the environmental priorities, transit 
priorities, and the strong national system 
that we have for bicycles. We 
would be turning our back on many of 
these areas. 

Onerous Federal regulations that the 
gentleman from Ohio refers to strikes 

me as somewhat humorous. I am not 
running for President, but I have been 
in 30 American communities over the 
last year talking about ISTEA and 
transportation. I tell my colleagues to 
a certainty, in community after community, 
it was the ISTEA structure 
that enabled for the first time cities 
and regions to have a voice that were 
ignored by State transportation commissions 
in State after State. 

This is not a vote for the future. It is 
a turning our back on the partnerships 
that can make America great. 

b2015 
Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I have 
always liked righteous indignation. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. KOLBE). 
Mr. KOLBE. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding this time to 
me. I rise in support of the Kasich substitute. 
Frankly, I am disappointed 
today that we see before us a bill that 
so fundamentally, so clearly violates 
the principles of fiscal responsibility, 
flies in the face of the balanced budget 
agreement that so many of us in this 
body worked so hard to achieve. Should 
we not be concerned about the fact 
that we are going to be spending $33 
billion more than the balanced budget 
agreement? That is $33 billion more. 
Mr. Chairman, I think it is hypocritical 
for this Congress to brag about 
its historic balanced budget agreement 
on the one hand and then move to 
trash that agreement. There is no way 
that I think any of us here can justify 
this shameful exercise in fiscal irresponsibility. 
Now I know the legislation says that 
there is going to be offsets to it, but do 
we not have a responsibility to first determine 
where those offsets ought to 
come from, where we are going to get 
the money to spend for this, before we 
go about authorizing it? Are we going 
to take it out of defense? Are we going 
to take it out of programs in law enforcement? 
Tax relief for American 
citizens? War on drugs? Where are we 
going to take it from? 
I think we should think about those 
things before we pass this legislation. 
Congress has an established process 
for appropriating money. The authorizing 
committee approves the spending, 
the Committee on Appropriations appropriates 
the money. That is a frequently 
contentious process, but it is a 
democratic process and we ought to 
keep it. 
Vote ‘‘aye’’ on this amendment. 
Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. LATOURETTE). 
Mr. LATOURETTE. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding this 
time to me. 
Mr. Chairman, I have the highest regard 
for the chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget, who will make a 
great President of the United States 
one day, but I am going to tell my colleagues 
his amendment predicts that 
there is no politics played in the local 


H2026 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

level in the State of Ohio or any other 
State. I can point the gentleman to 
half a billion dollars of road projects 
within spitting distance of the State 
capital that we share in Columbus, 
Ohio. I can also point the gentleman to 
roads in my area of the State where for 
26 years there have been promises 
made, where young people die every 
day and improvements never come. 

Mr. Chairman, the gentleman’s 
amendment takes the decision out of 
the hands of 435 Members of this House 
who are elected by 600,000 people and 
gives it to 50 men and women across 
this country who are elected by millions. 
H.R. 2400, BESTEA, makes sure 
that local decision-making is preserved. 
Ohio receives $300 million more 
per year than it received under ISTEA. 
This bill is a good bill, and it needs to 
be passed. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. MCHALE). 

Mr. MCHALE. Mr. Chairman I oppose 
the ‘‘turn your back’’ amendment. The 
Kasich amendment would lower the 
gasoline tax by virtually eliminating 
Federal support for our Nation’s highways. 


Last week my wife Kathy bought a 
gallon of gasoline in my district for 99 
cents. We may have among the cheaper 
gasoline in the Western World. Mr. 
Chairman, we do not need cheaper gas, 
we need better safer highways. 

A few minutes ago my friend and colleague, 
the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. LARGENT) attacked the proposed 
redevelopment of the industrial waterfront 
in Allentown, Pennsylvania. The 
gentleman from Oklahoma has never 
visited the site; I live 2 miles away. 
The gentleman from Oklahoma has 
never spoken to the low-income families 
who live in the area; I have many 
times. 

The ISTEA funding in this bill will 
provide roads and access ramps to reclaim 
and restore a brownfield site located 
in the heart of one of Pennsylvania’s 
largest cities. There could be, I 
pledge to the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. LARGENT) and others, there 
could be no more honorable investment 
of public funds. 

What a meaningless victory if we preserve 
the budget but abandon our cities. 
What a callous misjudgment if we 
protect our wallets but abandon our 
people. 

I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on the Kasich 
amendment. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. SMITH) one of my cosponsors. 

Mr. SMITH of Michigan. Mr. Chairman, 
the first question it seems like we 
should ask ourselves: How do we most 
efficiently and most effectively get 
bridges and roads repaired in this country? 
One problem with the money coming 
to Washington and then going back 
to the States is there is too many 
strings attached when it goes back to 
the States. 

Gabriel Roth, in his book ‘‘Roads in a 
Market Economy,’’ estimates that the 

Federal regulations that go back with 
that money increase the cost of roads 
and bridges by 50 percent. Other road 
economists estimate that it is 40 percent. 
Talking about politics played, we 
use this money as blackmail. We say to 
States, ‘‘Unless you do things our way, 
we’re not going to give you the road 
money. Unless you do your environmental 
regulations our way, you don’t 
get your road money.’’ 

If we want to get rid of the politics, 
if we want to have more efficient construction 
and utilization to build a 
road and bridge system in this country 
that is badly in need of repair, then let 
us let the money stay in the States in 
the first place instead of running it 
through the Washington bureaucracy. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of the time. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania is recognized for 21/2 
minutes. 

Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I am 
just delighted that the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. KASICH), the author of this 
amendment, was not in the Eisenhower 
Cabinet or in the Bureau of Roads, as it 
was known in those days, because 
goodness knows we would never have 
had a Highway Trust Fund, we would 
have never had an interstate highway 
program; he would have just let the 
States go on and fumble as they had 
been doing. He would take us back to a 
time that none of us here could possibly 
imagine, a time when some 
States started roads, others did not, 
they built it up to a certain point and 
then it stopped. Bridges were started 
and then stopped. 

If we follow the gentleman’s logic all 
the way through, we would have 
bridges that go halfway across a river 
because one State would want to build 
it and the other State would not or 
would run out of money, or we would 
have roads that go up to a State’s border 
and the other State would say, 
‘‘Well, we don’t think we want to build 
a road there.’’ 

I mean, he would have us in chaos, he 
would have us back in 14th century 
England when the rule was that the 
owner of a castle had to repair the road 
in front of their castle so that the carriages 
riding along would not be stuck 
in the potholes, and if they did, then 
they had to pull them out. He would 
set us back, not forward. 

This is a vote for the past, not a vote 
for the future. This is a vote for a chimerical 
view of transportation in 
America, one that exists solely in the 
mind of its author but does not exist in 
reality. 

If we are going to be a Nation, and if 
my colleagues believe in the Constitution 
that said a responsibility of the 
Congress shall be to build post roads, 
that it shall have authority over interstate 
and foreign commerce, then it is 
our duty to promote interstate and foreign 
commerce, and the way to do it is 
through transportation, and we do 
that. 

This legislation that we bring to the 
floor today continues the greatest 

movement of, mobility of people and 
goods, the greatest thrust for economic 
growth that this country or any country 
has undertaken. Our transportation 
network has given America the thrust 
to be a world power. 

Let us not retreat to the past. Let us 
vote for the future, for BESTEA, and 
vote down the Kasich amendment. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 
minutes to the very distinguished gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. OBEY). 

Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, a donor 
State is better off under Kasich. If my 
colleagues believe that States can do 
some things better than the Federal 
Government, vote for Kasich. If my 
colleagues want highways off budget, 
let us really take them off budget, keep 
the dollars at home and vote for Kasich. 


There is or there should be a Federal 
role in the highway area, but this bill 
is so incredibly irresponsible. Forty-
four percent over the last bill, $40 million 
over the budget; it demonstrates 
this Congress has lost all manner of 
self-control on this issue and does not 
deserve to have its hands on the dollars 
in this bill. 

The gentleman from Pennsylvania 
said a moment ago, oh, this amendment 
is not scored. I could not help but 
laugh. Give me a break. This bill has 
been scored, and it is a $40 billion budget 
buster. 

We are told 50 Governors support the 
bill. What Governor do we not see in 
this posture, with his hand out half the 
time? We had 40 of those Governors 
last year tell us to pass the same budget 
that now they are telling us to bust. 
That is ridiculous. 

Last year when we passed the welfare 
reform bill we told people that there 
was no longer any need to keep Federal 
standards under how we took care of 
poor people. If that is the case, there is 
certainly no need to maintain Federal 
standards on concrete. 

Vote for the Kasich amendment. It 
gets us out of the most irresponsible 
mess I have seen in this Congress in at 
least a week. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. PETRI) the distinguished 
chairman of the subcommittee. 

Mr. PETRI. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding this time to 
me, and I would just like to make a few 
points. 

The Kasich amendment, hearing 
some of the people describe it, sounds 
like a pretty good idea: Keep the 
money in the States where it is generated 
and where it can be spent most 
efficiently, instead of sending it out to 
Washington and having all sorts of red 
tape added and then sending it back so 
we do not get as much investment for 
our infrastructure as we pay for. 

Is that what the Kasich amendment 
does? No. Last time I checked, what 
was the Federal gas tax? 18.4 cents. 
How much does the Kasich amendment 
send back? 18.4 cents? No, 11 cents. 
What happens to the rest? Stays in 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2027 

Washington, at least a lot of it, and is This is much better than block have a letter from Governor Whitman 
spent on other things. grants. This is returning responsibility of New Jersey in which she says turn 
So in my State, in Wisconsin, what is to the States. I compliment the gen-back what hurt our State’s ability to 
being said? This is saying we want to tleman for bringing this to the floor. move people and goods throughout the 

increase taxes at the State level because 
we will give them in Washington 
11 cents, and in order to maintain the 
transportation investment in their infrastructure 
they will have to raise 
their gas taxes how much? 11 cents? 
No, 15 cents. 

As my colleagues know, the Governors 
and a lot of experts watching 
what is happening in our national Federal 
system have been pointing out 
that people in Washington cut back on 
spending and it has to be picked up at 
the State and local level and higher 
taxes at the State and local level, and 
then we pat ourselves on the back for 
supposedly cutting burdens when all we 
are doing is shifting it to the State and 
local level. 

The Governors have been criticized 
here on this floor, but I think they are 
elected too and are due our respect. 
They were out here just a few weeks 
ago pointing out that over the last 20 
years the Federal percentage of investment 
in our Nation’s transportation infrastructure 
have been gradually declining. 
We have been talking pretty 
big out here, but we have been transferring 
the budget responsibility, the 
need for raising the revenue to maintain 
our roads and bridges in the 
United States, from Washington back 
to the State and local units of government. 
This would radically accelerate 
that, and it would basically shortchange 
every State in the United 
States by about 4 cents. 

Please vote ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. PAUL). 

Mr. PAUL. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding this time to 
me. I rise in strong support of this 
amendment. 

I would like to remind my colleagues 
that in the 1950s when the Federal 
highway program started it was recognized 
that it was an improper function 
of the Federal Government. Therefore 
the Congress back then, they were still 
recognizing that the Constitution had 
some effect as well as the President; 
they had to come up for a reason for 
the highway projects, so they did it 
under national defense. 

Of course today we do not debate 
that issue in that light, but I think we 
see the results of doing something that 
was not proper. Today it is very expensive, 
it is very bureaucratic, and we 
have seen tonight in the debate how it 
has become politicized. 

So if we are looking for a fair way to 
build highways, a more efficient way to 
build highways, I think this is the answer. 
This is not going backwards, this 
is going forward. This would be the 
first time we could have a national 
highway system really controlled by 
the States where it is supposed to be. 
The States would have more money, 
not less money. They would have less 
regulation, not more regulation. 

b2030 

The CHAIRMAN. The Chair will advise 
Members that the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. KASICH) has 11/2 minutes remaining 
and the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER) has 11/4 minutes 
remaining and the right to close. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 
minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Brookhaven, Mississippi (Mr. 
PARKER). 

Mr. PARKER. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding me time. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support 
of the Kasich amendment. Tim 
Penny, I saw him yesterday, and Tim 
made a statement to me which I find 
fascinating. He said he felt he owed an 
apology to some of the liberal Democratic 
chairmen for some of the bills 
that they had written. He thought 
there was a lot of pork in them, and he 
found out that, no, that was not really 
right; that this particular bill that has 
been brought forth puts the rest of 
them to shame. And I agree. 

Now, if you think this bill is going to 
become law as it is, it is not. The Senate 
is not going to pass this bill, and I 
pray to God that the President of the 
United States vetoes it. 

The interesting thing is this: Can you 
imagine the depths that we have sunk 
to when we have to depend on the other 
body and the President of the United 
States to show fiscal responsibility? 

I predict that this vote will be one of 
the worst votes, if you vote for this 
bill, of any vote you have ever cast, if 
you are a conservative, a fiscal conservative 
and believe in fiscal responsibility. 
You will rue the day you voted 
for this. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Chairman, let me just make it 
clear: What we want to do is keep 3 
cents in Washington to maintain the 
current interstate system. If you come 
from Montana, where you are losing in 
this bill, we are going to keep a penny 
here to help you and the other heavy 
transit States. We are going to repeal 
the 4.3 cents enacted in 1993 that every 
Republican voted against, and we are 
going to get rid of the rest of the gas 
tax and let the States levy their own 
taxes and manage their own roads with 
their own regulations. 

I do not think that we are going to 
have any halfway built bridges that are 
going to end in the middle of a river. I 
think people are smarter than that. I 
know this, they are a lot smarter at 
home than they are right here in Washington. 


Vote for the Kasich amendment. 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Chairman, we hear about turning 
back to the States, but all 50 State 
Governors support BESTEA, not the 
amendments in front of us. Indeed, I 

Northeast corridor. That is the way it 
is across America. Why? Because more 
people are traveling interstate than 
ever before. 

And do not be fooled by this pig in a 
poke. This does not turn back the 4.3 
cents. This does not rescind the 4.3 
cents. This amendment does nothing 
but keep the 4.3 cents, which amounts 
to about $6.5 billion a year, here in 
Washington, not to be spent on highways, 
but to be spent to mask and disguise 
the same old Ponzi scheme of 
using this money rather than building 
highways in America. 

Indeed, my good friend from Ohio 
talks about the regulations here. Only 
1 percent of the money stays in Washington 
for the Department of Transportation. 
But we Republicans control the 
Congress. If we want to change the regulations, 
then let us do it. And, indeed, 
we hope that we will control the White 
House a few years from now, and indeed 
it may well be the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. KASICH), the chairman 
of the Committee on the Budget, who 
will be the next President of the United 
States. And if he is the next President 
of the United States, I will join with 
him in changing these regulations. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
offered by the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. KASICH). 

The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. KASICH. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, further proceedings on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. KASICH) will be 
postponed. 

SEQUENTIAL VOTES POSTPONED IN COMMITTEE 
OF THE WHOLE 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 405, proceedings will now 
resume on those amendments on which 
further proceedings were postponed in 
the following order: 

Amendment No. 4 offered by the gentleman 
from South Carolina (Mr. 
GRAHAM); Amendment No. 5 offered by 
the gentleman from South Carolina 
(Mr. SPRATT); and Amendment No. 6 offered 
by the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. 
KASICH). 

The Chair will reduce to 5 minutes 
the time for any electronic vote after 
the first vote in this series of votes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. GRAHAM 

The CHAIRMAN. The pending business 
is the vote on the amendment offered 
by the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) on which further 
proceedings were postponed and 
on which the noes prevailed by voice 
vote. 

The Clerk will redesignate the 
amendment. 

The Clerk redesignated the amendment. 



H2028 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

RECORDED VOTE LaFalce Norwood Sherman 

which further proceedings were post-

LaHood Nussle Shimkus

The CHAIRMAN. A recorded vote has poned and on which the noes prevailed

Lampson Oberstar Shuster 
been demanded. Lantos Obey Sisisky by voice vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. Latham Olver Skeen The Clerk will redesignate the 
LaTourette Ortiz Skelton

The vote was taken by electronic de-amendment in the nature of a sub-

Lazio Owens Slaughter

vice, and there were—ayes 79, noes 337, stitute.

Levin Oxley Smith (NJ) 
answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting 12, as Lewis (CA) Packard Smith (OR) The Clerk redesignated the amend-
follows: ment in the nature of a substitute.

Lewis (KY) Pallone Smith (TX) 
Linder Pascrell Smith, Adam

[Roll No. 95] RECORDED VOTE

Lipinski Pastor Smith, Linda 

AYES—79 Livingston Paul Snowbarger The CHAIRMAN. A recorded vote has 
LoBiondo Paxon Snyder

Archer Hayworth Pomeroy been demanded.

Lowey Pease Solomon

Ballenger Hill Porter A recorded vote was ordered.

Lucas Pelosi Spence

Barr Hilleary Rogan 

Luther Peterson (MN) Spratt The CHAIRMAN. This will be a 5


Barrett (NE) Hobson Rohrabacher 

Maloney (CT) Peterson (PA) Stabenow 

minute vote.

Barrett (WI) Hoekstra Salmon 

Maloney (NY) Petri Stark

Barton Hunter Sanford The vote was taken by electronic de-

Manton Pickering Stearns

Boehner Hyde Scarborough 

Manzullo Pickett Stokes vice, and there were—ayes 106, noes 312,

Bonilla Inglis Schaffer, Bob 

Markey Pitts Strickland answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 11, as

Burr Istook Sensenbrenner 

Martinez Pombo Stupak

Campbell Johnson, Sam Sessions follows:

Mascara Portman Sununu

Castle Jones Shadegg 

Matsui Poshard Talent [Roll No. 96]

Chabot Kasich Shays 

McCarthy (MO) Price (NC) Tanner 

AYES—106

Christensen Kind (WI) Skaggs 

McCarthy (NY) Pryce (OH) Tauscher

Coburn Kingston Smith (MI) Ballenger Hall (TX) Rogan

McDade Quinn Tauzin

Condit Kolbe Souder Barr Harman Rohrabacher

McDermott Radanovich Taylor (MS)

Cox Largent Stenholm Barrett (NE) Hastings (FL) Roybal-Allard

McGovern Rahall ThompsonCubin Leach Stump Barrett (WI) Hayworth Sabo

McHale Ramstad Thune

Deal Lewis (GA) Taylor (NC) Bartlett Hill Salmon

McHugh Redmond Thurman

Deutsch McCollum Thomas Barton Hobson Sanchez

McInnis Regula Tiahrt

Edwards Miller (FL) Thornberry Becerra Hoyer Sanford

McIntyre Reyes Tierney

Ehrlich Minge Wamp Bentsen Inglis Sawyer

McKeon Riggs Towns

Foley Morella Wexler Berman Jones Scarborough

McKinney Riley Traficant

Frelinghuysen Myrick White Boehner Kasich Scott

McNulty Rivers Turner

Goss Nethercutt Wolf Bonilla Kennedy (RI) Sessions

Meehan Rodriguez Upton

Graham Neumann Young (FL) Boyd Kind (WI) Shadegg

Meek (FL) Roemer VelazquezGutknecht Pappas Brown (OH) Kingston Shays

Meeks (NY) Rogers Vento 
Menendez Rothman Visclosky

Hall (TX) Parker Burr Kolbe Sisisky 
Campbell LaFalce Skaggs

Metcalf Roukema Walsh 
Mica Roybal-Allard Watkins 

NOES—337 

Cardin Largent Smith, Adam 
Abercrombie Cook Gekas Castle Lewis (GA) Snyder

Millender-Rush Watt (NC)

Ackerman Cooksey Gephardt Chabot Livingston Souder

McDonald Ryun Watts (OK)
Aderholt Costello Gibbons Christensen Lofgren Spratt

Miller (CA) Sabo Waxman 

Allen Coyne Gilchrest Clayton Luther Stark

Mink Sanchez Weldon (FL)

Andrews Cramer Gillmor Coburn Maloney (NY) Stearns

Moakley Sanders Weldon (PA)
Armey Crane Gilman Condit Miller (FL) Stenholm

Mollohan Sandlin Weller 

Bachus Crapo Goode Cox Minge Sununu

Moran (KS) Sawyer Weygand

Baesler Cummings Goodlatte Crane Moran (VA) Tanner

Moran (VA) Saxton Whitfield 
Baker Cunningham Goodling Davis (FL) Myrick Taylor (MS)

Murtha Schaefer, Dan Wicker 

Baldacci Danner Gordon Deal Nethercutt Thornberry

Nadler Schumer Wise 

Barcia Davis (FL) Granger Deutsch Neumann Thurman

Neal Scott WoolseyBartlett Davis (IL) Green Dicks Obey Watt (NC)

Ney Serrano Wynn

Bass Davis (VA) Greenwood Doggett Parker Waxman

Northup Shaw Young (AK)

Bateman DeFazio Gutierrez Dooley Paul Wexler 
Becerra DeGette Hall (OH) ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2 Edwards Peterson (MN) Weygand 
Bentsen Delahunt Hamilton Eshoo Pomeroy White

Lofgren McCrery

Bereuter DeLauro Hansen Etheridge Porter Whitfield 
Berman DeLay Harman NOT VOTING—12 Fazio Portman Wolf 
Berry Diaz-Balart Hastert Gillmor Price (NC)

Cannon McIntosh Royce

Bilbray Dickey Hastings (FL) Graham Roemer

Gonzalez Payne Torres

Bilirakis Dicks Hastings (WA) 

Jefferson Rangel Waters 

NOES—312

Bishop Dingell Hefley 

Klug Ros-Lehtinen Yates

Blagojevich Dixon Hefner Abercrombie Buyer Dickey 

Bliley Doggett Herger b2059 Ackerman Callahan Dingell 
Blumenauer Dooley Hilliard Aderholt Calvert Dixon 
Blunt Doolittle Hinchey Messrs. BURTON of Indiana, TAY-Allen Camp Doolittle 

Boehlert Doyle Hinojosa LOR of Mississippi, MEEHAN, and Andrews Canady Doyle 
Bonior Dreier Holden Archer Capps Dreier

BRADY changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’

Borski Duncan Hooley Armey Carson Duncan

to ‘‘no.’’

Boswell Dunn Horn Bachus Chambliss Dunn 

Boucher Ehlers Hostettler Mr. Deutsch changed his vote from Baesler Chenoweth Ehlers 
Boyd Emerson Houghton ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ Baker Clay Ehrlich 
Brady Engel Hoyer Baldacci Clement Emerson

So the amendment was rejected.

Brown (CA) English Hulshof Barcia Clyburn Engel 
Brown (FL) Ensign Hutchinson The result of the vote was announced 

Bass Coble English 
Brown (OH) Eshoo Jackson (IL) as above recorded. Bateman Collins Ensign 
Bryant Etheridge Jackson-Lee Bereuter Combest Evans

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN

Bunning Evans (TX) Berry Conyers Everett 
Burton Everett Jenkins The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House Bilbray Cook Ewing 

Buyer Ewing John Resolution 405, the Chair announces Bilirakis Cooksey Farr 
Callahan Farr Johnson (CT) Bishop Costello Fattah

that he will reduce to a minimum of 5

Calvert Fattah Johnson (WI) Blagojevich Coyne Fawell 
Camp Fawell Johnson, E. B. minutes the period of time within Bliley Cramer Filner 

Canady Fazio Kanjorski which a vote by electronic device will Blumenauer Crapo Foley 
Capps Filner Kaptur Blunt Cubin Forbes

be taken on each amendment on which 

Cardin Forbes Kelly Boehlert Cummings Ford

the Chair has postponed further pro-

Carson Ford Kennedy (MA) Bonior Cunningham Fossella 
Chambliss Fossella Kennedy (RI) ceedings. Borski Danner Fowler 
Chenoweth Fowler Kennelly 

AMENDMENT NO. 5 IN THE NATURE OF A Boswell Davis (IL) Fox 
Clay Fox Kildee Boucher Davis (VA) Frank (MA)

SUBSTITUTE OFFERED BY MR. SPRATT

Clayton Frank (MA) Kilpatrick Brady DeFazio Franks (NJ) 
Clement Franks (NJ) Kim The CHAIRMAN. The pending busi-Brown (CA) DeGette Frelinghuysen 
Clyburn Frost King (NY) ness is the demand for a recorded vote Brown (FL) Delahunt Frost 

Coble Furse Kleczka Bryant DeLauro Furse

on the amendment in the nature of a

Collins Gallegly Klink Bunning DeLay Gallegly

substitute offered by the gentleman

Combest Ganske Knollenberg Burton Diaz-Balart Ganske 
Conyers Gejdenson Kucinich from South Carolina (Mr. SPRATT) on 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2029 

Gejdenson Linder Ramstad Gephardt Manton Rothman 
Gekas Lipinski Redmond Gibbons Manzullo Roukema

substitute offered by the gentleman 

from Ohio (Mr. KASICH) on which fur-

Gephardt LoBiondo Regula Gilchrest Markey Roybal-Allard 
Gibbons Lowey Reyes ther proceedings were postponed and Gillmor Martinez Rush 
Gilchrest Lucas Riggs on which the noes prevailed by voice Gilman Mascara Ryun 
Gilman Maloney (CT) Riley Goode Matsui Sabo

vote.

Goode Manton Rivers Goodling McCarthy (MO) Sanchez 
Goodlatte Manzullo Rodriguez The Clerk will redesignate the Gordon McDade Sanders 
Goodling Markey Rogers amendment in the nature of the sub-Granger McDermott Sandlin 

stitute.

Gordon Martinez Rothman Green McGovern Sawyer 
Goss Mascara Roukema Greenwood McHale Saxton

The Clerk redesignated the amend-

Granger Matsui Rush Gutierrez McHugh Schaefer, Dan 
Green McCarthy (MO) Ryun ment in the nature of a substitute. Gutknecht McInnis Schumer 
Greenwood McCarthy (NY) Sanders Hall (OH) McIntyre Scott

RECORDED VOTE 

Gutierrez McCollum Sandlin Hamilton McKeon Serrano 
Gutknecht McDade Saxton The CHAIRMAN. A recorded vote has Hansen McKinney Shaw 
Hall (OH) McDermott Schaefer, Dan been demanded. Hastert McNulty Shays 
Hamilton McGovern Schaffer, Bob Hastings (FL) Meehan Sherman

A recorded vote was ordered.

Hansen McHale Schumer Hefner Meek (FL) Shimkus 
Hastert McHugh Sensenbrenner Hill Meeks (NY) Shuster

The CHAIRMAN. This will be a 5Hastings 
(WA) McInnis Serrano minute vote. Hilliard Menendez Skaggs 
Hefley McIntosh Shaw Hinchey Metcalf Skeen

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Hefner McIntyre Sherman Hinojosa Mica Skelton

vice, and there were—ayes 98, noes 318,

Herger McKeon Shimkus Holden Millender-Slaughter 
Hilleary McKinney Shuster answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting 12, as Hooley McDonald Smith (NJ) 
Hilliard McNulty Skeen follows: Horn Minge Smith (OR) 
Hinchey Meehan Skelton Hostettler Mink Smith (TX)

[Roll No. 97]

Hinojosa Meek (FL) Slaughter Houghton Moakley Smith, Adam 
Hoekstra Meeks (NY) Smith (MI) AYES—98 Hoyer Mollohan Smith, Linda 
Holden Menendez Smith (NJ) Hulshof Moran (KS) Snowbarger

Archer Goodlatte Packard

Hooley Metcalf Smith (OR) Hutchinson Morella Snyder

Armey Goss Parker

Horn Mica Smith (TX) Hyde Murtha Solomon

Bachus Graham Paul

Hostettler Millender-Smith, Linda Jackson (IL) Nadler Spence

Ballenger Hall (TX) Pombo

Houghton McDonald Snowbarger Jackson-Lee Neal Spratt

Barr Harman Porter

Hulshof Miller (CA) Solomon (TX) Nethercutt Stabenow

Barrett (NE) Hastings (WA) Portman

Hunter Mink Spence Jenkins Ney Stearns

Bartlett Hayworth Pryce (OH)

Hutchinson Moakley Stabenow John Northup Stokes

Barton Hefley Radanovich

Hyde Mollohan Stokes Johnson (CT) Norwood Strickland

Bilbray Herger Rogan

Istook Moran (KS) Strickland Johnson (WI) Nussle Stupak

Bilirakis Hilleary Rohrabacher

Jackson (IL) Morella Stump Johnson, E. B. Oberstar Sununu

Boehner Hobson Salmon

Jackson-Lee Murtha Stupak Kanjorski Olver Talent

Bonilla Hoekstra Sanford

(TX) Nadler Talent Kaptur Ortiz Tanner

Boyd Hunter Scarborough

Jenkins Neal Tauscher Kelly Owens Tauscher

Brady Inglis Schaffer, Bob

John Ney Tauzin Kennedy (MA) Oxley Tauzin

Brown (OH) Istook Sensenbrenner

Johnson (CT) Northup Taylor (NC) Kennedy (RI) Pallone Taylor (MS)

Burr Johnson, Sam Sessions

Johnson (WI) Norwood Thomas Kennelly Pappas Thomas

Campbell Jones Shadegg

Johnson, E. B. Nussle Thompson Kildee Pascrell Thompson

Canady Kasich Sisisky

Johnson, Sam Oberstar Thune Kilpatrick Pastor Thune

Chabot Kind (WI) Smith (MI)

Kanjorski Olver Tiahrt Kim Paxon Tiahrt

Chenoweth Kingston Souder

Kaptur Ortiz Tierney King (NY) Pease Tierney

Christensen Kolbe Stark

Kelly Owens Towns Kleczka Pelosi Towns

Coburn Largent Stenholm

Kennedy (MA) Oxley Traficant Klink Peterson (MN) Traficant

Condit Linder Stump

Kennelly Packard Turner Knollenberg Peterson (PA) Turner

Cox Livingston Taylor (NC)

Kildee Pallone Upton Kucinich Petri Upton

Crane Lucas Thornberry

Kilpatrick Pappas Velazquez LaFalce Pickering Velazquez

Crapo McCollum Thurman

Kim Pascrell Vento LaHood Pickett Vento

Cunningham McIntosh Wamp

King (NY) Pastor Visclosky Lampson Pitts Visclosky

Deal Miller (CA) Watkins

Kleczka Paxon Walsh Lantos Pomeroy Walsh

DeLay Miller (FL) Wexler

Klink Pease Wamp Latham Poshard Watt (NC)

Deutsch Moran (VA) White

Knollenberg Pelosi Watkins LaTourette Price (NC) Watts (OK)

Dooley Myrick Wolf

Kucinich Peterson (PA) Watts (OK) Lazio Quinn Waxman

Dreier Neumann Young (FL)

LaHood Petri Weldon (FL) Leach Rahall Weldon (FL)

Foley Obey

Lampson Pickering Weldon (PA) Levin Ramstad Weldon (PA) 
Lantos Pickett Weller Lewis (CA) Redmond Weller

NOES—318 

Latham Pitts Wicker Lewis (GA) Regula Weygand 
LaTourette Pombo Wise Lewis (KY) Reyes Whitfield

Abercrombie Camp Doolittle 

Ackerman Capps Doyle

Lazio Poshard Woolsey Lipinski Riggs Wicker 

Aderholt Cardin Duncan

Leach Pryce (OH) Wynn LoBiondo Riley Wise 

Allen Carson Dunn

Levin Quinn Young (AK) Lowey Rivers Woolsey

Andrews Castle Edwards

Lewis (CA) Radanovich Young (FL) Luther Rodriguez Wynn

Baesler Chambliss Ehlers 
Baker Clay Ehrlich

Lewis (KY) Rahall Maloney (CT) Roemer Young (AK) 

Maloney (NY) Rogers

ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1 Baldacci Clayton Emerson 

Barcia Clement Engel ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2

McCrery 

Barrett (WI) Clyburn English 

Lofgren McCrery

NOT VOTING—11 Bass Coble Ensign 
Bateman Collins Eshoo NOT VOTING—12

Cannon Payne Torres 

Becerra Combest Etheridge

Gonzalez Rangel Waters Cannon McCarthy (NY) Royce

Bentsen Conyers Evans

Jefferson Ros-Lehtinen Yates Gonzalez Payne Torres 

Bereuter Cook Everett

Klug Royce Jefferson Rangel Waters 

Berman Cooksey Ewing 

Klug Ros-Lehtinen Yates 

b2110 Berry Costello Farr 

Bishop Coyne Fattah b2118

Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts and 

Blagojevich Cramer Fawell 
Mr. DAVIS of Illinois changed their Bliley Cubin Fazio 

So the amendment in the nature of a 
vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

Blumenauer Cummings Filner substitute was rejected. 
Mr. BERMAN and Mr. STARK 

Blunt Danner Forbes The result of the vote was announced 

Boehlert Davis (FL) Fordchanged their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ Bonior Davis (IL) Fossella as above recorded. 
So the amendment in the nature of a Borski Davis (VA) Fowler 

(Mr. OBERSTAR asked and was given 
substitute was rejected. 

Boswell DeFazio Fox permission to proceed out of order for 1 
Boucher DeGette Frank (MA) minute.)

The result of the vote was announced 

Brown (CA) Delahunt Franks (NJ)

as above recorded. EXPRESSIONS OF APPRECIATION

Brown (FL) DeLauro Frelinghuysen 
AMENDMENT NO. 6 IN THE NATURE OF A Bryant Diaz-Balart Frost Mr. OBERSTAR. Mr. Chairman, I 

SUBSTITUTE OFFERED BY MR. KASICH Bunning Dickey Furse take this moment to express my deep 
Burton Dicks Gallegly

The CHAIRMAN. The pending busi-appreciation to the staff on the Demo-

Buyer Dingell Ganske

ness is the demand for a recorded vote cratic side, David Heymsfeld, Sante

Callahan Dixon Gejdenson 
on the amendment in the nature of a Calvert Doggett Gekas Esposito, Ken House, Rosalyn Millman, 


H2030 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Ward McCarragher, Jim Zoia, Steve 
Dubois, and to Jack Schenendorf, staff 
director on the Republican side, for the 
splendid cooperation and the many 
hard hours of work that they have devoted 
to this legislation. 

And to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SHUSTER), Mr. Chairman, I 
would simply like to say that his 26 
years of service in this body have been 
unfailingly devoted to advancing the 
cause of transportation, its safety, mobility, 
its economic growth and its impact 
on America. Some of our colleagues 
serving in this body are fortunate 
enough to get an amendment 
adopted. A rare few get a bill enacted 
into law. But a rare trailblazer makes 
an impact on the Nation that will outlive 
his service in this body. 

Yours is that monumental service. 
The bill we are about to adopt by, I am 
confident, an overwhelming vote will 
be an everlasting tribute to the years 
of professional service you have given 
to the people of America and to the 
cause of transportation. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute, as amended. 

The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute, as amended, was 
agreed to. 

The CHAIRMAN. Under the rule, the 
Committee rises. 

Accordingly the Committee rose; and 
the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
SNOWBARGER) having assumed the 
chair, Mr. HASTINGS of Washington, 
Chairman of the Committee of the 
Whole House on the State of the Union, 
reported that that Committee, having 
had under consideration the bill (H.R. 
2400) to authorize funds for Federal-aid 
highways, highway safety programs, 
and transit programs, and for other 
purposes, pursuant to House Resolution 
405, he reported the bill back to the 
House with an amendment adopted by 
the Committee of the Whole. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the rule, the previous question is ordered. 


Is a separate vote demanded on any 
amendment to the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute 
adopted by the Committee of the 
Whole? If not, the question is on the 
amendment. 

The amendment was agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is the engrossment and third 
reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

Abercrombie 
Ackerman 
Aderholt 
Allen 
Andrews 
Archer 
Armey 
Bachus 
Baesler 
Baker 
Baldacci 
Barcia 
Bartlett 
Bass 
Bateman 
Becerra 
Bereuter 
Berman 
Berry 
Bilbray 
Bilirakis 
Bishop 
Blagojevich 
Bliley 
Blumenauer 
Blunt 
Boehlert 
Bonior 
Borski 
Boswell 
Boucher 
Boyd 
Brady 
Brown (CA) 
Brown (FL) 
Bryant 
Bunning 
Burton 
Buyer 
Callahan 
Calvert 
Camp 
Canady 
Capps 
Carson 
Chambliss 
Chenoweth 
Clay 
Clayton 
Clement 
Clyburn 
Coble 
Collins 
Combest 
Condit 
Conyers 
Cook 
Cooksey 
Costello 
Coyne 
Cramer 
Crapo 
Cummings 
Cunningham 
Danner 
Davis (IL) 
Davis (VA) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delahunt 
DeLauro 
DeLay 
Diaz-Balart 
Dickey 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Dixon 
Doggett 
Doolittle 
Doyle 
Dreier 
Duncan 
Dunn 
Ehlers 
Ehrlich 
Emerson 
Engel 
English 
Ensign 
Eshoo 

[Roll No. 98] 

AYES—337 

Fawell 
Filner 
Foley 
Forbes 
Ford 
Fossella 
Fowler 
Fox 
Frank (MA) 
Franks (NJ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Frost 
Furse 
Gallegly 
Ganske 
Gejdenson 
Gekas 
Gephardt 
Gibbons 
Gilchrest 
Gillmor 
Gilman 
Goode 
Goodlatte 
Goodling 
Gordon 
Granger 
Green 
Greenwood 
Gutierrez 
Gutknecht 
Hall (OH) 
Hamilton 
Hansen 
Harman 
Hastert 
Hastings (WA) 
Hefner 
Hilleary 
Hilliard 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Holden 
Hooley 
Horn 
Hostettler 
Houghton 
Hulshof 
Hutchinson 
Hyde 
Istook 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jenkins 
John 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson (WI) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kelly 
Kennedy (MA) 
Kennedy (RI) 
Kennelly 
Kildee 
Kilpatrick 
Kim 
King (NY) 
Kleczka 
Klink 
Knollenberg 
Kucinich 
LaHood 
Lampson 
Lantos 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Lazio 
Leach 
Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (KY) 
Linder 
Lipinski 
Livingston 
LoBiondo 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Luther 

Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy (MO) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCollum 
McDade 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHale 
McHugh 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meehan 
Meek (FL) 
Meeks (NY) 
Menendez 
Metcalf 
Mica 
Millender-

McDonald 
Miller (CA) 
Mink 
Moakley 
Mollohan 
Moran (KS) 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Neal 
Neumann 
Ney 
Northup 
Norwood 
Nussle 
Oberstar 
Olver 
Ortiz 
Owens 
Oxley 
Packard 
Pallone 
Pappas 
Pascrell 
Pastor 
Paxon 
Pease 
Pelosi 
Peterson (MN) 
Peterson (PA) 
Petri 
Pickering 
Pickett 
Pitts 
Pombo 
Poshard 
Price (NC) 
Pryce (OH) 
Quinn 
Rahall 
Ramstad 
Redmond 
Regula 
Reyes 
Riggs 
Riley 
Rivers 
Rodriguez 
Roemer 
Rogan 
Rogers 
Rothman 
Roukema 
Roybal-Allard 
Rush 
Ryun 
Sanchez 
Sanders 
Sandlin 
Sawyer 
Saxton 
Schaefer, Dan 
Schumer 
Scott 
Serrano 
Shaw 
Sherman 
Shimkus 

Smith (NJ) Tauzin Walsh 
Smith (OR) Taylor (MS) Wamp 
Smith (TX) Taylor (NC) Watkins 
Smith, Linda Thomas Watt (NC) 
Snowbarger Thompson Watts (OK) 
Snyder Thune Waxman 
Solomon Thurman Weldon (FL) 
Spence Tiahrt Weldon (PA) 
Stabenow Tierney Weller 
Stearns Torres Weygand 
Stokes Towns Whitfield 
Strickland Traficant Wicker 
Stupak Turner Wise 
Sununu Upton Woolsey 
Talent Velazquez Wynn 
Tanner Vento Young (AK) 
Tauscher Visclosky Young (FL) 

NOES—80 

Ballenger Hall (TX) Paul 
Barr Hastings (FL) Pomeroy 
Barrett (NE) Hayworth Porter 
Barrett (WI) Herger Portman 
Barton Hill Radanovich 
Bentsen Hobson Rohrabacher 
Boehner Hoekstra Sabo 
Bonilla Hoyer Salmon 
Brown (OH) Hunter Sanford 
Burr Inglis Scarborough 
Campbell Johnson, Sam Schaffer, Bob 
Cardin Jones Sensenbrenner 
Castle Kasich Sessions 
Chabot Kind (WI) Shadegg 
Christensen Kingston Shays 
Coburn Kolbe Skaggs 
Cox LaFalce Smith, Adam 
Crane Largent Souder 
Cubin Lewis (GA) Spratt 
Davis (FL) Miller (FL) Stark 
Deal Minge Stenholm 
Deutsch Moran (VA) Stump 
Dooley Morella Thornberry 
Edwards Myrick Wexler 
Fazio Nethercutt White 
Goss Obey Wolf 
Graham Parker 

ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—3 

Hefley Lofgren McCrery 

NOT VOTING—10 

Cannon Payne Waters 
Gonzalez Rangel Yates 
Jefferson Ros-Lehtinen 
Klug Royce 

b2144 
The Clerk announced the following 
pair: 
On this vote: 
Ms. Ros-Lehtinen for, with Mr. Yates 
against. 
So the bill was passed. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
The motion to reconsider is laid on 
the table. 

f 


AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO 
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN THE ENGROSSMENT 
OF H.R. 2400, BUILDING 
EFFICIENT SURFACE TRANSPORTATION 
AND EQUITY ACT OF 
1998 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Clerk be 
authorized to make technical corrections 
in the engrossment of the bill, 

H.R. 2400, to reflect the actions of the 
House. 
The SPEAKER. Is there objection to 
the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection 

A recorded vote was ordered. Etheridge Maloney (CT) Shuster 

f 


The vote was taken by electronic de-Evans Maloney (NY) Sisisky 
Everett Manton Skeen GENERAL LEAVE

vice, and there were—ayes 337, noes 80, 

Ewing Manzullo Skelton

answered ‘‘present’’ 3, not voting 10, as Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask

Farr Markey Slaughter 
follows: Fattah Martinez Smith (MI) unanimous consent that all Members 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2031 

may have 5 legislative days within 
which to revise and extend their remarks 
and include extraneous material 
on H.R. 2400, the bill just passed. 

The SPEAKER. Is there objection to 
the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

f 


DEEMING THE HOUSE TO HAVE 
AGREED TO A CONFERENCE REQUESTED 
BY THE SENATE AND 
THE SPEAKER TO HAVE APPOINTED 
CONFEREES ON H.R. 
2400, BUILDING EFFICIENT SURFACE 
TRANSPORTATION AND EQUITY 
ACT OF 1998 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that if and when 
the Clerk receives a message from the 
Senate indicating that that body has 
passed the bill, H.R. 2400, with an 
amendment, insisted upon its amendment, 
and requested a conference with 
the House, the House be deemed to 
have disagreed to the amendment of 
the Senate and agreed to the conference 
requested by the Senate, and 
that the Speaker be deemed to have appointed 
conferees without intervening 
motion. 

The SPEAKER. Is there objection to 
the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER. The Speaker will 
make the appointment of conferees 
shortly. 

f 


MAKING IN ORDER AT ANY TIME 
DURING WEEK OF APRIL 21, 1998, 
MOTION TO INSTRUCT ON H.R. 
2400, BUILDING EFFICIENT SURFACE 
TRANSPORTATION AND EQUITY 
ACT OF 1998 

Mr. SHUSTER. Mr. Speaker, further, 
I ask unanimous consent that it shall 
be in order at any time during the 
week of Tuesday, April 21, 1998, notwithstanding 
the Speaker’s appointment 
of conferees pursuant to this request, 
for a Member to offer a motion 
to instruct the managers on the part of 
the House on the bill, H.R. 2400, as if offered 
prior to the appointment of the 
conferees. The managers may not file 
their report prior to Wednesday, April 
22, 1998. 

The SPEAKER. Is there objection to 
the request of the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

f 


RECOGNIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS 
OF THE REVEREND DR. 
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., ON 
THE 30TH ANNIVERSARY OF HIS 
DEATH 

Mr. CANADY of Florida. Mr. Speaker, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
Committee on the Judiciary be discharged 
from further consideration of 
the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res 

247) recognizing the contributions of 
the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr., to the civil society of the United 
States and the world and to the cause 
of nonviolent social and political 
change to advance social justice and 
equality for all races and calling on the 
people of the United States to study, 
reflect on, and celebrate the life of Dr. 
Martin Luther King, Jr., on the thirtieth 
anniversary of his death, and ask 
for its immediate consideration in the 
House. 

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent 
resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHIMKUS). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Florida? 

Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
reserving the right to object, I would 
ask the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
CANADY) to explain to the body the 
purpose of the legislation. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. CANADY). 

Mr. CANADY of Florida. Mr. Speaker, 
I thank the gentleman for yielding. 

House Concurrent Resolution 247, a 
concurrent resolution to recognize the 
contributions of the Reverend Martin 
Luther King, Jr., was introduced by the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. 
WATTS). 

On April 4, 1968, the Reverend Dr. 
Martin Luther King, minister, civil 
rights activist, Nobel Peace Prize winner, 
and world leader, was killed by an 
assassin’s bullet. Dr. King’s 
foreshortened life, which ended at age 
39, was memorialized all over the 
world. 

This spring marks the 30th anniversary 
of Reverend King’s death and 
comes at a time when Americans will 
be remembering and discussing Dr. 
King’s work and contributions to the 
cause of nonviolent social and political 
change to advance social justice and 
equality for people of all races. 

This anniversary presents an excellent 
time to offer this resolution which 
recognizes the importance of the life 
and work of the Reverend Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. It recognizes that Dr. 
King’s life was tragically taken before 
the full achievement of his dream and 
goals, and it calls on the people of the 
United States to study, reflect on, and 
to celebrate his life’s work. 

Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
continuing my reservation of objection, 
I first heard of Martin Luther 
King, Jr. in 1955 when I was 15 years old 
growing up in rural Alabama. Three 
years later, in 1958, 40 years ago, I had 
an opportunity to meet Martin Luther 
King, Jr. It was the beginning of a long 
and beautiful relationship. He was my 
friend, my leader, my brother, my 
hero. 

Martin Luther King, Jr., must be 
looked upon as one of the Founding Fathers 
of the new America. He used the 
philosophy and the discipline of nonviolence 
to bring about a nonviolent 
revolution in America. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., with the use of nonviolence, 
had the power, the ability, and the capacity 
to bring the dirt and the filth 

from under the American rug, out of 
the cracks, out of the corners into the 
open light in order for us to deal with 
the problem of racism and segregation. 
We live in a better nation, in a better 
place. We are a better people because 
Martin Luther King, Jr., lived. 

In my estimation, 30 years later, we 
must look upon Martin Luther King, 
Jr., as one of the founding fathers of 
the new America. He not only freed and 
liberated African Americans, but he 
freed and liberated all Americans. So it 
is fitting and appropriate that we 
pause tonight to commemorate the life 
and times of Martin Luther King, Jr. 

Mr. Speaker, I withdraw my reservation 
of objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Florida? 

Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma. Mr. Speaker, 
reserving the right to object, I rise 
today to reflect on the life and accomplishments 
of Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr., and to encourage our colleagues to 
support House Concurrent Resolution 
247, commemorating the life of Dr. 
King as we come upon the unfortunate 
30th anniversary of his death. 

I do not intend to speak this evening 
on the death of Dr. King. The reason 
why is because Dr. King, Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr.’s spirit is alive today. 
Today, I want to tell you, Mr. Speaker, 
how I know Dr. King’s spirit is alive in 
the United States of America. 

Of course, we have concrete examples 
of legislation that bears Dr. King’s legacy. 
For starters, we have the 24th 
amendment to the Constitution which 
ended the poll tax. We also have the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting 
Rights Act of 1965 which further prohibits 
racial discrimination in the 
workplace and in the voting booth. We 
also have the Civil Rights Act of 1968 
which prohibits landlords from refusing 
to sell or rent property on account of 
race. 

All of those effective anti-discrimination 
laws would probably not exist 
today had it not been for the leadership 
of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. However, 
these laws are not the only legacy 
Dr. King has left behind. Dr. King also 
lives on in the hopes and dreams of our 
young people. 

You have children in grade school or 
in college today. I want to have you 
take a look at them. I want you to consider 
all of the opportunities that are 
available for your kids today. Your son 
and your daughter could be a doctor or 
lawyer, or your kids would be astronauts 
or firemen. They can serve in the 
military or as elected officials. 

In these times, it is becoming easier 
for our children to gain success in 
these career fields without having to 
worry about whether or not their race 
will be an impediment to their success. 

Racism is not dead, Mr. Speaker. Let 
me be clear about that. However, discrimination 
and prejudice are on the 
run thanks to Dr. King and those who 
fought the good fight alongside him, 
people like my distinguished colleague, 


H2032 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. We must ask ourselves, are we teach-(2) recognizes that Dr. King’s life was trag-

LEWIS). 

Mr. Speaker, during the years in 
which Dr. King served as a leader of 
the civil rights groups like the Montgomery 
Improvement Association and 
the SCLC, he took out a tissue of truth 
and wiped away the dirt of discrimination 
from the American dream. Thanks 
to Dr. King, the American dream today 
is alive and accessible to millions of 
Americans who might otherwise been 
left out in the cold. This, too, is Dr. 
King’s legacy. 

Dr. King’s legacy can also be found in 
our churches every week. Mr. Speaker, 
Dr. King was a believer in the power of 
God to change the lives of Americans 
for the better. He served as a pastor at 
Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in 
Montgomery, Alabama, and at Ebenezer 
Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia. 
In short, Dr. King was a devout man of 
faith who believed that God had a 
place, a central place in American society. 


That is important to recognize as 
part of Dr. King’s legacy. Nowadays, 
there seems to be a serious effort under 
way to run God out of America. America 
without God’s direction is like a 
man who does not have a heart. Neither 
entity can survive for very long. 

Indeed, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., 
believed that laws were meaningless 
unless they had a moral component to 
them. In his Letter From the Birmingham 
Jail, Dr. King wrote, ‘‘A just 
law is a man-made code that squares 
with the moral law and a law of God. 
An unjust law is a code that is out of 
harmony with the moral law.’’ 

Dr. King felt he was morally justified 
in fighting segregation and discrimination 
because he knew that Jim Crow 
laws violated God’s law. Mr. Speaker, 
this evening, as we consider laws here 
in Congress, we should start holding 
each other up to the same standard Dr. 
Martin Luther King set for laws. We 
must ask, is this law we are considering 
a morally just law? Or, we must 
ask, would it be morally just if we did 
not pass this law? 

Every Member of Congress should remember 
the words of Dr. King when he 
said, human progress never rolls in on 
wheels of inevitability. It comes 
through the tireless efforts and persistent 
work of men and women willing to 
be coworkers with God. 

Indeed, Mr. Speaker, if all of us as 
Americans will come together, Republicans, 
Democrats, liberal, conservative, 
red, yellow, brown, black, or 
white, we can make our schools places 
where children will shoot for the stars 
instead of making schools places where 
our children are shot at. If we as Americans 
will all reject our prejudices and 
stereotypes and work together, we can 
end this horrible drug epidemic which 
is killing our young people. 

In closing, Mr. Speaker, as we all 
consider this great resolution before 
us, let us each resolve to examine ourselves 
this evening. Let us ask ourselves 
what are we doing today to keep 
Dr. King’s legacy alive. 

ing our kids to respect and love people 
of all races? Are we leading by example 
in this area? How many hours have we 
spent with our kids this week? Are we 
actively encouraging our children in 
their studies and in talking with them 
about their problems? Are we showing 
our children that we care about them? 

If we are falling short in any of these 
areas, Mr. Speaker, we are stomping all 
over the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. However, if we teach our kids 
right from wrong, spend time with 
them and encourage our kids to love 
others, we are keeping Dr. King’s 
dream alive and, at the same time, preserving 
the American dream for our 
children, our children’s children, and 
millions of new Americans to come. 

Mr. Speaker, I withdraw my reservation 
of objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to request of the gentleman 
from Florida? 

There was no objection. 

The Clerk read the concurrent resolution, 
as follows: 

H. CON. RES. 247 
Whereas the life work of Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., serves as an inspiration to all people 
who believe in justice, equality, and 
human rights; 

Whereas Dr. King advanced his goals and 
principles with determination, faith, dignity, 
and courage in the face of life-threatening 
opposition; 

Whereas Dr. King raised the consciousness 
of the Nation to fundamental injustices and 
inequalities in American society and moved 
the Nation significantly forward on the long 
and unfinished road to racial harmony and 
reconciliation; 

Whereas the work of Dr. King created a 
basis of understanding and respect for individuals, 
communities, and the Nation as a 
whole, to act cooperatively and courageously 
to establish tolerance, justice, and equality 
among all people; 

Whereas Dr. King’s life and political philosophy 
advocated the need for men and 
women to strive to overcome oppression 
without resorting to violence; 

Whereas Dr. King was the recipient of the 
1964 Nobel Peace Prize for his unrelenting efforts 
to bring about social and racial justice; 

Whereas Dr. King believed in, practiced, 
and urged others to achieve political change 
and social equality through nonviolent 
means and dedicated his life to achieving the 
goal of a fully integrated society; 

Whereas there is still much work to be 
done in achieving full reconciliation among 
America’s racial, social, and ethnic communities 
and in creating a colorblind society; 

Whereas Dr. King’s life was tragically 
ended on April 4, 1968, before completing his 
work and fulfilling his dream of a Nation 
where people are not judged by the color of 
their skin but by the content of their character; 
and 

Whereas Dr. King’s political philosophy 
and life’s work shine as a guiding light for 
all people who would live peacefully together 
in freedom, both nationally and around the 
world: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the 
Senate concurring), That the Congress— 

(1) recognizes the importance of the life 
and work of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. to the civil society and freedoms of 
the United States of America; 
ically taken before the full achievement of 
his goals; and 

(3) calls on the people of the United States 
to study, reflect on, and celebrate Dr. King’s 
life and ideals in order to fulfill his dream of 
civil and human rights for all people. 
The concurrent resolution was agreed 
to. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 

AS COSPONSOR OF HOUSE RESO


LUTION 399 

Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. Mr. 
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to 
remove my name as a cosponsor of 
House Resolution 399. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Massachusetts? 

There was no objection. 

f 


DESIGNATION OF THE HONORABLE 
CONSTANCE A. MORELLA OR 
HONORABLE THOMAS M. DAVIS 
TO ACT AS SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 
TO SIGN ENROLLED BILLS 
AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
THROUGH APRIL 21, 1998 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

April 1, 1998. 

I hereby designate the Honorable CONSTANCE 
A. MORELLA or, if not available to 
perform this duty, the Honorable THOMAS M. 
DAVIS to act as Speaker pro tempore to sign 
enrolled bills and joint resolutions through 
Tuesday, April 21, 1998. 

NEWT GINGRICH, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, the designation is agreed to. 

There was no objection. 

f 


b2200 

CORRECTING ENROLLMENT OF S. 

419, BIRTH DEFECTS PREVEN


TION ACT OF 1997 

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent to take from the 
Speaker’s table the Senate concurrent 
resolution (S. Con. Res. 87) to direct 
the Secretary of the Senate to make 
certain corrections in the enrollment 
of the Senate bill, S. 419, and ask for 
its immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the title of the Senate 
concurrent resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHIMKUS). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Florida? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, as Members 
recall, the House passed S. 419, the Birth Defects 
Prevention Act, on March 10, 1998. 
Since that time, we have become aware that 
certain corrections are required in the enrollment 
of the bill. This concurrent resolution directs 
the Secretary of the other body to make 
those changes. The concurrent resolution has 
been cleared with the Minority on the Commerce 
Committee, and I am not aware of any 
objection to its approval. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2033 

The Clerk read the Senate concur-There was no objection. nomic development, will be able to 

rent resolution, as follows: apply for grants. Twenty-five million

f 


S. CON. RES. 87 
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 
concurring), That, in the enrollment 
of the bill (S. 419) to provide surveillance, 
research, and services aimed at prevention 
of birth defects, and for other purposes, 
the Secretary of the Senate shall 
make the following corrections: 

(1) In section 1 of the bill, strike ‘‘1997’’ and 
insert ‘‘1998’’. 
(2) In section 2 of the bill: 
(A) In subsection (d) of section 317C of the 
Public Health Service Act (as proposed to be 
amended by such section 2) strike ‘‘1998’’ and 
insert ‘‘1999’’. 
(B) In subsection (f) of section 317C of the 
Public Health Service Act (as proposed to be 
amended by such section 2) strike ‘‘1998’’ and 
all that follows through ‘‘2001’’ and insert 
‘‘1999, $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, and such 
sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal 
years 2001 and 2002’’. 
The Senate concurrent resolution 
was concurred in. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


GENERAL LEAVE 
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days within 
which to revise and extend their remarks 
on the legislation just adopted. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Florida? 
There was no objection. 

f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 
Mr. ABERCROMBIE. Mr. Speaker, 
during Rollcall Vote No. 82 on H.R. 34 
I inadvertently recorded my vote as 
yes when I intended to vote no. 

f 


PERMISSION FOR COMMITTEE ON 
EDUCATION AND THE WORKFORCE 
TO HAVE UNTIL 5 P.M. 
APRIL 20, 1998, TO FILE REPORT 
ON H.R. 6, HIGHER EDUCATION 
AMENDMENTS OF 1998 

Mr. MCKEON. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce 
may have until 5 p.m., April 20, 1998, to 
file a report on the bill, H.R. 6, the 
Higher Education Amendments of 1998. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from California? 

There was no objection. 

f 


GRANTING MEMBERS OF THE 
HOUSE PRIVILEGE TO EXTEND 
THEIR REMARKS IN CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD TODAY 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that for today all 
Members be permitted to extend their 
remarks and to include extraneous material 
in that section of the RECORD entitled 
extension of remarks. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Kentucky? 

AUTHORIZING THE SPEAKER, MAJORITY 
LEADER AND MINORITY 
LEADER TO ACCEPT RESIGNATIONS 
AND MAKE APPOINTMENTS 
NOTWITHSTANDING ADJOURNMENT 


Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that notwithstanding 
any adjournment of the House until 
Tuesday, April 21, 1998, the Speaker, 
Majority Leader and Minority Leader 
be authorized to accept resignations 
and to make appointments authorized 
by law or by the House. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Kentucky? 

There was no objection. 

f 


DISPENSING WITH CALENDAR 

WEDNESDAY BUSINESS ON 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1998 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the business 
in order under the Calendar Wednesday 
rule be dispensed with on Wednesday, 
April 22, 1998. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Kentucky? 

There was no objection. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
7, 1997, and under a previous order 
of the House, the following Members 
will be recognized for 5 minutes each. 

f 


INTRODUCTION OF H.R. 3627, 

BROWNFIELD COMMUNITY EM


POWERMENT ACT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. RUSH) is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I am proud 
to stand here today to outline the 
Brownfield Community Empowerment 
Act, H.R. 3627, which I introduced 
today along with my colleague the gentlewoman 
from Oregon (Ms. FURSE). 

The Brownfield Community Empowerment 
Act will provide financial 
assistance to local governments and 
citizen organizations. Grants will be 
given to local governments and local 
citizens’ organizations in the amount 
of $100 million for fiscal years 1999 
through 2003. Thirty percent of this 
money will be made directly available 
to local citizens’ organizations. 

In addition, my legislation will establish 
a revolving loan program which 
will allow local governments to provide 
money to persons or entities who wish 
to develop potential Brownfield sites. 
This revolving loan fund will insure 
that development continues into the 
future. 

Public housing entities, which have 
been overlooked when it comes to eco


dollars will be made available for fiscal 
years 1999 through 2001. Public housing 
developments are ofttimes in the most 
dire need of economic development. As 
a representative of one of the highest 
concentrations of public housing residents 
in the Nation, I feel it is incumbent 
upon me to address the needs of 
those who have been overlooked. 

Community involvement is also vital 
to sustaining any community. When it 
comes to economic development, the 
need for the input of those who would 
be most directly effected is even more 
vital. The Community Empowerment 
Act will give voice to the citizens of 
each and every community. It will ensure 
that meaningful public participation 
not merely perfunctory gestures 
will occur. Local citizens’ organizations 
will be given full participation in 
assessment, remediation and cleanup. 

The voices of the masses must not 
ever be quelled. It is my hope that this 
legislation will raise those voices to 
octaves never heard before. This legislation 
will guarantee the local citizens’ 
organizations will receive 30 percent of 
the grants. 

The reality of life, whether we want 
to acknowledge it or not, is that those 
who have the least are often left out in 
the cold. Environmental justice is yet 
another principle my legislation will 
address. Low-income and historically 
disenfranchised areas will be given priority 
when it comes to the awarding of 
grants. In addition, cleanup methods 
must be cognizant of the needs of certain 
populations such as the elderly, 
children and persons with AIDS. Quick 
fix approaches will not do when it 
comes to cleaning up our environment. 
We must invest in the long term. We 
must invest in everyone’s future. 

Empowerment zones were once 
thought to be the vehicle that would 
restore prosperity to economically 
stagnant areas. In many communities 
across this Nation, such has not been 
the case. I recognize the need for these 
economically thriving areas. That is 
why empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities will be given priority 
in the awarding of grants. A viable 
and effective Brownfield program can 
breathe life into economically wounded 
communities. 

Winston Churchill once said, and I 
quote: 

‘‘Some people regard private enterprise 
as a predatory tiger to be shot. 
Others see it as a cow they can milk. 
Not enough people see it as a healthy 
horse, pulling a sturdy wagon.’’ 

I say let the Brownfield Community 
Empowerment Program be one of the 
reins which guides the healthy horse, 
and let economic revitalization and opportunities 
be the load of the sturdy 
wagon. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Indiana (Mr. BURTON) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 


H2034 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

(Mr. BURTON addressed the House. APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES ON ments of Tubby Smith in taking the 
His remarks will appear hereafter in H.R. 2400, BUILDING EFFICIENT Wildcats of Kentucky to victory and 
the Extension of Remarks.) SURFACE TRANSPORTATION AND winning Monday’s NCAA National 

f 


INTRODUCING THE TOBACCO PRO


GRAM ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM 

ACT OF 1998 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. LEWIS) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, 
over the past year, with all the talk 
about a global tobacco settlement, tobacco 
farm families are very worried 
about their future. Mr. Speaker, I cannot 
predict at this point whether efforts 
to craft a settlement will be successful, 
but if and when the House addresses 
comprehensive tobacco legislation 
I will stand ready to ensure that 
our tobacco farmers are protected. I 
will stand, and I have listened carefully 
to my farmers and worked hard to formulate 
proposals that are fair and reflect 
their wishes. That may very well 
mean that we look for ways to provide 
a transition away from the current 
way of doing things, provided farmers 
are compensated in a fair and equitable 
way. 

In the meantime, though, we have a 
responsibility to ensure the continuation 
of the tobacco program that our 
farmers have relied on for so many 
years. Some have suggested that the 
taxpayer subsidizes the Federal tobacco 
program. I strongly disagree, because 
the budget deficit assessment 
paid by the tobacco growers and companies 
more than offsets the costs incurred 
by the USDA in the operation of 
the tobacco program, and we know 
what the tobacco taxes contribute to 
the coffers of the Federal Treasury. 

However, Mr. Speaker, to address 
these arguments I am introducing the 
Tobacco Program Administrative Reform 
Act of 1998. My proposed legislation 
will require current Federal expenditures 
for tobacco crop insurance, 
extension services, and the administration 
of the price support and quota programs 
to be funded by additional assessments 
on tobacco product manufacturers 
and importers. 

So let me be very clear, Mr. Speaker, 
we may very well need to think about 
a new direction for our tobacco farmers 
beyond the status quo. But there 
should be no confusion that the tobacco 
program has served our farmers 
ably, and for many rural counties it is 
the life blood of their economies. In the 
absence of comprehensive tobacco legislation, 
we must take every step to 
protect our farmers by maintaining the 
current tobacco program. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. MASCARA) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

EQUITY ACT OF 1998 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, and pursuant to the order of 
the House today, the Chair appoints 
the following conferees on H.R. 2400, effective 
upon receipt of the proper message 
from the Senate: 

For consideration of the House bill 
(except title XI) and the Senate amendment 
(except title VI), and modifications 
committed to conference: 

Messrs. SHUSTER, 
YOUNG of Alaska, 
PETRI, 
BOEHLERT, 
KIM, 
HORN, 
Mrs. FOWLER, and 
Messrs. BAKER, 
NEY, 
METCALF, 
OBERSTAR, 
RAHALL, 
BORSKI, 
LIPINSKI, 
WISE, 
CLYBURN, 
FILNER and 
MCGOVERN. 
There was no objection. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 

Chair will announce the appointment 
of additional conferees at a subsequent 
time. 

f 


MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE 

A message from the Senate by Mr. 
Lundregan, one of its clerks, announced 
that the Senate had passed 
without amendment a concurrent resolution 
of the House of the following 
title: 

H. Con. Res. 257. Concurrent Resolution 
providing for an Adjournment of both 
Houses. 
f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from Maryland (Mrs. MORELLA) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mrs. MORELLA addressed the House. 
Her remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


HONORING KENTUCKY COACH 
ORLANDO ‘‘TUBBY’’ SMITH 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to pay tribute to the University 
of Kentucky’s men’s basketball coach 
Orlando ‘‘Tubby’’ Smith. Let me first 
point out my allegiance continues to 
be to the Terrapins of the University of 
Maryland, as I am sure our Speaker pro 
tempore’s does to the University of 

Championship in San Antonio, Texas. 

Mr. Speaker, I want all of my colleagues 
to know, particularly the good 
gentleman from Kentucky, that Tubby 
Smith comes from my district, Scotland, 
Maryland, a rural area near Point 
Lookout where the Chesapeake Bay 
meets the Potomac River. This community, 
as you could imagine, now 
bursts with pride for its native son 
Tubby Smith, and I am proud to join 
them in saluting the accomplishments 
of this distinguished resident. 

Tubby Smith was born to Mr. and 
Mrs. Guffrie and Parthenia Smith 46 
years ago, as the 6th eldest child of 17 
on a tenant farm in St. Mary’s County, 
Maryland. Guffrie Smith, Sr. held 3 
jobs, driving school buses, cutting hair, 
and firing boilers at the Patuxent 
River Naval Air Station, to support his 
family. He and his wife still live today 
in the five-bedroom home he built on 
five acres in St. Mary’s County. 

As to Tubby Smith, after scoring 
over 3,000 points for the Great Mills 
High School basketball team, Tubby 
attended High Point College in North 
Carolina on a scholarship. 

b2215 
He began his coaching career at his 
alma mater, Great Mills High School, 
in 1973, and then worked stints as an 
assistant coach at Virginia Commonwealth 
and South Carolina. Smith then 
served under the leadership of Coach 
Rick Pitino from 1989 to 1991 as an assistant 
coach at Kentucky University. 
His first collegiate head coaching job 
was with Tulsa University, combining 
a record of 79–43, while making two 
NCAA appearances in the Sweet 16. 
From there, Mr. Speaker, he became 
the first Georgia State coach to record 
back-to-back 20 victory seasons. 
Then, in May 1997, he was named to 
replace the legendary Rick Pitino as 
the head coach of one of the most successful 
NCAA basketball programs in 
the country at the University of Kentucky. 
Kentucky’s Athletic Director Newton 
learned what Tubby’s family and 
friends also knew, that Tubby would be 
respected for his outstanding coaching 
rather than simply as the program’s 
first African-American coach. 
In Saint Mary’s County, those who 
know the Smith family are not at all 
surprised by Tubby’s extraordinary accomplishments. 
They will tell you a 
heartwarming story of an incredible 
mother and father who have raised 17 
great citizens, who were taught hard 
work, discipline and the value of good 
education. 
Tubby’s accomplishments remind me 

of the words spoken by Booker T. 
Washington, who said, ‘‘I have learned 
that success is to be measured not so 
much by the position one reached in 
life as by the obstacles which he has 

(Mr. MASCARA addressed the House. Kansas, Roy Williams. But I wanted to overcome while trying to succeed.’’ 
His remarks will appear hereafter in take this opportunity to comment on Mr. Speaker, it is a privilege to share 
the Extensions of Remarks.) how proud I am of the accomplish-with you some of the pride that the 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2035 

Southern Maryland community has for 
Tubby Smith and for his family. It is 
important to learn Tubby’s outlook on 
life, and I quote: ‘‘To never forget 
where you came from, never forget who 
you are, and never forget where you 
are heading.’’ 

I ask all of my colleagues to join 
with me in congratulating Coach 
Smith and the Kentucky men’s basketball 
national championship. 

f 


REACHING A BALANCED 
AGREEMENT ON TOBACCO 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Kentucky (Mr. WHITFIELD) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
would like to thank the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER) for those 
kind words of tribute to the Kentucky 
basketball coach, Tubby Smith. All of 
us from Kentucky are certainly quite 
proud of his accomplishments in his 
first year as the head coach of the University 
of Kentucky, and he certainly 
demonstrated the type of leadership 
and character that are so important to 
young men and women at the University 
of Kentucky. It makes us even 
more proud to know that he is from the 
State of Maryland. 

I want to thank the gentleman for 
those kind remarks for our basketball 
coach at the University of Kentucky. 

I also would like to point out that 
this afternoon I had the opportunity to 
visit with six high school students who 
came to my office to talk about some 
issues facing young men and women 
today. As we had our discussion, they 
pointed out that some of their greatest 
concerns on issues facing young people 
today were: One, teenage pregnancy; 
and two, the use of illegal drugs. 

I found that quite informative, because 
over the last 6 or 7 months, our 
President of the United States, our 
Vice President, Mr. David Kessler and 
others have placed great emphasis and 
have drawn attention to the fact that 
tobacco and the use of tobacco products 
by young people may be one of the 
most serious issues facing young people. 
Yet, in my discussions with these 
young people today from Kentucky and 
other young people throughout my district, 
none of them really talk about 
the use of tobacco products as one of 
the major problems facing young people 
today. 

As I listen to the debate on this tobacco 
issue and the universal tobacco 
settlement over on the Senate side, and 
as I have read the universal settlement 
agreement between the tobacco companies 
and the State Attorneys General, 
it has really caused me to do a lot of 
thinking about this issue. All of us recognize 
the importance of doing everything 
possible to prevent young people 
from using tobacco products, and that 
is why 50 States already prohibit the 
sale of tobacco products to young people 
throughout this country. 

Yet in spite of that, the real issue in 
this universal tobacco settlement 

seems now to me to come down to be a 
matter of money. In the settlement 
agreement, the tobacco companies 
agreed that they would pay $368 billion 
every 25 years forever to reach this settlement, 
and, in exchange, they agreed 
that any individual would be able to 
bring a lawsuit against the tobacco 
companies to recover any damages suffered 
by using tobacco products; that 
those individuals would have that right 
to bring these lawsuits forever. The 
only immunity that the tobacco companies 
asked for in exchange for $368 
billion every 25 years forever was to 
simply settle the class lawsuits and the 
lawsuits filed by the States in these innovative 
legal theories, that were filed 
by the States to reimburse the States 
for Medicaid costs that the States incurred 
by individuals who voluntarily 
used tobacco products. 

But as I look into this more and 
more, it seems that this issue is much 
broader than simply teenage smoking, 
because there are hundreds of thousands 
of individuals and their children 
who depend upon the tobacco product 
for their livelihood, for the education 
of their children, to take care of their 
families. As a matter of fact, there are 
140,000 farm families in the United 
States alone that grow this product. 

This discussion talks only about 
teenage smoking, and yet we are not 
giving any consideration to the impact, 
the economic impact, that this settlement 
can have on these hundreds of 
thousands of families who depend upon 
this product for their livelihood. 

As I listen to the Senate debate, I am 
quite discouraged that more and more 
it seems to be a matter of wanting to 
punish an industry, to provide punitive 
damages against an industry that has 
grown and processed a legal crop, a 
crop that has been legal in America 
since Jamestown; a crop that, if you 
walk around the Capitol of the United 
States, you will see tobacco leaves at 
strategic points in this Capitol, a crop 
that has provided valuable economic 
interests to our Nation. 

I would simply say as we continue 
our debate on the tobacco settlement, 
let us not forget the economic impact 
that this is going to have on farmers, 
workers, and many other people. I 
think we have a unique opportunity to 
reach a balanced agreement. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO THE LATE 
HONORABLE BELLA ABZUG 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from Hawaii (Mrs. MINK) is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

Mrs. MINK of Hawaii. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise with sadness to express my personal 
condolence to the family of the 
late Bella Abzug. 

Bella Abzug came to Congress in 1970. 
I had been elected 5 years previously. 
We quickly became very close friends 
and collaborators. Despite the fact that 
we came from very different backgrounds 
and from opposite corners of 

this country, our concerns were the 
same. I had been fighting against the 
Vietnam War for 5 years. The few of us 
who opposed the war at that time had 
tried every parliamentary maneuver 
we could think of to end the war. 
Clearly, after 5 years we were exhausted 
and our struggles to turn the 
Nation’s policies around needed help. 

Bella’s election to Congress gave us 
fresh vigor and new momentum. She 
was a tireless, relentless advocate for 
peace. From the moment she was 
sworn into office, she made her voice 
heard and fought with all her might 
and power to get this country out of 
the war in Vietnam. 

She knew that she was effective and 
she knew that her voice made a difference. 


Just as Bella fought for peace, she 
also fought for equality and justice. 
With all her heart and soul, she stood 
for the rights of the poor to be heard. 
She pushed her way to assure the poor 
a voice in the deliberations of the Congress. 
She was their voice, and they 
loved her for her commitment to their 
plight. 

Justice was for Bella the right to 
earn a decent living and the right to be 
able to provide for your family. She 
fought against discrimination and 
championed the cause of equality for 
women. No one I know did more for 
women than Bella. Her life was given 
to that cause. No matter where she 
went, everyone knew by her presence 
that she was their voice for equality 
and for justice. 

She challenged the conscience of 
America to prove its worth as a society 
by permitting women to claim their 
place as full and equal citizens. Bella’s 
best efforts were in building networks 
and forging coalitions. She forced people 
to forget their turf wars and to 
work together for the greater good. 
Even after she left Congress, she continued 
in this work. 

She organized huge demonstrations 
for abortion rights, for equal rights, for 
child care, for food for the hungry and 
for the AIDS programs. She led international 
conferences and taught 
women everywhere how their combined 
voices could make important changes 
in their lives. 

When formal government conferences 
were convened, she called nongovernmental 
women together for massive 
counter-conferences. She angered 
Presidents by challenging them to do 
better for women, for the poor and the 
oppressed minorities. I counted Bella 
as one of my closest friends. We counseled 
together on many occasions, even 
after we both left Congress in 1976. We 
looked to each other for support and 
comfort in a world that seldom understood 
nor cared to understand women 
and politics. We knew that by joining 
together on many fronts, that we could 
double the volume of our voices so that 
no one could miss the message we 
wanted to convey. 

Bella was a deeply caring and sensitive 
human being. She always asked 


H2036 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

about your family when she met you. 
She worried about my daughter when 
she was hurt in an automobile accident. 
She was always thoughtful and 
generous in her personal relationships. 

She taught me chutzpah, an important 
tool to make sure you are not 
pushed to the back of the bus. She 
challenged regular order and paved the 
way for all women to be heard. 

Women today who have a place at the 
table have Bella Abzug to thank. Without 
Bella, we would be years behind. 
When women’s history is finally written, 
I am certain that Bella’s life will 
be among the most celebrated. 

Mr. Speaker, I include for the 
RECORD the following information 
about Bella Abzug. 

BELLA ABZUG 
b. 1920 
American lawyer and politician 
‘‘Women have been trained to speak softly 
and carry a lipstick. Those days are over.’’ 
INTRODUCTION 
Bella Abzug was elected to the U.S. House 
of Representatives after a long career as a 
labor lawyer, civil-liberties advocate, and 
peace activist. During the time she served in 
Congress she challenged congressional decorum 
by bluntly denouncing her male colleagues 
as a privileged elite of white, middle-
aged men who were out of touch with the 
needs and aspirations of most Americans. 
Abzug was among the most vocal members of 
congress demanding an immediate withdrawal 
of American military forces from 
Indochina during the Vietnam conflict in the 
1970s. She also took strong positions in favor 
of women’s and minority rights and federal 
aid to cities. 
Abzug was born Bella Savitsky on July 24, 
1920, the daughter of a Emanuel and Esther 
Savitsky. Her father was a butcher in New 
York City. In 1942 she graduated from Hunter 
College in New York with a bachelor of arts 
degree. Two years later she married Maurice 
Abzug, a stockbroker and novelist, with 
whom she had two daughters. After earning 
a law degree from Columbia University in 
New York in 1947, she practiced law privately 
for 23 years, until she was elected to the U.S. 
House of Representatives. 
FLAMBOYANT CONGRESSWOMAN 
During her two terms in Congress (1970–74) 
Abzug served on the committee on public 
works and transportation and was chair of 
the subcommittee on government information 
and individual rights. She was also assistant 
Democratic whip to Speaker Thomas 

P. O’Neill, Jr. Soon after Abzug reached the 
floor of Congress she became a highly visible, 
flamboyant figure, with her trademark 
wide-brimmed hats and feisty manner. While 
her strongly worded, forthright speeches had 
great popular appeal, her political allies 
often believed her personal style detracted 
from their cause. Abzug was criticized for 
preferring to make headlines on her own instead 
of negotiating and compromising to 
pass legislation. But the New York Democrat 
earned increasing respect from her colleagues 
over the years while remaining true 
to her political vision. 
In her capacity as chair of the House subcommittee 
on government information and 
individual rights, Abzug conducted inquiries 
on covert and illegal activities by agencies 
of the federal government. She helped 
produce the ‘‘Government in the Sunshine’’ 
law, which gave the public greater access to 
government records. Abzug co-founded the 
National Women’s Political Caucus in 1971 
and authored numerous bills intended to pre


vent sex discrimination and improve the status 
of women. On local issues she devoted 
much of her time to securing federal funds 
for New York City during the city’s fiscal 
crisis in the mid-1970s. In 1972 she wrote 
‘‘Bella! Ms. Abzug Goes to Washington,’’ an 
account of her experiences as a congresswoman. 


RETURNS TO LAW PRACTICE 

Abzug gave up her congressional seat in 
1976 to seek the New York Democratic party 
nomination for the U.S. Senate, narrowly 
losing the race to Daniel Patrick Moynihan. 
She went on to run unsuccessfully for mayor 
of New York City in 1977 and for a congressional 
seat representing the East Side of 
Manhattan in 1978. Political analysts attributed 
these losses to her confrontational 
image and the conservative nature of the 
electorate. President Jimmy Carter appointed 
Abzug co-chair of the National Advisory 
Committee for Women. Carter dismissed 
her in 1979 after the committee issued 
a report criticizing the president’s decision 
to cut funding for women’s programs. She 
then returned to her legal practice. Abzug 
remained in the public eye, however, as a 
lecturer, television news commentator, and 
magazine columnist. She was also an executive 
for women’s organizations, including 
Women-USA, a grass-roots political action 
organization, and the Women’s Foreign Policy 
Council. 

WRITES BOOK ON ‘‘GENDER GAP’’ 

Abzug drew on her decades-long leadership 
experience in the women’s movement to 
write ‘‘Gender Gap: Abzug’s Guide to Political 
Power for Women,’’ which was published 
in 1984. With co-author Mim Kelber, Abzug 
examined the possible causes and political 
consequences of the ‘‘gender gap,’’ the wide 
disparity in voting patterns between men 
and women noticed in some American elections. 
In the 1980 presidential election, for 
instance, many more women than men voted 
to reelect Carter, and the gender gap made 
the difference in a number of elections for 
state governors later in the decade. Although 
statisticians have had trouble identifying 
the specific political differences that 
may separate the sexes at the ballot box, 
Abzug credits the feminist movement for encouraging 
women’s independence. 

BECOMES ENVIRONMENTAL ADVOCATE 

In her book Abzug also outlined a range of 
political, social, and economic issues on 
which women can have an impact. Among 
them is the environment, an area in which 
Abzug herself became active in the early 
1990s. Appointed as special adviser to the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development 
(UNCED), she became a leading advocate 
of environmental security and a more 
economically just world. In 1991 she was an 
organizer of the Women’s Congress for a 
healthy Planet as part of the Earth Summit 
sponsored by the United Nations in Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. The congress issued the ‘‘Action 
Agenda for the Twenty-first Century,’’ 
which challenged men and women to work 
together for a ‘‘safe and sustainable future.’’ 
Abzug identified a particular role—and a 
higher degree of freedom—for women in 
cleaning up ‘‘the mess’’ that has been made 
throughout the world: ‘‘I believe women will 
bring a new vision, with new perspectives as 
to how and what to change,’’ she told an 
interviewed. ‘‘It’s easier with women because 
they are not part of what has taken place. 
They aren’t totally unshackled, not only by 
lack of ownership but by lack of involvement 
in decisions to date. They are freer and more 
independent.’’ 

HONORARY CHAIR BELLA ABZUG: A WOMAN OF 

STRENGTH 
The 20th Anniversary Celebration of the 
Spirit of Houston will kick off amidst memories 
of the 1977 Houston Conference, which 
attracted 20,000 men and women, and visions 
of the 21st Century. The National Women’s 
Conference has named the Honorable Bella S. 
Abzug, former Congresswoman, current 
President of the Women in Environment and 
Development (WEDO), guide and mentor to 
women worldwide, to serve as Honorary 
Chair of the 20th Anniversary Celebration. 
The Conference will be held in Washington, 

D.C. at the Georgetown University Conference 
Center November 20–23, 1997. 
Ms. Abzug maintains an unwavering struggle 
for a world where women participate 
fully and equally in all aspects of life. She 
works tirelessly to give voice and visibility 
to women worldwide by forging links and 
partnerships at every level. Abzug encourages 
women to achieve equality through economic, 
social and political empowerment. 

While serving in the United States Congress 
representing New York, Congresswoman 
Abzug introduced a bill in 1975 proposing 
that a national women’s conference 
be held as part of the Bicentennial celebration 
and other women members of the House 
of Representatives united with her to work 
toward the adoption of the legislation. Under 
the onslaught of this determined group, Public 
Law 94–167 passed in the House on December 
10, 1975 and by the Senate on December 
23, 1975. 

Public Law 94–167 directed a 42-member 
National Commission, presided over by Bella 
Abzug, to convene a National Women’s Conference, 
preceded by state and regional meetings. 
The mandate read in part: ‘‘. . . The 
Conference shall . . . recognize the contributions 
of women to the development of our 
country . . . assess the role of women in economic, 
social, cultural and political development 
. . . identify barriers that prevent 
women from participating fully and equally 
in all aspects of national life and develop 
recommendations for means by which such 
barriers can be removed. . . .’’ Although it 
amounted to less than one nickel for each female 
in the country, Congress appropriated 
$5 million to carry forth the mandate of the 
Public Law. But women know how to ‘‘make 
do’’, and Bella Abzug led the nation’s women 
in that effort. 

After a year of hard work and devotion to 
the task, Presiding Officer Bella Abzug stood 
at the podium on November 19, 1977 and extended 
a welcome to three First Ladies, 
whose sheer presence was more moving than 
anyone would have imagined. First Ladies 
Rosalynn Carter, Betty Ford and Lady Bird 
Johnson expelled any notion that they were 
ceremonial wives. They said they were 
women who could speak for themselves. 
Lady Bird Johnson said she had come to believe 
that the women’s movement belongs to 
women of all ages. 

Ms. Abzug was a key organizer at the 
Fourth World Conference on Women held in 
Beijing in 1995. During the Conference, she 
received numerous awards and accolades 
that recognized her many contributions. 
Prior to the Beijing Conference, in 1994, she 
was inducted into the National Women’s Hall 
of Fame in Seneca Falls, New York where 
the first women’s rights meeting was held in 
1848. 

Bella Abzug is a civil rights attorney and 
has earned recognition as a leading women’s 
rights advocate and public speaker. She is 
the founder of WEDO, an international network 
with consultative status at the United 
Nations. WEDO networks organize women’s 
caucus meetings at major international conferences 
of particular concern to women. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2037 

Bella S. Abzug, one of the most admired (Mr. SMITH of Michigan addressed all of my time, but I wanted to pay 

women of America, honors the 20th Anniver


the House. His remarks will appear tribute to the Ron Brown family,

sary Celebration of the Spirit of Houston and 

hereafter in the Extensions of Re-Alma, Tracey, and Michael. This 

the National Women’s Conference by her 

marks.) evening Tracey Brown, the daughter of

presence and her acceptance of the role of 

our former Secretary of Commerce,

f

Honorary Chair. 

Information on the 20th Anniversary Cele-Ron Brown, had the book signing for

NO-FEE POST OFFICE BOXES

bration, including Conference and hotel reg-her personal tribute to her father. I be


istration forms, can be obtained at the NWC 
Web site. 

CONTRACT WITH WOMEN OF THE USA 
(By Bella Abzug) 
The downsizing of women off the national 
political agenda is being challenged in a new 
and exciting campaign. The ‘‘Contract with 
Women of the USA’’ is gathering momentum 
across the country. 
Even though we are a majority of the U.S. 
population, women are being attacked, 
trivialized and ignored in much of the current 
political debates. Modest gains that we 
have won in years of struggle are in jeopardy. 
The time has come to put women’s 
needs and concerns up front, in actions as 
well as words. 
Initiated by the Women’s Environment and 
Development Organization, of which I am a 
co-founder, and the Center for Women Policy 
Studies, the Contract campaign is endorsed 
by growing numbers of women’s organizations, 
women members of Congress, state 
legislators and others. Our target is a thousand 
endorsements by this fall. Even more 
important, the Contract provides a flexible 
organizing and advocacy vehicle for addressing 
state and local issues of importance to 
women. 
Women state legislators are taking the 
lead in supporting the Contract and working 
with women and other public sector groups 
to develop their own state contracts. Kicking 
off the campaign on International Women’s 
Day on March 7th were women legislators 
in Arizona, California, Iowa, Maryland, 
Minnesota and New York. 
Newt Gingrich’s ‘‘Contract with America’’ 
has run into stalemate and massive rejection 
by the American people. Our ‘‘Contract with 
Women of the USA’’ reflects the realities of 
American women’s lives in all our family, 
economic, political, social, racial, age, religious 
and educational diversity. It offers an 
alternative and unifying vision in which 
women and men work together on an equal 
basis for our mutual benefit. 
The 12 principles and action commitments 
in our Contract are based on the Platform 
for Action, approved by consensus last September 
at the U.N. Fourth World Conference 
on Women by the United States and 188 other 
governments, as well as by 30,000 nongovernmental 
women, including 7,000 from our 
country. 
The dozen commitments outlined in the 
‘‘Contract with Women of the USA’’ call for 
economic, social and political equality for 
women; access to affordable health care and 
reproductive rights; an end to discrimination 
and violence against women; continuation of 
social safety nets for poor women and children; 
inclusion of women in peace-making; 
educational opportunities for women; and 
mechanisms to monitor and further women’s 
gains. 
Women legislators in the six kickoff states 
have signed on to the Contract. Similar actions 
are being planned in other states. We 
welcome the support of women legislators 
and activists throughout the country and 
urge them to join us in this important effort. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Nebraska (Mr. BEREUTER) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. BEREUTER. Mr. Speaker, after 
nearly 20 years of effort, I have a victory 
to announce: Since I came to the 
Congress in 1979, my constituents in 
small Nebraska communities and 
Americans like them throughout our 
Nation have sought relief from the injustice 
of having to pay Post Office box 
rental fees because the U.S. Postal 
Service did not provide delivery to 
their homes. They came to the post office 
to pick up their mail because they 
had no home delivery, and they paid 
box rent for the privilege of doing so. 

Incredibly and unfairly, they paid 
box rent while saving the U.S. Postal 
Service the cost of providing home delivery, 
which is provided free to urban 
residents and those living in the countryside. 
Can you believe it? 

Well, finally, Mr. Speaker, that has 
changed. This afternoon I was notified 
by the U.S. Postal Service that effective 
April 5, 1998, throughout the 
United States, eligibility for no-fee 
post office boxes finally will be extended 
to those citizens living in small 
towns without home delivery whose 
residences or businesses are within the 
immediate vicinity of the post office 
and who, therefore, are ineligible for 
delivery service. 

b2230 

See the Federal Register, March 27, 
1998, page 14820, for the details. 

In the parlance I have learned as a 
lonely Member fighting this inequity 
over the years for small town America, 
effective April 5, there is no more quarter 
mile rule. Those Americans will 
now have free box rent for a normal-
sized box. The costs are gone at last. 

I congratulate the U.S. Postal Service 
for making the right decision. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. HOEKSTRA) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. HOEKSTRA addressed the 
House. His remarks will appear 
herafter in the Extensions of Remarks.) 


f 


TRIBUTE TO THE FAMILY OF RON 
BROWN, AND IN RECOGNITION OF 
DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
NUSSLE). Under a previous order of the 

lieve that there is no greater tribute 
than that a child can give to a parent. 

Certainly as we reflect on what this 
government means and the idea of public 
service, we certainly recognize that 
former Secretary Ron Brown was that 
kind of public servant: a giant, gentle, 
strong, persevering. 

As I looked around the room where 
the book signing occurred, I saw so 
many diverse faces, people from all 
walks of life; people who had no personal 
stake in their presence this 
evening, other than to pay particular 
tribute to a man who was unselfish in 
his giving, in his love of his country. 

It was interesting to see my colleague, 
the gentleman from Massachusetts 
(Mr. DELAHUNT), who indicated 
that he had attended college with Ron 
Brown and is noted in the book. 

It is not often we have time to thank 
family members and to again say how 
sorry we are that we lost such a patriot, 
such a contributor to the process 
of government. But to Tracey Brown 
and her family, I would like to thank 
them so very much for persevering, 
staying steady, and continuing to love 
our country. 

We are very privileged to have Mrs. 
Brown, who continues to stand as an 
example of a family that has given so 
much. 

To Tracey, my hat is off to her for 
the singular purpose of this last year of 
writing about her father. 

At the same time, Mr. Speaker, if I 
might, I will add my recognition and 
special feeling about the 30th anniversary 
or commemoration of the assassination 
of Dr. Martin Luther King. It 
is important in this time, when we 
spend so much time using and reusing 
the words and the beliefs of Dr. King. 

Sometimes they are used in ways 
that I think are not befitting both his 
image, his message, and his leadership, 
for too often on the floor of this House 
I have heard so many cite Dr. King’s 
message about a color-blind society, or 
being judged by your character, not the 
color of your skin, to raise legislation 
to eliminate opportunity for minorities 
and women. 

Often when we are debating the question 
of totally eliminating affirmative 
action for women and minorities in 
this country, after acknowledging just 
recently that discrimination is still a 
very harsh part of American society, I 
will hear those rising to the floor, commentators 
and others, citing the words 
of Dr. Martin Luther King. 

I would like to think of Dr. King as a 
gentle spirit, one who knew the impor


f 
House, the gentlewoman from Texas tance of nonviolence as opposed to vio-

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a (Ms. JACKSON-LEE) is recognized for 5 lence, but he was a serious, straight-
previous order of the House, the gen-minutes. forward gentleman. He always spoke 
tleman from Michigan (Mr. SMITH) is Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. This his mind. You never had to think about 
recognized for 5 minutes. evening, Mr. Speaker, I will not take what he was saying. 


H2038 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

I think in all instances he asked us 
as Americans to be truthful, to accept 
the truth, to acknowledge the truth, 
and not to run away from the truth. 
Racism does exist in this Nation, and it 
is for us, as Americans, to work together 
to live in harmony. I think Dr. 
King would want us to do that. 

So the anniversary of his assassination 
is not a time of sadness, but commemoration 
and commitment to the 
fact that each of us will try to overcome 
the devastation of racism and the 
fact that we isolate ourselves from 
other groups. President Clinton’s recent 
visit to Africa, now almost finished, 
should signal the importance of 
Americans reaching out to all diverse 
groups. 

Dr. King would be smiling, and he 
would hope that as we debate issues of 
national prominence, as we speak 
around this country, Dr. King would 
want us to use his words in truth and 
to recognize that what he wants for 
this Nation is equal opportunity for 
all. Until that date comes, I can imagine 
Dr. King somewhere continuing his 
fight, his oration, his speech, his nonviolent 
way, but never giving up until 
there is racial harmony in this Nation. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. GOSS) is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. GOSS addressed the House. His 
remarks will appear hereafter in the 
Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. NADLER) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. NADLER addressed the House. 
His remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. GOODLATTE) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. GOODLATTE addressed the 
House. His remarks will appear hereafter 
in the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


COMMENDING DR. AND MRS. 
SHELTON H. SHORT, III, FOR ESTABLISHMENT 
OF SCHOLARSHIP 
FUND AT RANDOLPH-MACON 
COLLEGE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. GOODE) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. GOODE. Mr. Speaker, I rise this 
evening to commend Dr. and Mrs. 
Shelton H. Short, III, of Clarksville, 
Virginia, for establishing a $100,000 permanent 
scholarship fund at Randolph-
Macon College in honor of Dr. Short’s 
late father. The scholarship fund is designed 
to assist students from Boydton, 
Virginia, the first site of Randolph-
Macon College, as well as students 

Dr. Short and his wife Jean are distinguished 
citizens and active participants 
in their community in Mecklenburg, 
Virginia. Their families contributed 
in significant ways to that community, 
the Commonwealth of Virginia, 
and the Nation over the course 
of at least 2 centuries. 

Indeed, Dr. Short is a descendent of 
the late Congressman William O. 
Goode, who served in the body from 
1841 to 1843 and from 1853 to 1859. Although 
I am not privileged to be a relative 
of the former congressman, he 
was a prominent Virginian who served 
as Speaker of the Virginia House of 
Delegates and wrote the original charter 
of Randolph-Macon College. 

Shelton and Jean Short are to be applauded 
for their generosity and their 
commitment to the education of young 
men and women at Randolph-Macon 
college, an institution of higher learning 
on which their family has had such 
a significant and tremendous impact. 

Mr. Speaker, I include for the 
RECORD the article from the May 21 
issue of the Mecklenburg Sun. 

The article referred to follows: 
SCHOLARSHIP EMPHASIZES R–MC TIES TO 
BOYDTON 
BOYDTON.—A Clarksville couple has honored 
the memory of the late Shelton 
Hardaway Short, Jr. by establishing a 
$100,000 permanent scholarship fund to Ran-
dolph-Macon College in his honor. 
As benefactors of the scholarship, Shelton 

H. Short, III and his Jean were center stage 
at a ceremony Wednesday night in Boydton 
announcing the fund. They were joined by 
Dr. Ladell Payne, president of Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland, local elected officials 
and about 100 onlookers at the Mecklenburg 
County Courthouse. 
The scholarship is designed to reward deserving 
college students from Boydton who 
will serve as ambassadors of the college’s 
roots in Boydton. If no eligible students 
apply from the town, the scholarship will go 
to students in Mecklenburg, Brunswick and 
other surrounding counties. The gift is 
meant to underscore the historic ties between 
Randolph-Macon, which was founded 
in Boydton, and Southside Virginia. 

In remarks to the audience, Short noted 
that his father ‘‘would be pleased that the 
scholarship given in his name would bring 
closer the links between Randolph-Macon as 
it was in its founding home of Boydton in 
1930, with Randolph-Macon of today and tomorrow 
in Hanover County, Virginia.’’ Short 
also said his father would wish ‘‘that the recipient 
of the Boydton scholarship consider 
himself or herself as a goodwill ambassador 
representing Boydton, Southside Virginia’’ 
and surrounding areas. 

According to Short, the criteria for winning 
the scholarship will go beyond academic 
and extracurricular achievements and 
address the character of potential applicants. 
The newly-endowed award is need 
based and will go to academically promising 
students in Boydton and surrounding areas. 

Applicants ‘‘should consider making 
straight A’s in good manners, a neat appearance 
and helpfulness to others as well as 
classwork,’’ said Short. ‘‘To me straight A’s 
in Greek or geometry are meaningless without 
good manners and a sincere desire to 
help others.’’ 

‘‘We would ask the town fathers and town 
mothers of our area, and especially Boydton, 
to impress upon the winner the necessity of 

Randolph-Macon College’s place of birth. 
What the student does will reflect back upon 
Boydton—good or otherwise.’’ 

Short said Boydton students would be the 
first choice for the scholarship, followed by 
students in the rest of Mecklenburg County 
and Brunswick County. Other areas included 
in the scholarship’s territory are Granville, 
Halifax, Vance and Warren Counties in North 
Carolina, and Charlotte, Dinwiddie, 
Greensville, Halifax, Lunenburg and 
Nottoway Counties in Virginia. Students 
from the North Carolina counties of Mecklenburg 
and Brunswick will also be eligible, 
Short said. 

Short described his father, Shelton 
Hardaway Short, III as a ‘‘modest gentleman’’ 
who loved Randolph-Macon College. 
‘‘He loved the original town of RandolphMacon’s 
birthplace—Boydton—as well as 
Randolph-Macon’s present and future locality, 
Ashland. Shelton H. Short, Jr. dedicated, 
designed and donated the official flag 
for Randolph-Macon in 1968 and used as a 
centerpiece for the College’s ensign a photo 
of the central structure of Randolph-Macon 
as it stood in Boydton in the 1930s.’’ 

At age 16, Shelton H. Short, Jr. left home 
in Brunswick County, Va. to enroll at Ran-
dolph-Macon in Ashland. His education there 
was interrupted by World War I, and he volunteered 
for the U.S. Army infantry as a 
teenager. After being assigned to training 
school at Virginia Military Institute, Short 
went to Plattsburg, N.Y. and was commissioned 
as a second lieutenant. When the war 
ended, he returned to R-MC and graduated as 
a member of the Class of 1919 with a bachelor’s 
of art degree. 

After volunteering for the Army in World 
War I, Short returned to the military at the 
age of 43 to serve his country during World 
War II. He became a major in the U.S. Marine 
Corps and served in the reserves after 
the surrender of Germany and Japan in 1945. 

At Randolph-Macon, his volunteer spirit 
and energy were readily apparent—he was 
President of the Cotillion Club, an officer in 
Kappa Alpha, and centerfielder for the Yellow 
Jackets baseball team, even playing the 
day Babe Ruth and the Boston Red Sox 
played the Yellow Jackets in an exhibition 
game. After completing his degree, he turned 
his attention to the local business community, 
serving as president of Jeffreys Motor 
Company in Chase City and chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of Jeffreys-Spaulding 
Manufacturing Company and of Jeffreys-
McElrath Manufacturing. 

He also owned and operated several farms 
and was a prominent tobacco and tree farmer. 
He was director of Jeffreys Lumber, Inc., 
Home Telegraph and Telephone and Virginia 
Forestry, among other companies. In addition, 
he served for 4 years as a director of 
Peoples Bank and Trust Co. and its successor, 
Fidelity American Bank and Central Fidelity, 
all in Chase City. 

Short also worked to better the community 
by serving on the Mecklenburg School 
Board and the Town Council of Chase City. 
He served in the Virginia House of Delegates 
from Mecklenburg County and served on the 
Virginia Economic Development Commission 
under three governors. A life-long member of 
the Methodist Church, he served on the 
Chase City Centenary United Methodist 
Church Board of Stewards for much of his 
adult life. He was also a Trustee of the 
former Blackstone College for Women. 

The first winner of the Honorable Shelton 

H. Short, Jr. Scholarship will be announced 
in the fall, said Dr. Payne, R-MC President. 
The scholarship will reinvigorate the ties be-
from surrounding communities. being a goodwill ambassador for Boydton, tween Boydton and the college, he noted. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2039 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. RAMSTAD) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. RAMSTAD addressed the House. 
His remarks will appear herafter in the 
Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. COYNE) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. COYNE addressed the House. His 
remarks will appear hereafter in the 
Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


INTRODUCTION OF THE CAPITAL 

GAINS TAX SIMPLIFICATION ACT 

OF 1998 

Mr. COYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to introduce the ‘‘Capital Gains 
Tax Simplification Act of 1998.’’ This 
legislation would simplify the computation 
of capital gains taxes for all 
individual taxpayers. The bill would 
also provide modest capital gains tax 
reductions for millions of Americans. 

I am sure that many of you have received 
complaints from a number of 
your constituents about the overly 
complex capital gains form—Schedule 
D—that they have to fill out as part of 
their 1997 Federal income tax returns. 
Their complaints are justified. Schedule 
D is long and complex—and it is 
very easy to make a mistake in filling 
out this form. Moreover, if nothing is 
done to fix this problem, Schedule D 
will get even more complex and burdensome 
in the coming years. The Capital 
Gains Tax Simplification Act of 
1998 would solve the capital gains complexity 
problem once and for all. 

The capital gains treatment provided 
in the Capital Gains Tax Simplification 
Act of 1998 is so simple that the 
substance of the bill can be stated in 
one short, easily understandable sentence: 
‘‘If for any taxable year a taxpayer 
other than a corporation has a 
net capital gain, 40 percent of such 
gain shall be a deduction from gross income.’’ 
In contrast, the Technical Corrections 
Act that passed the House last 
year contained 12 pages of detailed 
statutory language to describe the current 
complicated scheme for taxation 
of capital gains. 

The time is long overdue for Congress 
to begin simplifying our tax laws. The 
capital gains provisions are a good 
place to start. The current capital 
gains schedule and the underlying rules 
for taxation of capital gains are unnecessarily 
complex. Regardless of one’s 
views about capital gains taxes, I think 
that most of us would agree that a revenue-
neutral simplification of the capital 
gains tax provisions is much-needed. 


Current law imposes a significant 
burden on taxpayers who have capital 
gains. The IRS estimates that a typical 
taxpayer with a capital gain will spend 
5 hours and 20 minutes filling out his 
or her capital gains tax form. This is 

two hours more than in 1994. Moreover, 
the chances of making an effort in filing 
out this complicated, 54-line form 
are fairly high. 

As a member of the National Commission 
on Restructuring the Internal 
Revenue Service, I supported the Commission’s 
recommendation to pursue 
simplification at every possible opportunity. 
As the Ranking Member on the 
Ways and Means Oversight Subcommittee, 
I am well aware of the need for tax 
simplification. We need to make the 
tax code less complex—and less burdensome—
for the American taxpayer. The 
Capital Gains Tax Simplification Act 
of 1998 would go a long way toward 
meeting that goal. 

This bill embodies simplification in 
the clearest and strongest sense of the 
word. The bill would replace a lengthy, 
complex provision with a simple, equitable 
solution. It would shorten and 
simplify the tax code, and—more importantly—
it would shorten and simplify 
the process that millions of taxpayers 
must go through when filing out 
their annual income tax returns. 

Now is the time to act, not next year 
or the next. Last year, in the House-
passed IRS restructuring bill (H.R. 
2676), the House and the Ways and 
Means Committee supported the IRS 
Restructuring Commission’s view that 
the tax laws should be simplified wherever, 
and however, possible. My bill 
would do exactly that. 

The IRS restructuring bill would also 
mandate that, for tax legislation considered 
by the tax-writing committees 
after January 1, 1998, a ‘‘tax complexity 
analysis’’ be provided by the Joint 
Committee on Taxation to ensure that 
tax provisions brought before the Congress 
enhance simplification and eliminate 
complexity. Had this ‘‘tax complexity 
analysis’’ law been in effect 
during consideration of the 1997 Taxpayer 
Relief Act, the capital gains provisions 
in that bill would have failed 
the test miserably. I believe that, in 
contrast, a ‘‘tax complexity analysis’’ 
of my bill would be extraordinarily 
positive. How could it be otherwise, 
when my bill would eliminate the requirement 
to fill out Schedule D for 
most capital gains recipients and replace 
it with a single line on the 1040 
form? 

What happened to make the current-
law calculation of capital gains taxes 
so complex? The answer is simple. The 
1997 taxpayer Relief Act created a confusing 
array of capital gains tax rates. 
As a result, the law provides for five 
different rates that can apply to the 
capital gains of an individual—10 percent, 
15 percent, 20 percent, 25 percent, 
and 28 percent. I have attached a copy 
of the new 1997 capital gains tax computation 
schedule—Schedule D—to my 
statement to demonstrate the capital 
gains tax provisions’ extraordinary 
complexity. 

An additional tax rate category is 
scheduled to take effect in the year 
2001, and another tax rate category will 
take effect in 2006. The forms required 

to accommodate these additional rate 
categories will add significant additional 
complexity to the filing process 
for millions of taxpayers. After those 
provisions take effect, the 1997 Schedule 
D will look simple in comparison. 
Moreover, under current law, a growing 
number of taxpayers will have to fill 
out the capital gains form twice in the 
coming years—once for the regular tax, 
and once for the alternative minimum 
tax. If you think tax filers are angry 
and frustrated now, just wait a few 
years. 

The worst aspect of current law is 
that its complexity falls hardest on 
low- and moderate-income taxpayers 
whose only capital investments are in 
mutual funds. They aren’t wealthy people; 
they don’t have their own accountants. 
They are the people who usually 
fill out their tax returns themselves. 
And they have to fill out that confusing, 
error-prone Schedule D themselves. 
Under the bill I am introducing 
today, those taxpayers would not have 
to fill out a separate capital gains tax 
form at all. They would simply include 
60 percent of their total capital gains 
distributions on the appropriate line of 
their tax returns. Taxpayers with other 
sources of capital gains would still 
have to report these gains on Schedule 
D or its equivalent, but even they 
would no longer have to complete the 
roughly 35 lines of calculations on page 
2 of Schedule D to figure out their 
taxes; they would simply figure out 
their net capital gains using Schedule 
D and then include 60 percent of that 
amount on the appropriate line of their 
tax return. 

It has been said in recent days that 
much of the complexity associated 
with the capital gains tax could be 
eliminated by eliminating the new 18month 
holding period requirement. 
This is just not true. Simply repealing 
the 18-month holding period requirement 
would not eliminate any part of 
the current complex capital gains 
schedule. The only way to get true simplification 
of the capital gains provisions 
enacted last year is to enact a 
simplification proposal like the one in 
my bill—that is, to provide a one-year 
holding period requirement for all capital 
assets, and to permit depreciation 
recapture gains on real estate to receive 
the full benefit of the capital 
gains tax reduction. 

It is my understanding that the bill 
would be revenue neutral. The bill’s 
simple 40-percent exclusion for capital 
gains can be substituted for the confusing 
array of capital gains tax rates 
under current law at no cost to the 
Federal Government. As I mentioned 
earlier, simplifying the computation of 
capital gains taxes for all individual 
taxpayers along these lines would also 
provide modest capital gains tax reductions 
for nearly all individuals with 
capital gains income. I have attached a 
chart which shows the impact of my 
legislation on the capital gains tax 
rates that individuals would pay. Most 
capital gains filers—over 11 million 


H2040 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

households—would see their capital standing that even many of these tax-including Representatives RANGEL, 
gains rates drop by several percentage payers would receive modest tax reduc-STARK, MATSUI, KENNELLY, 
points. The bill is expected to impose tions under this bill. This is not a big MCDERMOTT, LEWIS, NEAL, and BECER-
modest capital gains tax increases on price to pay for eliminating some of 

RA—are original cosponsors of this leg-

some of the 11/2 million wealthiest tax-the extraordinary complexity from the 

islation. I urge my other colleagues to

payers in the country—those house-tax code. 

join me in cosponsoring this capital

holds with incomes of more than Many of my Democratic colleagues 

gains simplification bill.

$200,000 per year—but it is my under-on the Ways and Means Committee— 

CHANGES IN CAPITAL GAINS TAX RATES UNDER THE CAPITAL GAIN TAX SIMPLIFICATION ACT OF 1998 

Rate under current law Rate under proposed 
legislation 
Assets held more than Collectibles and assets

Rate bracket (Number of taxpayers in bracket) 

18 months and not col-Real estate depreciation held at least 12 months 

All capital assets held

lectibles or recapture recapture gain but less than 18 

more than 12 months

gain months 

15 percent (61.58 million) ......................................................................................................................................................................... 10 15 15 9.0 
28 percent (24.0 million) ........................................................................................................................................................................... 20 25 28 16.8 
31 percent (2.3 million) ............................................................................................................................................................................. 20 25 28 18.6 
36 percent (1.0 million) ............................................................................................................................................................................. 20 25 28 21.6 

39.6 percent (0.5 million) .......................................................................................................................................................................... 20 25 28 23.8 
More than 100 million individual tax returns are filed each year. 
Of those 100 million returns, 14 million include capital gains income. 
Under this legislation: approximately 11.3 million of those individual filers with capital gains would get a tax reduction, approximately 2 million would see essentially no change in their taxes, and approximately 700,000 of those fil


ers—filers with incomes over $200,000—would see modest increases. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Kansas (Mr. TIAHRT) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. TIAHRT addressed the House. 
His remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. BONIOR) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. BONIOR addressed the House. 
His remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Nevada (Mr. GIBBONS) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. GIBBONS addressed the House. 
His remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


THE WORLD LOST A GREAT LEAD


ER ON THE PASSING OF BELLA 

ABZUG 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. MALONEY) 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. 
Speaker, yesterday, on the last day of 
Women’s History Month, the world lost 
a great leader in Bella Abzug. Tears are 
being shed today, not just in the 
United States but around the world, 
because Bella’s vision was not confined 
to one issue or to one nation. 

Bella Abzug was the original feminist, 
an icon in the women’s movement 
here and around the world. But she 
worked for more than a constituency 
or an interest group, or even a movement. 
She will be remembered for her 
hats but, more importantly, for what 
was under her hat: her brains, her 
voice, and her heart. 

I am deeply indebted to Bella, and I 
know many women who feel the same 
way. I also know that there are women 
today who may not feel that Bella’s 
loss has any connection to them. But I 

want to remind them about the rights 
Bella fought for and won on their behalf, 
rights so many of us now take for 
granted, or forget that women ever had 
to fight for them in the first place. 

Make no mistake, there is not an 
American woman alive who does not 
have more rights, commands more respect, 
or enjoys more opportunity as a 
result of Bella’s work. Because of Bella 
Abzug, women today stand a little taller, 
walk a little prouder, and accept 
nothing less than they deserve. 

Bella broke through barriers, shattered 
glass ceilings, and woke people 
up. Even in her final years, when she 
was confined to a wheelchair, no 
woman stood taller in the fight for 
women’s rights than Bella Abzug. Bella 
was a pioneer in so many forums: as a 
legislator, peace activist, labor lawyer, 
lecturer, news commentator, civil liberties 
advocate, and the first person to 
be elected to Congress on a platform of 
women’s rights and peace. 

She cofounded the National Women’s 
Political Caucus, coauthored the Freedom 
of Information and Privacy Acts, 
cast one of the first votes for the Equal 
Rights Amendment, presided over the 
Women’s Congress for a Healthy Planet, 
and cofounded the Women’s Environment 
and Development Organization. 


But the whole of Bella’s life was 
much more than the considerable sum 
of its parts. She was a historical figure 
in the women’s movement, a cultural 
icon who transcended politics and policy. 
Bella did not just change the law, 
she changed how people thought, how 
they looked at the world, and how they 
lived their lives. She was a firebrand 
orator, a consummate organizer, and a 
living symbol of the limitless potential 
of what women can do. 

Bella was motivated by a sense of 
outrage about the rampant inequality 
between men and women that still exists 
today. She took this outrage to her 
grave. 

I know if Bella were alive today she 
would be telling us not to mourn, but 
to organize and to mobilize. Bella said 
just last year, we are building a wom


en’s movement, and we have been making 
it larger and larger. It is worldwide. 
It is where it has never been before. 


Bella’s effort to connect with younger 
women and to create a worldwide 
movement for women’s rights has ensured 
the women’s movement will continue 
well into the next millennium. It 
is my responsibility, the responsibility 
of other women in Congress, and the 
women of this Nation to keep that spirit 
alive. 

As Bella herself said, women will 
change the nature of power, rather 
than power changing the nature of 
women. 

f 


A TRUE DIALOGUE ON TAX CUTS 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
7, 1997, the gentlewoman from 
Connecticut (Ms. DELAURO) is recognized 
for half of the time until midnight, 
approximately 21 minutes after 
11 p.m., as the designee of the minority 
leader. 
Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, last 
week we were here on the floor of the 
House talking about the extreme tax 
proposals being offered by our Republican 
colleagues and the Democrats’ 
record of providing tax relief to mid-
dle-class families. 
Unfortunately, the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD incorrectly recorded my words. 
Here is what I said: ‘‘We shouldn’t let 
Republicans get away with saying that 
Democrats are against tax cuts.’’ It appeared 
in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
that I said Democrats were against tax 
cuts. That is an error, and it has been 
corrected in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. 
I know this was an innocent mistake 
on the part of the recordkeepers, and I 
want to say that I have the greatest respect 
for all of their hard work and the 
long hours, especially during Special 
Orders like this one. But the recorders 
are human, and in this case, the way 
my words were recorded changed the 
meaning of what I said to mean the 
exact opposite. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2041 

As I have said, this has been corrected. 
But what was interesting is 
that this misprint suddenly engaged 
our Republican colleagues in a dialogue 
on this issue. If this error is what 
it takes to engage Republicans in a debate 
on tax cuts, then it is a good 
thing. 

b2245 
Because I want to debate tax cuts 
with my Republican colleagues. That is 
why we were up here last week talking 
on this issue and why we are here tonight. 
I am happy to put the Democratic 
plan to provide real tax relief for working 
families up against these risky Republican 
tax schemes any night of the 
week. I understand why Republicans 
are nervous about the American people 
hearing the details of this plan, and I 
understand why they would rather divert 
attention and try to make political 
hay out of an obvious misprint. The 
Republican proposal to, quote, scrap 
the Tax Code and impose a 30 percent 
sales tax on the American people is a 
radical and extreme proposal. 
Democrats are the mainstream party 
on tax cuts. President Clinton and the 
Democrats have passed targeted tax relief 
for middle-class families. The Republican 
party is proposing a 30 percent 
sales tax increase on American 
families. Just one example, one group 
that would be hit harder than others by 
the Republican sales tax: senior citizens. 
Senior citizens would gain nothing 
from the elimination of income taxes, 
since most are retired and pay no income 
taxes. But a 30 percent sales tax 
would hit seniors on fixed incomes 
square between the eyes. One of the 
most burdensome expenses faced by 
senior citizens is the price of medication. 
We have taken a look at five of 
the most common medications used by 
seniors and looked at how the 30 percent 
Republican sales tax would impact 
those prices. 
Mr. Speaker, let me just put up briefly 
this chart. These are five medications 
that seniors continually avail 
themselves of and how the 30 percent 
sales tax would hit them: 
Blood pressure, arthritis, diabetes, 
heart disease and inhaler all would be 
increased between $24 and $37.50, to create 
prices that would make it incredibly 
difficult for seniors to have to pay 
for these basic medications. 
The Republicans’ other tax plan, the 
flat tax plan of the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. ARMEY), would raise taxes 
on 90 percent of Americans and it 
would provide a tax cut for the 
wealthiest of Americans. It looks like 
the GOP is up to their old tricks, helping 
the very wealthy at the expense of 
ordinary Americans. 
Democrats have more credibility on 
cutting taxes than Republicans. That 
is why the GOP is left resorting to misquotes 
to try and change the subject 
from their extreme proposal. 
Mr. Speaker, I would now like to 
open up the dialogue with my col


leagues to talk about the Democrats’ 
record of providing real tax relief to 
working families, as well as these radical 
tax schemes being offered up by our 
Republican colleagues. Let me yield to 
my colleague, the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. PALLONE), who was with us 
on the floor last week and who has 
been an outstanding proponent of providing 
tax relief to working middle-
class families in this country. 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I want 
to thank the gentlewoman from Connecticut 
(Ms. DELAURO). I think it is 
sort of ironic, or maybe kind of scary, 
that the Republicans were so upset 
that they resorted to misquoting the 
gentlewoman. Anyone who was here 
that evening or listened to the debate, 
knows that one of the major points 
that the gentlewoman was making, and 
I think we all were making, is that 
Democrats have been out front on providing 
tax cuts and the targeted type 
of tax cuts that help families, families 
particularly with children, working 
families. 

We actually, that evening, recited 
some of the tax cuts that the Democrats 
have put in place over the last 
few years that have actually made the 
situation where the tax burden on 
working class families has actually 
been reduced somewhat as a result of 
the Democratic efforts and as a result 
of the President’s efforts. 

I think what went on since that 
evening is that the Republicans, particularly 
those who have been advocating 
this crazy sales tax, this 30 percent 
sales tax, were so upset that some of us 
were really baring the truth and explaining 
how kooky it was, that they 
sort of overreacted I guess is the best 
way to say it. 

Mr. Speaker, I noticed that when the 
gentlewoman from Connecticut was 
speaking, that the gentleman from 
Louisiana (Mr. TAUZIN), who is one of 
the authors of the 30 percent sales tax 
increase, was actually on the floor. So 
he certainly knew what the gentlewoman 
was saying. It was amazing to 
me, I guess it was the next day, that 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. DELAY) 
came to the floor as well. They obviously 
knew what the gentlewoman 
really said. They knew that she was 
talking about the fact that Democrats 
have been successful in providing significant 
tax relief and tax cuts for the 
average American family. 

Just to give an idea, this is basically 
what I said that evening. And in a way, 
I am glad that we have another opportunity 
to repeat it because April, and 
today is the first day of April, is certainly 
the time when most Americans 
think the most about taxes because 
April 15 is around the corner. Just 
some interesting statistics that come 
from an analysis by the Treasury Department 
that says that the average 
Federal income tax rate for a median 
income family of four in 1998 will be 
only 7.8 percent, down from 10.3 percent 
in 1984. This is the lowest income 
tax burden for a median income family 

since 1966, and that is thanks in large 
part to Democratic efforts that this 
Federal tax burden has actually decreased. 


Just to give an example again of 
some of the Democratic policies that 
have resulted in that decrease: Expansion 
of the Earned Income Tax Credit, 
which we have been championing for a 
number of years, beginning in 1993 that 
cut taxes for millions of families with 
children. My colleagues remember how 
many times Republicans came down to 
this floor and said that they wanted to 
eliminate the Earned Income Tax Credit 
when we were trying to expand it. 
The $500 per child credit that Democrats 
ensured would be available to 
moderate income families. In addition, 
the HOPE Educational Scholarship tax 
credit. These are the targeted education 
tax credits that we put in effect. 
And in 1998, this year, Democrats have 
proposed expansion of the child care 
tax credit to increase the amount of 
the credit from 30 percent to 50 percent 
of expenses and make it available to 
more families. Democrats also support 
efforts to reduce the marriage penalty. 

So there is no question that what 
went on after our last opportunity to 
talk about this is that the Republicans 
became very scared about this 30 percent 
sales tax that was going to hit 
seniors, was going to be on homes, was 
going to be on cars, was going to be on 
almost everything that we buy, and 
they made it their business to basically 
pass out a lot of misinformation about 
what the gentlewoman and the rest of 
us said, because we were making it 
quite clear that Democrats were providing 
real tax relief. 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I think 
that the American public has every 
reason to be fearful of this kind of a 
tax scheme, if you will. 

It now gives me pleasure to yield to 
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
BONIOR), who is joining us again this 
evening. 

Mr. BONIOR. Mr. Speaker, it is nice 
to be here at 5 of 11:00 on a Wednesday 
night. 

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague 
from New Jersey and my friend and 
colleague from Connecticut for work 
on exposing the tax proposals that we 
talked about last week that the Republicans 
unveiled and which I think they 
are now, as the gentleman from New 
Jersey correctly stated, somewhat chagrined 
about the fact that people are 
actually focusing in on what they want 
to do. 

The gentlewoman from Connecticut 
and my friend from New Jersey mentioned 
that we are the people, the 
party that has traditionally, historically 
helped middle income and working 
families in the tax area. And I 
think my friend from New Jersey has 
outlined very well this evening the recent 
issues which we have taken the 
lead on. The Earned Income Tax Credit, 
which has really lifted literally millions 
of Americans out of poverty, 
working Americans. The child tax credit, 
the $500 that people will be able to 


H2042 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

take per child when they do their 
forms this year. We fought for that for 
middle income working people in this 
last go round on the tax bill. 

The HOPE scholarship, I mean, what 
a wonderful thing to have fought for 
and been at the vanguard of trying to 
provide higher education for working 
families’ kids, working families’ children 
in this country. And, of course, 
this year the child care tax credit that 
we are pushing very hard. 

So we are very proud of the record 
that we have on trying to take care of 
the middle-class squeeze. That is where 
we come from. That is what we believe 
in. And without being too partisan, and 
I guess there is no way to be on the tax 
issue but partisan, my colleagues on 
this side of the aisle have historically 
and traditionally provided tax relief 
for those at the very top of the income 
scale in this country. That is who their 
constituency is. That is who supports 
them. That is what they are about. And 
they have the theory, though, that if 
you give to the top it will trickle down. 
Well, it may trickle down to the top 5 
percent or the top 10 percent or maybe 
even the top 20 percent, but it does not 
go much beyond that. 

Last week we were talking about the 
Republican tax cut plans to raise taxes 
on working families that they are 
proudly advocating around the country. 
They are on this tour, the gentleman 
from Louisiana (Mr. TAUZIN) 
who sat in the back there. I saw him. 
He was right in the back in that corner 
as we were talking last week. He was 
kind of hunched down and kind of had 
his feet up. I was watching him. He had 
his feet up against the back of the 
chair and he was taking a few notes 
and he was kind of looking over here. 

The gentleman has got this plan 
that, I mean, I just cannot imagine 
him going out and talking about it. 
But I guess he is going to be on the 
road again during tax week and I think 
the American people ought to know 
what he is about. 

The gentlewoman’s chart I think indicates 
it very well. Thirty percent 
sales tax hits people on fixed incomes, 
i.e., senior citizens. If they have a medical 
problem and they have medication, 
those are the numbers. Their blood 
pressure medicine will increase by 30 
percent from $110 a month by $33 up to 
$143 a month. If they have heart disease, 
they are going to pay an extra $27 
a month. For prescriptions that normally 
would cost $90 a month, it is up 
to $117, and on and on and on. 

If they have a grocery bill, that goes 
from $100 a month to $130 a month. If 
they are a middle income family and 
they want to buy a minivan, a wonderful 
car that is, by the way, designed 
and created in my district, they go out 
there and they want to buy a $25,000 
mini van, forget it. Under their proposal 
they are talking at least $32,000. 

So what we are talking about here is 
a tax shift to working and middle income 
people and a tax shift away from 
those at the very top who are doing the 
best in our society today. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to show a chart 
here and take it out again. I had this 
chart available last week. This is their 
other proposal. They have two. They 
have this sales tax thing and then they 
have got this Armey flat tax proposal 
which will raise taxes on working families. 


Now, this chart shows in the green 
what people are paying now who have 
incomes of $25,000, $50,000, $100,000, a 
quarter of a million dollars and a million 
dollars. Under the flat tax plan of 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
Armey), this goes up from less than 4 
percent to close to 12 percent for people 
making $25,000 a year. If they are at 
the $50,000 income level, their taxes 
again will go up. Not quite to 20 percent, 
but somewhere in the neighborhood 
of 17 and 18 percent from less than 
13 percent. 

If they are making $100,000 a year, 
they still go up about a percent. Now, 
if the taxpayer is making a quarter of 
a million a year, of course they are 
going to get a huge tax cut. That is 
what they are now. Under the flat tax 
offered by the gentleman from Texas, 
they go down. Their taxes are cut substantially. 
And for those who are making 
a million or more a year, they are 
cut even further. 

There is no progressivity here. Those 
least able to pay will pay more. Those 
most able to pay will get a free ride. 
And nothing surprising there. That has 
typically been the historical reality of 
their plans. 

In addition to that, Wall Street brokers 
will pay no, and I the repeat this, 
no taxes on their unearned income 
from stocks and bonds. Now, that is absolutely 
crazy. 

b2300 
Actually when you tell people that, 
they kind of look at you like you are 
making this stuff up. But it is what 
they are proposing under the Armey 
flat tax. Of course what they are proposing 
under the Tauzin scheme is just 
beyond reality. 
During the debate last week, as the 
gentlewoman from Connecticut stated, 
there was a misprint in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. I think this kind of 
speaks to the problem that we have 
here. The Republican leadership has 
tried to take advantage of an innocent 
mistake to twist the words into the opposite 
of their meaning. I think that 
shows how desperate they really are on 
the issue of taxes, and the lengths that 
they are going to go to. They are trying 
to distract attention from their 
own plans that are really loony and 
very indefensible. 
There is no better champion of working 
men and women in this Congress 
than the gentlewoman from Connecticut 
(Ms. DELAURO). She has been at the 
forefront of the breaks, the tax breaks 
that the gentleman from New Jersey 
mentioned a little earlier, the HOPE 
scholarship, the child tax credit that 
we are discussing right now and, of 
course, the child tax credit and the 

EITC. So it is kind of sad actually 
when you really think about what they 
will resort to out here to distort the 
record, and the record speaks very 
clearly on what you have done in terms 
of providing middle-income people the 
relief they need from the squeeze that 
they are in and what those folks are 
trying to do in terms of fattening the 
wallets, feathering the nest, doing all 
that they can to take care of the top, 
with the hope, I guess, that some of it 
is going to trickle down. 

We know historically that that has 
not happened. What has indeed happened 
is that the top 20 percent or 25 
percent in this country have done extremely 
well. Folks in the middle, 
about 60 percent of the American wage 
earners today, their incomes have basically 
been frozen or they have fallen. 
Of course the bottom 25 percent of 
working Americans have had their incomes 
plummet about 25 or 30 percent 
over the last two decades. So it is that 
middle-income group, and it is those 
folks that are working that are trying 
to struggle at the bottom that we represent. 
That is what we are about. That 
is why we are here. 

We thank you for your vigilance and 
for correcting the record, and we look 
forward to working with you to make 
sure that when they take offense to 
what we say, especially when it deals 
with a question as important as this, 
that we are here and we will continue 
to be here to correct the record to 
make the American people understand 
that there really is division in this 
place in terms of who people represent. 
And the clearer that becomes, the better 
off the American people are going 
to be in terms of making the right decision 
on who they want to represent 
them. 

Ms. DELAURO. Let me say thank you 
to the gentleman from Michigan and 
the gentleman from New Jersey. I 
think as we did last week and this 
evening and I venture to say that if we 
were not leaving tomorrow, because 
the Republican leadership does not 
want this House in session to debate 
the real issues that people are concerned 
about, that we would be up on 
our feet every single night trying to 
expose what are two schemes that 
would seriously hurt working people in 
this country. 

It is almost like a magical mystery 
tour that they are running about on 
here and trying just to create some 
smoke and mirrors, but we are going to 
be vigilant. Whatever it takes, we will 
stand up every single night and talk 
about what this means to seniors, what 
it means to working families and how 
in fact Democrats have provided tax relief 
for working families and how clear 
we stand in supporting tax cuts for 
working families in this country. 

I yield to the gentleman from New 
Jersey. 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I just 
wanted to thank the gentlewoman 
again. I think you are absolutely right. 
The only regret I have is that we unfortunately 
are going home because I 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2043 

think that as we lead up to April 15th, 
if we had the opportunity over the next 
few weeks to get on the floor and really 
expose this GOP 30 percent sales tax 
and what it would mean for the average 
working person, we would really 
drive the point home. And the Republicans 
on the other side would be very 
nervous because the truth would come 
out. 

One of the things that this whole incident 
with you, I think, points to is 
the fact that I think that many of our 
colleagues on the other side, on the Republican 
side think that if they keep 
saying something that is false over and 
over again and keep repeating it, that 
somehow the American people are 
going to believe it. Perhaps we as 
Democrats have not brought up enough 
times here on the floor or even out in 
our districts that, in fact, it has been 
the Democrats that have taken the 
lead on tax cuts for the average working 
person. I think it is unfortunate in 
a way. 

Perhaps we should be talking more 
about it because maybe the word is not 
getting out. Maybe when some of these 
Republicans keep talking about the absurd 
30 percent sales tax, people start 
thinking in their mind, oh, you know, 
they are for some kind of tax cut. And 
they do not necessarily pay attention 
to the specifics of it. 

So I think it is incumbent upon us to 
point out how we, as Democrats, have 
been the backbone of these tax cuts 
that have benefited the average American 
over the last few years and that 
what the Republicans are proposing, 
whether it is the 30 percent sales tax or 
the flat tax proposal, that these things 
are not going to help working people; 
that they are basically giveaways, if 
you will, to the rich. 

I just want to thank the gentlewoman 
again because I think you 
started something here, and when we 
come back after this break, we need to 
come to the floor and keep pointing 
out over, and over, and over again how 
crazy and what a lunatic proposal this 
sales tax is and that if there is going to 
be real tax relief, it has to be more of 
the targeted tax relief that the Democrats 
have provided that helps working 
families with kids, with education 
needs, with health care needs. This is, 
with child care needs. These are the 
kinds of things that we have to keep 
pushing for. 

Ms. DELAURO. I thank the gentleman 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of 
my time, which is until, as I understand 
it, 21 minutes after 11:00, to the 
gentleman from New Jersey. 

ARMENIA CONCLUDES SUCCESSFUL 
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I would 
like to switch to another topic tonight, 
which is totally unrelated to the one 
that we discussed so far, but I think is 
very important for my constituents 
and a million and a half Armenian 
Americans around the country who I 
know are very pleased with the elec


tion that took place just this past 
Monday in Armenia for the new President. 


The voters in Armenia have elected 
Robert Kocharian as the new President 
of Armenia. With 99 percent of the ballots 
from Monday’s run-off election 
counted, Robert Kocharian, currently 
the prime minister, who has served as 
acting President since early February, 
has received approximately 59 percent 
of the vote and his opponent Karen 
Demirchian, who led Armenia when it 
was controlled by the Soviet Union, received 
about 41 percent of the vote. An 
estimated 55 percent of eligible voters 
participated in the run-off election. 

Mr. Speaker, I think this is significant 
because this really was a free election 
in Armenia. President Kocharian, 
who I have met, and who has been here 
to the United States, is a free market 
advocate who has pledged to revitalize 
Armenia’s industrial sector and to 
track more foreign investment. I believe 
he is a strong leader, a consensus 
builder and someone who is committed 
to democracy and economic development. 


The election has been judged as 
peaceful, well-organized and legitimate 
by the Council of Europe, the Commonwealth 
of Independent States and other 
international observers. Even the organization 
for security and cooperation 
in Europe, the OSCE, which was harsh 
and, in my opinion, unfairly so, in its 
criticism of the first round election 2 
weeks ago, even the OSCE has not 
questioned the outcome. 

Mr. Speaker, allow me to read a 
quote from Lord Russel-Johnson, head 
of the Council of Europe’s monitoring 
mission in Armenia. It says, ‘‘The second 
round of the Presidential voting 
was well organized; the elections were 
passed peacefully and in accordance 
with law. This is a steady step along 
the path toward Armenian accession to 
the Council of Europe.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to report 
this very positive endorsement of Armenia’s 
democratic system by a respected 
and objective international 
election observer. Unfortunately, the 
OSCE, of which the United States is a 
member Nation, has been somewhat 
more stingy in its praise for Armenia’s 
tremendous progress under very difficult 
conditions. 

Mr. Speaker, I must say that the 
OSCE has seemed to lean more heavily 
on Armenia, a democracy, than Azerbaijan, 
which is for all intents and purposes 
a dictatorship. The OSCE has 
thus far taken an unrealistic approach 
to solving one of the region’s most important 
diplomatic and political challenges. 
That is the resolution of the 
conflict over Nagorno Karabagh, the 
Armenia ethnic enclave that Joseph 
Stalin gave to Azerbaijan, but which 
has been Armenian territory for centuries. 


The people of Karabagh won their 
independence in a war with Azerbaijan. 
A cease-fire has been in place since 
1994, but Azerbaijan still claims 

Karabagh as its own. And the international 
community, the OSCE, and, I 
am sorry to say, the United States continues 
to side with Azerbaijan over 
Karabagh. 

I raise this issue of Karabagh because 
it has been an important backdrop to 
the elections just concluded in Armenia. 
Most observers believe that the decision 
of former President Levon Ter-
Petrosian to resign was based on the 
widespread criticism he received within 
Armenia for accepting the OSCE 
peace plan for Nagorno Karabagh, 
which was based on unilateral concessions 
in favor of Azerbaijan without 
safeguards for Karabagh’s security. 
Now that that has become clear that 
the OSCE plan is a nonstarter in Armenia, 
I hope the OSCE, with strong Armenian 
leadership, will work with the 
parties to the conflict to develop a serious 
plan for resolving the conflict. 

Furthermore, President Kocharian is 
the former President of Nagorno 
Karabagh and he has been outspoken in 
his view that the OSCE Minsk Group 
negotiations must include the democratically 
elected government of 
Karabagh. 

Mr. Speaker, the important thing for 
us to bear in mind now is that the voters 
of Armenia have elected Robert 
Kocharian to a 5-year term as their 
President. The entire process of the 
last 2 months, former President TerPetrosian’s 
resignation, acting President 
Kocharian’s interim service until 
elections and Mr. Kocharian’s victory 
in the legitimate elections just completed, 
was conducted in the spirit of a 
civil society governed by the rule of 
law and democracy. 

I want to congratulate Robert 
Kocharian on his election and I want to 
salute the people of Armenia for making 
amazing democratic progress despite 
tremendous obstacles. 

25TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AMERICAN BRAIN 
TUMOR ASSOCIATION 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I just 
wanted to mention one more thing. 
This is somewhat personal, but also I 
think important for the American public 
as well. That is that just this weekend, 
March 28, marked the 25th anniversary 
of the American Brain Tumor 
Association, an organization devoted 
to funding brain tumor research and 
providing information to patients and 
families about their health care options. 


I know a number of Members of Congress 
died suffering from brain cancer 
and my own father-in-law, Andy 
Hospodor, passed away 3 years ago in 
March as a result of a brain tumor. I 
wanted to say that at the time when 
my father-in-law was suffering from a 
brain tumor, we received a lot of help 
from the American Brain Tumor Association. 
We received help in identifying 
physician specialists so that he received 
better treatment for his particular 
type of brain tumor. 

After his death, they helped establish 
a memorial fund in his name. The association 
also provided a lot of information. 
Every question we had they were 


H2044 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

able to answer or find someone who 
had an answer. They have a network of 
support groups that work with the various 
relatives of brain tumor victims. 

I know that since I have been in Congress 
at least two of my colleagues, 
who I considered very good friends, 
Paul Henry and also Mike Synar, unfortunately 
died from brain tumors. I 
just wanted to take a little time tonight 
to recognize the American Brain 
Tumor Association for the dedication 
and service to patients and families 
with brain tumors. They provide information 
to their members with the latest 
medical breakthroughs available on 
brain tumor treatments. In addition, 
they furnish information on support 
services to help families deal with the 
issues that they face when a loved one 
is found with a brain tumor. 

While the association has done a lot, 
there is a lot more that can be done, 
Mr. Speaker. As Congress determines 
the fiscal year 1999 spending priorities, 
funding for research needs our continued 
support. 

I am committed to the doubling of 
the National Institutes of Health funding 
increase for 1999 and urge every 
Member of Congress to do the same. 
Every dollar that we commit to lifesaving 
treatment oriented and basic research 
is an investment that will have 
an enormous return in terms of saving 
and improving lives, as well as saving 
health care dollars in the future. 

I just wanted to say tonight, in closing, 
to the American Brain Tumor Association, 
thank you for a job well 
done over the last 25 years. To my colleagues 
in Congress, I say, we still have 
a lot that we must do. 

f 


b2315 

VALUES OF THE REPUBLICAN 
PARTY 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
7, 1997, the gentleman from Colorado 
(Mr. BOB SCHAFFER) is recognized 
for the balance of the time until midnight 
as the designee of the majority 
leader. 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 
Mr. Speaker, I first want to compliment 
the previous speaker, the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. 
PALLONE), on his thoughts and ideas 
about health care and the proposals 
that he has set forward. And we certainly 
look forward to learning about 
those proposals and possibly working 
to provide our opinions and thoughts 
and perhaps assistance in moving in a 
very similar direction of caring and 
compassion for those who are so afflicted. 


But proposals seem to be few and far 
between here in Washington with respect 
to a number of issues that we 
have been dealing with in recent days 
and in recent weeks. And we, as the Republican 
party in Congress, have been 
fighting very passionately and forcefully 
about issues and proposals that 

are designed to help the American taxpayer, 
to help the American family to 
unleash our economy and allow for a 
greater prosperity throughout the 
country. 

And with this in mind, let me yield a 
few moments to my colleague, the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. HAYWORTH). 

Mr. HAYWORTH. I thank my colleague 
from Colorado for yielding, Mr. 
Speaker, and I am pleased by the fact 
that he joins me in this Chamber tonight 
along another newcomer to 
Washington, the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. BRADY). 

Mr. Speaker, as I was listening to the 
earlier portion and presentation offered 
by our friend in the minority, I 
could not help but think of three dates, 
two occurring in this month and another 
that will come in October. 

We should note for the calendar that 
this is the 1st of April. And while I 
doubt no one’s sincerity, the absurdity 
of some of the comments which preceded 
us in the minority Special Order 
I guess should be tempered by the fact 
that this is, in fact, April Fool’s Day. 
And we know that that is the second 
favorite holiday in the minority’s calendar, 
because the minority party and 
those always tied to the culture of 
spend and spend and spend some more 
really have as their favorite holiday 
April 15, when everyone must send in 
their tax returns. 

And for evidence, despite a frantic effort 
to get away from words that were 
read in the RECORD here last week, my 
friends, my colleagues and, Mr. Speaker, 
the citizens who join us beyond 
these walls via television should look 
to this quote and understand all the 
frantic posturing and postmortems 
cannot change what was said on this 
floor. The Chief Deputy Whip, the gentlewoman 
from Connecticut, who stood 
opposite in the well, said this last 
week, quote, the fact is that Democrats 
are not for tax cuts. 

Now, I could amend that statement 
because I know a lot of common-sense 
folks who offer party label second in 
the Sixth District of Arizona who are 
hard-working Americans who are 
pleased by the tax cuts they have this 
year, hanging on to more of their own 
money to save, spend, and invest as 
they see fit. And in the frantic way in 
which the minority, the congressional 
folks who are tax and spenders, tried to 
back paddle on this statement tonight, 
I could not help but note that the scenario 
they offered brings up a third 
date on the calendar, October 31. 

Because, sadly, it seems that the minority, 
so bankrupt of ideas, so bereft 
of new energy at times, offers what is 
a rhetorical terrorism to victimize the 
most vulnerable in our society by setting 
up these scenarios that can only 
be described as part Orwellian, part 
Kevorkian. And so, we heard it again 
tonight. 

There are many positive things to 
talk about and to report to the American 
people tonight, Mr. Speaker, as 
the new majority continues its quest 

for common-sense conservative government 
with the notion that the people 
of America should hang on to more of 
their own money and send less of it to 
Washington. And that is why I am so 
pleased to join my friend again from 
Colorado and my friend from Texas. 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 
Mr. Speaker, reclaiming my time, I appreciate 
the gentleman from Arizona. 

Wednesday night is freshmen night, 
typically. The freshman class is one 
that tries to reserve an hour every 
Wednesday to talk about the values of 
our Republican party. We are joined by 
many other Members from other classes, 
senior Members, as the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. HAYWORTH) is, who 
has been one that we look to for leadership 
and guidance, one who inspires us 
and who is a great colleague for us as 
new Members. 

Our goal and objective in these Special 
Orders is to really draw the distinction 
between the two parties that 
are here in Washington, because it 
really does matter. People think that 
there are two parties that are somehow 
the same. And there are votes on occasion 
where our votes seem to be commingled. 
But, by and large, the philosophies 
that divide us and separate us are 
legitimate issues; they are legitimate 
cause for having two sides. 

Thomas Jefferson observed 220-someodd 
years ago that, in all political systems 
there really are two sides; there 
is the side that believes in more government, 
the side that believes that 
the government is the best way to organize 
our societies, and then there is 
the other side that believes that we 
should look to individuals and families 
and people as the definitive feature in 
establishing the character of a society 
or community. 

Well, we, as Republicans, differ very 
greatly from our Democrat side, the 
Democrats being the side that does believe 
in more government and that government 
is the organizing factor in our 
society. And the quote that my colleague 
highlighted here is probably 
most indicative that I have seen in recent 
days about the difference between 
them and us. 

They believe that there is no cause 
for tax cuts. In fact, they have worked 
routinely in this Congress to increase 
taxes to oppose every effort that we 
have made as the Republican party to 
turn more wealth away from Washington 
and back to the people of the country 
and to the States. 

That philosophy of less government, 
more reliance on States and individuals, 
is something that we fight for all 
the time and routinely. 

I want to yield, if I can, to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. BRADY), who is 
leading this Congress with a bold plan, 
a bold idea, a bold proposal to rein in 
the size of Federal Government, the 
scope of our government by a responsible 
mechanism that is used in several 
States called sunsetting. 

So, with that, I yield to the gentleman 
from Texas. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2045 

Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for his leadership of the 
freshman Republican class in 1998. 

The Fourth of July is one of my favorite 
holidays. And this past year 
Kathy, my wife, and I were watching 
fireworks over a lake in my community 
in Woodlands, Texas; and I 
thought as I watched the fireworks this 
year that it was ironic that Fourth of 
July has two meanings for America 
this year. It is not only in 1997, as 
usual, our day of independence, but 
this year it was the first day most 
Americans started working for themselves 
because July 3 was what we call 
cost-of-government day in America. 

That means that, for most American 
families, we work from January 1 to 
July 3 just to pay tax, just to pay our 
State, local, Federal taxes; and the 
cost of regulation on most families now 
reach to July 3. That is over half the 
year. That means in a lot of families 
we have got one parent working just to 
pay the bills and the rent and put food 
on the table, and we have another parent 
working just to pay their taxes. 

Like my colleague, I have had the opportunity 
to work in State government 
and in city government, and I can tell 
my colleagues now serving the Congress 
that it is at the Federal level 
where we waste far too many of the resources 
we have. 

Our goal in the Republican Congress 
is to shrink the size of Federal Government, 
to give more power back to the 
communities and, more importantly, 
leave them their money and resources 
to solve the problems and make decisions 
themselves. Well, big government 
has a life of its own, especially in 
Washington. 

Former President Ronald Reagan 
said, ‘‘There is nothing closer to immortality 
on earth than a Federal 
agency.’’ And that really is true. Our 
government continues to grow. And I 
am convinced that we can never really 
shrink Washington just by slowing the 
growth of spending. We are going to 
tackle and address wasteful spending, 
abolish obsolete agencies, and really 
get into duplication to give power back 
to our communities and our families. 

Sunsetting is a simple concept, and it 
is proven because it is used by more 
than 20 States. I want to set an expiration 
date on every Federal agency, 
every program, every department, 
every commission, every bureau, every 
council where they go out of existence 
unless they can prove their value to us. 
And not what they were worth a hundred 
years ago, as the board of tea examiners 
were when they were first created, 
or 40 years ago or 20 years ago, 
but do they deserve our tax dollars 
today and are they needed today? 

Sunsetting puts every agency up for 
review to take away the sacred cows, 
and for the first time it shifts the burden 
of proof. Rather than Congress and 
taxpayers today having to convince 
America that there is not a single use 
for an agency, it shifts that burden to 
the agencies to prove to American tax


payers that they deserve our tax dollars 
today. 

In Texas, we view sunsetting over the 
years and in that State we have eliminated 
42 State agencies and saved $60 
million for taxpayers. That is in the 
State. I am convinced at the Federal 
level we can do a hundredfold that. 

I yield to the gentleman from Arizona. 


Mr. HAYWORTH. And, again, I think 
what the gentleman from Texas advocates, 
Mr. Speaker, points up the vitality 
of our system of federalism where 
we can look to the States for the examples 
proffered there. 

Now, to be certain, what works in 
Austin may not be readily accepted in 
Boston; what is embraced in Harrisburg 
may not always be the case in 
Phoenix. And yet, taking a look at 
what States do in terms of seizing the 
initiative, I know, for example, right 
now the State of Arizona is coming to 
grips with the whole notion of school 
funding; and they are working in the 
House and Senate working on those 
ideas. Who knows what will come from 
those notions? 

But, again, as we have seen with welfare 
reform, as we have seen with so 
many different issues and certainly 
those that lend a notion of fiscal responsibility 
and accountability, we 
look to the States. And I cannot help 
but notice our friend from the Republic 
of Texas, known as the Lone Star State 
also, perhaps with a distinction as the 
sunset State, and I think he hit on 
something that is so vitally important 
because it should be our mission here; 
and while we do point out differences 
and while we celebrate differences in 
philosophies, the fact is that we also 
look for common ground across the 
board, across the aisle. 

And we have been able to make some 
changes here in Washington based on 
those examples, perhaps not as formalized 
as the gentleman offers here tonight, 
perhaps the first halting few 
steps made in the 104th Congress, that 
historic Congress where the balance of 
power that the American people confer 
on this Chamber was changed to a common-
sense conservative majority when 
we eliminated over 300 wasteful and duplicative 
programs and in the process 
reduced spending by some $54 billion. 

Now, to be sure, Mr. Speaker, that 
was just a start. Much more remains to 
be done. And that is why I am so enthusiastic 
about our colleague from 
Texas (Mr. BRADY) bringing this idea to 
this Chamber, showing again the wisdom 
of the notion of transferring 
money, power, and influence out of 
Washington, where sadly those resources 
had been wasted, and making 
sure that the power rests preeminently 
in the States. 

Because in most cases, there may be 
some exceptions, but in most cases 
power closer to home, the ideas coming 
from home to Washington can help 
reinvogorate our constitutional repub


lic. And that is the essence of what is 
going on. Again, it just stands in stark 
contrast. 
My colleague from Colorado and I 
were in the cloakroom watching the 
theatrics on the other side tonight, 
how instead of ideas they wanted to 
take something that was just simply a 
policy notion, not even articulated in 
the fashion that they would bring it to 
the floor, but yet to market fear, they 
take a legitimate proposal, twist it, 
change it to scare people. 

I would just like to see their proposals. 
I would just like to see some new 
ideas from the other side. I think they, 
too, should look to the States and look 
to the people and listen for answers. 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 
The gentleman hit the nail on the 
head. Because anybody who was observing 
the House floor just 20, 30 minutes 
ago when the left wing of the 
Democrat party was here speaking 
could see very clearly that they are in 
fear themselves of these ideas, these 
Republican ideas about changing government, 
lowering tax rates, constraining 
the size of the Federal Government. 
They are afraid of those ideas. 

If they really do represent a philosophy, 
as they do, a philosophy that is 
constructed entirely upon the notion of 
power obtained through government, 
then any idea that threatens that 
power structure is a real threat to 
their way of life and changes life as 
they know it. That is a frightening notion 
to people who love big government. 
And I will tell my colleagues 
why. Because it does turn the tables 
and changes the dynamic. 

Right now in Washington, as we have 
discovered as Members of Congress, a 
tremendous amount of the leverage belongs 
to the bureaucrats. They know 
they are going to stick around forever, 
these people in government, these bureaucrats, 
and my colleagues and I we 
are going to come here and serve a few 
terms and do the work that the people 
have sent us here to do and then we are 
going to go back and live in a society 
that we have helped create and the 
laws that we have cast votes upon. 

b2330 
But those bureaucrats are going to be 
here forever. They know, as long as 
they can keep the rules rigged as they 
are today, that their life is going to go 
on and on unimpeded. 
What really frightens these left-
wingers over on the Democrat side of 
the aisle is that our ideas would really 
force the country to ask this question: 
If we were to start all over again today 
with this program or that program, 
would we create it to be what it is 
today? And pick an agency, any topic. 
There is not a single agency in the Federal 
Government, I would submit, that 
this Congress would ever establish just 
as it is now if we started all over again. 
We would not do it. 
You take a look at the IRS. It is volumes 
and volumes of absolute nonsense. 
Nobody would sit down and invent 
that system. But the reason we 
have it is because the rules are always 
in favor of the government and the bureaucrats 
and these policies that are 


H2046 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

never ever challenged. And that is amend, and certain ad campaigns that when we are talking about the regulawhat 
sunsetting accomplishes. have existed in the past to take legiti-tion railroad, and we are not talking 
Mr. BRADY. If I may continue on mate comments out of context, lest about locomotion so much as bureau-
with that, I made a point about how anyone misunderstand, we are not cratic inertia. 

good bureaucracies are playing the 
game up here. They are so much better 
than us citizen legislators will ever be. 
As you know, just in my first term, I 
have already observed the Washington 
Monument defense, which is, if you 
have a $100 million agency, and you 
propose to cut one-tenth of 1 percent of 
their budget, they will immediately 
state those were the funds that we were 
going to use to keep the Washington 
Monument open. If you cut our budget, 
I guess we will just have to shut down 
the Washington Monument to America’s 
visitors, which you know is ludicrous, 
but they are able to scare the 
American people. 

And sunsetting, what I like about 
that, is it, not only does it target obsolete 
agencies and prevent them from 
playing budget games, but it also targets 
duplication. We have today, just 
in Washington, we have 600 different 
programs to aid inner cities. We have 
300 different programs for economic development. 
Just for children at risk is 
a good example. For children at risk, 
we have 116 different Federal programs 
administered by 13 different agencies. 

What are the chances a tax dollar 
will ever get to a child who really 
needs it. More importantly, what about 
the family that sacrifices from their 
children to send tax dollars to Washington 
to have it wasted to that extent. 

Sunsetting targets that type of duplication, 
insists on accountability. More 
importantly, the State, and the gentleman 
from Arizona pointed out, at 
the State level, we know, when you 
sunset an agency, for about 2 years before 
that agency’s date is up, you cannot 
believe how responsive they get. 
They start answering their mail. They 
are quick to return phone calls. They 
start to understand that they have customers 
to serve. 

Some of them think it is the legislature 
who are their customers, but, in 
fact, it is taxpayers. But the issue of 
accountability begins to creep in. The 
good agencies already know what customer 
service is about. But agencies 
that are wasting our dollars duplicating 
programs that are obsolete in their 
mission and refuse to understand who 
their bosses are, they struggle under 
sunset. Thankfully, they ought to. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, if the 
gentleman will yield, in hearing his remarks 
and not only taking a look at 
what went on in real life down in the 
Republic of Texas, in the Lone Star 
State, in that legislature how those 
programs have worked, I could not help 
but be struck upon a couple of comments 
he made dealing with the realities 
that American families confront 
now, not only the burden of taxation, 
but the hidden cost of regulation. 

And lest anyone misunderstand, because 
I have a funny feeling in view of 
what some folks in this chamber say 
distinctly and want to come back and 

talking about the abolition of regulation. 
We understand a modicum of regulation, 
Mr. Speaker, is reasonable, rational 
to make sure that infrastructure 
and systems exist. 

But what is worth noting is the fact 
that, when our Founders wrote the 
Constitution, the first three words in 
the beautiful preamble are ‘‘We the 
people’’. They did not write we the government. 


What is unique about our system is 
the fact that it was, as Catherine 
Drinker Bowen wrote, the Miracle at 
Philadelphia, because our Founders devised 
a system, a notion that was, dare 
we say, at that time in history, considered 
by the Europeans and others, extreme 
for our system, was based on the 
notion, our constitutional republic was 
founded on the notion that rights are 
conferred upon the people by God and, 
in turn, the people confer rights upon 
the government. 

So as I hear the plans that my friend 
from Texas brings up, it calls to mind 
and brings to mind a piece of legislation 
that my colleague the gentleman 
from Colorado and I cosponsor here in 
the House, sponsored in the other body 
by a former colleague in this chamber, 
now Senator BROWNBACK of Kansas, the 
Congressional Responsibility Act, another 
tool to use to reign in runaway 
regulation. 

Because following the beautiful preamble 
to the Constitution, Mr. Speaker, 
in Article 1, section 1 of this great 
document, it reads, and I quote, ‘‘All 
legislative powers herein granted shall 
be vested in a Congress of the United 
States,’’ all legislative powers. 

Yet, what we have done for the better 
part of this century, initially with the 
best of intentions, is to empower the 
unelected. Congress gradually in 
ceding that control and that authority 
to the executive branch has essentially, 
and pardon me, Mr. Speaker, 
and those at home, turned its back, 
turned its back on the American people, 
turned its back on the responsibilities. 


So now seemingly daily in the Federal 
Register you have Washington bureaucrats 
drafting regulation, and 
these regulations, if they are not 
strictly adhered to, carry with them 
sanctions. Sometimes those sanctions 
can include fines or imprisonment, 
sometimes both. 

Now, Mr. Speaker, I am not an attorney. 
J.D. does not stand for jurist doctorate. 
I think that is an asset. But 
you do not have to be a lawyer to realize 
that, in essence, what has happened 
is that Congress has placed lawmaking 
authority in the hands of the 
unelected. 

I know my colleague from Colorado 
had a very interesting experience. One 
of his committees, he was explaining it 
to us, his epiphany, if you will, for the 
way Washington has come to work 

Could you share your experience on 
committee? Do you recall? You spoke 
so eloquently at our press conference 
about your days sitting with the ag 
folks, and someone came I believe from 
the Department of Agriculture. And it 
is a great, great story that stuck in my 
mind because you said that you leaned 
over to a more senior member of the 
committee and you said, ‘‘Wait 
minute. This guy is making law. He is 
bringing up law.’’ 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 
That is right. We were in the Committee 
on Agriculture talking with people 
from the Department of Agriculture, 
the regulatory bureaucrats who preside 
over the daily lives of farmers and 
ranchers and the hard-working people 
of America who produce our food. 
These bureaucrats were explaining 
their program, hearing Member by 
Member around the committee table 
talk about their frustration with these 
rules and regulations and our desire to 
see them change. 

I leaned over to the senior Member 
sitting to my right at the time, and 
after I had finished asking some questions 
and speaking and raising some 
pointed issues with these bureaucrats, 
I leaned over after it was all over, and 
I said, you know, I said I am starting 
to get the feeling they do not care all 
that much what we have to say or 
think. 

I remember his comment back, and 
he said just basically what I said before. 
He said that is because, after you 
are long gone, Mr. SCHAFFER, those bureaucrats 
are still going to be sitting 
in those chairs answering to some 
other people, who it is going to take 
them a few years to figure out that nobody 
cares what they have to say either. 
That really needs to change. 

The amazing thing is, our Founders 
were brilliant, wise leaders who had 
the perception to look years out in the 
future. Drawing upon their learned experience 
and knowledge about government 
systems, they were able to look 
out and realize that we needed a system 
of government where the people 
really are in charge and acknowledging 
certain inalienable rights, as they said 
right in our Declaration, that we have 
these rights, life, liberty, and pursuit 
of happiness. God gives us those rights. 
They are not invented by the government. 
We loan those rights to politicians 
at election time. 

In America the people really are in 
charge. And 220 years ago when these 
guys cooked up this idea in Philadelphia, 
it was a radical idea throughout 
the world, a world at the time that was 
governed by kings and dictators and 
oligarchies of sorts. To actually put 
the people in charge was something 
that, 220 years ago, was thought to 
never last very long. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2047 

But over time this Congress has 
given more and more and more authority 
over to the bureaucracy. Those individuals 
on the other side of the aisle 
that we heard just a half hour ago are, 
in fact they represent the party that 
has been struggling and fighting this 
Declaration and Constitution, those 
documents which are an obstacle to 
their ideas about governing. 

They have given authority away 
from the people, taken it away from 
people, given it to the government. 
They have created a huge welfare 
state. They refuse to consider any efforts 
to reduce the tax burden on the 
American people. I say this, the Democratic 
party has become the tax collectors 
for the welfare state. 

We are here, and we frighten them. 
We frighten those folks because we are 
talking about giving authority back to 
the people. We are talking about lowering 
the burden of government when it 
comes to taxes. We are talking about 
sunsetting all regulatory functions of 
the Federal Government, in fact, putting 
a termination date which at some 
point in time will force every single 
bureaucrat to account for their actions, 
to account for their necessity 
and, in the end, prove their merit and 
usefulness in order to continue in existence, 
a huge departure between what 
they represent on the left hand, what 
we represent here in the center of 
American political thought in the conservative 
Republican Party. 

It is the reason they come here and 
yell and scream and are frightened 
every night, because we are winning on 
the street. The American people realize 
that our pro-freedom, pro-liberty message 
is resonating with every single 
American across this country who are 
fed up with this liberal social way of 
life. They are looking for liberty and 
freedom, and that is what we are here 
to talk about tonight as a Republican 
Party. 

Mr. BRADY. To follow on what the 
gentleman said, we have been fighting 
big government since the very beginning. 
Our Founding Fathers and mothers 
did know there would be a struggle. 

The other day in reading a book on 
Thomas Jefferson, I stumbled across a 
letter that he had written during his 
first term stating that he was hard at 
work trying to abolish agencies that 
were no longer needed in our Federal 
Government. That was at the very infancy. 
Already the bureaucracy was 
starting to take hold. 

Two of the things I like, I think, also 
about sunset is that in real life at the 
State level, when an agency knows 
that they are coming up for sunset, 
they are also less likely to write regulations 
that are so far afield from what 
Congress or the legislature intended. 

As you know, we write a bill that is 
10 pages long. An agency writes regulations 
that fill a thousand pages. The 
mayor may not have to do what the 
original intent of Congress or the legislature 
intended. 

But under sunset, when they know 
they are coming, every agency knows 

they are coming back routinely in 
front of taxpayers, the customers and 
users of their agencies, and Members of 
Congress to justify their responsiveness 
and their service and their quality, 
it changes things. 

Also, under sunset, because we do not 
just single out the Department of Education 
or the Department of Commerce 
or any other program, every agency is 
held accountable. It puts American 
taxpayers back into the driver’s seat. 
They have an opportunity when we set 
these dates to come, not just before 
Congress to give us their opinion on 
the quality of service and whether we 
need them, but through the Internet, 
through meetings held in their communities, 
through talking with us, give us 
a real life value to whether that agency 
is worth our dollars today or not. As a 
result, good agencies get better in service, 
and bad agencies go away as they 
should. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. If the gentleman 
will yield, to hear this, and again, 
knowing the deliberate distortion that 
may be inevitable from those who fear 
most returning power to the hands of 
the citizens, I think we need to make 
this point, again, just to say this: When 
our friend steps to this floor and advocates 
the notion of sunset, he does not 
imply that every bit of government 
will sunset. He simply asks for increased 
accountability. That is important. 
That is one of the notions behind 
our Congressional Responsibility Act 
that I would like to outline, Mr. Speaker, 
for those who join us during this 
time this evening, and that is also 
something that I think we can make 
manifest in rules as we reevaluate our 
budgetary process. 

I am pleased tonight that our Speaker 
pro tempore is the gentleman from 
Iowa who joins me with service on the 
Committee on Ways and Means and 
also is one of our delegates, if you will, 
to the Committee on Budget where he 
does that work. That is one of his other 
committee assignments, almost a liaison, 
if you will, between the Committee 
on Ways and Means and the Committee 
on Budget. 

We have been engaged in some discussions 
born of my first experience, an 
epiphany that I had based on experience 
here during my first term when I 
served on the Committee on Resources 
and on one of the subcommittees responsible 
for national parks. We called 
in the director of the National Park 
Service. And sitting next to him was, 
in essence, the agency’s accountant. 

b2345 
Of course here we use a fancy title 
for accountant. It would be the Inspector 
General, the person who goes over 
the receipts, takes a look at the tax 
dollars that come into the agency. 
And I will never forget what transpired 
on that day. The Inspector General 
who had the responsibility for the 
Park Service with the Director of the 
Park Service sitting alongside told a 
congressional subcommittee in essence 

that the National Park Service could 
not account for some $73 million of taxpayer 
money. 

Now I know some folks around here 
talk about billions and trillions; 73 trillion 
may not be too much. But I tell 
you what, to an American family, to 
the hard-working people in the Sixth 
District of Arizona and, I submit, to 
the people in Texas and Colorado and 
people from coast to coast in Alaska 
and Hawaii $73 million is real money. 
And I suppose for the television cameras 
it made for great television to 
have folks kind of rhetorically beat up 
on the Director of the Park Service, 
but there was no recourse. 

And so what I think we ought to do, 
and I have talked with our Speaker Pro 
Tempore this evening, the gentleman 
from Iowa, and others on the Committee 
on the Budget, I think we ought to 
consider a rule that henceforth, when 
governmental agencies cannot account 
for taxpayers’ funds, as the audits and 
reports come from their respective inspectors 
general, then automatically 
for the next year that amount of 
money be automatically impounded 
from that particular agency’s administrative 
account because, as one of my 
colleagues said on that day to the Director 
of the Park Service, were he a 
director of a business, were he chairman 
of the board of the corporation, 
what he had done that day would be 
tantamount to a criminal offense that 
would land him behind bars. But instead 
all he endured was the wrath of a 
few congressional subcommittee members 
and, I am sure, the disdain of 
those who joined via videotape that 
discussion on C-Span. 

There must be ways for us to seek accountability. 


And so I hope that as we review the 
budget process with the gentleman 
from Ohio, the chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget, as many of us 
take a look at this, that we take a look 
at restoring accountability whether it 
is through sunsetting or through more 
budgetary rules that require accountability 
to the citizens of this country 
or through the Congressional Responsibility 
Act which says simply this, Mr. 
Speaker: 

That henceforth, when the regulators 
formulate their regulations, those proposed 
regulations would not be printed 
pell-mell in the Federal Register after 
a certain amount of time for public 
comment. No, instead those proposed 
regulations should be returned here to 
Capitol Hill, to this Chamber and to 
the Senate, and voted on by the duly 
elected constitutional representatives 
so that in that way, Mr. Speaker, those 
of us who are sent here to represent the 
people can be held truly accountable. 

Now it may come as no great surprise 
that that notion is fought by a lot of 
folks, and let us be candid about it, my 
colleagues. A lot of folks on both sides 
of the aisle, be they liberal or conservative, 
do not like that idea because 
they do not want to take that responsibility. 
Some folks who are into the 


H2048 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

notion of careers in Congress would 
rather not have that responsibility. 
But I would submit to you that that is 
the responsibility we should have. 

And to those who say, oh, with a raft 
of regulations there is too much for 
Congress to ever cover, you could not 
do it, I would simply point out it has 
been my experience in this Chamber, 
both in this session and certainly in 
the 104th Congress even with that incredibly 
ambitious schedule we had 
some days where we would have ceremonial 
debate followed by ceremonial 
votes to name Federal installations 
after noteworthy Americans, I do not 
criticize that practice. I simply say 
this: 

If we have the time in the Congress 
of the United States to engage in those 
largely ceremonial votes, do we not 
have time to live up to Article I, Section 
1, of the Constitution? Should we 
not take the time or make the time to 
do that? And that is what this is about. 
Despite all the rhetoric and what we 
can expect, the intentional distortions 
sadly that will emanate, which I guess 
is part of the theater of the absurd that 
often encumbrances Washington, what 
we are about here, Mr. Speaker, is not 
a revolution, nor is some on that side 
who curiously do not believe there is 
any controlling legal authority would 
call it a reinvention. We are not about 
that. Instead what we are about is a 
restoration, a restoration of constitutional 
obligations taken on by those to 
whom power is conferred, a restoration 
of power in the hands of the citizenry 
and an acknowledgment that, whether 
it is regulation or taxation, that the 
American people work hard for the 
money they earn. They should be able 
to hang onto more of it, send less of it 
here to this city, because, as my colleagues 
have both pointed out, when 
the money remains in the hands of 
Washington, the money is spent. 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 
You know there are some people here 
in Washington who really hang their 
hat on and pretend that they are somehow 
holding government accountable 
through the reauthorization process. 
You know, we talk about that a lot in 
Washington to a lot of folks back in 
our districts; they do not know what 
reauthorization means, but this is 
when agencies come up for reauthorization 
or review. It is not a sunset, it is 
just when the Congress feels like it getting 
around to looking at an agency 
again from A to Z, and there is no compelling 
need to make any meaningful 
reform. The Congress could decide to 
do nothing, and the agency will go 
right on as if no one was looking. 

You know that is what many people 
here celebrate as holding government 
accountable, but the reauthorization 
process does not work. And you know 
you hear about this all the time. The 
Higher Education Reauthorization Act 
is going to be coming to the floor here 
soon, just program after program. We 
are reauthorizing programs, and that is 
the only time when this Congress 

makes any kind of an attempt to 
evaluate or review these agencies, but 
again it does not have the real teeth of 
sunsetting or termination dates on 
these regulatory programs. No bureaucrat 
is ever forced to come and prove 
the worth or merit of their program or 
their job or their function of government 
to this Congress, and it takes a 
majority vote voting in the affirmative 
to repeal a program rather than what 
ought to occur here is that it takes a 
majority of votes, majority vote in an 
affirmative way, to keep a program. 
And that is what we are trying to turn 
around and really turn the tables on 
government to give the leverage to the 
people of America to pry bad programs 
out of the system and to strengthen, 
retain and in fact improve those programs 
that can be improved and that 
are worth keeping. 

Mr. BRADY. And to follow that point 
just a little farther we have now, we 
are entering the 21st century, and 
every part of our life it seems is changing. 
Every industry, every profession, 
every small business has undergone a 
great deal of change, but government 
has not; the same programs, the same 
nonaccountability. In sunset, which is 
the bill number by the way is H.R. 2939, 
it is the Federal Sunset Act of 1998, and 
it has 80 cosponsors on that bill, 
changes government, gives back control 
to taxpayers, just demands accountability. 
And, more importantly, 
it insists that our agencies serve our 
taxpayers and their customers. 

And people will say, well, wait a 
minute now. You cannot sunset the 
EPA. 

Well we are not picking winners and 
losers. Every agency is up for review. 
But frankly, and I do not agree with a 
lot that the EPA does, but if we spend 
money to preserve the environment, I 
want that money to actually work to 
clean up a dirty area or a pile of tires. 

And people say, well, you cannot sunset 
the Social Security Administration. 


Well, we are not sunsetting the benefit, 
we are sunsetting who delivers it. 
And frankly my seniors, many of whom 
we have a lot of trouble trying to get 
their benefits to them, frankly they 
live month to month depending upon 
those dollars. And their attitude is, if 
the administration is not going to to 
get their benefits to them on time to 
those who have earned it, then find 
someone who will. 

b2355 
Find someone who will get it to them 
effectively, because the goal here I 
think in government is not to make 
ourselves bigger and create more agencies. 
It is to deliver our services the 
most cost effective way, to people who 
need them, and to make sure that a 
dollar that we spend, that when we 
take in people’s hard-earned tax dollars, 
actually gets to the people who 
need them. 
Mr. HAYWORTH. Since my colleague 
from Texas raises the specter of Social 

Security by example, I think it is important 
to reiterate, Mr. Speaker, what 
transpired here on the Hill today as we 
take a look at preserving and protecting 
Social Security for today’s seniors 
and then making that system stronger 
through innovation and personalization 
in the days ahead. 

It brings to mind the fact that, mindful 
as we are of the time and the few 
minutes, about 5 minutes that remain, 
for us to share with the American people 
tonight Mr. Speaker, it reminds me 
of the fact that during this recess I will 
be back in the 6th District of Arizona 
with town halls talking to seniors 
about how best to preserve Social Security, 
how best to preserve that trust 
fund, and then looking to the baby-
boom generation and those of the third 
millennium, or the Generation Next-
Agers, or beyond, to see how best to 
deal with the problem. 

I must tell you, Mr. Speaker, I am 
very pleased about the Social Security 
task force that we have assembled in 
the 6th Congressional District of Arizona 
with people who are very, very interested, 
who have a stake in this, as 
today’s seniors on today’s program, as 
soon to be seniors, as baby-boomers, 
and as Generation Nexters, or third 
millennia children. They are working 
together to try and take a look at this 
system. I eagerly await their report 
and to hear from the people as we return 
back to listen to our constituents 
to decide how best to solve problems. 

Again, I cannot help but comment on 
the irony of those who preceded us in 
this chamber, who had invented almost 
out of whole cloth, but instead out of 
deliberate distortion, scare tactics 
about a legitimate question of tax reform. 
And I think, Mr. Speaker, to 
couch that properly, we should say 
this: I could not help but note the 
irony that the three who stood here in 
this chamber had embraced just a few 
years before a soup-to-nuts plan for socialized 
medicine that was derived in a 
back room behind closed doors down at 
the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, 
a program that was doomed to failure 
because it was never debated by the 
American people, nor shared. 

So we do not shrink from the notion 
of debate; we welcome it. Whether on 
Social Security or tax policy, or over-
regulation or overtaxation, we welcome 
debate and decisions. But we 
want to hear from all the people, not 
lock people away and sequester them 
behind closed doors and then emerge 
with some Rube Goldbergesque scheme. 
Instead, it is the basic goodness and 
wisdom of the people which will prevail 
and which I look forward to hearing in 
my town hall meetings when I return 
home. 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. 
Mr. Speaker, I want to wrap-up by 
summarizing a number of things we 
have discussed in a very quick way, 
and that is we really are talking about 
a great number of ideas to shrink the 
size of the Federal Government, to return 
authority and wealth and power 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2049 

back to the people, and basically to 
give more freedom and liberty to 
Americans throughout the country 
wherever they may be. 

But the reality is, there is about two 
minutes left until the end of April 
Fool’s Day here in Washington, D.C. in 
the eastern time zone, which means 
that in 14 days, a little over 14 days 
now, at about this time, American taxpayers 
throughout the country are 
going to be lining up to get to their 
Post Office to file their tax returns in 
time in order to stay within the law of 
the Internal Revenue Service Tax Code. 

I hope they will be thinking about 
this conversation tonight, and maybe 
contrasting the difference between our 
Republican message of freedom and liberty 
and lower taxes and the Democrat 
message of more government and no 
tax cuts, no tax cuts. 

The tax collectors for the welfare 
State, as you have pointed out in the 
quote you brought here tonight, have 
stated right here on this floor just a 
few weeks ago that the fact is that 
Democrats are not for tax cuts. That is 
the real difference between the two 
parties. We really are looking for ways 
to liberate the American people, to 
lower tax rates. 

Here is something I want to point 
out. Families paid 5 percent of their income 
in Federal taxes in 1934. Today, 
the average family pays 20 percent of 
its annual income to the Federal Government, 
the highest since World War 

II. That is no April Fool’s Day joke. 
Right now the average American 
family pays about 40 percent of their 
total income in State, Federal and 
local taxes; 40 percent. That is no April 
fool’s Day joke either. 

Our goal and our vision in general 
terms and over a broader context is to 
lower the effective tax rate on the 
American family to no more than 25 
percent. That is something we are not 
joking about either. We are quite serious 
about it. 

We will be back at this microphone 
time and time again talking about this 
vision of freedom and liberty, lower 
taxes and less government. I thank the 
Speaker for recognizing us today, and 
allowing us to participate in this special 
order. 

f 


LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
By unanimous consent, leave of absence 
was granted to: 
Mr. YATES (at the request of Mr. GEPHARDT) 
for today after 8:15 p.m. on account 
of physical reasons. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED 
By unanimous consent, permission to 
address the House, following the legislative 
program and any special orders 
heretofore entered, was granted to: 
The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. ABERCROMBIE) to revise 
and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material: 
Mr. RUSH, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. MASCARA, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. HOYER, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

Mr. PALLONE, for 5 minutes, today. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

Mr. NADLER, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. GOODE, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. COYNE, for 5 minutes, today. 

Ms. DELAURO, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. BONIOR, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mrs. MALONEY of New York, for 5 
minutes, today. 

The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. WHITFIELD) to revise and 
extend their remarks and include extraneous 
material: 

Mr. GOSS, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. GOODLATTE, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. RAMSTAD, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

Mr. TIAHRT, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. GIBBONS, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. WHITFIELD, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. BEREUTER, for 5 minutes, today. 

f 


SENATE ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

The SPEAKER announced his signature 
to an enrolled bill of the Senate of 
the following title: 

S. 750. An act to consolidate certain mineral 
interests in the National Grasslands in 
Billings County, North Dakota, through the 
exchange of Federal and private mineral interests 
to enhance land management capabilities 
and environmental and wildlife protection, 
and for other purposes. 
f 


ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I 
move that the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
NUSSLE). Pursuant to the provisions of 
House Concurrent Resolution 257, 105th 
Congress, the House stands adjourned 
until 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 21, 
1998, for morning hour debates. 

Thereupon (at 11 o’clock and 59 minutes 
p.m.), pursuant to House Concurrent 
Resolution 257, the House adjourned 
until Tuesday, April 21, 1998, at 

12:30 p.m., for morning hour debates. 
f 


EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XXIV, executive 
communications were taken from 
the Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 


8341. A letter from the Congressional Review 
Coordinator, Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting the Department’s final 
rule—Specifically Approved States Authorized 
to Receive Mares and Stallions Imported 
from Regions Where CEM Exists 
[Docket No. 97–104–1] received March 30, 1998, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Agriculture. 

8342. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Secretary, Department of Defense, transmitting 
a report on the medical condition of 
members of the Armed Forces who are de


ployed outside the United States as part of a 
contingency or combat operation, pursuant 
to Public Law 105—85; to the Committee on 
National Security. 

8343. A letter from the Deputy Director for 
Policy and Programs, Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule—Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund; Notice of 
Funds Availability (NOFA) Inviting Applications 
for the Community Development Financial 
Institutions Program—Core Component 
[No. 981–0154] received March 24, 1998, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Banking and Financial Services. 

8344. A letter from the Deputy Director for 
Policy and Program, Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule—Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund; Notice of 
Funds Availability (NOFA) Inviting Applications 
for the Community Development Financial 
Institutions Program Technical Assistance—
Technical Assistance Component 
[No. 982–0154] received March 24, 1998, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Banking and Financial Services. 

8345. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Odometer Disclosure 
Requirements; Exemptions [Docket 
No. 87–09, Notice 16] (RIN: 2127–AG83) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Commerce. 

8346. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Federal Motor 
Vehicle Safety Standards; Occupant Crash 
Protection [Docket No. NHTSA–97–3191; Notice 
2] (RIN: 2127–AF66) received March 27, 
1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Commerce. 

8347. A letter from the Acting Director, Minority 
Business Development Agency, transmitting 
the Agency’s final rule—Solicitation 
of Minority Business Development Center 
Applications for Miami/Ft. Lauderdale, Raleigh/
Durham, San Antonio, El Paso, Statewide 
New Mexico, Philadelphia, Williamsburg, 
Seattle, Honolulu and San Jose [Docket 
No. 980320072–8072–01] received March 24, 
1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Commerce. 

8348. A letter from the Deputy Secretary, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, transmitting 
the Commission’s final rule—Statement 
of the Commission Regarding Use of 
Internet Web Sites to Offer Securities, Solicit 
Securities Transactions or Advertise Investment 
Services Offshore [Release Nos. 33– 
7516, 34–39779, IA–1710, IC–23071] received 
March 24, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Commerce. 

8349. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule— 
Amendments to the International Traffic in 
Arms Regulations [22 CFR Part 121] received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on International 
Relations. 

8350. A letter from the Director, United 
States Information Agency, transmitting the 
1996 annual report entitled ‘‘International 
Exchange and Training Activities of the 
United States Government’’; to the Committee 
on International Relations. 

8351. A letter from the Chief Financial Officer, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting 
the final version of the Department’s FY 1999 
Annual Performance Plan (APP), pursuant 
to Public Law 103—62; to the Committee on 
Government Reform and Oversight. 

8352. A letter from the Deputy Director, Office 
of Government Ethics, transmitting the 
Office’s final rule—Amendment to Clarify 


H2050 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

Regulatory Intent on Finality of Review for 
Complaints Regarding Designation of Positions 
for Employee Confidential Financial 
Disclosure Reporting (RIN: 3209–AA00) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

8353. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Personnel Management, transmitting the Office’s 
final rule—Processing Garnishment Orders 
for Child Support and Alimony and 
Commercial Garnishment of Federal Employees’ 
Pay (RIN: 3206–AH43) received 
March 25, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

8354. A letter from the Director, Financial 
Services, Library of Congress, transmitting a 
copy of the financial statements of the Capitol 
Preservation Fund for the first three 
months of fiscal year 1998 which ended on 
December 31, 1997, and comparable data for 
the same period of the previous fiscal year; 
to the Committee on House Oversight. 

8355. A letter from the Deputy General 
Counsel, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule— Civil Enforcement Proceedings: 
Opportunity for an In-Person Hearing 
[Docket No. 961004279–6279–01; I.D 111695A] 
(RIN: 0648–AI53) received March 18, 1998, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Resources. 

8356. A letter from the Acting Assistant 
Attorney General, Department of Justice, 
transmitting a draft of proposed legislation 
to provide for Drug Testing of and Interventions 
With Incarcerated Offenders and Reduce 
Drug Trafficking and Related Crime in 
Correctional Facilities; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 

8357. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Drug and Alcohol 
Testing: Substance Abuse Professional 
Evaluation For Drug Use [RSPA Docket PS– 
128; Amendment 199–15] (RIN: 2137–AC84] received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8358. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Control of Drug 
Use and Alcohol Misuse in Natural Gas, Liquefied 
Natural Gas, and Hazardous Liquid 
Pipeline Operations [Docket No. PS–102; 
Amendment 199–16] (RIN: 2137–AC67) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8359. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Pipeline Safety: 
Periodic Updates to Pipeline Safety Regulations 
(1997) [Docket No. RSPA–97–2251; 
Amdt. Nos. 190–7; 191–13; 192–83; 193–15; 194–2; 
195–61; 198–3; 199–17] (RIN: 2137–AD03) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8360. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Pipeline Safety: 
Change in Response Plan Review Cycle 
[Docket No. PS–130; Amdt. 194–1] (RIN: 2137– 
AD12) received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
8361. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Annual Air & 
Sea Show, Fort Lauderdale, Florida [CGD07– 
98–004] (RIN: 2115–AE46) received March 27, 
1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


8362. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 

the Department’s final rule—Alternate Compliance 
via Recognized Classification Society 
and U.S. Supplement to Rules [CGD 95–010] 
(RIN: 2115–AF11) received March 27, 1998, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 

8363. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Special Local 
Regulations for Marine Events; Whitbread 
Chesapeake, Chesapeake Bay, Maryland 
[CGD 05–98–013] (RIN: 2115–AE46) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8364. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Intracoastal 
Waterway, St. Augustine, FL [CGD07–98–014] 
(RIN: 2115–AE46) received March 27, 1998, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 

8365. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Miami Beach, 
Florida [CGD07–98–003] (RIN: 2115–AE46) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8366. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Special Local 
Regulations for Marine Events; Approaches 
to Annapolis Harbor, Spa Creek, and Severn 
River, Annapolis, Maryland [CGD 05–98–016] 
received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8367. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Dignitary Arrival/
Departure Logan International Airport, 
Boston, MA [CGD01–97–004] (RIN: 2115–AA97) 
received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8368. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Fort Lauderdale, 
FL [CGD7–98–017] (RIN: 2115–AE46) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8369. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—San Diego Bay 
and Adjacent Waters, San Diego, CA [COTP 
San Diego; 98–007] (RIN: 2115–AA97) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8370. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Safety zone; 
Summer Bay, Unalaska Island, AK [COTP 
Western Alaska 98–002] (RIN: 2115–AA97) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8371. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Standards; Rain and Hail Ingestion Standards 
[Docket No. 28652; Amendment Nos. 23– 
53, 25–95, and 33–19] (RIN: 2120–AF75) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8372. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Eurocopter France Model SA– 
366G1 Helicopters [Docket No. 97–SW–31–AD; 
Amendment 39–10414; AD 98–06–35] (RIN: 2120– 
AA64] received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
8373. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 

the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Alexander Schleicher 
Segelflugzeugbau Model ASK–21 Sailplanes 
[Docket No. 97–CE–109–AD; Amendment 39– 
10417; AD 98–06–38] (RIN: 2120–AA64) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8374. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Alexander Schleicher 
Segelflugzeugbau Model ASK–21 Sailplanes 
[Docket No. 97–CE–107–AD; Amendment 39– 
10416; AD 98–06–37] (RIN: 2120–AA64) received 
March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8375. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Learjet Model 31 and 35A Airplanes 
[Docket No. 96–NM–202–AD; Amendment 
39–10406; AD 98–06–28] (RIN: 2120–AA64) 
received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

8376. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Eurocopter France Model AS 
332C, L, L1, and L2 Helicopters [Docket No. 
97–SW–66–AD; Amendment 39–10418; AD 98–06– 
39] (RIN: 2120–AA64) received March 27, 1998, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


8377. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; British Aerospace BAe Model 
ATP Airplanes [Docket No. 94–NM–212–AD; 
Amendment 39–10419; AD 98–07–01] (RIN: 2120– 
AA64) received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
8378. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc. 
Model 412 Helicopters and Agusta S.p.A. 
Model AB412 Helicopters [Docket No. 97–SW– 
58–AD; Amendment 39–10421; AD 98–07–03] 
(RIN: 2120–AA64) received March 27, 1998, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 

8379. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Airbus Model A300, A310, and 
A300–600 Series Airplanes [Docket No. 97– 
NM–230–AD; Amendment 39–10409; AD 98–06– 
31] (RIN: 2120–AA64) received March 27, 1998, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


8380. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Eurocopter France Model SA341G 
and SA342J Helicopters [Docket No. 97–SW– 
51–AD; Amendment 39–10415; AD 98–06–36] 
(RIN: 2120–AA64) received March 27, 1998, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 

8381. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 
Directives; Fokker Model F28 Mark 1000 
through 4000 Series Airplanes [Docket No. 
96–NM–176–AD; Amendment 39–10412; AD 98– 
06–33] (RIN: 2120–AA64) received March 27, 
1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


8382. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Airworthiness 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2051 

Directives; Airbus Model A330 and A340 Series 
Airplanes [Docket No. 97–NM–324–AD; 
Amendment 39–10402; AD 98–06–24] (RIN: 2120– 
AA64) received March 27, 1998, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
8383. A letter from the National Marine 
Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, transmitting the 
Administration’s final rule—Capital Construction 
Fund; Interim Fishing Vessel Capital 
Construction Fund Procedures [Docket 
No.961122326–6326–01; I.D. 081092G] (RIN: 0648– 
AF22) received March 24, 1998, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
8384. A letter from the Administrator, 
Small Business Administration, transmitting 
a draft of proposed legislation that 
would change the interest rate on disaster 
loans, establish a disaster mitigation pilot 
program, and increase the authorization for 
funding for the women’s business centers; to 
the Committee on Small Business. 

8385. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Regulations Management, Department of 
Veterans Affairs, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule— Veterans Education: Reduction 
in Required Reports (RIN: 2900–AI58) 
received March 23, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Veterans’ 
Affairs. 

8386. A letter from the Director, Regulations 
Policy and Management Staff, Department 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—Revocation 
of Regulations Under the Tea Importation 
Act [Docket No. 98N–0135] received 
March 24, 1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 

8387. A letter from the Chief, Regulations 
Unit, Internal Revenue Service, transmitting 
the Service’s final rule—Gross Income Defined 
[Rev. Rul. 98–19] received March 26, 
1998, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 

8388. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Management and Budget, transmitting a report 
on government-wide spending to combat 
terrorism, pursuant to Public Law 105—85; 
jointly to the Committees on National Security 
and the Judiciary. 

8389. A letter from the Chair, Christopher 
Columbus Fellowship Foundation, transmitting 
the FY 1997 Annual Report of the Christopher 
Columbus Fellowship Foundation, 
pursuant to Public Law 102—281, section 
429(b) (106 Stat. 145); jointly to the Committees 
on Banking and Financial Services and 
Science. 

8390. A letter from the Secretary of the 
Treasury, transmitting a draft of proposed 
legislation to make technical corrections to 
the Community Development Banking and 
Financial Institutions Act of 1994; jointly to 
the Committees on Banking and Financial 
Services and Government Reform and Oversight. 


8391. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting a report on Export Control Assistance 
Nonproliferation, Antiterroism, 
Demining and Related Activities, pursuant 
to Public Law 105—118; jointly to the Committees 
on International Relations and Appropriations. 


8392. A letter from the Chairman, Federal 
Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice, 
transmitting the 1997 Annual Report of 
the Federal Prison Industries, Inc. (FPI), 
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4127; jointly to the 
Committees on the Judiciary and Government 
Reform and Oversight. 

8393. A letter from the Secretary of Transportation, 
transmitting a draft of proposed 
legislation to authorize appropriations for 
Fiscal Years 1999 and 2000 for certain mari


time programs of the Department of Transportation, 
and for other purposes, pursuant 
to 31 U.S.C. 1110; jointly to the Committees 
on Transportation and Infrastructure and 
National Security. 

f 


REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

Mr. BLILEY: Committee on Commerce. 

H.R. 2691. A bill to reauthorize and improve 
the operations of the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration; with an amendment 
(Rept. 105–477). Referred to the Committee 
of the Whole House on the State of 
the Union. 
Mr. COBLE: Committee on the Judiciary. 

H.R. 1252. A bill to modify the procedures of 
the Federal courts in certain matters, and 
for other purposes; with an amendment 
(Rept. 105–478). Referred to the Committee of 
the Whole House on the State of the Union. 
Mr. GILMAN: Committee on International 
Relations. H.R. 2431. A bill to establish an 
Office of Religious Persecution Monitoring, 
to provide for the imposition of sanctions 
against countries engaged in a pattern of religious 
persecution, and for other purposes; 
with an amendment (Rept. 105–480, Pt. 1). Ordered 
to be printed. 

f 


REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON PRIVATE 
BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

Mr. SMITH of Texas: Committee on the Judiciary. 
H.R. 2729. A bill for the private relief 
of Ruth Hairston by waiver of a filing deadline 
for appeal from a ruling relating to her 
application for a survivor annuity (Rept. 105– 
479). Referred to the Committee of the Whole 
House. 

f 


TIME LIMITATION OF REFERRED 
BILL 

Pursuant to clause 5 of rule X the following 
action was taken by the Speaker: 


H.R. 1778. Referral to the Committees on 
Commerce, Transportation and Infrastructure, 
and Government Reform and oversight 
extended for a period ending not later than 
April 30, 1998. 
H.R. 2431. Referral to the Committees on 
Ways and Means, the Judiciary, Banking and 
Financial Services, and Rules extended for a 
period ending not later than May 8, 1998. 
f 


PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 5 of Rule X and clause 4 
of Rule XXII, public bills and resolutions 
were introduced and severally referred, 
as follows: 

By Mr. HALL of Ohio (for himself, Mr. 
OBERSTAR, Mr. HASTINGS of Florida, 
Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. WOLF, Mr. OLVER, 
Mr. FILNER, Mr. LANTOS, Mr. FRANK 
of Massachusetts, Mr. FROST, Mr. RAHALL, 
Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island, 
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, 
Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. STRICKLAND, Ms. 
FURSE, Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. SAWYER, 
Mr. GONZALEZ, Ms. KAPTUR, and 
Mr. KUCINICH): 

H.R. 3615. A bill to amend the Emergency 
Food Assistance Act of 1983 to authorize appropriations 
to purchase and to make available 
to emergency feeding organizations additional 
commodities for distribution to 
needy persons; to the Committee on Agriculture. 
By Mr. SPENCE (for himself and Mr. 
SKELTON) (both by request): 

H.R. 3616. A bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 1999 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for fiscal 
year 1999, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on National Security. 
By Mr. VENTO (for himself and Mrs. 
ROUKEMA) (both by request): 

H.R. 3617. A bill to make technical corrections 
to the Community Development Banking 
and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 to 
reflect the status of the Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund within 
the Treasury Department, to extend the authorization 
for the Fund, and to make other 
amendments to the Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund, the community 
development financial institutions 
program, the Bank Enterprise Act awards 
program, and the small business capital enhancement 
program in order to more efficiently 
and effectively promote economic revitalization, 
community development, and 
community development financial institutions, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Banking and Financial Services. 
By Mr. EVANS (for himself, Mr. KENNEDY 
of Massachusetts, Mr. FILNER, 
Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. 
MASCARA, Ms. CARSON, Mr. REYES, 
Mr. RODRIGUEZ, Ms. WATERS, Mr. 
OLVER, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, 
Ms. BROWN of Florida, and Mr. 
DOYLE): 

H.R. 3618. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to increase the amount of assistance 
for providing automobiles to certain 
disabled veterans; to the Committee on Veterans’ 
Affairs. 
By Mr. EVANS (for himself, Mr. KENNEDY 
of Massachusetts, Mr. FILNER, 
Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. 
MASCARA, Ms. CARSON, Mr. REYES, 
Mr. RODRIGUEZ, Ms. WATERS, Mr. 
OLVER, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, 
Ms. BROWN of Florida, and Mr. 
DOYLE): 

H.R. 3619. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to increase the amount of assistance 
for specially adapted housing for 
disabled veterans; to the Committee on Veterans’ 
Affairs. 
By Mr. GEPHARDT: 

H.R. 3620. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reduce individual income 
tax rates, simplify the tax code, eliminate 
the marriage penalty, provide for re-
turn-free filing of income taxes, prohibit income 
tax rates from increasing without a national 
referendum, eliminate corporate welfare, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means, and in addition to 
the Committees on Rules, Government Reform 
and Oversight, and House Oversight, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by 
the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. 
YATES, Ms. FURSE, and Mr. GUTIERREZ): 


H.R. 3621. A bill to eliminate the National 
Forest Foundation; to the Committee on Agriculture. 
By Mr. RANGEL: 

H.R. 3622. A bill to amend section 2007 of 
the Social Security Act to provide grant 
funding for 20 additional empowerment 
zones, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 

H2052 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

By Mr. COYNE (for himself, Mr. RANGEL, 
Mr. STARK, Mr. MATSUI, Mrs. 
KENNELLY of Connecticut, Mr. 
MCDERMOTT, Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, 
Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts, and Mr. 
BECERRA): 

H.R. 3623. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to simplify the individual 
capital gains tax for all individuals and to 
provide modest reductions in the capital 
gains tax for most individuals; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mrs. MALONEY of New York (for 
herself and Mr. CASTLE): 

H.R. 3624. A bill to amend the Violence 
Against Women Act of 1994, the Family Violence 
Prevention and Services Act, the Older 
Americans Act of 1965, the Public Health 
Service Act, and the Right to Financial Privacy 
Act of 1978 to ensure that older women 
are protected from institutional, community, 
and domestic violence and sexual assault 
and to improve outreach efforts and 
other services available to older women victimized 
by such violence, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce, and in addition to the Committees 
on the Judiciary, Commerce, and 
Banking and Financial Services, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. CANNON: 

H.R. 3625. A bill to establish the San Rafael 
Swell National Heritage Area and the San 
Rafael Swell National Conservation Area in 
the State of Utah, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. PAUL: 

H.R. 3626. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to exclude from gross income 
amounts received on the sale of animals 
which are raised and sold as part of an 
educational program; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Ms. 
FURSE): 

H.R. 3627. A bill to assist local governments 
and local citizens’ organizations in 
the assessment and remediation of 
brownfield sites, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Commerce, and in addition 
to the Committees on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, Ways and Means, and 
Banking and Financial Services, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. GREEN: 

H.R. 3628. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow individuals a deduction 
for amounts paid for insurance for 
medical care; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
By Mr. WELDON of Florida: 

H.R. 3629. A bill to prohibit the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services from promulgating 
any regulation, rule, or other order if 
the effect of such regulation, rule, or order is 
to eliminate or modify any requirement 
under the Medicare Program under title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act for physician 
supervision of anesthesia services, as 
such requirement was in effect on December 
31, 1997; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. BURTON of Indiana (for himself, 
Mr. REDMOND, and Mr. SKEEN): 

H.R. 3630. A bill to redesignate the facility 
of the United States Postal Service located 
at 9719 Candelaria Road NE. in Albuquerque, 
New Mexico, as the ‘‘Steven Schiff Post Office’’; 
to the Committee on Government Reform 
and Oversight. 

By Mr. BILBRAY: 

H.R. 3631. A bill to require the Secretary of 
the Navy to conduct a study on ordinance 
and munitions waste in San Diego Bay; to 
the Committee on National Security. 
By Mr. WELLER (for himself, Mr. 
ENGLISH of Pennsylvania, Mrs. JOHNSON 
of Connecticut, Mrs. KELLY, Mr. 
QUINN, and Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania): 

H.R. 3632. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to grant relief to participants 
in multiemployer plans from certain 
section 415 limits on defined benefit pensions; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr. 
MCCOLLUM, Mr. GEKAS, Mr. GRAHAM, 
Mr. HUTCHINSON, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. 
BOEHNER, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. HUNTER, 
and Mr. SCHUMER): 

H.R. 3633. A bill to amend the Controlled 
Substances Import and Export Act to place 
limitations on controlled substances brought 
into the United States from Mexico; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
to the Committee on Commerce, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. LAZIO of New York (for himself, 
Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, Mr. CALVERT, 
Mr. ETHERIDGE, Mr. MCINTOSH, 
Mr. NEY, Mr. ROYCE, Mrs. KELLY, Mr. 
DOOLEY of California, Mr. BOSWELL, 
Mr. WELLER, Mr. GOODE, and Mr. 
MINGE): 

H.R. 3634. A bill to modernize the requirements 
under the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards 
Act of 1974 and to establish a balanced consensus 
process for the development, revision, 
and interpretation of Federal construction 
and safety standards for manufactured 
homes; to the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services. 
By Mr. LAZIO of New York (for himself, 
Mr. LEACH, Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, 
Mr. HAYWORTH, Mr. BEREUTER, 
Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. TRAFICANT, 
Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. EHRLICH, Mr. 
NEY, Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania, Mrs. 
KELLY, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. JACKSON, 
Mr. JONES, Mr. COOK, Mr. ENGLISH of 
Pennsylvania, and Mr. METCALF): 

H.R. 3635. A bill to provide for the conversion 
of housing projects for elderly persons 
financed by direct loans to financing under 
project rental assistance contracts; to the 
Committee on Banking and Financial Services. 
By Mr. BEREUTER (for himself, Mr. 
HAMILTON, Ms. MCKINNEY, Mrs. CLAYTON, 
Mr. HALL of Ohio, and Mr. 
LEACH): 

H.R. 3636. A bill to support sustainable and 
broad-based agricultural and rural development 
in sub-Saharan Africa, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on International 
Relations, and in addition to the Committee 
on Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mrs. MALONEY of New York (for 
herself, Mr. BAKER, Mr. KANJORSKI, 
Mr. JACKSON, Mrs. MEEK of Florida, 
Mr. MANTON, Mr. ALLEN, Ms. VELAZQUEZ, 
Ms. WOOLSEY, and Mrs. 
TAUSCHER): 

H.R. 3637. A bill to amend the National 
Housing Act to authorize the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development to insure 
mortgages for the acquisition, construction, 
or substantial rehabilitation of child care 
and development facilities and to establish 
the Children’s Development Commission to 
certify such facilities for such insurance, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Banking and Financial Services. 

By Mr. ANDREWS: 

H.R. 3638. A bill to require a preference for 
Federal contractors that hire welfare recipients, 
to require the Secretary of Transportation 
to make grants to assist States and 
other entities in financing transportation 
services for welfare recipients, and to allow 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
to provide guarantees of State loans to current 
or recent welfare recipients; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
to the Committees on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, and Government Reform 
and Oversight, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. BARTON of Texas (for himself, 
Mrs. MYRICK, and Mr. CALVERT): 

H.R. 3639. A bill to establish the Drug 
Abuse Prevention and Treatment Administration, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Commerce, and in addition to the 
Committees on Education and the Workforce, 
and Banking and Financial Services, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. BENTSEN: 

H.R. 3640. A bill to amend title XIX of the 
Social Security Act to permit public schools 
and certain other entities to determine presumptive 
eligibilty for children under the 
Medicaid Program; to the Committee on 
Commerce. 
By Mr. BUNNING of Kentucky (for 
himself, Mr. HOUGHTON, and Mr. 
ENGLISH of Pennsylvania): 

H.R. 3641. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow capital gain treatment 
on the transfer of a franchise in connection 
with the transfer of an existing business, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Ms. CHRISTIAN-GREEN: 

H.R. 3642. A bill to establish the District 
Court of the Virgin Islands as a court under 
article III of the United States Constitution; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Ms. CHRISTIAN-GREEN (for herself 
and Mr. UNDERWOOD): 

H.R. 3643. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to increase job creation 
and small business expansion and formation 
in economically distressed United States insular 
areas; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
By Mr. CRANE (for himself and Mr. 
RAMSTAD): 

H.R. 3644. A bill to amend the Consolidated 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 
to provide for the use of customs user fees 
for additional preclearance activities of the 
Customs Services, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mrs. CUBIN (for herself, Mr. SOLOMON, 
Mr. STUMP, Mr. HALL of Texas, 
Mr. HUNTER, Mr. CALLAHAN, Mr. 
LARGENT, Mr. JONES, Mr. EVERETT, 
Mr. HAYWORTH, Mr. SHIMKUS, and Mr. 
GIBBONS): 

H.R. 3645. A bill to prohibit the return of 
veterans memorial objects to foreign nations 
without specific authorization of law; to the 
Committee on International Relations, and 
in addition to the Committee on Veterans’ 
Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2053 

By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mr. TOWNS, Mr. 
BLAGOJEVICH, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. 
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. SHAYS, Mr. 
KENNEDY of Rhode Island, Mr. KENNEDY 
of Massachusetts, Mr. TIERNEY, 
Ms. CARSON, Mr. STOKES, Mr. 
BLUMENAUER, and Mr. ENGEL): 

H.R. 3646. A bill to ban the importation of 
large capacity ammunition feeding devices, 
and to extend the ban on transferring such 
devices to those that were manufactured before 
the ban became law; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. DEUTSCH: 

H.R. 3647. A bill to direct the Secretary of 
the Interior to make technical corrections to 
a map relating to the Coastal Barrier Resources 
System; to the Committee on Resources. 
By Ms. DUNN of Washington (for herself 
and Mr. TAUZIN): 

H.R. 3648. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on 
telephone and other communications services; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Ms. DUNN of Washington: 

H.R. 3649. A bill to amend part A of title XI 
of the Social Security Act to include retirees 
among recipients of annual Social Security 
account statements; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
By Mr. EHRLICH: 

H.R. 3650. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal joint and several 
liability of spouses on joint returns of Federal 
income tax, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. LAZIO 
of New York, Mr. KING of New York, 
and Mrs. MCCARTHY of New York): 

H.R. 3651. A bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for a standard 
of efficiency in the provision of home health 
services to Medicare beneficiaries and to reward 
those home health agencies who meet 
or exceed the standard, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
and in addition to the Committee on Commerce, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. ETHERIDGE (for himself, Mr. 
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. RANGEL, 
Mr. MCINTYRE, Mr. FROST, Mr. LEWIS 
of Georgia, Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts, 
Mr. DOOLEY of California, Mr. 
MCGOVERN, Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. FAZIO 
of California, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. HEFNER, 
Mrs. MEEK of Florida, Ms. 
SANCHEZ, Mr. MATSUI, Mrs. CLAYTON, 
Ms. CARSON, Mrs. TAUSCHER, Mr. 
WATT of North Carolina, Mr. BROWN 
of California, Mr. DELAHUNT, Ms. 
PELOSI, Mr. STENHOLM, and Mr. 
MORAN of Virginia): 

H.R. 3652. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide a source of interest-
free capital, in addition to that recommended 
in the President’s budget proposal, 
for the construction and renovation of 
public schools in States experiencing large 
increases in public school enrollment; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. EVANS (for himself and Mrs. 
KELLY): 

H.R. 3653. A bill to amend title 10, United 
States Code, to require that the Secretaries 
of the military departments provide honor 
guard details for the funerals of veterans, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
National Security. 
By Mr. EWING (for himself, Mr. 
CONDIT, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. WATTS of 
Oklahoma, Mr. BEREUTER, Mr. 
LAHOOD, Mr. MINGE, Mr. MANZULLO, 
Mr. MORAN of Kansas, and Mr. 
KOLBE): 

H.R. 3654. A bill to amend the Agricultural 
Trade Act of 1978 to require the President to 
report to Congress on any selective embargo 
on agricultural commodities, to provide a 
termination date for the embargo, to provide 
greater assurances for contract sanctity, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture. 
By Mr. GREEN: 

H.R. 3655. A bill to encourage States to 
enact laws to prohibit the sale of tobacco 
products to individuals under the age of 18; 
to the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mr. GREENWOOD (for himself and 
Mr. MCHALE): 

H.R. 3656. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide an election of 
deduction in lieu of a basis increase where 
indebtedness secured by property has original 
issue discount and is held by a cash 
method taxpayer; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 
By Mr. GUTKNECHT: 

H.R. 3657. A bill to suspend the duty on 
oxidized polyacrylonitrile fibers until January 
1, 2002; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
By Mr. HILL: 

H.R. 3658. A bill to provide for the settlement 
of the water rights claims of the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Resources. 
By Mr. HULSHOF (for himself, Mrs. 
THURMAN, Mr. SMITH of Oregon, Mr. 
COMBEST, Mr. BUNNING of Kentucky, 
Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, Mr. EWING, Mr. 
DOOLEY of California, Mr. HOUGHTON, 
Mr. HERGER, Mr. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. 
POMBO, Mrs. CLAYTON, Mr. 
HOSTETTLER, Mr. HOLDEN, Mr. 
ENGLISH of Pennsylvania, Mr. WATKINS, 
Mr. WELLER, Mr. BISHOP, Mr. 
BLUNT, Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. BALDACCI, 
Mr. THUNE, Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. BOYD, 
Mr. FOLEY, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. 
MCDADE, Mr. KANJORSKI, Mr. EDWARDS, 
Mr. SOUDER, Mr. MARTINEZ, 
Mr. SCARBOROUGH, and Mr. HUTCHINSON): 


H.R. 3659. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide for Farm and 
Ranch Risk Management Accounts, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 
By Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts 
(for himself, Mrs. TAUSCHER, Mr. 
NEAL of Massachusetts, Mr. FILNER, 
Mr. KUCINICH, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. 
ROMERO-BARCELO, Mr. GEJDENSON, 
Ms. RIVERS, Ms. WOOLSEY, Mr. FROST, 
Mrs. MCCARTHY of New York, Mr. 
MORAN of Virginia, Mr. SNYDER, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. LATOURETTE, 
Mr. HOUGHTON, and Mr. DAVIS of Virginia): 


H.R. 3660. A bill to invest in the future of 
the United States by doubling the amount 
authorized for basic scientific, medical, and 
pre-competitive engineering research; to the 
Committee on Science, and in addition to 
the Committees on Commerce, and Agriculture, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts 
(for himself, Mr. SHAYS, Mr. FILNER, 
Mr. QUINN, Mr. MOAKLEY, Mr. SANDERS, 
Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. PETERSON of 
Minnesota, Ms. BROWN of Florida, Ms. 
CARSON, Mr. OLVER, Ms. RIVERS, Mr. 
MARKEY, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, 
Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island, 
Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts, Mr. WAXMAN, 
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. BURTON of 
Indiana, Mr. TIERNEY, Mrs. MALONEY 

of New York, Mr. DELAHUNT, Mr. 
LANTOS, Mr. UNDERWOOD, Mr. ROMERO-
BARCELO, Mr. CLEMENT, Mr. 
FROST, Ms. SLAUGHTER, Mr. MORAN of 
Virginia, Mr. HASTINGS of Florida, 
Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. 
RODRIGUEZ, Mr. DAVIS of Illinois, and 
Ms. VELAZQUEZ): 

H.R. 3661. A bill to require the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense 
to give greater priority to research on 
the exposure of veterans of Operation Desert 
Shield and Operation Desert Storm to biological 
agents or chemical weapons, other 
toxic agents such as depleted uranium and 
organophosphates, pyridostigmine bromide, 
vaccines, oil well fire pollution, and other 
potentially hazardous substances, to require 
the Director of the National Institutes of 
Health to monitor, through a comprehensive 
database, the resulting effects of such exposure 
on those veterans’ health and their clinical 
progress in order to identify and provide 
appropriate and effective medical treatment, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Veterans’ Affairs, and in addition to the 
Committees on National Security, and Commerce, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. LEACH (for himself, Mr. GILMAN, 
Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. LANTOS, 
Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania, and Mr. 
SHERMAN): 

H.R. 3662. A bill to establish a commission 
to examine issues pertaining to the disposition 
of Holocaust-era assets in the United 
States before, during, and after World War 
II, and to make recommendations to the 
President on further action, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Banking and 
Financial Services. 
By Mr. LEACH: 

H.R. 3663. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide equitable treatment 
for contributions by employees to defined 
contribution pension plans; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky (for himself, 
Mr. BUNNING of Kentucky, Mr. 
WHITFIELD, Mr. CHAMBLISS, and Mr. 
ROGERS): 

H.R. 3664. A bill to provide crop insurance 
coverage for tobacco crops, to provide extension 
services related to tobacco, and to provide 
for the administration of the Federal tobacco 
price support and quota programs at 
no expense to the Department of Agriculture; 
to the Committee on Agriculture. 
By Mrs. LOWEY: 

H.R. 3665. A bill to amend the Family Violence 
Prevention and Services Act to improve 
and strengthen certain provisions; to 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. MARTINEZ (for himself, Mr. 
CLAY, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. ANDREWS, Ms. 
WOOLSEY, Mr. HINOJOSA, Ms. 
SANCHEZ, Mr. FORD, Mr. KUCINICH, 
Mr. KENNEDY of Massachusetts, Mr. 
BLAGOJEVICH, Ms. KILPATRICK, Mr. 
FRANK of Massachusetts, Ms. 
DELAURO, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. LANTOS, 
Mr. LAFALCE, Mr. MCDERMOTT, Mr. 
KLECZKA, Mr. LAMPSON, Mr. HALL of 
Ohio, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. FROST, Mr. 
TORRES, Mr. SAWYER, Ms. DEGETTE, 
Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts, and Mrs. 
MORELLA): 

H.R. 3666. A bill to amend the National 
School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 to provide children with increased 
access to food and nutrition assistance, to 
simplify program operations and improve 
program management, to extend certain authorities 
contained in such Acts through fiscal 
year 2002, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce. 

H2054 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

By Mr. MCCRERY (for himself, Mr. 
TANNER, Mr. FARR of California, Mr. 
FOLEY, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, Mr. JEFFERSON, 
Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. 
CHRISTENSEN, Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. 
WELLER, Mr. HOUGHTON, and Mr. SAM 
JOHNSON): 

H.R. 3667. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to increase the deduction 
for meal and entertainment expenses of 
small businesses; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 
By Mr. MCHALE (for himself and Mr. 
BUYER): 

H.R. 3668. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to provide for the furnishing by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of burial 
flags for deceased members and former members 
of the Selected Reserve; to the Committee 
on Veterans’ Affairs. 
By Mr. MCINNIS: 

H.R. 3669. A bill to authorize the Secretary 
of the Interior to provide funding for the implementation 
of the endangered fish recovery 
implementation programs for the Upper 
Colorado and San Juan River Basins; to the 
Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. MENENDEZ: 

H.R. 3670. A bill to amend the Food Stamp 
Act of 1977 to require States to check law enforcement 
records to verify whether adult 
applicants for food stamp benefits are ineligible 
to receive such benefits because they 
are detainees in law enforcement facilities or 
are fugitives from justice; to the Committee 
on Agriculture. 
By Mr. MICA (for himself, Mr. SOLOMON, 
Mr. HASTERT, Mr. GOODE, and 
Mrs. MYRICK): 

H.R. 3671. A bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to provide the death penalty for 
smuggling certain drugs into the United 
States; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts (for 
himself, Mr. RANGEL, Mr. COYNE, Mr. 
MATSUI, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. MCDERMOTT, 
Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. POMEROY, and 
Ms. STABENOW): 

H.R. 3672. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to promote expanded retirement 
savings; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. CASTLE, 
Ms. CHRISTIAN-GREEN, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. UNDERWOOD, and 
Mr. ROMERO-BARCELO): 

H.R. 3673. A bill to amend the 50 States 
Commemorative Coin Program Act to extend 
the program by an additional year for the 
purpose of including the District of Columbia, 
American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, 
and the United States Virgin Islands within 
the scope of the program; to the Committee 
on Banking and Financial Services. 
By Mr. OBERSTAR (for himself and 
Mr. CLEMENT): 

H.R. 3674. A bill to amend title 46, United 
States Code, to clarify that the Secretary of 
Transportation does not have authority to 
collect user fees for navigational assistance 
services, including icebreaking; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. ORTIZ: 

H.R. 3675. A bill to designate a United 
States courthouse in Brownsville, Texas, as 
the ‘‘Reynaldo G. Garza - Filemon B. Vela, 
Sr. United States Courthouse‘‘; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr. 
BONIOR, Mr. GREEN, Ms. DELAURO, 
Mr. WYNN, Mr. FROST, Mr. LEWIS of 

Georgia, Ms. FURSE, Mr. KENNEDY of 
Rhode Island, Mr. ROTHman, Ms. 
MCCARTHY of Missouri, Mr. 
PASCRELL, Mr. MARTINEZ, Ms. JACKSON-
LEE, Ms. CARSON, Mr. SERRANO, 
Mr. RUSH, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. ANDREWS, 
Mr. SAWYER, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. 
CUMMINGS, Mr. WAXMAN, Mrs. LOWEY, 
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MANTON, Ms. 
ESHOO, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. MARKEY, 
and Mr. MENENDEZ): 

H.R. 3676. A bill to establish a comprehensive 
program to ensure the safety of food 
products intended for human consumption 
which are regulated by the Food and Drug 
Administration; to the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mr. PASTOR: 

H.R. 3677. A bill to authorize and direct the 
Secretary of the Interior to convey certain 
works, facilities, and titles of the Gila 
Project, and Designated Lands within or adjacent 
to the Gila Project, to the Wellton-
Mohawk Irrigation and Drainage District, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Resources. 
By Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota (for 
himself and Mr. POMEROY): 

H.R. 3678. A bill to provide crop insurance, 
marketing loan, and emergency operating 
loan relief for agricultural producers in certain 
counties in the States of North Dakota 
and Minnesota that have been repeatedly 
designated as Federal disaster areas; to the 
Committee on Agriculture. 
By Mr. REYES (for himself and Mr. 
GEPHARDT): 

H.R. 3679. A bill to authorize additional appropriations 
for personnel and technology 
for the United States Customs Service and 
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 
which have joint responsibility at ports of 
entry, in order to increase inspection and enforcement 
at ports of entry and to expedite 
and facilitate the flow of legal commercial 
and passenger traffic at United States borders 
and interior checkpoints; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means, and in addition 
to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. RIGGS: 

H.R. 3680. A bill to amend the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish 
a program to help children and youth 
learn English, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. RILEY: 

H.R. 3681. A bill to direct the Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration 
to review and adjust the size standards used 
to determine whether or not enterprises in 
certain industry categories are small business 
concerns for the purposes of competing 
for Federal contracting opportunities; to the 
Committee on Small Business. 
By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN (for herself, 
Mr. BARCIA of Michigan, Mr. GINGRICH, 
Mr. ARMEY, Mr. DELAY, Mr. 
BOEHNER, Mr. HASTERT, Mr. DIAZBALART, 
Mr. CANADY of Florida, Mr. 
GOSS, Mr. STEARNS, Mr. MCCOLLUM, 
Mr. MICA, Mr. YOUNG of Florida, Mr. 
WELDON of Florida, Mr. GOODE, Mr. 
HALL of Texas, Mr. HEFNER, Mr. 
JOHN, Mr. MINGE, Mr. OBERSTAR, Mr. 
PETERSON of Minnesota, Mr. RAHALL, 
Mr. STENHOLM, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. BARR 
of Georgia, Mr. BARRETT of Nebraska, 
Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland, Mr. 
BATEMAN, Mr. BLILEY, Mr. BLUNT, 
Mr. BRYANt, Mr. BUNNING of Kentucky, 
Mr. BURR of North Carolina, 
Mr. BURTON of Indiana, Mr. CALVERT, 
Mr. CAMP, Mr. CANNON, Mr. CHABOT, 
Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. 

COBLE, Mr. COBURN, Mr. CRANE, Mr. 
CUNNINGHAM, Mr. DAVIS of Virginia, 
Mr. DICKEY, Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. DUNCAN, 
Mr. EHLERS, Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. 
ENSIGN, Mr. GOODLATTE, Mr. GOODLING, 
Mr. GUTKNECHT, Mr. HOEKSTRA, 
Mr. HOSTETTLER, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. 
HYDE, Mr. INGLIS of South Carolina, 
Mr. ISTOOK, Mr. KING of New York, 
Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. KNOLLENBERG, Mr. 
LAHOOD, Mr. LARGENT, Mr. LATHAM, 
Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, Mr. LINDER, 
Mr. LIVINGSTON, Mr. MCCRERY, Mr. 
MCDADE, Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. MCKEON, 
Mr. MANZULLO, Mr. METCALF, Mrs. 
MYRICK, Mr. NEY, Mr. NORWOOD, Mr. 
PAPPAS, Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. PITTS, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. 
QUINN, Mr. RYUN, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, 
Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. SHADEGG, 
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mrs. LINDA 
SMITH of Washington, Mr. 
SNOWBARGER, Mr. SOLOMON, Mr. 
SOUDER, Mr. TALENT, Mr. TIAHRT, Mr. 
THUNE, Mr. WALSH, Mr. WATTS of 
Oklahoma, and Mr. WHITFIELD): 

H.R. 3682. A bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to prohibit taking minors 
across State lines to avoid laws requiring the 
involvement of parents in abortion decisions; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. SESSIONS: 

H.R. 3683. A bill to provide for each American 
the opportunity to provide for his or her 
retirement through a S.A.F.E. account, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. SHAW (for himself, Mr. COLLINS, 
Mr. SUNUNU, and Mr. PORTMAN): 

H.R. 3684. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, the Social Security Act, 
the Wagner-Peyser Act, and the Federal-
State Extended Unemployment Compensation 
Act of 1970 to improve the method by 
which Federal unemployment taxes are collected; 
to improve the method by which 
funds are provided from Federal unemployment 
tax revenue for employment security 
administration, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
addition to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. SHAYS (for himself and Mr. 
FRANK of Massachusetts): 

H.R. 3685. A bill to provide that the 
amount authorized to be appropriated for national 
defense functions of the Government 
for fiscal year 1999 may not exceed the 
amount authorized to be appropriated for national 
defense functions for fiscal year 1998; 
to the Committee on National Security. 
By Mrs. TAUSCHER (for herself, Mr. 
ALLEN, Mr. MORAN of Virginia, Mrs. 
CLAYTON, Mr. CONDIT, Ms. DELAURO, 
Mr. FROST, Ms. HARMAN, Mr. KENNEDY 
of Massachusetts, Ms. LOFGREN, 
Mr. MILLER of California, Mr. TANNER, 
Mr. TORRES, and Ms. WOOLSEY): 

H.R. 3686. A bill to authorize the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to make block 
grants to States for purposes of improving 
the quality of child care services and making 
grants to business consortia to provide quality 
child care services, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce. 
By Mr. THORNBERRY: 

H.R. 3687. A bill to authorize prepayment 
of amounts due under a water reclamation 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2055 

project contract for the Canadian River 
Project, Texas; to the Committee on Resources. 


By Mr. WATKINS (for himself and Mr. 

ISTOOK): 

H.R. 3688. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide a tax credit for 
marginal oil and natural gas well production; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. WHITFIELD: 

H.R. 3689. A bill to transfer administrative 
jurisdiction over the Land Between the 
Lakes National Recreation Area to the Secretary 
of Agriculture; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and in 
addition to the Committees on Resources, 
and Agriculture, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. WISE (for himself, Mr. NEY, Mr. 
OXLEY, Mr. RAHALL, Mr. MOLLOHAN, 
Mr. GOODE, Mr. STRICKLAND, Mr. 
BAESLER, and Mr. BOUCHER): 

H.R. 3690. A bill to establish provisions regarding 
a proposed rulemaking under the 
Clean Air Act with respect to the transport, 
in the eastern portion of the United States, 
of ozone pollution and oxides of nitrogen; to 
the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself, Mr. PORTER, 
Mr. LANTOS, and Mr. SMITH of 
New Jersey): 

H. Con. Res. 258. Concurrent resolution encouraging 
international resolution of the political 
status of East Timor; to the Committee 
on International Relations. 
By Mr. MANTON (for himself, Mrs. 
MALONEY of New York, and Mr. BILIRAKIS): 


H. Con. Res. 259. Concurrent resolution recognizing 
and honoring the people of the Dodecanesian 
Islands for their stance in fighting 
fascism and preserving democratic values 
and beliefs; to the Committee on International 
Relations. 
By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Mr. 
PALLONE): 

H. Con. Res. 260. Concurrent resolution expressing 
the sense of the Congress that a 
commemorative postage stamp should be 
issued honoring Paul Leroy Robeson, and 
that the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee 
should recommend to the Postmaster 
General in 1998, during which occurs the 
100th anniversary of Paul Robeson’s birth, 
that such a stamp be issued; to the Committee 
on Government Reform and Oversight. 
By Mr. CONDIT (for himself, Mr. 
RADANOVICH, Mr. HERGER, Mr. MATSUI, 
Mr. FAZIO of California, Mr. DOOLITTLE, 
and Mr. POMBO): 

H. Res. 406. A resolution expressing the 
sense of the House of Representatives that 
the canned fruit subsidy regime of the European 
Union is a bilateral trade concern of 
high priority, for which prompt corrective 
action is needed; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 
f 


MEMORIALS 

Under clause 4 of rule XXII, memorials 
were presented and referred as follows: 


273. The SPEAKER presented a memorial 
of the Legislature of the State of Pennsylvania, 
relative to House Resolution No. 330 
memorializing the President of the United 
States and Congress to maintain and increase 
funding for the Pennsylvania National 
Guard Counterdrug Program; to the Committee 
on National Security. 
274. Also,a memorial of the Legislature of 
the State of Washington, relative to House 
Joint Memorial No. 4039 urging the Federal 
Communications Commission to review and 
amend its ruling barring direct reimbursement 
to state agencies that provide telecommunications 
services; to the Committee 
on Commerce. 

275. Also,a memorial of the Senate of the 
State of Michigan, relative to Senate Resolution 
No.155 memorializing the President of 
the United States and the Congress of the 
United States to take immediate and necessary 
action to provide for United States 
citizenship for Wojtek Tokarcyzk; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
276. Also,a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the Commonwealth of Virginia, relative 
to Senate Joint Resolution No. 220 expressing 
the sense of the Virginia General 
Assembly in support of the retention of the 
1,250-mile perimeter rule at Ronald Reagan 
Washington National Airport; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
277. Also,a memorial of the House of Representatives 
of the State of Pennsylvania, 
relative to House Resolution 358 memorializing 
the Congress of the United States to urge 
the United States Department of Commerce 
to continue in a timely fashion the ongoing 
investigation relating to the dumping of certain 
stainless steel products into the American 
marketplace; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
278. Also,a memorial of the Senate of the 
State of Washington, relative to Senate 
Joint Memorial No. 8019 requesting federal 
funds for housing finance; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
279. Also,a memorial of the Senate of the 
State of Michigan, relative to Senate Resolution 
No. 147 memorializing the Congress of 
the United States to provide full funding for 
harbor maintenance and lamprey control in 
the Great Lakes and to urge other Great 
Lake states to join in this effort; jointly to 
the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure 
and Resources. 
f 


PRIVATE BILLS AND 
RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 1 of Rule XXII, private 
bills and resolutions of the following 
titles were introduced and severally referred, 
as follows: 

By Mr. MCINTYRE: 

H.R. 3691. A bill for the relief of Augusto 
Ernesto Segovia, Maria Isabel Segovia, 
Edelmira Isabel Segovia, Perla Franccesca 
Segovia, and Augusto THOMAS Segovia; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota: 

H.R. 3692. A bill for the relief of Anne M. 
Nagel; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
f 


ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 

Under clause 4 of rule XXII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 44: Mr. DAN SCHAEFER of Colorado. 
H.R. 59: Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania and Mr. 
TAUZIN. 
H.R. 74: Mr. SKAGGS and Mr. RANGEL. . 
H.R. 96: Mr. PITTS. 
H.R. 123: Mr. BASS. 
H.R. 135: Mrs. CAPPS. 
H.R. 165: Ms. STABENOW. 
H.R. 218: Mr. UPTON. 
H.R. 303: Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon. 
H.R. 306: Mr. LUTHER. 
H.R. 371: Ms. KILPATRICK. 
H.R. 452: Ms. SANCHEZ. 
H.R. 453: Mr. BERMAN and Mr. SHERMAN. 
H.R. 457: Mr. HALL of Texas. 
H.R. 465: Mr. PICKETT. 
H.R. 536: Mr. MENENDEZ. 
H.R. 603: Mr. LUTHER. 
H.R. 612: Mr. TORRES. 
H.R. 715: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 864: Ms. ESHOO, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, 
and Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island. 
H.R. 900: Mr. JACKSON and Mrs. MCCARTHY 
of New York. 
H.R. 915: Mrs. ROUKEMA, Mr. WATT of North 
Carolina, Mr. METCALF, Mr. BOSWELL, and 
Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 923: Mr. HOSTETTLER and Mr. 
LOBIONDO. 
H.R. 939: Mr. MCDADE. 
H.R. 981: Mr. WYNN. 
H.R. 1061: Mr. GILCHREST and Mr. DEFAZIO. 
H.R. 1111: Mr. BOEHLERT, Mrs. JOHNSON of 
Connecticut, Mr. BROWN of California, Mr. 
UPTON and Mr. ENSIGN. 
H.R. 1126: Mr. KINGSTON. 
H.R. 1173: Mr. CLYBURN and Mrs. CAPPS. 
H.R. 1176: Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA and Mr. 
OBERSTAR. 
H.R. 1215: Mr. WAXMAN. 
H.R. 1231: Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts and 
Mr. BONIOR. 
H.R. 1232: Mr. REGULA, Mr. GUTIERREZ, 
Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, and Mr. STARK. 
H.R. 1234: Mr. HILLIARD. 
H.R. 1280: Mr. SCARBOROUGH. 
H.R. 1290: Mr. CLEMENT and Mr. JOHN. 
H.R. 1334: Mr. GILCHREST and Mr. STARK. 
H.R. 1362: Ms. GRANGER. 
H.R. 1401: Mr. SCOTT and Mr. RAMSTAD. 
H.R. 1404: Mr. WEXLER, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. 
ENGEL, Mr. HASTINGS of Florida, and Mr. 
KLECZKA. 
H.R. 1415: Mrs. CAPPS. 
H.R. 1427: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. BILBRAY. 
H.R. 1521: Mr. DICKEY, Mr. FOLEY, Mrs. 
THURMAN, and Mr. WELDON of Florida. 
H.R. 1522: Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA and Mr. SNYDER. 
H.R. 1525: Mr. NETHERCUTT. 
H.R. 1571: Mr. LAMPSON and Mr. NADLER. 
H.R. 1624: Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 1635: Mr. BOSWELL, Mr. MCHALE, Mr. 
SHAYS, Mr. OLVER, Mr. LANTOS, Mr. ENGLISH 
of Pennsylvania, Mr. GEJDENSON, Ms. WOOLSEY, 
and Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 1636: Mr. MATSUI, Mr. LEACH, Ms. 
SANCHEZ, and Mr. FAZIO of California. 
H.R. 1711: Mr. MINGE, Mr. TAYLOR of North 
Carolina, and Mr. KNOLLENBERG. 
H.R. 1715: Mr. ENSIGN and Mr. DAVIS of 
Florida. 
H.R. 1736: Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 1766: Mr. BERRY, Mr. DICKEY, Mr. 
DOOLEY of California, Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. 
EVERETT, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KING of New York, 
Mr. LAMPSON, Mr. LARGENT, Mr. TAUZIN, and 
Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut. 
H.R. 1773: Mr. ROMERO-BARCELO. 
H.R. 1786: Mr. MARKEY, Mr. Pallone. Mr. 
MEEKS of New York, and Mr. PASCRELL. 
H.R. 1788: Mr. KLECZKA. 
H.R. 1800: Mr. GOODLING, Mr. GREENWOOD, 
Mr. MCDADE, Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania, 
and Mr. GOODE. 
H.R. 1804: Mr. CALLAHAN, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. 
HILLIARD, Mr. EVERETT, Mr. RILEY, and Mr. 
ADERHOLT. 
H.R. 1891: Mr. FOLEY and Mr. THORNBERRY. 
H.R. 2009: Mr. WEYGAND and Mr. KANJORSKI. 
H.R. 2020: Mr. LAFALCE and Mr. CRAMER. 
H.R. 2070: Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 2094: Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey and 
Mr. SCHUMER. 
H.R. 2145: Mr. BROWN of California, Mr. 
EWING, Mr. COOKSEY, Mr. MARTINEZ, and Mr. 
POMEROY. 
H.R. 2154: Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mrs. MCCARTHY 
of New York, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, 
Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN, Mr. MARTINEZ, 
Mr. OLVER, Mr. LANTOS, and Mrs. KENNELLY 
of Connecticut. 

H2056 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE April 1, 1998 

H.R. 2174: Ms. FURSE. 
H.R. 2231: Mr. EHLERS, Mr. POMEROY, and 
Mr. PEASE. 
H.R. 2374: Mr. SCHUMER. 
H.R. 2409: Mr. TRAFICANT, Mr. HOUGHTON, 
Mr. BOEHLERT, Mr. GILCHREST, and Mr. FORD. 
H.R. 2431: Mrs. ROUKEMA, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. 
KLINK, Mr. GREEN, Mr. SANDERS, and Mr. 
VISCLOSKY. 
H.R. 2433: Mr. PEASE and Mr. SANDERS. 
H.R. 2488: Ms. WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 2489: Ms. CARSON, Ms. KAPTUR, and 
Ms. DEGETTE. 
H.R. 2500: Mr. DAVIS of Florida and Mr. 
SUNUNU. 
H.R. 2509: Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts, 
and Ms. DEGETTE. 
H.R. 2547: Ms. NORTON and Mr. SCHUMER. 
H.R. 2553: Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD. 
H.R. 2556: Mr. MINGE. 
H.R. 2568: Mr. BOB SCHAFFER. 
H.R. 2593: Mrs. MCCARTHY of New York and 
Mrs. CAPPS. 
H.R. 2596: Mr. GOODLING and Ms. WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 2598: Mr. BARRETT of Nebraska. 
H.R. 2609: Mr. SCARBOROUGH and Mr. BARTON 
of Texas. 
H.R. 2660: Mr. MINGE, Mr. DELAHUNT, and 
Mr. ENGEL. 
H.R. 2670: Mr. GUTIERREZ and Ms. HARMAN. 
H.R. 2671: Mr. STARK. 
H.R. 2708: Mr. HASTERT, Mr. BLILEY, Mr. 
CAMPBELL, Ms. JACKSON-LEE, and Mr. PEASE. 
H.R. 2713: Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts and 
Mrs. CLAYTON. 
H.R. 2714: Mr. SNYDER. 
H.R. 2727: Mr. DOOLEY of California, Mr. 
EHLERS, Mr. BARCIA of Michigan, Mr. GREENWOOD, 
Mr. MORAN of Virginia, Mr. GOSS, Mr. 
TAYLOR of Mississippi. Mr. CASTLE, Mrs. 
THURMAN, Mr. HORN, Mr. MARTINEZ, Mrs. 
ROUKEMA, Mr. HOUGHTON, Mrs. JOHNSON of 
Connecticut, Mr. PETRI, Ms. PRYCE of Ohio, 
Mr. GILMAN, Mr. HOBSON, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, 
Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. THUNE, Mr. 
SUNUNU, Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, Mr. WHITFIELD, 
Mr. QUINN, Mr. FAWELL, Mr. WALSH, Mr. 
THOMAS, Mrs. FOWLER, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. 
LAHOOD, Mr. GILCHREST, Mr. BILBRAY, Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. BASS, Mr. PORTER, Mr. LAZIO of 
New York, Mr. UPTON, and Mr. LEACH. 
H.R. 2733: Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. BOB SCHAFFER, 
Mr. COOK, Mr. HALL of Texas, Mr. 
LEACH, Ms. MCKINNEY, Mr. HANSEN, Mr. 
DOOLEY of California, Mr. MCHUGH, Mr. BARTON 
of Texas, Mr. SMITH of Michigan, Mr. 
KANJORSKI, Mr. SESSIONS, and Mr. SHADEGG. 
H.R. 2761: Mr. TOWNS. 
H.R. 2804: Mr. FROST, Mr. PASTOR, Mr. 
HASTINGS of Florida, and Mr. HINOJOSA. 
H.R. 2829: Mr. SKELTON, Mr. ROGAN, Mr. 
BLUMENAUER, and Mr. ISTOOK. 
H.R. 2874: Mr. ROMERO-BARCELO. 
H.R. 2908: Mrs. MALONEY of New York, Mr. 
FOX of Pennsylvania, Mr. BOEHLERT, Mr. 
LAZIO of New York, Mr. STENHOLM, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, and Mr. POSHARD. 
H.R. 2912: Mr. GOODLING. 
H.R. 2921: Mr. BLUNT and Mr. ENGEL. 
H.R. 2923: Mr. POSHARD, Mr. FAZIO of California, 
Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. WATT of 
North Carolina, and Mr. DEAL of Georgia. 
H.R. 2939: Mr. HOBSON and Mr. GRAHAM. 
H.R. 2941: Mr. LARGENT. 
H.R. 2995: Mr. SUNUNU and Mr. MCDERMOTT. 
H.R. 2960: Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island. 
H.R. 2963: Mr. TORRES, Ms. MILLENDERMCDONALD, 
Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, and Mrs. 
MALONEY of New York. 
H.R. 2968: Mr. SENSENBRENNER. 
H.R. 2990: Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. SUNUNU, Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD, Mr. 
LEWIS of California, Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, 
Ms. FURSE, Mr. DAVIS of Virginia, Mrs. CLAYTON, 
and Mr. HASTINGS of Florida. 
H.R. 3000: Mr. HOBSON and Ms. PRYCE of 
Ohio. 
H.R. 3007: Mr. BOEHLERT and Mr. EWING. 
H.R. 3010: Ms. WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 3032: Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 3033: Mr. MEEKS of New York. 
H.R. 3050: Mr. KLINK and Mr. CLYBURN. 
H.R. 3081: Ms. PRYCE of Ohio and Mr. BOSWELL. 
H.R. 3104: Mr. BARTON of Texas, Mr. BLILEY, 
Mr. HUNTER, Mr. LUCAS of Oklahoma, 
Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. LEACH, and Mr. DIAZBALART. 
H.R. 3131: Mrs. LOWEY. 
H.R. 3140: Ms. STABENOW. 
H.R. 3143: Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 3148: Mr. FROST. 
H.R. 3156: Mr. BALDACCI, Mr. WEYGAND, Mr. 
SISISKY, Mr. FAZIO of California, Mr. 
GALLEGLY, Mr. BOUCHER, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. 
SPRATT, Mr. MASCARA, Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. TANNER, Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. 
SNYDER. 
H.R. 3161: Mr. LUTHER. 
H.R. 3178: Mr. SANDERS. 
H.R. 3181: Mr. SHERMAN, Mrs. MORELLA, 
and Mr. ORTIZ. 
H.R. 3185: Mr. SOUDER. 
H.R. 3189: Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. 
PAXON, and Mr. NEUMANN. 
H.R. 3205: Mr. MALONEY of Connecticut. 
H.R. 3215: Mr. PAUL, Mrs. EMERSON, Mr. 
BLUNT, Mr. KOLBE, Mr. SMITH of Michigan, 
and Ms. WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 3225: Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 3228: Mr. ROYCE, Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin, 
Mr. MILLER of Florida, and Mr. KLUG. 
H.R. 3236: Mr. FOSSELLA, Mr. OBEY, Mr. 
LEWIS of Georgia, Mrs. KELLY, Mr. MCGOVERN, 
and Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. 
H.R. 3240: Mr. MCGOVERN. 
H.R. 3248: Mr. SUNUNU and Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 3255: Mr. ENGEL. 
H.R. 3267: Mr. NEY. 
H.R. 3269: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 3279: Mr. MANTON, Mr. STUPAK, and 
Mr. KUCINICH. 
H.R. 3281: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts and 
Mr. WAXMAN. 
H.R. 3283: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. FILNER. 
H.R. 3284: Mr. JENKINS. 
H.R. 3293: Ms. LOFGREN and Ms. SLAUGHTER. 
H.R. 3308: Mr. RAHALL, Ms. KILPATRICK, and 
Mr. DUNCAN. 
H.R. 3318: Mr. UPTON, Mr. HERGER, Mr. 
LUCAS of Oklahoma, Ms. VELAZQUEZ, Mr. 
SANDLIN, Mr. WAXMAN, and Mr. HALL of 
Texas. 
H.R. 3331: Mr. SOUDER. 
H.R. 3333: Ms. WOOLSEY and Ms. FURSE. 
H.R. 3338: Mr. MANTON and Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 3341: Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, 
Mr. FROST, Mr. MORAN of Virginia, and 
Mrs. MEEK of Florida. 
H.R. 3396: Mr. HOBSON, Mr. LAZIO of New 
York, Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, and Mr. DICKEY. 
H.R. 3435: Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. PETRI, and Mr. 
WELLER. 
H.R. 3462: Mr. WEXLER. 
H.R. 3497: Mr. COOKSEY and Mr. LIVINGSTON. 
H.R. 3506: Mrs. NORTHUP, Mr. LIVINGSTON, 
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. BALDACCI, and 
Mr. SPENCE. 
H.R. 3510: Mr. DINGELL. 
H.R. 3514: Mr. MILLER of California. 
H.R. 3532: Mr. MASCARA, Mr. ADAM SMITH of 
Washington, Ms. DANNER, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. 
KANJORSKI, Mr. CLEMENT, Mr. RAMSTAD, Mr. 
BUNNING of Kentucky, Mr. WHITFIELD, Mrs. 
SANDERS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, 
Mr. JENKINS, Mr. STRICKLAND, Mr. 
EWING, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. GREENWOOD. 
H.R. 3524: Mr. MCNULTY, Mr. STARK, and 
Mr. COYNE. 
H.R. 3526: Mr. MALONEY of Connecticut. 
H.R. 3531: Mr. FROST and Mr. BARRETT of 
Wisconsin. 
H.R. 3535: Mr. SENSENBRENNER and Mr. 
NORWOOD. 
H.R. 3538: Mr. BONIOR, Ms. WOOLSEY, Mr. 
FROST, and Mr. ENGEL. 
H.R. 3541: Mr. PACKARD, Mr. STRICKLAND, 
Mr. RIGGS, Mr. EVANS, Mr. KIM, Mr. WEXLER, 
Mr. FROST, Mrs. KELLY, Mr. FILNER, Mrs. 
NORTHUP, Mr. MATSUI, Mr. SHAYS Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. COOKSEY, and Mr. SNYDER. 
H.R. 3546: Ms. DUNN of Washington, and Mr. 
RAMSTAD. 
H.R. 3551: Mr. FILNER. 
H.R. 3555: Mr. MCHUGH and Mr. FROST. 
H.R. 3561: Mr. MARKEY. 
H.R. 3563: Mr. SANDLIN. 
H.R. 3570: Mr. MILLER of California and Ms. 
STABENOW. 
H.R. 3571: Mr. MANTON, Mr. STUPAK, Mrs. 
THURMAN, Mr. BISHOP, Mr. SANDERS, and Mr. 
KLECZKA. 
H.R. 3577: Mr. FROST. 
H.R. 3599: Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 3603: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. FILNER, Mr. 
EVERETT, and Mr. COOKSEY. 
H.R. 3605: Mr. TURNER, Mr. UNDERWOOD, 
Mr. SACHUMER, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. BERRY, Mr. 
DOYLE, Mr. TORRES, and Mr. FOX of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 3610: Mr. FORBES, Ms. FURSE, Mr. 
WEYGAND, and Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. 
H.J. Res. 65: Ms. DELAURO, Mr. HILLIARD, 
Mrs. CAPPS, Mr. OLVER, and Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA. 
H.J. Res. 66: Mr. WEYGAND and Mr. 
CUMMINGS. 
H.J. Res. 99: Mr. FOLEY. 
H.J. Res. 102: Mr. DEAL of Georgia, Mr. FAWELL, 
Mrs. FOWLER, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. 
KLINK, Mr. MASCARA, Mr. SOLOMON, Ms. 
STABENOW, Mr. THOMPSON, and Mr. YOUNG of 
Florida. 
H.J. Res. 108: Mr. POSHARD. 
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. MEEKS of 
New York, and Mr. SHAW. 
H. Con. Res. 126: Mr. KING of New York. 
H. Con. Res. 211: Mr. BURTON of Indiana. 
H. Con. Res. 215: Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. 
H. Con. Res. 220: Mr. ACKERMAN and Mrs. 
MCCARTHY of New York. 
H. Con. Res. 222: Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. 
BALLENGER, and Mr. SANFORD. 
H. Con. Res. 229: Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON 
of Texas, Ms. RIVERS, Mr. ROMEROBARCELO, 
Mr. SISISKY, and Mr. STUPAK. 
H. Con. Res. 233: Mr. BONIOR, Mr. HINCHEY, 
Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania. 
H. Con. Res. 234: Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mrs. 
KELLY, Mr. ROHRABACHER, Mr. SCARBOROUGH, 
Ms. FURSE, and Mr. WEXLER. 
H. Con. Res. 240: Mr. ROMERO-BARCELO, Mr. 
FROST, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. ORTIZ, Ms. 
SANCHEZ, Mr. HINOJOSA, Mr. PASTOR, Mr. 
TORRES, Mr. RODRIGUEZ, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Ms. 
ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr. DOGGETT. 
H. Con. Res. 241: Mr. LUTHER and Ms. 
DELAURO. 
H. Con. Res. 246: Mr. BLAGOJEVICH. 
H. Con. Res. 247: Mr. MEEHAN, Ms. 
STABENOW, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. ENGLISH of 
Pennsylvania, Mrs. MEEK of Florida, Mr. 
CUMMINGS, Mr. TIAHRT, Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. 
POSHARD, and Mr. SANDERS. 
H. Con. Res. 249: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. ROMERO-
BARCELO, and Mr. BONIOR. 
H. Con. Res. 250: Ms. LOFGREN and Mrs. 
FURSE. 
H. Con. Res. 254: Mr. LOBIONDO and Mr. 
ROHRABACHER. 
H. Res. 37: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. HILLIARD, and 
Mr. VISCLOSKY. 
H. Res. 279: Mr. KUCINICH. 
H. Res. 363: Mr. FILNER and Mr. SPENCE. 
H. Res. 399: Mr. ALLEN and Mr. SOUDER. 
f 


DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 4 of rule XXII, sponsors 
were deleted from public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2057 

H.R. 1173: Mr. HILLEARY. 
H.R. 2183: Mr. DICKEY. 
f 


PETITIONS, ETC. 
Under clause 1 of rule XXII, petitions 
and papers were laid on the clerk’s 
desk and referred as follows: 

55. The SPEAKER presented a petition of 
the City Council of the City of Wilkes-Barre, 
Pennsylvania, relative to Resolution No. 
R0056–98 urging the United States House of 
Representatives and the United States Senate 
to pass H.R. 1151; to the Committee on 
Banking and Financial Services. 
56. Also,a petition of the Legislature of 
Rockland County, New York, relative to Resolution 
No. 53 petitioning the Congress of 
the United States to Support Various Initiatives 
for the Prevention and Treatment of 
Breast Cancer; to the Committee on Commerce. 


57. Also,a petition of the Legislature of 
Rockland County, New York, relative to Resolution 
No. 56 petitioning the Congress of 
the United States to Support Use of Military 
Force in Iraq if the President of the United 
States Deems it Necessary; to the Committee 
on International Relations. 
f 


DISCHARGE PETITIONS— 
ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS 

The following Members added their 
names to the following discharge petitions: 


Petition 3 by Mr. BAESLER on House Resolution 
259: WILLIAM (BILL) CLAY, GREGORY 

W. MEEKS, DALE E. KILDEE, ROSA L. 
DELAURO, JULIAN C. DIXON, ROBERT C. SCOTT, 
JAMES A. BARCIA, TIM HOLDEN, MICHAEL N. 
CASTLE, ALBERT RUSSELL WYNN. 
Petition 2 by Mr. PETERSON on H.R. 1984: 
JOHN D. DINGELL. 

The following Member’s name was 
deleted from the following discharge 
petition: 

Petition 3 by Mr. BAESLER on House Resolution: 
FLOYD H. FLAKE. 


UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 105th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 144 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1998 No. 40 

The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the President pro 
tempore [Mr. THURMOND]. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Lloyd John 
Ogilvie, offered the following prayer: 

Gracious God, today when women 
from across our Nation have gathered 
here at the Capitol to unite in prayer 
and support of the National Breast 
Cancer Survivors Day, we ask You for 
Your guidance and healing power. 
Guide the persistent efforts of those involved 
in research. You have guided 
the laps of the Race For a Cure thus 
far. We thank You for a cure in time 
for the women of our time. We salute 
the survivors of breast cancer. They 
call us on in the relentless quest for a 
cure. 

As we begin this day’s work in the 
Senate, we pray for those who suffer 
many kinds of physical disease and 
thank You for the opportunity to cooperate 
with You in Your healing ministry 
by supporting medical research. 
We commit this day to work for Your 
glory. You have given us the day; now 
show the way. In the name of the Great 
Physician. 

Amen. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE ACTING 
MAJORITY LEADER 

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
able acting majority leader, the distinguished 
Senator from New Mexico, is 
recognized. 

f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, on behalf 
of the leader, I want to state the 
following: 

Today the Senate will resume consideration 
of the budget resolution and 
the pending Coverdell amendment regarding 
middle-class tax cuts. Also, 
under a consent agreement, at 12 noon, 
the Senate will vote on or in relation 

Senate 

to the Kyl amendment relating to seniors 
having a choice of health care providers. 


A further vote will occur at 2 p.m. in 
relation to the Conrad amendment relating 
to tobacco. In addition, several 
additional votes will, hopefully, be ordered 
to occur in sequence at 2 p.m. following 
the Conrad vote. 

Also, Members can anticipate rollcall 
votes an a number of pending amendments 
to the resolution and other 
amendments which are expected to be 
offered. Therefore, Members can anticipate 
votes throughout today’s session. 

Also, the Senate may consider any 
executive or legislative business 
cleared for Senate action. As a reminder 
to all Senators, the first roll-
call vote will occur at 12 noon today. 

I yield the floor. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR 
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
FOR FISCAL YEARS 1999, 
2000, 2001, 2002, AND 2003 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROBERTS). 
Under the previous order the 
Senate will now resume consideration 
of S. Con. Res. 86, which the clerk will 
report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 86) 
setting forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal 
years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising 
the concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 1998. 

The Senate resumed consideration of 
the concurrent resolution. 

Pending: 

Kyl amendment No. 2169, to express the 
sense of the Congress regarding freedom of 
health care choice for medicare seniors. 

Conrad/Lautenberg/Bingaman/Reed amendment 
No. 2174, to ensure that the tobacco reserve 
fund in the resolution protects public 
health. 

Conrad (for Moseley-Braun) amendment 
No. 2175, to express the sense of the Senate 
regarding elementary and secondary school 
modernization and construction. 

Conrad (for Boxer) Modified amendment 
No. 2176, to increase Function 500 discretionary 
budget authority and outlays to accommodate 
an initiative promoting after-
school education and safety. 

Brownback amendment No. 2177, to express 
the sense of the Senate regarding economic 
growth, Social Security, and Government efficiency. 


Burns amendment No. 2178, to express the 
sense of the Senate regarding the use of agricultural 
trade programs to promote the export 
of United States agricultural commodities 
and products. 

Smith (Oregon) amendment No. 2179, to express 
the sense of the Senate on Social Security 
taxes. 

Smith (Oregon) amendment No. 2180, to express 
the sense of the Senate with respect to 
the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes. 

Smith (Oregon) amendment No. 2181, to express 
the sense of the Senate concerning increases 
in the prices of tobacco products. 

Kennedy amendment No. 2183, to express 
the sense of the Senate concerning the enactment 
of a patient’s bill of rights. 

Kennedy amendment No. 2184, to increase 
Function 500 discretionary budget authority 
and outlays to support innovative education 
reform efforts in urban and rural school districts. 


Kennedy amendment No. 2185, to express 
the sense of the Congress regarding additional 
budget authority for the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission. 

Wellstone modified amendment No. 2186, to 
provide a reserve fund to pay for increased 
Pell Grants by reducing or eliminating corporate 
welfare tax expenditures. 

Wellstone/Moynihan amendment No. 2187, 
to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
a report of the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services evaluating the outcomes of 
welfare reform. 

Wellstone Modified amendment No. 2188, to 
provide additional funds for medical care for 
veterans. 

Thurmond amendment No. 2191, to clarify 
outlay levels for major functional categories. 


Thurmond amendment No. 2192, to clarify 
outlay levels for national defense. 

Lautenberg (for Hollings) amendment No. 
2193, to provide a supermajority point of 
order against any change in the off-budget 
status of Social Security. 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S2879 


S2880 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Lautenberg amendment No. 2194, to express 
the sense of the Senate to ensure that 
the tobacco reserve fund in the resolution 
may be used to protect the public health. 

Lautenberg amendment No. 2195, to establish 
a deficit-neutral reserve fund for environmental 
and natural resources. 

Lautenberg (for Kohl/Reid) amendment No. 
2204, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
the establishment of a national 
background check system for long-term care 
workers. 

Lautenberg (for Durbin/Chafee) amendment 
No. 2205, to express the sense of Congress 
regarding the right to affordable, high-
quality health care for seniors. 

Reid/Bryan amendment No. 2206, to express 
the sense of the Senate that the landowner 
incentive program included in the Endangered 
Species Recovery Act should be financed 
from a dedicated source of funding 
and that public lands should not be sold to 
fund the landowner incentive program of the 
Endangered Species Recovery Act. 

Domenici (for Roth) amendment No. 2209, 
to express the sense of the Senate that the 
Committee on Finance shall consider and report 
a legislative proposal this year that 
would dedicate the Federal budget surplus to 
the establishment of a program of personal 
retirement accounts for working Americans. 

Lautenberg (for Johnson) amendment No. 
2210, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
repair and construction of Indian 
schools. 

Allard amendment No. 2170, to require the 
reduction of the deficit, a balanced Federal 
budget, and the repayment of the national 
debt. 

Craig amendment No. 2211, to modify the 
pay-as-you-go requirement of the budget 
process to require that direct spending increases 
be offset only with direct spending 
decreases. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2199 

(Purpose: To provide middle class tax relief.) 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, I 
send an amendment to the desk and 
ask for its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Georgia [Mr. COVERDELL], 
for himself, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. CRAIG, 
Mr. NICKLES, Mr. HELMS, Mr. KEMPTHORNE, 
Mr. GRAMM, and Mr. KYL, proposes an 
amendment numbered 2199. 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that reading of 
the amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(The text of the amendment is printed 
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Amendments 
Submitted.’’) 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Georgia is recognized. 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, at 
another time, I had the distinct honor 
to serve a former President as Director 
of the U.S. Peace Corps. In that capacity, 
and due to the time of the watch, 
I had the opportunity to see the faces 
of people who had never been free or 
who had not been free for so long they 
could not remember it. It was the time 
when the wall was coming down and 
barbed wire was being clipped, and we 
were among the first Americans over 
the wall and under the wire. 

The faces of those people are forever 
riveted in my mind. The consciousness 
of what the lack of freedom does to 

people has become a study of mine ever 
since. People’s behavior is greatly affected 
by the condition of their freedom. 


Then, after the Peace Corps, I had 
the opportunity to come to the U.S. 
Senate and look at America through 
the unique window this institution provides. 
In comparing the two experiences, 
I came to believe that the genesis 
of all American glory is that we 
have been a free people, that everything 
we are to ourselves and to the 
world is rooted in the fact that we have 
been free. 

Mr. President, we hear the words 
freedom and liberty evoked over and 
over. I doubt if there is an American 
alive who doesn’t hear it at least four 
times a day—that we are free people, 
that we enjoy freedom, that we experience 
liberty. But I don’t think we reflect 
very much on what that means, 
what are the dynamics of American liberty. 
My suspicion is that if you were 
to ask a student what it constituted, 
they might likely point to the fact 
that we have been able to protect ourselves 
from evil forces throughout our 
history and keep ourselves free. They 
would point to Nazi Germany or Saddam 
Hussein. Or they might say our 
freedom is constituted in the fact that 
we are a republic and we are free because 
we have the right to choose who 
will represent us in our Government. 
But that is just a process; that is a 
means to an end. 

Mr. President, for me, there are at 
least three core components to American 
freedom without which we would 
not be free. I have to say that there has 
been serious erosion in the last several 
years—in the last 30 years or so—with 
regard to each of the three components 
I choose to believe are core to American 
liberty. I am asserting that we are 
not who we are because of our genes; 
we are who we are because we have 
been uniquely free, and that freedom 
has produced the grandest experiment 
in human behavior in the history of the 
world. 

What are the three components? 
Well, first is economic liberty. We 
fought the War for Independence over 
the issue of economic liberty. I like to 
use my family as a case in point. My 
father was of the generation—a grand 
generation—that did their part in 
building America and defended it 
through two world wars. I don’t think 
anything has ever been asked of a generation 
more than theirs. But he was 
born in 1912 and he kept, 
generationally, 80 percent of all his 
paychecks. So what happened? Well, 
the American dream, as we have heard 
a million times. He began his career as 
a coal truck driver. Then he sold shoes 
in a department store. Then he sold 
Hoover vacuum cleaners and became 
the youngest city manager for that 
company in Kansas City. And then 
with those resources he was saving, he 
opened his own business, and he began 
to build products and dreams. We have 
heard it a million times. His grand


daughter, my niece, has just begun her 
business career. Under the current 
scheme of events, unchanged in her 
generation, she will keep 40 percent of 
her paycheck over her lifetime. You 
don’t have to be a rocket scientist 
here. If her granddad kept 80 percent of 
his paycheck and she keeps 40 percent, 
she has exactly half the options and 
half the capacity to pursue her dreams 
and to build her career. And I can tell 
you. 

Mr. President, that will make her 
think and function differently than her 
granddad in terms of decisions she 
makes about her housing, her family, 
their education, and whom to count on, 
and whom not to count on, and where 
to turn for resources. No; it is not in 
our genes; it is that we have been free. 
We have over the last several generations 
been consuming everything we 
had, and the resources of those yet to 
come—my niece—so they won’t have as 
much to work with. Any time a contemporary 
generation is in the business 
of consuming the resources of generations 
yet to come, they are in the 
business of abrogating the freedom of 
the generations yet to come. 

The second principle of American liberty 
is safety. Mr. President, that is a 
little harder to describe. But it is the 
safety of persons and property. I typically 
ask people, in their mind, to go 
someplace that they know is not safe. 
And what will you see? You will see 
boarded up buildings, broken windows, 
decay, and not very many people. Conversely, 
travel in your mind to a place 
perceived to be safe, and what will you 
see? You will see new buildings, you 
will see new ideas, you will see entrepreneurship, 
and you will see lots of 
people, and they will be engaging in 
commerce and social activities. A free 
society must be safe—both persons and 
property. 

Not long ago, I was in Nicaragua at 
the time of the inauguration of Madam 
Chamorro, who, in a surprise upset 
election, threw out the Sandinistas. It 
was like looking at a still shot. Nothing 
had moved when that society lost 
its freedom. When a car ran out of gas, 
it sat right there. When an axle broke, 
it sat there. When a building cracked, 
it broke. 

She and her Government were saying, 
‘‘Invest in this new free society to 
help us rebuild.’’ And everybody’s response 
was virtually the same. When 
people perceive this to be safe for their 
investments, safe for their employees 
and persons that build and work, the 
investments will come. But until the 
Government can assure that in a reasonable 
degree, they won’t. We see that 
replicated over the world time and 
time again. 

With the Asian crisis, suddenly confidence 
disappeared and assets moved 
rapidly away. Why? Not safe. Or any 
social order that can’t resolve differences 
in a civil manner—every constitution 
of every State and our Federal 
Constitution show that government 
accepts the responsibility for 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2881 

there being a safe society as a principal 
responsibility. 

The third component of American 
freedom, or freedom, is an educated 
mind. An uneducated mind, Mr. President, 
will be denied the privileges of 
American citizenship. An uneducated 
people, Mr. President, will not be free. 
They cannot be free. 

We have known through our history 
that we had to produce an educated 
population to keep America free. The 
first thing that happens is, the 
uneducated mind is pushed away from 
economic opportunity and the inability 
to provide for oneself. The worst extreme 
is that they are pushed to a 
point of the unsavory components of 
our social structure. Then they threaten 
the second principle of freedom, 
which is safety. We have all seen the 
erosion in each of these components. 

Mr. President, I come here as an optimist. 
I believe this generation of Americans, 
like those who went before us, 
will commit themselves to maintaining 
American liberty and the standards of 
liberty and to restore those components 
that have been weakened or crippled. 
We have passed the first balanced 
budget in 30 years. We are already benefiting 
as a people from financial discipline. 


When I first came to the Senate, an 
average worker in the State of Georgia 
was keeping 45 cents out of every dollar 
they earned. Think of it. If Thomas 
Jefferson were here, he would faint 
first, and when he awoke, he would 
scorn us unmercifully that we would 
have ever allowed this to happen, that 
an American worker couldn’t even 
keep half of what they produced. At a 
minimum, they should keep two-thirds 
of their paycheck—at a minimum. We 
passed the first tax relief in 16 years. It 
wasn’t near what it should have been, 
but it was moving in the right direction. 
Now that Georgia worker is keeping 
48 to 49 cents. It ought to be two-
thirds. 

I am going to come back to the point. 
But let me say that I don’t believe, on 
the premise of safety and a safe society, 
that America will recognize the 
drug war within 24 months. Eight out 
of ten prisoners—it doesn’t matter, the 
smallest town jail or the largest city— 
are there on direct or indirect drug 
charges. And I don’t believe this country 
will tolerate it. It can’t. We cannot 
accept the fact that 2 million-plus new 
teenagers are using drugs, or that one 
in nine in junior high is a regular drug 
user. That is once a month; or one out 
of four in our high schools. We are not 
going to accept this. I am convinced it 
will be turned around. As I said, you 
will not recognize it in just 24 months. 

With regard to education, we are 
going to launch a major debate in the 
Senate on April 20. It will be but one of 
massive efforts all over this country to 
reverse the startling data that we receive 
every week, every month, where 
only 4 out of 10 students in inner-city 
schools can pass a basic exam. If we 
put all the schools together, we get it 

up to 6 out of 10. That is nothing to 
brag about. Or one-third of the students 
or more coming to our universities 
and colleges cannot read well. 

This is how you get ready for the new 
century? No. You will not recognize 
education grades K through 12, kindergarten 
through high school, in the 
United States within a decade. It is 
going to change. America will not accept 
the status quo. I do not know how 
all the changes are going to come 
about, but they are going to happen. 

We have demonstrated that we are 
beginning to take charge of our watch 
and keeping the financial integrity— 
economic freedom—intact so that 
Americans will continue to do what 
they have done throughout our history. 

If all we do is protect the economic 
liberty, the safety of persons and property, 
and keep our population educated, 
America will take it from there. 
Those three components, if we just get 
them done on a day-to-day basis, we 
will not have to worry about the next 
century and America’s role in it. It is 
not all that complicated: keep them 
free and flexible economically, keep 
them safe, and keep them educated. 

Now I come to this amendment. I 
have just said that an American worker 
is keeping less than half of their 
paycheck. So this amendment is the 
middle-class tax relief act. What it 
does is, it says that over the next 5 
years we are going to cut discretionary 
nondefense spending. We are going to 
be frugal, and we are going to cut it by 

6.9 percent. If we achieve that, what we 
will have done is we will have said we 
will return to spending at about the 
level of 1996. 
Not an onerous task. That will 
produce about $200 billion over this 
time in tax relief. It is designed specifically 
to reduce the middle-class tax 
squeeze. The way this works is we help 
10 million American families who used 
to be in the lowest tax bracket—15 percent—
but once they made 25,000-some 
few dollars more, they went over the 
$25,000 income level, wham, the 28 percent 
tax bracket. We virtually doubled 
their taxes as they moved from $25,000 
to $30,000. What an incredulous policy. 

Again, if you want to know what is 
culturally affecting America and the 
American family and the way it functions, 
it is that. In fact, if you look at 
the tax burden that those families have 
borne since 1950 to 1990 and have 
watched it just skyrocket from 2 cents 
to 25 cents on the dollar, Federal alone, 
and then match against it teenage suicide, 
SAT scores, it all fits. Every time 
we pushed that burden up and gave 
them less resources, they were less able 
to accomplish what the society needs. 
A lot of people think Hollywood is 
what has had a profound effect on our 
culture. Uncle Sam. 

I look at it this way. If something 
marches through your checking account 
and takes more than half of what 
you put in it, it has more to do with 
you than you do. So we take 10 million 
of those families and we lift the bar 

and get them back into the 15 percent 
tax bracket, which means for the first 
time in many years they will be keeping 
over half their paycheck. What a 
marvelous accomplishment. And they 
will have new resources to do the 
things we are all complaining about 
are not happening in America. 

Everybody will benefit, but the middle 
class will be the principal beneficiaries. 
Everybody is taxed on that 
first segment of income, so all taxpayers 
benefit, but the principal beneficiaries 
are the ones who we push 
down into the 15 percent tax bracket. 

In so doing, we will be reinforcing 
one of the core components of American 
liberty—economic. Allow workers 
to work and save and keep resources to 
do the job that we need to have done in 
America—take care of their families, 
make decisions about education, dream 
new ideas, build new businesses. This is 
how it comes about. You have to protect 
the American worker’s economic 
options. This goes a long way towards 
accomplishing that. 

I am going to share just some of the 
key components of this. As I said, this 
middle-class tax relief act returns the 
middle class to the lowest tax bracket 
providing broad tax relief. I should 
note that the cosponsors are Senator 
MCCAIN of Arizona—Senator MCCAIN 
will come to the floor here shortly and 
give his views on this—Senator NICKLES 
of Oklahoma, Senator HELMS of 
North Carolina, and Senator GRAMM of 
Texas, one of our most renowned 
economists in the Senate. 

The proposal raises the income cap 
under which the 15 percent individual 
income tax rate applies. Approximately 
10.3 million tax filers will be returned 
from the 28 percent tax bracket 
to the 15 percent tax bracket. Married 
couples’ taxable income thresholds 
would rise to $70,000. Approximately 7.6 
million married tax filers would be returned 
from the 28 percent tax bracket 
to the 15 percent bracket. Single heads 
of households’ income thresholds would 
rise to $52,000 for single parents. Approximately 
375,000 single heads of 
households tax filers would be returned 
from the 28 percent bracket to the 15 
percent. Singles’ taxable income 
thresholds would rise to $35,000, and approximately 
2.3 million single tax filers 
would be returned from the 28 percent 
bracket to the 15 percent bracket. 

Mr. President, 29 million taxpayers 
would see lower taxes because more income 
is taxed at 15 percent as a result 
of this broad-based middle-class tax relief. 
It is the only major tax relief proposal 
focused directly on addressing 
the middle-class squeeze. It is simple, 
it is basic, and it is achievable in this 
Congress. 

Mr. President, $39 billion is expected 
as the annual tax relief from 1999 to 
2003, according to preliminary estimates 
by the Tax Foundation. Nearly 
$1,200 in average annual tax relief per 
filer could be expected in the first year 
alone. It would also provide significant 
marriage penalty relief without adding 
complexity to the Tax Code. 


S2882 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

There is not a soul in America who 
doesn’t believe we can’t find 6.9 percent 
in savings. In fact, if you ask the 
American people, the figure would be a 
lot higher when they talk about what 
they consider to be waste or not-accounted-
for money, et cetera. It is interesting, 
on the eve of making this 
presentation, the Wall Street Journal 
headline yesterday: ‘‘United States 
Fails To Meet Standard Accounting 
Methods.’’ 

Overall, the General Accounting Office— 
which acted as the equivalent of an outside 
auditor in preparing the financial state-
ment—[on the American Government] found 
widespread problems with recordkeeping and 
documentation that apparently prevented 
the Government from properly accounting 
for billions of dollars in property. 

This report is alarming, but it underscores 
what most of us have known for 
many, many years, that there is significant 
waste, significant loss of property 
and value in this huge, monolithic 
Federal Government that we have 
built. It needs to be downsized. We need 
to return to the idea of empowering the 
American citizen. We have gone way 
too far, and we are paying an enormous 
price for it in flexibility, in responsibility, 
in the care of our children, in 
the condition of our schools, in the denial 
of opportunity. There is no telling, 
over these last 30 years, because of the 
students who have come through these 
schools with inadequate educations, 
how many ideas, how many Jonas 
Salks, how many other U.S. Senators, 
how many new ideas and dreams never 
happened because we didn’t give them 
the tools that we have traditionally 
given them in this country, 

We ought to be about that business. 
We need to restore and protect the economic 
liberty of the American worker 
and family. We need to keep them safe, 
and we need to keep them educated to 
make it all work. That is what makes 
American liberty work. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. I reserve 
the remainder of my time so the 
cosponsors might also have an opportunity 
to come to the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oregon is recognized. 

Mr. SMITH of Oregon. Mr. President, 
I ask unanimous consent the Coverdell 
amendment be temporarily set aside so 
I may speak on amendment No. 2181. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The Senator 
is recognized. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2181 

Mr. SMITH of Oregon. I also ask 
unanimous consent that Senator 
GRASSLEY be added as a cosponsor to 
my amendment, No. 2180. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. SMITH of Oregon. Mr. President, 
today I rise to speak on my sense-of-
the-Senate amendment regarding the 
use of tobacco revenues to restore solvency 
to the Medicare Program. During 
the markup of this resolution, my 
colleague, Senator LAUTENBERG, offered 
a very similar amendment that 

stated it was the sense of the Senate 
that any tobacco legislation should increase 
the cost of a pack of cigarettes 
by $1.50. I voted in favor of this amendment. 
However, like Chairman DOMENICI, 
I believe we should use these revenues, 
not for new programs, but to save 
Medicare. I stated in the Budget Committee 
meeting that we were voting on 
amendment after amendment of very 
popular, and I am sure well-polled, 
ideas. When it comes to educating children 
or taking care of children, providing 
for schools and all of the other 
ideas that in the abstract we find very, 
very appealing, I found the arguments 
compelling—except for one thing. We 
have made some serious promises to 
the American people with respect to 
Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid— 
entitlements upon which people, frankly, 
have come to depend. These programs 
are in extremis. So, while it 
would be easy to vote for all of these 
well-polled ideas, I think it is important 
that we stand up for the promises 
of the past. 

As we all know, there is a way to protect 
Medicare and also to address the 
issue of smoking. The use of tobacco 
products by children and teenagers has 
become a public health epidemic. According 
to the Centers for Disease Control, 
more than 16 million of our Nation’s 
children will soon become regular 
smokers. This is a national tragedy. 
I hear some of my colleagues, even 
on my side of the aisle, say we should 
not do this through price. I have to 
say, in my opinion, all the regulation, 
all the education materials we can 
print and provide the schools are fine 
and good, but next to peer pressure the 
teens feel to smoke, these things 
amount to very little —except when 
you go after price. It is an economic 
deterrent that may well save them 
from this vicious habit, a habit which 
ultimately could take their lives. 

Of the 16 million children I have 
talked about who become regular 
smokers, approximately one-third of 
them will die from tobacco-related illness. 
As this population ages and becomes 
eligible for Medicare, the 
health-related costs will escalate. In 
fact, a report by Columbia University 
says that tobacco use costs Medicare 
approximately $10 billion per year and 
the total economic cost of tobacco-related 
health costs is more than $100 billion 
per year. Regardless of the outcome 
of the tobacco settlement in Congress—
and I am one who intends to 
vote for a settlement. Whatever we can 
get through this Congress that will 
help to change these disturbing, 
shameful trends, I intend to vote for 
because I believe it is our responsibility 
to ensure that we provide all the 
deterrence we can towards this habit 
and at the same time ensure that the 
Medicare Program that will bear much 
of the burden of this habit remains solvent 
by any and every means, as long 
as the means are contributing to the 
end that tobacco use by this generation 
and generations to come will be on the 
decline. 

Whether we end up with a tax on 
cigarettes of $1.10 or $1.50 a pack, these 
revenues should be used to restore 
what has already been lost; in this 
case, Medicare dollars due to tobacco-
related health care costs. 

I thank my colleagues. I hope they 
will vote for my amendment. I hope we 
will have a tobacco settlement. And I 
hope we will keep yesterday’s promises 
first and restore a degree of solvency to 
Medicare. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico is recognized. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I did 
not understand the entire unanimous 
consent request. Is it fair to assume 
that the Smith proposal is now on the 
list of amendments to be placed for 
vote as we proceed through this, in accordance 
with our rules of fairness? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair will advise the Senator the 
amendment was previously offered and 
is one of the amendments that will be 
disposed of. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I thank the Chair. 

Parliamentary inquiry. How much 
time remains for the pending amendment? 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Georgia has approximately 
30 minutes remaining. The opposition 
has 60 minutes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I wonder, although 
we will put in a quorum call with both 
sides charged equally, I wonder if we 
could ask the opposition if they have 
some people to speak against Senator 
COVERDELL? 

Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum, and ask that the time be 
charged equally. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2199 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
we have heard about the amendment 
that the Senator from Georgia proposes 
with Senator MCCAIN, and I want 
to describe why I am opposing this 
amendment. While it sounds good on 
the surface, I think there are a few 
things we have to talk about and highlight 
what kind of problems might 
ensue. 

This amendment would cut domestic 
programs like education, child care, 
law enforcement, veterans’ programs, 
and environmental protection. It would 
violate current budget rules. Frankly, I 
view it as fiscally irresponsible. 

This amendment calls for $101 billion 
in cuts from discretionary programs 
for use in providing various tax breaks. 
I note that it is not allowed under the 
Budget Act. And there is good reason 
that the Budget Act protects against 
that. The Budget Act is designed to ensure 
that if we incur permanent obligations, 
like permanent tax cuts or new 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2883 

mandatory spending, that we pay for 
these obligations with permanent savings. 
That is what the pay-as-you-go 
system is all about, and it has worked 
well for many years. People understand 
very clearly that if you spend it, you 
have to find a way to get the money. 

This amendment flies in the face of 
these rules, and it threatens to undermine 
long-term fiscal discipline. The 
amendment says that we should make 
cuts in temporary spending—that is, 
annually appropriated discretionary 
programs—and use temporary cuts to 
fund permanent tax breaks. That is a 
mix and match that does not work. 

Mr. President, it does not take a CPA 
to figure out that this can create serious 
problems in the long term. I am 
not opposed to tax cuts for ordinary 
working Americans, but I do think we 
should pay for them with permanent 
savings. I do not think we ought to introduce 
gimmickry that says we are 
going to have permanent cuts and temporary 
savings. 

In addition, I am concerned about 
what it would mean to cut $101 billion 
from programs which support education, 
fight crime, support our veterans, 
and protect our environment. 
Many of these programs are critical to 
the well-being of our country and to 
millions of ordinary Americans. 

The question is raised, Is there waste 
in Government? Yes, of course, but this 
amendment does not target waste, it 
adopts the meat-ax approach to Government, 
and that is not what the 
American people want. In the most 
successful corporations, in the largest 
corporations, there is waste, but how 
you get rid of it is to focus on what 
caused it in the first place and work 
deliberately toward ending it. 

You do not simply say, ‘‘OK, we’re 
going to cut our expenses across the 
board.’’ That goes through good departments; 
that goes through bad departments; 
that goes through good management, 
as well as bad management. 
That is not the way problems are 
solved. 

I think most Senators from both parties 
will agree that the era of big Government 
is over. Government has been 
shrinking, and it will continue to 
shrink. As a matter of fact, the executive 
branch employment is the lowest 
as a proportion of total civilian employment 
since the 1930s. 

Federal outlays as a percent of GDP 
stand at their lowest level since the 
Nixon administration. Nondefense discretionary 
spending is at its lowest 
percentage of GDP since the early 
1960s. 

I think it is important to note where 
America stands. Total Government 
spending as a share of GDP is the lowest 
for the United States than for all 
G–7 countries, the most advanced countries 
in the world—France, Italy, Germany, 
Canada, the U.K., and Japan. 
That tells us that not only is Government 
spending proportionately less but 
that Government is in fact smaller 
when it comes to employment and programs 
realistically. 

Under the budget agreement reached 
last year, nondefense discretionary 
spending in 2002 will reach its lowest 
level in almost 40 years as a share of 
GDP. But the McCain-Coverdell 
amendment would violate the budget 
agreement. It would lower the discretionary 
spending caps even further, 
making draconian cuts in the investments 
that Americans care about 
most. 

Under this amendment, funding for 
the National Institutes of Health would 
be cut by 7.9 percent; education would 
take a 7.6 percent cut; child care would 
be hit to the tune of 7.8 percent; the environment, 
8.3 percent; transportation, 
a 7.1 percent cut; and veterans programs, 
a 7.6 percent cut. And it goes 
on—crime fighting programs would be 
reduced 7.6 percent. All to support $101 
billion worth of tax breaks. 

The kind of cuts that would be required 
under this amendment could 
have a devastating effect on our children. 
It would dramatically reduce 
funding for education, child care. It 
would weaken enforcement of environmental 
laws and undercut our efforts 
to reduce crime and support our veterans. 


I listened to the debate carefully, and 
I heard descriptions of an America that 
I really do not recognize—an America 
where your freedoms are limited, where 
your opportunities are reduced, an 
America where it is harder to get by. 

I have to ask one question: Why is it 
that people will die to take the chance 
and the risk of death to get to our 
shores, to sneak in our borders, to float 
on tubes in the Caribbean, hide in the 
holds of airplanes, take a chance on 
drowning in the hold of a boat to get 
here, to get to this place described as a 
confiscatory structure that does not 
permit people opportunity? 

Mr. President, that bell does not ring 
true. It may be good politics, it may 
sound good on the radio when people 
hear it, but it is not the truth about 
our society. This is the greatest country 
on the face of this Earth, and it has 
been since its creation. And we have 
been smart. We have been working 
hard, but we have also been darn lucky, 
let me tell you. We have an abundance 
of whatever it is. We have an abundance 
of oil; we have an abundance of 
minerals; we have an abundance of 
space; we have an abundance of agricultural 
land. Boy, are we lucky— 
America the beautiful. That was not a 
coincidence; that is the truth. And people 
all around this world know it. 

That is why our stock market is constantly 
headed upward. Why? Because 
people say, if you have money, whether 
you are in countries A, B, C, D, all the 
way around the globe, ‘‘Boy, I want to 
put my money in America, because I 
know it is safe here.’’ We have seen 
country after country, the richest oil 
countries, they are packing their 
money and getting out of their own resource 
structure, because they know 
they may have oil in the ground but 
they do not have freedom on the 

streets; they do not have a secure societal 
structure. 

And we hear whispers about what 
Thomas Jefferson might have done. 
Look at this country. Look at our citizens. 
Life expectancy has never been 
better. I remember when I was a child, 
the man next door to us died. He was 53 
years old. And I thought to myself, I 
said to my friend, ‘‘Oh, he was old.’’ 

Old? I see lots of guys over 50. I see 
guys in my decade running in marathons, 
jogging, healthy, supporting 
their families, enjoying life. Why are 
there conversations about, maybe Social 
Security ought to be raised? I am 
not endorsing it; I am simply mentioning 
it. Why? Because we know that 
people who are 65 are today almost 
prime-of-lifers. 

And, boy, I come from New Jersey, 
and I want to tell you, when I look at 
New Jersey’s economic structure, we 
are called ‘‘the medicine chest of the 
country,’’ because we have these pharmaceuticals. 
I used to read the sports 
pages actively. Now I read about the 
new inventions or the new patents actively—
what is going to save your hair, 
what is going to save your heart, what 
is going to save your lungs. That is the 
kind of society we are. 

What is this gloom, this despair, that 
hangs over us? ‘‘Well, they’re taking 
away our rights. They’re confiscating 
our property.’’ Life has never been better 
on the whole for the people in the 
world than in this country, America, 
these days. 

People get in an airplane today that 
is jammed. It is jammed with ordinary 
working people. No more of the formality. 
You do not have to wear a suit 
and a tie to get in an airplane, as was 
the custom years ago because it was restricted 
to an elite few. It is available 
for everybody. Air traffic today is almost 
mass transit, because we have 
made it available. 

People go on vacations to places that 
nobody even heard of when I was a 
child. It is available. Children are 
healthy. Look at them. Look at the 
young people who surround the President’s 
table there, bright, 15 years old. 
They know what is going on in the 
world. They have learned. They love 
the opportunity to be here and to associate 
with these great Senators, I 
think. 

This is a country where we devote 
our energy to young people. We want 
our kids to have appropriate nutrition. 
We want them to have proper education. 
Do we succeed in every program? 
Heck, no. We do not. But we try. 
We try. And it is a subject of debate 
here. Right or wrong, it does not matter. 
It is a free society, as free as any 
place in the world. I know lots of 
places where if you talk about things 
we talk about here—criticism of the 
President, criticism of this institution, 
criticism of that institution—you go 
off with your hands in handcuffs. 

This is a great society. It does not 
need any apologies from anybody about 
whether or not taxes—yes, maybe taxes 


S2884 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

are a little onerous at times, but the 
question is, compared to what? We can 
talk about what tax rates used to be, 
the amount of income kept in years 
and decades gone by, ‘‘dreamsville,’’ 
but today you may pay a little bit 
more, but you have a lot more left because 
you are earning more. That is 
what this society is about. 

Entrepreneurships, opportunities, 
Mr. President. I have been really lucky 
in my lifetime. Best of all, my luck is 
four children and five grandchildren, 
with number six on the way. That is 
the best luck I have ever had. But in 
addition to that, I was able, with a couple 
of other guys who, like me, came 
from working-class parents—my father 
worked in the silk mills of Paterson. 
Paterson is an industrial city that has 
fallen by the wayside, one of America’s 
poorest cities trying to fight back. A 
lot of dilapidation; a lot of problems; 
but a lot of spirit. 

Three of us started a business that 
started an industry that created more 
jobs than the computer hardware business. 
More people are employed in the 
software service side of the computer 
industry by far than those in the hardware 
business, than the IBMs or the 
RCAs or the Honeywells or the companies 
that used to be in the computer 
business. Today, there are more people 
employed in the service companies like 
ADP—the company I helped found—by 
far than companies that made hardware. 


I am considered a pioneer. I am in 
something called the Hall of Fame for 
Information Processing, a little place 
in Texas, that has some plaques in 
there because we were innovators. The 
company I started—without a dime literally; 
the three of us came from poverty, 
not middle-class; poverty—our 
company today employs 30,000 people 
across the world and has one of the 
best records of growth in its stock of 
any company in America. If you invested 
$300 in ADP in 1961, it is worth 
$1.4 million today. 

What does it mean? It means that entrepreneurship 
is alive and well in this 
country of ours. Look at Intel, look at 
Microsoft, look at America Online. 
Look at these companies. You will see 
success after success after success. 
There is no shortage of opportunity in 
America, none at all. The shortage 
may be in the mentality that fails to 
see the goodness that we have in this 
country of ours. 

Talk of the gloom and the confiscation 
of property and taxes and how debilitating 
it is to pay your way—my 
gosh, if people want to join a club, they 
look at the dues and they say, ‘‘Well, is 
it worth it or not? What’s it worth to 
belong to the country club called 
America?’’ It is worth everything. People 
are willing again to fight and to die 
for the opportunity to be here. Look at 
how many illegals we have in this 
country now. Under all kinds of 
threats—you get shot at the border, 
you get stopped, you get jailed—they 
still pour over because they want to be 

in America. That is where the opportunity 
is. That is where the freedom is 
at its fullest. 

When I hear talk about how we are 
losing opportunity, we are losing the 
chance to succeed, it is summarized in 
one word that means a lot in America. 
It is called ‘‘baloney’’—and I’m not 
talking about meat. There is plenty of 
opportunity here. And we have problems. 
One of the problems is our violence 
rate—10,000 people, roughly, murdered 
by handguns, people afraid to 
walk down the street. One of the people 
on my staff, 2 days ago, was walking 
home, living just about on Capitol Hill, 
a gun was put in her face, took her 
handbag. Thank the Lord that is all 
that happened. 

Those are the problems that we have. 
Those are problems we ought to work 
on. I don’t understand why we want to 
take money away from safety and 
fighting crime and put it into tax 
breaks for people who don’t need it, especially 
those at the top. Look at the 
top incomes in this country. It boggles 
the mind. I never knew that people 
could amass the kind of fortunes that 
we have seen. 

We have our weaknesses, but, boy, 
have we got our strengths. 

I urge my colleagues to reject this 
amendment. Don’t play with the system 
this way—shoot-from-the-hip tax 
breaks that are permanent, cuts in 
other programs where the revenue flow 
is just temporary. This adopts a meat-
ax approach to domestic needs while 
making sure that these tax breaks are 
there. It violates the Budget Act. We 
note that. I hope our colleagues will reject 
this amendment and in that rejection 
say no, we are not going to play 
those kinds of games. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I am 
proud to join my colleague from Georgia 
in offering this amendment to incorporate 
the provisions of the Middle 
Class Tax Relief Act of 1998 into the assumptions 
underlying the Fiscal Year 
1999 Budget Resolution. 

On January 22, 1998, Senators COVERDELL, 
GRAMM, and I introduced S. 1569, 
a bill which would deliver sweeping tax 
relief to lower- and middle-income taxpayers. 
The bill would increase the 
number of individuals who pay the lowest 
tax rates of 15% and significantly 
lessen the impact of one of the Tax 
Code’s most inequitable provisions— 
the marriage penalty. 

In 1998, the Middle Class Tax Relief 
Act would place approximately 10 million 
taxpayers now in the 28% tax-
bracket into the 15% tax-bracket. An 
estimated 28 million Americans would 
reap some benefit from the broad-based 
tax relief provisions in the bill, according 
to the Tax Foundation. 

The amendment we are offering 
today provides the budgetary flexibility 
to deliver this broad-based tax 
relief to Americans. It pays for this tax 
relief by trimming more of the fat from 
our bloated federal government and 
closing inequitable and unnecessary 
tax loopholes for big businesses. 

The middle-class tax cut plan in S. 
1569 would reduce revenues by approximately 
$195.5 billion from 1999 through 
2003. This amendment establishes a reserve 
fund, comprised of spending cuts 
and increased revenues from closing 
tax loopholes, to fully offset this loss 
of revenue. 

We eliminate $94 billion in special-interest 
tax loopholes over five years. 
These inequitable provisions—like the 
ethanol fuel tax credit, taxation of coal 
sales as capital gains, special tax treatment 
of shipping companies’ capital 
construction funds, and dozens of other 
provisions—benefit corporations and 
businesses at the expense of middle-
class Americans. 

The amendment cuts $101.5 billion 
from non-defense discretionary spending, 
an average reduction of 6.9 percent 
over five years. At the same time, we 
recognize that tax relief cannot come 
at the expense of those programs that 
ensure the well-being and health of our 
nation’s elderly and most needy. Our 
amendment makes no cuts in Social 
Security or Medicare. It also specifically 
protects programs that support 
education and child nutrition, support 
medical priorities, help low-income 
families make ends meet, curb illegal 
drug use among children, and reduce illegal 
immigration. None of the spending 
cuts would come from these programs. 


The cost of providing middle-class 
tax relief—$195.5 billion—amounts to 
only 2 percent of the more than $9 trillion 
that the federal government will 
spend over the next five years. 

Our amendment supports the enactment 
of S. 1569 without throwing the 
budget into imbalance or even affecting 
the growing federal budget surplus. 
The surpluses expected in future years 
are the key to beginning to pay down 
our massive $5.4 trillion federal debt 
and shoring up the ailing Social Security 
system. Middle-class tax relief 
would, in fact, contribute to a stronger 
economy and thus to even greater 
budget surpluses. 

Mr. President, this amendment offers 
Senators an opportunity to reaffirm 
their continued support for fundamental 
tax reform for middle-class 
Americans. Last year, we passed, with 
bipartisan support, the Taxpayer Relief 
Act which was a broad-reaching bill to 
address certain very specific problems, 
like capital gains taxation, taxes on 
home sales, and the like. The Middle 
Class Tax Relief Act continues the momentum 
for tax relief to remove the 
overly burdensome tax load that most 
Americans bear. 

The Middle Class Tax Relief Act focuses 
directly on addressing the mid-
dle-class tax squeeze. It is essential 
that we provide American families 
with relief from the excessive rate of 
taxation that saps job growth and robs 
them of the opportunity to provide for 
their needs and save for the future. 

First, the bill targets tax relief to 
the individuals who feel the tax 
squeeze the most: lower and middle-income 
taxpayers. For example, under 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2885 

this bill, unmarried individuals could 
make $35,000 and married individuals 
could make $70,000, and still be in the 
lowest tax bracket. 

Second, the bill is simple and provides 
broad-based tax relief. It bases 
taxation on income alone, rather than 
the number of school-age children. 

Third, the measure results in taxpayers 
being able to keep more of the 
money they earn. This extra income 
will allow individuals to save and invest 
more. Increased savings and investment 
are key to sustaining our 
current economic growth. 

Last, the bill minimizes the effect of 
the marriage penalty. Our current tax 
code taxes a married couple’s income 
more heavily than it would tax a single 
individual earning the same amount of 
income as the married couple. The bill 
reduces this inequity by taxing a married 
couple’s joint income and a single 
individual earning the same income as 
the married couple at essentially the 
same effective rates. 

In sum, the measure is a win for individuals, 
for families, and for America. 
Millions of Americans would realize 
some tax relief from this legislation. 
Thus, more Americans will be able to 
keep more of what they earn. This, in 
turn, will insure that Americans have 
more of the resources they need to invest 
in their own individual futures, 
and America’s future. 

Mr. President, on a broader scale, I 
believe we should abandon our existing 
tax code altogether and create a new 
system. This new system should have 
one tax rate, which taxes income only 
one time. This new system should also 
reduce the time to prepare tax returns 
from days to minutes, and the expense 
to prepare tax returns from thousands 
of dollars to pennies. But I recognize 
that scrapping the Tax Code now is not 
a realistic expectation, so we must settle 
for a more gradual approach to relieving 
the tax burden on Americans. 

Last year’s Taxpayer Relief Act was 
a step in the right direction to provide 
tax relief to lower and middle-income 
families. The Middle Class Tax Relief 
Act of 1998 represents an important 
further step toward a flatter, fairer tax 
system, which also provides immediate 
tax relief for hard-working Americans 
and their families. 

Mr. President, on behalf of the millions 
of Americans in need of relief 
from over-taxation, I urge my colleagues 
to support this amendment and 
demonstrate their continued commitment 
to tax reform and relief. 

Mr. SPECTER. Mr. President, I have 
sought recognition to explain my vote 
against the Coverdell Amendment, 
which has a laudable objective of reducing 
the federal tax burden on millions 
of American families, but goes 
about funding such tax relief in a manner 
which I cannot support. 

Specifically, the Coverdell Amendment 
provides for $101.5 billion/five 
years in tax relief through making 
more Americans eligible for the 15 percent 
tax bracket. The revenues lost 

through this amendment would be 
made up by cuts in all non-defense discretionary 
spending programs and over 
the same five-year period. 

As Chairman of the Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education 
Appropriations Subcommittee, I know 
how hard it is to reduce federal spending. 
I have used a scalpel, not a meat 
axe, to cut 134 federal programs over 
the last five years, with savings totaling 
$1.5 billion. The cuts proposed in 
the Coverdell Amendment for FY99 include 
$1.5 billion from health programs 
such as the National Institutes of 
Health and $2.5 billion from education, 
job training, employment, and social 
services. Other cuts in the Coverdell 
Amendment trouble me, such as $737 
million in transportation and over $1 
billion in cuts for veterans’ programs 
in FY99. 

With respect to the tax relief offered 
by the Coverdell Amendment, I do not 
believe it actually goes far enough toward 
flattening the current tax brackets. 
My own approach toward reducing 
the tax burden on Americans is my 
Flat Tax Act (S. 593). I am troubled 
that Americans spend 5.4 billion hours 
and $600 billion each year complying 
with the complexities of the 12,000 
pages of the Internal Revenue Code 
rules and regulations. I believe that 
the best answer for alleviating the tremendous 
tax burden on America’s 
working families and businesses is a 
flat tax, and have proposed replacing 
the current tax code with a 20 percent 
flat tax on individuals and businesses 
that could be filed on a simple 10-line 
postcard. 

S. 593 increases the personal and dependent 
allowances for families and 
preserves two key deductions that 
make the tax burden a little more 
bearable for working families: deductions 
of home mortgage interest capped 
at $100,000 in borrowing, and for up to 
$2500 in charitable contributions. For 
example, a typical couple with two 
children earning $30,000 would save 
about $1,100. It also eliminates taxes on 
estates, dividends and capital gains. 
With respect to businesses, S. 593 would 
eliminate the intricate scheme of complicated 
depreciation schedules, deductions, 
credits and other complexities 
that go into business taxation. Businesses 
would be allowed to expense 100 
percent of the cost of capital formation, 
including purchases of capital 
equipment, structures, and land, and 
do so in the year in which the investments 
are made. 
With a flat tax, Americans’ savings 
rates will rise, and the pool of capital 
available for investment in business 
expansion and job creation will expand 
dramatically. Reasonable estimates 
are that a flat tax can lower interest 
rates by two points, pump an additional 
$1 trillion into the economy over 
seven years, and raise the per capita 
income of every American by $1,900. 

Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. President, I am 
going to support the Coverdell amendment 
because I believe that the tax 

burden on American families is too 
high and that people—especially hard 
working low- and middle-income Americans—
should be allowed to keep more 
of what they earn. 

The federal tax burden is currently 
the highest in our nation’s history. The 
National Taxpayer’s Union reports 
that the average American family now 
pays almost 40 percent of their income 
in state, local, and federal taxes. The 
Coverdell amendment addresses this 
problem by targeting $101 billion in tax 
cuts at families in Michigan and elsewhere, 
most of them earning between 
$25,000 and $70,000. At its very core, Mr. 
President, the Coverdell amendment is 
a statement that taxes on middle-class 
American families are just too high. 

Right now, Mr. President, a family in 
Michigan that earns as little as $42,000 
pays an income tax rate of 28 percent— 
42 percent if you include payroll taxes. 
The Coverdell amendment cuts that income 
tax rate to 15 percent. 

Right now, millions of middle-class 
couples are penalized by the tax code 
for being married. The Coverdell 
amendment helps reduce this ‘‘marriage 
penalty’’ and end the tax code’s 
bias against families. 

The Coverdell amendment takes a 
significant step in reducing tax rates 
for middle-class families and eliminating 
unfair biases against married 
couples. 

That said, Mr. President, I want to 
make clear that the offsets included in 
the Coverdell amendment are not those 
that I would choose. Overall, the 
Coverdell amendment calls for a reduction 
in annual federal spending of 
about $40 billion out of a total budget 
of $1.7 trillion, or just over 2 percent. 
And while these spending reductions 
will eventually be the responsibility of 
the Appropriations Committee, I believe 
they can be accomplished without 
cutting education accounts or reducing 
highway spending. 

The federal government is projected 
to spend hundreds of billions of dollars 
over the next five years on administration, 
overhead, and personnel expenditures. 
Targeting these areas for cuts, 
including eliminating unnecessary government 
agencies like Commerce, Energy 
and HUD, and reducing excessive 
overhead accounts, should be the first 
priority to offset these tax cuts and are 
adequate to offset the projected revenue 
impact. 

Mr. President, I support a smaller, 
more efficient federal government that 
allows people to keep more of what 
they earn. For that reason, I support 
the Coverdell amendment. If the 
amendment is adopted, however, I intend 
to offer a series of amendments 
that would redirect the spending reductions 
called for by the Coverdell 
amendment towards the areas outlined 
above while protecting important 
budget functions like health, education, 
transportation and law enforcement. 


Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, last 
year’s Taxpayer Relief Act was a step 


S2886 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

in the right direction to provide tax relief 
to lower and middle-income families. 


This amendment to incorporate the 
provisions of the Middle Class Tax Relief 
Act of 1998 into the assumptions 
underlying the Fiscal Year 1999 Budget 
Resolution, represents an important 
further step toward a flatter, fairer tax 
system, which also provides immediate 
tax relief for hard-working Americans 
and their families. 

This amendment provides broad 
based middle class tax relief by increasing 
the number of individuals who 
pay the lowest tax rate of 15% and significantly 
lessening the impact of one 
of the Tax Code’s most inequitable provisions—
the marriage penalty. 

An estimated 28 million Americans 
would reap some benefit from the 
broad-based tax relief provisions in the 
bill, according to the Tax Foundation. 

The amendment pays for this tax relief 
by trimming more of the fat from 
our bloated federal government and 
closing inequitable and unnecessary 
tax loopholes for big businesses. 

The amendment cuts $101.5 billion 
from non-defense discretionary spending, 
an average reduction of 6.9 percent 
over five years. 

This amendment does not cut any 
spending from Medicare and Social Security. 


It also specifically protects programs 
that support education and child nutrition, 
support medical priorities, help 
low-income families made ends meet, 
curb illegal drug use among children, 
and reduce illegal immigration. 

Mr. President, on behalf of the millions 
of Americans in need of relief 
from over-taxation, I urge my colleagues 
to support this amendment and 
demonstrate their continued commitment 
to tax reform and relief. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Missouri is recognized. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent the pending amendment 
be set aside so I may make some brief 
remarks and introduce an amendment 
on behalf of myself and my distinguished 
colleague from Maryland. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank the 
Chair. Let me just offer my thanks and 
congratulations to the distinguished 
chairman of the Budget Committee for 
presenting a budget resolution which 
balances a large number of competing 
interests without a lot of resources to 
do it. The discretionary caps are getting 
tighter, no question about it. The 
path of least resistance would have 
been to loosen them. 

I am pleased to say the Budget Committee, 
under Senator DOMENICI’s leadership, 
avoided that path. Now the real 
test of leadership is before the full Senate 
to see whether we can keep those 
caps and move the budget—at long 
last—into balance. 

Even with the limits we face, the 
Budget Committee managed to assemble 
a good package that meets a num


ber of critical priorities. That is what 
budgeting is about—setting priorities. 
These priorities call for funding the 
public needs of the current generation, 
but they also call for self-discipline to 
avoid increasing the debt burdens on 
our children and grandchildren. 

The budget resolution before the Senate 
sets those priorities—keeping our 
obligations to both the present and the 
future. The best deals are those in 
which everybody wins without neglecting 
any critical priorities. I think this 
budget resolution is one of those kinds 
of deals. 

When you look at who wins, first, future 
generations win. We will keep our 
commitment to our children and 
grandchildren, get control over the 
Federal budget and stop piling on heavier 
and heavier debt burdens. We do 
this by putting the budget into balance 
and resisting the temptation to spend a 
surplus that we haven’t even seen yet. 
If we keep to our current path, we may 
even get to lighten that debt burden a 
little bit. 

We have lived fairly comfortably at 
the expense of our children. We have 
borrowed from them about $5.5 trillion 
and spent it for our own needs and 
comforts. The living standard we now 
enjoy will be paid, to a great extent, by 
our children. I think that is worth saying 
again. Our children have bought or 
will buy $5.5 trillion worth of our current 
prosperity. They will pay for it in 
higher taxes, higher interest payments, 
and less funds to pay for the public 
needs and priorities they face. We certainly 
should not increase the debt any 
more. 

Now, it appears likely that we will 
run a small surplus for the next decade 
or so. Now we have a few crumbs to 
give back to our children in appreciation 
for what they have already lent 
us. Incredibly, some folks around here 
want us to spend that as well. We owe 
it to our children, Mr. President—we 
literally owe it to them—to pay down 
this massive debt. 

We certainly should not increase the 
debt even more. That’s why it’s so important 
to keep to the discretionary 
spending caps and to keep the budget 
moving into balance. The budget resolution 
achieves this goal. It keeps 
within the discretionary spending caps 
that the Congress and the President 
agreed to just last year. 

Unfortunately, the President’s budget 
would have broken those caps by $12 
billion in 1999, according to the Congressional 
Budget Office. I find this remarkable. 
Why is it so hard to keep to 
an agreement we made just last year? 

Breaking the discretionary caps, putting 
the balanced budget in jeopardy— 
these would have neglected the priority 
we have placed on the prosperity of future 
generations. The budget resolution 
avoids that temptation, keeps to 
the caps, and keeps our commitment to 
stop borrowing from our children and 
grandchildren. 

So, future generations win under the 
budget resolution. Who else wins? Well, 

current generations win, too—at every 
stage of life. 

For example, children already born— 
not just the children of the future—win 
under the budget resolution. Under the 
committee version, funding for the 
child care and development block grant 
will increase by $5 billion in budget authority—
doubling its budget authority 
over the next 5 years. 

I am pleased also that the Budget 
Committee, on both sides of the political 
aisle, agreed with my proposal to 
designate savings from assuming the 
President’s reduction in the School-to-
Work Program for local early childhood 
development initiatives. This 
would provide another $1.5 billion for 
our Nation’s children. 

Clearly, children are winners under 
the budget resolution. Adults are winners, 
too. Hardworking American taxpayers 
come out ahead under the committee 
plan. 

The budget resolution envisions $30 
billion in tax relief. Some may criticize 
that amount for being too little. Of 
course, we would always like to find 
more ways to lighten the tax load on 
America’s taxpayers. Let me note a 
couple of things about the committee’s 
actions on tax relief. 

First, we need to keep in mind that 
any specific tax cut measure will be 
the responsibility of the Finance Committee. 
Nothing in the budget resolution 
dictates to that committee what 
it must do. In fact, if the committee 
finds additional offsets, it may cut 
taxes even more than the budget resolution 
proposes. The budget resolution 
includes a ‘‘tax cut reserve fund’’ to 
make deficit-neutral tax relief—of 
whatever size, as determined by the 
committee of jurisdiction—possible. 

Second, the Budget Committee’s $30 
billion in expected tax relief would 
allow long-needed relief in some crucial 
areas. These could include $10.5 
billion in relief from the marriage penalty 
and $9 billion in child care expenses. 


I am particularly grateful that Chairman 
DOMENICI included in this chairman’s 
mark an acceleration in the deductibility 
of health insurance for self-
employed persons. This idea, which the 
full Budget Committee subsequently 
endorsed, is critical to achieving parity 
between self-employed persons and 
their large competitors. 

I have long advocated full deductibility 
as the only fair policy. Although 
current law now calls for that to be 
achieved in 2007, full deductibility 
needs to be achieved sooner. Current 
practice still places a relative disadvantage 
on self-employed persons, 
since employers do have full deductibility. 
People who pursue the American 
dream through independent self-
employment should not be penalized or 
discouraged from getting health insurance 
by treating them differently. 

I am going to support the budget resolution 
because it is a step forward on 
this issue and on so many other issues. 
I urge my colleagues who have their 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2887 

own concerns about the tax package to 
look at it in the same light. Is it an improvement 
over current law? Yes. How 
can we oppose it just because it doesn’t 
include everything we might like? I remind 
my colleagues of the political 
adage of not making the perfect into 
the enemy of the good. 

Finally, the budget resolution helps 
all American taxpayers by endorsing 
reform of the Internal Revenue Service. 
My distinguished colleagues from 
Iowa and Oklahoma Messrs. GRASSLEY 
and NICKLES, joined with me in the 
Budget Committee to propose that a 
tax relief package include improvement 
of taxpayer rights—especially in 
IRS property seizure cases—and reform 
of IRS penalty rules. This proposal was 
also endorsed by the full Budget Committee 
and it appears in the budget resolution. 
I thank the committee for its 
attention to, and concern for, the 
rights of our Nation’s taxpayers. 

The budget resolution is a winning 
package for American taxpayers, as 
well as our children. Another group 
that wins under the budget resolution 
is our nation’s seniors. The budget resolution 
provides needed support for 
both Social Security and Medicare. 

The Budget Committee’s package 
adopts the President’s call to set aside 
the expected budget surplus until we 
reform Social Security into a sound 
and reliable program for the long-term. 
Social Security, as the President 
knows, is a key source of support for 
our seniors as part of their total retirement 
strategy. That’s why the President 
was right to demand that we 
‘‘Save Social Security First.’’ 

The Budget Committee adopted the 
President’s view. Remarkably, the 
President himself did not. As the Congressional 
Budget Office noted, the 
President’s own budget submission 
would have reduced the expected surplus 
by $43 billion. 

Forty-three billion dollars. That’s 
money spent to ‘‘Save Big Government 
First.’’ 

I commend my colleagues on the 
Budget Committee for including language 
in the budget resolution to remind 
the President of his promise to 
‘‘Save Social Security First’’ and stating 
the sense of the Senate that these 
surpluses should be set aside until we 
reform Social Security for future generations. 
The surpluses should not be 
frittered away on higher spending in 
violation of last year’s budget agreement. 


The Budget Committee also resisted 
the temptation to spend any Federal 
revenues that might arise from a tobacco 
settlement, despite numerous 
amendments from the committee minority 
to do so. Instead, the committee’s 
plan earmarks those revenues for 
bolstering the Medicare Program. 
Given the health care costs that tobacco 
has placed on Medicare, I can 
think of no better way to use tobacco 
revenues. Those costs are part of the 
reason why Medicare is a troubled program. 


The seniors who rely on Medicare are 
counting on us to take the necessary 
steps to shore up that program. We 
took some preliminary steps in the 
Balanced Budget Act of 1997. By slowing 
the annual rate of Medicare growth 
from 8.8 to 5.5 percent, the Balanced 
Budget Act extended the life of the 
Medicare part A trust fund through 
2006, an improvement over the program’s 
previous expected bankruptcy 
date in 2001. 

However, we all know the effect that 
the baby-boomers are going to have on 
the program when they start to retire 
in 2011. Let’s start planning ahead by 
allocating any Federal tobacco revenues 
to keep Medicare in business for 
the customers—our senior citizen constituents—
who need it. It would be irresponsible 
for use to do anything else. 

I sum, I say again that the best deals 
are those in which everybody wins. The 
Budget Committee has assembled a 
package that meets that standard. Future 
generations win, and current gen-
erations—children, working Americans, 
and senior citizens—also win. 

Who doesn’t win under the budget 
resolution? Those who would break the 
discretionary caps, those who would 
push the budget out of balance, and 
those who would ‘‘Save Big Government 
First.’’ Anyone who observed the 
Budget Committee’s markup of the 
budget resolution would have to note 
the alarming number of proposals from 
the minority that sought to spend, 
spend, spend. They no doubt will be the 
loudest in condemning the budget resolution 
for failing to adopt the President’s 
new spending schemes. 

I find this astonishing. Frankly, the 
minority should be pleased with this 
resolution. The Budget Committee 
kept its word to the President to protect 
certain functions at funding levels 
the President agreed to in last year’s 
bipartisan budget agreement. 

That agreement designed five budget 
functions as ‘‘protected functions.’’ 
These are International Affairs (Function 
150); Natural Resources and Environment 
(300); Transportation (400); 
Education, Training, Employment, and 
Social Services (500); and Administration 
of Justice (750). In every case, the 
budget resolution meets or exceeds the 
levels we agreed to last year. 

With this in mind, it is amazing that 
the President could attack the committee’s 
budget resolution by claiming 
it ‘‘shortchanges our nation’s future.’’ 
By reducing the debt, by preserving Social 
Security and Medicare, the plan 
actually plans for the future. Apparently, 
the only problem for the President 
is that we could not keep the deal 
he signed just last year—and that he 
wanted to spend, spend, spend, even 
more than he agreed to last year. 

A deal is a deal, Mr. President. I supported 
the bipartisan budget agreement 
last year. I will support this 
year’s plan, too, since it complies with 
what we agreed to last year. 

I do think there are a couple of areas 
where the budget resolution can be 

fine-tuned. I emphasize that the 
amendments I will propose are friendly 
amendments, intended to make a good 
budget plan better—not to attack it. 

The first of these related to housing 
for elderly persons. The President’s 
budget request proposed slashing this 
program by some $500 million. In a 
hearing before the VA/HUD subcommittee, 
Secretary Cuomo did not 
explain why the administration is 
seeking this cut. Senator MIKULSKI and 
I committed to restoring the cut funds 
to avoid jeopardizing the supply of specialized 
rental housing for the elderly 
poor. We welcome the support of other 
Senators who share our concerns. 

I comment on two particular points. 
Chairman DOMENICI has included an acceleration 
in the deductibility of 
health insurance for self-employed persons. 
This idea, which the full Budget 
Committee subsequently endorsed, is 
critical to achieving parity between 
self-employed persons and the people 
who work for the large competitors. I 
fought this battle on the floor in the 
past session and in this session, and 
with the tremendous support of colleagues, 
we are moving in that direction. 
I think it is good news that the 
budget now provides that we move that 
up. 

I will offer one amendment now, and 
a second amendment I will propose will 
nudge the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service to establish circuit rides 
in the former Soviet Union to recognize 
the enormous cost imposed on refugees 
having to travel to Moscow. The 
amendment is a sense of the Senate, 
and it states that the budget resolution 
assumes $2 million in the INS budget. 

Again, I emphasize that these are offered 
in a friendly and cooperative spirit, 
seeking to make a good budget resolution 
even better. The budget resolution 
reported from the Budget Committee 
is a deal in which everybody 
wins, and I will be pleased to support it 
on the floor as I did in committee. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2213 

(Purpose: Sense of the Senate to fully fund 

the Section 202 Elderly Housing program) 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I send an 
amendment to the desk on behalf of 
myself and the Senator from Maryland, 
Senator MIKULSKI, a sense of the Senate 
to urge we fund fully the section 
202 Elderly Housing Program. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The bill clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Missouri [Mr. BOND], for 
himself and Ms. MIKULSKI, proposes an 
amendment numbered 2213. 

Mr. BOND. I ask unanimous consent 
reading of the amendment be dispensed 
with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

Insert on page 53, after line 22, the following 
new section, to be renumbered, accordingly: 
‘‘SEC. 317. SENSE OF THE SENATE TO MAINTAIN 

FULL FUNDING FOR THE SECTION 

202 ELDERLY HOUSING PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following— 



S2888 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

‘‘(1) The Section 202 Elderly Housing program 
is the most important housing program 
for elderly, low-income Americans, providing 
both affordable low-income housing and supportive 
services designed to meet the special 
needs of the elderly. 

‘‘(2) Since 1959, the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program has funded some 5,400 elderly 
housing projects with over 330,000 housing 
units, with the current average tenant in 
Section 202 housing being a frail, older 
woman in her seventies, living along with an 
income of less than $10,000 per year. 

‘‘(3) The combination of affordable housing 
and supportive services under the Section 202 
Elderly Housing program is critical to promoting 
independent living, self-sufficiency, 
and dignity for the elderly while delaying 
more costly institutional care. 

‘‘(4) There are over 1.4 million elderly 
Americans currently identified as having 
‘‘worst case housing needs’’ and in need of affordable 
housing. 

‘‘(5) There are 33 million Americans aged 65 
and over, some 13 percent of all Americans. 
The number of elderly Americans is anticipated 
to grow to over 69 million by the year 
2030, which would be some 20 percent of all 
Americans, and continue to increase to almost 
80 million by 2050. 

‘‘(6) The President’s Budget Request for 
fiscal year 1999 proposes reducing funding for 
the Section 202 Elderly Housing program 
from the fiscal year 1998 level of $645,000,000 
to $109,000,000 in fiscal year 1999. This represents 
a reduction of over 83 percent in 
funding, which will result in reducing the 
construction of Section 202 housing units 
from some 6,000 units in fiscal year 1998 to 
only 1,500 units in fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(7) The full funding of the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program as an independent 
federal housing program is an investment in 
our elderly citizens as well as our Nation. 

‘‘(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program, as provided under section 
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, 
shall be funded in fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 
2002, and 2003 at not less than the fiscal year 
1998 funding level of $645,000,000.’’. 

Mr. BOND. Deja vu all over again. 
Senator MIKULSKI and I rise one more 
time to fight to fulfill our commitment 
and the commitment of the Senate to 
fund fully the section 202 Elderly Housing 
Program at no less than $645 million 
for each of the next 5 fiscal years. 

I want to emphasize our commitment 
to this program and the elderly housing 
as the chairman and ranking member 
of the VA/HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, 
the Appropriations subcommittee 
with the responsibility for 
funding the section 202 Elderly Housing 
Program, as well as all other programs 
under the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development. The purpose of 
this amendment is to set a floor of $645 
million for the section 202 Elderly 
Housing Program, the amount that 
Congress appropriated for this program 
for fiscal year 1998, as opposed to the 
President’s budget request of $109 million 
for fiscal year 1999—a cut of over 
$500 million from this $645 million program. 
The President’s budget request 
is plainly wrong. I cannot state this in 
strong enough terms. We have an investment 
in the elderly and our Nation 
here just as we must invest in the 
youth of this Nation through good education 
and good, available health care. 

I want to be clear that we are not going 
to shortchange the elderly. 

The section 202 Elderly Housing Program 
is the most important housing 
program for elderly low-income Americans, 
providing both affordable low-income 
housing and supportive services 
designed to meet the special needs of 
the elderly. This combination of supportive 
services and affordable housing 
is critical to promoting independent 
living, self-sufficiency and dignity, 
while delaying the more costly alternative 
of institutional care. Section 202 
elderly housing is more than just housing—
it is a safety net for the elderly, 
providing both emotional and physical 
security and a sense of community. 

Moreover, since the inception of the 
program in 1959, the section 202 Elderly 
Housing Program has funded some 5,400 
elderly housing projects with over 
330,000 units. Nevertheless, by the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development’s 
own estimates, there are over 

1.4 million elderly families currently 
identified as having ‘‘worst case housing 
needs’’ and in need of affordable 
housing. 
Despite the need for and the success 
of the section 202 Elderly Housing Program, 
the President proposes to slash 
funding for this program from $645 million 
in fiscal year 1998 to $109 million 
in fiscal year 1999. This is a cut of over 
83 percent in funding and will mean a 
reduction from building some 6,000 
units with fiscal year 1998 funding to 
building only 1,500 units with the 
President’s proposed fiscal year 1999 
funding. We cannot afford this critical 
loss of housing. 

Moreover, the President is proposing 
to merge section 202 elderly housing 
into the HOME program. I am a great 
supporter of the HOME program because 
it does a good job by providing 
affordable housing with decision-
making at the local level. But there is 
no rational justification for merging 
section 202 into the HOME program. 
Not only is section 202 extremely successful 
and critically needed, a recent 
General Accounting Office report indicated 
that the HOME program has provided 
few elderly housing units since 
enactment. In particular, from fiscal 
year 1992 through fiscal year 1996, over 
1,400 section 202 elderly housing 
projects were developed with some 
52,000 rental units for over 47,800 elderly 
individuals. During that same 5-year 
time period, the HOME program produced 
30 elderly housing projects with 
681 units which serve some 675 elderly 
individuals. In case you missed the figures, 
section 202, in 5 years, provided 
52,000 housing units; the HOME program 
provided 681 housing units. 

However, the problem with the President’s 
request does not stop here. The 
President also requests funding for 
8,800 vouchers for the elderly. Over the 
last several years, this administration 
repeatedly has attempted to voucher 
out assisted housing, including housing 
for the elderly. Vouchers are a very important 
housing tool and work well in 

many instances, but the elderly deserve 
to have decent, safe, and affordable 
housing as well as needed supportive 
services. Section 202 elderly 
housing accomplishes these purposes, 
and vouchers do not. 

Think with me for a moment about 
this recurring nightmare image I have 
of an elderly woman in a walker with a 
voucher in her hand, searching dark 
and dangerous streets for needed shelter. 
That is what they are proposing we 
do. To put it in context, I remind my 
colleagues that the average tenant in 
section 202 housing is a frail, older 
woman in her seventies, living alone, 
with an income of less than $10,000 per 
year. Do we want to tell her to get out 
of the housing? Do we want to say, 
‘‘Here is a voucher, start walking up 
and down the streets and maybe a 
friend will go along and help you with 
your walker or push your wheelchair; 
you are going to have to hit the streets 
to find new housing’’? That is not a 
comforting image, but it is a compelling 
one. 

Again, the need for section 202 elderly 
housing: There are currently 33 million 
Americans aged 65 and over. This 
is some 13 percent of all Americans. 
That number will grow to over 69 million 
elderly by the year 2030, which 
would be some 20 percent of all Americans, 
and will continue to grow to almost 
80 million elderly Americans by 
2050. Cutting back and remodeling the 
section 202 program will do these 
Americans a disservice. 

I cannot emphasize enough the importance 
of the section 202 Elderly 
Housing Program and the need for Congress 
to stand by elderly families. Over 
the years, millions of Federal dollars 
have been saved by providing elderly 
families with access to supportive services 
in their homes and their communities. 
Without this housing and these 
services, many elderly persons and 
families would have had to be relocated 
to nursing homes and other institutions 
where care would be more costly 
and the loss of personal dignity more 
compelling. 

Mr. President, as I close my remarks, 
I send to the desk a letter from AARP 
saying that the AARP opposes the 
President’s recommendations concerning 
section 202 housing and that 
the Bond-Mikulski floor amendment is 
a crucial step along the way to press 
for current funding as the relevant appropriations 
measure works its way 
through Congress; I ask that it be 
printed in the RECORD. 

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF 

RETIRED PERSONS, 

Washington, DC, March 30, 1998. 

Hon. CHRISTOPHER S. BOND, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR BOND: I am writing on behalf 
of the American Association of Retired 
Persons to express our support of your proposed 
amendment regarding supportive housing 
programs for elderly and disabled persons 
when the Senate takes up the FY 1999 Budget 
Resolution this week. These initiatives 
make a critical difference in the lives of 
many vulnerable Americans throughout the 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2889 

nation. Given the continuing need for such 
specialized housing, it is essential that appropriations 
are subsequently preserved next 
year in both programs. 

Living in Section 202 Elderly Housing 
means living at affordable rents in a user-
friendly environment with features such as 
special lighting, nonskid floors, and grab 
bars that prevent serious injuries from 
falls—features which can help prevent early 
admission into a nursing home. Section 202 
helps meet an acute housing need for frail 
low income older persons. An estimated 
eight persons, are waiting in line for every 
one Section 202 vacancy that occurs. Meanwhile, 
many of these individuals are forced 
to live an unsafe housing and in crime-ridden 
neighborhoods—in some instances with windows 
nailed shut—because they cannot afford 
to live anywhere else. 

The Association opposes the President’s 
recommendations concerning Section 202 
Housing. We intend to press for current funding 
throughout the year as the relevant appropriations 
bill works its way through Congress. 
The Bond-Mikulski floor amendment 
this week is a crucial step along the way. 

Sincerely, 

HORACE B. DEETS, 

Executive Director. 

Ms. MIKULSKI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Maryland is recognized. 

Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I am 
proud to stand today with my colleague 
from Missouri and the chairman 
of the VA-HUD Subcommittee, Senator 
BOND, to offer a sense-of-the-Senate 
amendment to the fiscal year 1999 
budget. 

This amendment is designed to state 
the Senate’s view that it is absolutely 
critical that HUD’s section 202 program, 
which is its elderly housing program, 
absolutely be fully funded. That 
is what the resolution states. That is 
what I encourage the Members on both 
sides of the aisle to support. 

For years, I have been an advocate 
for an affordable and available supply 
of safe and decent housing for our elderly. 
For years, I have worked with 
Senator BOND to ensure adequate funding. 


In 1992, as the chair of the VA-HUD 
Subcommittee, I worked to successfully 
change the section 202 program 
from a very expensive loan program to 
a grant program. Do you know what? It 
allowed us to build more housing for 
less cost. I am concerned, though, that 
there is in the budget resolution a proposed 
cut of nearly $500 million in 
housing for the elderly. I am also concerned 
about the desire to move to 
more of a voucher approach to elderly 
housing instead of new construction, 
forcing the senior citizens of this country 
who need a modest subsidy to go 
out and kind of forage on their own to 
find housing that meets their needs. 

Mr. President, our Nation has many 
responsibilities, but its most important 
one is to protect and help all its citizens, 
but it has a particular moral obligation 
to look out for senior citizens. 

Promises made should be promises 
kept. This generation, which is now the 
frail elderly, organized to save this 
country and to save Western civilization 
during World War II. Many fought 

on the battlefront and many were the 
‘‘Rosie the Riveters’’ who helped this 
country on the homefront. This is why 
we need to now look out for them as 
the frail elderly. The amendment I 
offer today with Senator BOND seeks to 
do this. They are our mothers and fathers, 
who raised and nurtured us; our 
aunts and uncles, who gave advice; and 
the neighbors who kept an eye on us; 
they are the people who we grew up 
with, who looked out for us in our communities; 
they are the people, in many 
cases who, with their blood, sweat and 
tears, helped build this country into 
what it is today. 

Mr. President, we have the moral obligation 
to ensure that we do what we 
can to ensure that those elderly citizens 
who need our help get our help. 

The AARP estimates that there are 
eight people on the waiting list for 
every one HUD section 202 unit that becomes 
available. 

Senator BOND has put that into the 
RECORD. 

Our subcommittee has done extensive 
research on this. What do we find? 
First of all, that the secton 202 program 
is the most popular HUD housing 
program we fund. Why is it popular? It 
meets compelling needs. It often stabilizes 
neighborhoods where people are 
‘‘aging in place.’’ It also enables groups 
that are nonprofit and faith based to 
participate in providing housing. The 
section 202 Elderly Housing Program is 
important because it meets those 
needs. 

Since 1959, when this program was 
created under a whole other different 
type of HUD, we have funded 5,004 elderly 
housing projects, with over 
330,000 housing units. They are primarily 
lived in by frail, older women in 
their seventies living with an income 
of less than $10,000. I think that is a 
good way to spend taxpayer dollars. 

The combination of affordable housing 
and supportive services under the 
section 202 program has been absolutely 
critical in meeting not only the 
housing needs but in promoting independent 
living, self-sufficiency, and 
dignity for the elderly, while delaying 
more costly institution. 

There are 1.4 million elderly Americans 
who currently have worst-case 
housing needs. There are 33 million 
Americans aged 65, over some 13 percent 
of all Americans, and this number 
is growing. That is why I have asked 
HUD to come up with new ideas on how 
we are going to meet, No. 1, the expanding 
elderly population, and, No. 2, 
the expanding frail elderly population. 
I believe that if we focus our attention 
and our resources, we will meet our 
needs. This is why I support the Bond 
amendment. It is the Mikulski-Bond 
amendment. 

My colleague, Senator SARBANES 
from Maryland, who is the ranking 
member on the Housing and Banking 
Committee, also wants to be a cosponsor. 


I will conclude my remarks by talking 
about the voucher program. This 

Senator is never going to support a 
voucher program for the elderly. I will 
tell you why. When you are old, when 
you are sick, when you have a pain, 
when you have a walker, when you 
have a wheelchair, when you can barely 
read a newspaper without a magnifying 
glass, we are not going to give 
you a voucher, and say, ‘‘OK, kiddo, 
you are out there on your own.’’ We are 
not going to do that. Senior citizens 
should not have to go into the marketplace 
to forage with a voucher to find 
housing that would meet their needs. 

Mr. President, I know you have been 
in housing for the elderly in your own 
State. They have special architectural 
needs—low steps and special kinds of 
grips in the bathroom—all those kinds 
of things that, if they fall, they don’t 
fail. You just can’t put them in any 
kind of apartment in the United States 
of America; they have specialized 
needs. We can meet those needs. 

What is so fantastic—I cannot underestimate 
nor overstate the fact that 
faith-based organizations are involved 
in this. In my home State, the role of 
Catholic Charities, Associated Jewish 
Charities, and other organizations from 
the United Way step forward to make 
wise use of Federal funds and, at the 
same time, often value add to what the 
Federal Government is doing. 

I really encourage my colleagues to 
support the Bond-Mikulski amendment. 
It is cosponsored by Senator 
SARBANES. I know that many others 
will join us. This is one of many budget 
amendments stating sense-of-the-Senate 
resolutions. This, I think, is not 
only the sense of the Senate, Mr. President, 
it is the sense of the American 
people. 

Senator JOHN KERRY also wants to 
cosponsor it. Colleagues will be able to 
cosponsor it as we go forward. 

I yield the floor on this amendment. 
I really encourage my colleagues to 
support it. 

Mr. BOND addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Missouri. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank my 
distinguished colleague from Maryland, 
who has been a real champion in 
housing—housing for all kinds of people 
in need, but particularly housing 
for the elderly. I had the pleasure of beginning 
my service on the VA–HUD 
committee under her chairmanship. 
She has been absolutely invaluable in 
helping to guide, teach, and cooperate 
with me as we moved forward. Her 
statement on the importance of elderly 
housing is very compelling. 

I hope that we will have overwhelming 
support on both sides of the 
aisle for this amendment. Since some 
people are not getting the message, I 
ask that when a vote is scheduled on 
this amendment, that the yeas and 
nays be requested. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Mr. BOND. I thank the Chair. 


S2890 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

I believe our message has not been 
getting across that elderly housing 
works under the section 202 program. 
You can’t expect elderly housing to be 
covered by the HOME program where 
there are many competing local needs 
that must be met. Most of all, do not 
put Grandmother or Aunt Effie out on 
the street in her walker with a voucher 
and expect that she is going to be able 
to find decent, affordable, appropriate 
housing. 

We need an overwhelming vote. I welcome 
the fact that we have had a number 
of cosponsors. I hope we will have a 
unanimous vote, or an overwhelming 
vote, to express the sense of the Senate 
that we are not going to change this 
program. This is a program that is 
meeting the needs of the elderly today. 
We must continue that program, because 
the needs are only growing greater 
and we need to do all we can to try 
to keep up with those needs. 

Mr. President, I thank the Chair. I 
particularly thank my colleague from 
Maryland. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
seeks time? 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR 
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
FOR FISCAL YEARS 1999, 
2000, 2001, 2002, AND 2003 

The Senate continued with the consideration 
of the concurrent resolution. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2213, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I am advised 
by the Budget Committee staff 
that we have to make a modification in 
the terminology of the sense-of-the-
Senate language, and I ask unanimous 
consent that the amendment be modified, 
under the last subsection (b), to 
say, ‘‘It is the sense of the Senate 
that’’—at that point include the following—‘‘
the levels in this resolution 
assume that’’. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 2213), as modified, 
is as follows: 

Insert on page 53, after line 22, the following 
new section, to be renumbered, accordingly: 


‘‘SEC. 317. SENSE OF THE SENATE TO MAINTAIN 

FULL FUNDING FOR THE SECTION 

202 ELDERLY HOUSING PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following— 


‘‘(1) The Section 202 Elderly Housing program 
is the most important housing program 
for elderly, low-income Americans, providing 
both affordable low-income housing and supportive 
services designed to meet the special 
needs of the elderly. 

‘‘(2) Since 1959, the Section 202 Elderly 
housing program has funded some 5,400 elderly 
housing projects with over 330,000 housing 
units, with the current average tenant in 
Section 202 housing being a frail, older 
woman in her seventies, living alone with an 
income of less than $10,000 per year. 

‘‘(3) The combination of affordable housing 
and supportive services under the Section 202 
Elderly Housing program is critical to promoting 
independent living, self-sufficiency, 
and dignity for the elderly while delaying 
more costly institutional care. 

‘‘(4) There are over 1.4 million elderly 
Americans currently identified as having 
‘‘worst case housing needs’’ and in need of affordable 
housing. 

‘‘(5) There are 33 million Americans aged 65 
and over, some 13 percent of all Americans. 
The number of elderly Americans is anticipated 
to grow to over 69 million by the year 
2030, which would be some 20 percent of all 
Americans, and continue to increase to almost 
80 million by 2050. 

‘‘(6) The President’s Budget Request for 
fiscal year 1999 proposes reducing funding for 
the Section 202 Elderly Housing program 
from the fiscal year 1998 level of $645,000,000 
to $109,000,000 is fiscal year 1999. This represents 
a reduction of over 83 percent in 
funding, which will result in reducing the 
construction of Section 202 housing units 
from some 6,000 units in fiscal year 1998 to 
only 1,500 units in fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(7) The full funding of the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program as an independent 
federal housing program is an investment in 
our elderly citizens as well as our Nation. 

‘‘(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Senate 
that the levels in this resolution assume 
that the Section 202 Elderly Housing program, 
as provided under section 202 of the 
Housing Act of 1959, as amended, shall be 
funded in fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 
and 2003 at not less than the fiscal year 1998 
funding level of $645,000,000.’’. 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, I thank the 
Chair, yield the floor, and suggest the 
absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2214 
(Purpose: To express the Sense of the Senate 

on the need for long-term entitlement re


forms) 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk and ask for 
its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Nebraska [Mr. KERREY] 
proposes an amendment numbered 2214. 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place, add the following: 


SEC. . Sense of the Senate supporting 
long-term entitlement reforms. 

(a) The Senate finds that the resolution assumes 
the following— 
(1) entitlement spending has risen dramatically 
over the last thirty-five years. 
(2) in 1963, mandatory spending (i.e. entitlement 
spending and interest on the debt) 
made up 30 percent of the budget, this figure 
rose to 45 percent by 1973, to 56 percent by 
1983 and to 61 percent by 1993. 
(3) mandatory spending is expected to 
make up 68 percent of the federal budget in 
1998. 
(4) absent changes, that spending is expected 
to take up over 70 percent of the federal 
budget shortly after the year 2000 and 74 
percent of the budget by the year 2008. 
(5) if no action is taken, mandatory spending 
will consume 100 percent of the budget by 
the year 2030. 
(3) this mandatory spending will continue 
to crowd out spending for the traditional 
‘‘discretionary’’ functions of government 
like clean air and water, a strong national 
defense, parks and recreation, education, our 
transportation system, law enforcement, research 
and development and other infrastructure 
spending. 
(4) taking significant steps sooner rather 
than later to reform entitlement spending 
will not only boost economic growth in this 
country, it will also prevent the need for 
drastic tax and spending decisions in the 
next century. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that that levels in this budget 
resolution assume that— 
(1) Congress and the President should work 
to enact structural reforms in entitlement 
spending in 1998 and beyond which sufficiently 
restrain the growth of mandatory 
spending in order to keep the budget in balance 
over the long term, extend the solvency 
of the Social Security and Medicare Trust 
Funds, avoid crowding out funding for basic 
government functions and that every effort 
should be made to hold mandatory spending 
to no more than seventy percent of the budget. 
Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, for the 
first time in a quarter century this 
budget resolution is being debated in 
an environment, where rather than 
talking about getting rid of the deficit, 
we are able to talk with great enthusiasm 
about what to do with the surplus. 
We are talking about tax cuts and 
various spending programs. There is no 
question that the recovery of the economy 
of the United States of America— 
deficit reduction efforts in the past in 
combination with tremendous changes 
on the part of entrepreneurs and businesses 
and individuals out there—has 
produced the best economic scene I 
have seen in my entire lifetime, with 
increases in productivity, growth in 
the number of jobs, and a reduction in 
welfare rolls. You have to look long 
and hard to find bad economic news out 
there. 

In 1990, this Congress debated a deficit 
reduction act that was largely a result 
of President Bush’s leadership. We 
put in place at that time the mechanism 
that we still use today. It has 
caps on spending that we, for the most 
part, have lived within. It is that discipline 
that is required by the law, it 
seems to me, that requires every time 
somebody wants to do a new program, 
they have to find a way to pay for it. 
You just cannot come down here and 
throw new spending on a budget or new 
tax cuts on a budget without having an 
offset someplace. It is that discipline, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2891 

coupled with the 1993 act and the 1997 
act, that I think the American people 
appreciate very much. It has produced 
enormous benefits for the American 
economy. 

But we are now in a state where, unfortunately, 
rather than merely talking 
about the easy things, we now need 
to start facing some very difficult 
problems that are occurring inside the 
budget itself. One of the things I find 
comforting in life is when things don’t 
change. The most impressive force of 
all in that regard is gravity. It has an 
increasing impact upon me, my body, 
and my ability to move and so forth. It 
stays constant. I am impressed with it. 

One of the things that stayed constant 
over the last 30 or 40 years, indeed 
a bit longer than that, is that the 
percent of the entire GDP that we in 
Washington, DC, use for a variety of 
spending programs has stayed relatively 
constant—in the 19 to 20 percent 
range. This does not go all the 
way back to the years of the 1940s 
when, during the war, we went up 
above that 20 percent mark; but in the 
1940s, most of that spending was for 
plant, for equipment, increases in the 
productivity of this Nation. Indeed, 
many have cited that as a principal 
reason the United States of America 
came out of the Great Depression, the 
significant investments that occurred 
during those war years. So you see that 
20 percent figure stayed relatively constant 
over that lengthy period of time. 

This resolution that I have offered up 
requires us, the Congress, with a sense-
of-the-Senate resolution, to look out in 
the future more than the 10-year budget 
window that we currently do. You 
may say why, Mr. President. The reason 
is that if you look out for 10 years, 
from 1998 to 2008, that takes you just 
before the baby boom generation begins 
to retire. You look out to 2008 and 
life looks relatively good. It doesn’t 
look very difficult. It looks like we 
ought to be able to manage relatively 
easily, and the reason it looks like it is 
going to be relatively easy is that the 
number of the Americans over age 65 
grows relatively steadily, from about 
34 million to about 39 million in 2008. 
But, from 2010 to 2030, the number of 
people over age 65 grows by 30 million. 
The number of retirees will increase by 
25 million while the number of workers 
only increases 4 million. 

What happens during that period of 
time is that the mandatory programs— 
that is the red, or the entitlement 
spending; and the yellow is the net interest, 
the interest on the national 
debt—they continue to grow until they 
completely displace the entire Federal 
budget, until it is 100 percent of the 
budget at that point. Indeed, in the 
year 2027, 100 percent of the budget will 
be mandatory spending programs. 

This is a trend. I heard some—perhaps 
most notably former Secretary of 
Labor Robert Reich, who is on from 
time to time—criticizing this evaluation, 
saying there are going to be increases 
in productivity or immigration 

or other things that are going to take 
care of it. But it has not taken care of 
it yet. 

In 1963, John Kennedy went to Rice 
University. He gave a speech in the 
summer of 1963 in which he said that 
we were going to put a man on the 
Moon. Why? He said not because it is 
easy but because it is hard. 

In 1963, 70 percent of this budget was 
discretionary and only 30 percent of 
the budget was mandatory. In 1973, it 
had grown to 45 percent mandatory; in 
1983, 56 percent mandatory; in 1993, 61 
percent mandatory. And in this budget, 
68 percent of the budget is mandatory 
and 32 percent of the budget is discretionary. 


Even over the next 10 years, the 
amount that is available for discretionary—
and we allow it actually in 
the second 5 years to grow at the rate 
of inflation, which is not likely unless 
we are going to bust the caps in the 
second 5 years—at the end of that 10-
year period, the amount available for 
discretionary spending will be approximately 
26 percent. 

I ask any of my colleagues what that 
26 percent figure means. If you budget 
it this year and say we are going to 
give the Appropriations Committee 26 
percent of available revenue to appropriate, 
that will force approximately 
$115 billion in spending cuts. 

What is happening is that we are seeing 
our capacity to build our Nation’s 
defenses, I say to the distinguished occupant 
of the Chair, who has talked 
about how our military is being spread 
pretty thin—it is spread pretty thin 
right now. We debate from time to 
time new things we want our military 
to do. Both our military and intelligence 
efforts are stretched substantially 
thin at the moment. But that is 
not the only area in discretionary 
spending where people come to the 
floor and would like to spend more 
money, whether it is on education, on 
health care, or the environment, or 
NASA, or Veterans Administration. On 
all these things, they may come down 
and say, ‘‘We have to fight the battle 
against crime, we need more people on 
our border, we a stronger law enforcement 
effort.’’ All of these Federal efforts 
come out of discretionary spending. 


Unless we as a Congress begin to understand 
these trends and the fact that 
they are not going to go away, it is not 
likely we are going to do anything 
about it. I observe the reason we are 
not doing anything about it, the reason 
we are not debating it on this floor, is 
we only have a 10-year view. 

The law says to take a look at 10 
years—what does it look like in 10 
years? Life looks pretty good. It looks 
like we can handle it. I challenge anybody 
to construct a discretionary budget 
with only 26 percent available revenue. 
Unless we believe this Congress is 
going to raise taxes beyond the 20 percent 
mark—which I don’t think it either 
will or should—what we are faced 
with, even at 26 percent, is, it seems to 

me, the unlikelihood of being able to 
construct a budget with that relatively 
small amount. 

Unless we look out to 30 years instead 
of 10 years, we do not see this crisis 
coming, we do not see the problem 
coming. 

So what do we do? We do nothing. We 
do not even debate it or talk about it. 
Most of us have seen the movie ‘‘Titanic.’’ 
In the movie, people were on 
the bow, standing watch for icebergs, 
and they did not have binoculars. It is 
very much like us. We do not have binoculars 
either. We can see 10 years, but 
we cannot see 30. As a consequence, we 
do not see the iceberg that is out there 
in the form and shape of the baby-boom 
generation which, from 2010 to 2030, 
will convert 100 percent of the available 
money we will tax and collect 
from the American people—100 percent 
of that budget is going to go to mandatory 
programs. 

There is a price, a big price, for 
delay, and the price will be paid by the 
baby-boom generation, who will find 
themselves saying suddenly, ‘‘Oh, my 
gosh, I have two choices: Either I take 
substantial cuts in my current benefits 
or my kids have a tax increase’’ that 
raises their taxes beyond what is, I 
think, by any standard, a reasonable 
level. We will see demands on this system, 
in short, Mr. President, that are 
going to put us in a position where we 
are going to have to ask current beneficiaries, 
if we do not make reasonable 
adjustments today, to pay a rather 
substantial price. 

I know the distinguished Senator 
from New Mexico has talked about this 
an awful lot. In fact, he can blame himself 
for me caring about entitlements. 
It was he and Senator Nunn who used 
to traipse down here once a year and 
offer amendments. The first time the 
Senator from New Mexico offered an 
amendment to control entitlement 
spending, I voted against it. The second 
year, the light bulb went on, and I said, 
‘‘Oh, my gosh, this guy from New Mexico 
might have something right.’’ And, 
indeed, he persuaded me the second 
year, and I voted with him. 

In 1994, Senator Jack Danforth and I 
chaired a commission for an entire 
year looking at the problems of entitlements, 
and I have not been the same 
since. I annoy people; I frustrate people. 
They can ask me what do I think 
about the weather, do I think Nebraska 
is going to have a good football team, 
and as soon as I talk about the weather 
and our great football team, I find myself 
immediately talking about the 
problem of mandatory spending and 
what it is going to do to our capacity 
to say that we are securing the blessings 
of liberty for ourselves and posterity. 


We are squandering, it seems to me, 
an opportunity to say we are endowing 
our future, and instead we are putting 
ourselves in a position of saying, 
‘‘Make certain I get my deal covered, 
that I get what I am entitled to, and 
the heck with the future; don’t worry 
about our kids.’’ 


S2892 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

AMENDMENT NO. 2215 

(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding passage of the IRS Restructuring 

and Reform Act of 1997) 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I send 
an additional amendment to the desk 
and ask for its immediate consideration. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BURNS). Without objection, the pending 
amendment will be set aside. The clerk 
will report. 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will 
talk for 1 minute. I see the distinguished 
chairman of the Finance Committee 
on the floor. This is an amendment 
that this body ought to act on 
IRS reform legislation prior to our 
leaving for the recess. 

I believe this legislation has been 
considered long and hard. The taxpayers 
have a deadline of April 15; 120 
million of them will have to file their 
taxes. We need to pass IRS legislation 
without delay. We need to give taxpayers 
new powers. I note with considerable 
interest that every single freshman 
in the House sent a letter yesterday 
to Majority Leader LOTT and to 
Democratic Leader DASCHLE asking 
that the House bill, or something that 
can be conferenced, be taken up before 
we leave. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that this letter be printed in the 
RECORD. 

There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES, 

Washington, DC, April 1, 1998. 

Hon. TRENT LOTT, 

Senate Majority Leader, Russell Senate Office 
Building, Washington, DC. 

Hon. THOMAS A. DASCHLE, 

Senate Minority Leader, Hart Senate Office 
Building, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MAJORITY LEADER LOTT AND MINORITY 
LEADER DASCHLE: As April 15 approaches, 
this letter is to urge in the strongest possible 
terms the United States Senate to pass 
sound legislation to reform the Internal Revenue 
Service (IRS). 

As first-term Representatives of the American 
people from both political parties, we 
agree that the Congress must give the highest 
priority to reforming the IRS. Hearings 
conducted in the House and Senate have 
made us all too aware of the horror stories of 
the average American taxpayer being harassed 
by rogue IRS agents. We believe it is 
time that the IRS worked for American taxpayers 
instead of assuming they are guilty of 
cheating on their taxes. 

As you know, on November 5, 1997, the 
House overwhelmingly passed historic legislation 
to reform the IRS. This bill incorporates 
recommendations by the bipartisan 
National Commission to Restructure the IRS 
chaired by Senator J. Robert Kerrey and 
Representative Rob Portman. H.R. 2676, the 
IRS Restructuring and Reform Act, would 
shift the burden of proof from the taxpayer 
to the IRS, create twenty-eight new taxpayer 
provisions in a Taxpayer Bill of 
Rights, and overhaul the management of the 
agency through the creation of an eleven-
member independent Oversight Board. 

With your leadership, we have the opportunity 
to provide the comprehensive reform 
of the IRS the American people deserve. We 
urge the Senate to adhere to the will of the 

American taxpayer, honor the work of the 
bipartisan commission, and join the House in 
passing IRS reform without further delay. 

Sincerely, 

BOB ETHERIDGE, 

JOHN SHIMKUS, 

Members of Congress. 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, the taxpayers 
of the United States have a 
deadline of April 15. All of us know it. 
We hear about it when we go home. As 
I said, 120 million people have to have 
their taxes filed by April 15. There are 
140,000 collection notices that go out 
every single day of the week. Every 
single working day that the IRS is in 
operation, 140,000 collection notices go 
out. 

There are approximately the same 
number of Americans who call the IRS 
every day. The way it currently operates 
is, about 40 percent of them cannot 
get through, and of those who do 
get through, about 25 percent of them 
get the wrong answer. 

There are many other reasons for to 
get the laws governing the IRS 
changed, and get them changed soon. 
My hope is that the chairman of the 
Finance Committee and the ranking 
member will meet as quickly as possible 
with Mr. ARCHER, Mr. RANGEL, 
and Mr. Rubin. Let’s get this bill 
conferenced as quickly as possible so 
that the American taxpayers, who have 
waited an awful long time for this 
piece of legislation, will get the power 
they deserve—indeed, the power they 
need—in order for them to have confidence 
that this is still Government 
of, by, and for the people. 

Mr. President, I thank you for this 
wonderful opportunity to speak, and I 
yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the amendment. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Nebraska [Mr. KERREY] 

proposes an amendment No. 2215. 

The amendment follows: 

At the end of Title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING PAS


SAGE OF THE IRS RESTRUCTURING 

AND REFORM ACT. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) The House of Representatives overwhelmingly 
passed IRS Reform Legislation, 
(H.R. 2676), on November 5, 1997. 
(2) The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act 
has the potential to benefit 120 million 
Americans by simplifying the tax process 
and making the IRS more responsive to taxpayer 
concerns; 
(3) The President has announced that he 
would sign H.R. 2676; 
(4) The Senate plans to recess without considering 
legislation to reform the IRS. 
(5) The American people are busy preparing 
their taxes to meet the April 15th deadline. 
They do not get to recess before filing their 
returns; and 
(5) Senators should keep their commitment 
to take up and pass IRS reform legislation 
before they recess. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.— 
It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
in this budget resolution assume that the 
Senate shall not recess until it has considered 
and voted on H.R. 2676, the IRS Restructuring 
and Reform Act of 1997. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I inform 
the Senator that we are willing to 
accept his previous sense-of-the-Senate 
amendment, and we have Senator 
BURNS’ amendment. I would like to accept 
them now and then go on to the 
Senator’s second amendment. Is that 
satisfactory? 

Mr. KERREY. Mr. President, I will 
allow them merely to be accepted. I 
was going to ask for a rollcall vote on 
mine. At some point, my fear is, without 
a rollcall vote, I say to the distinguished 
Senator and chairman of the 
committee, it doesn’t necessarily focus 
people’s attention as much as it 
should. I am not sure it will by making 
them vote either, for that matter. 

I know the chairman of this committee 
is very enthusiastic about this 
issue and has spent a lot of time on it 
as well. I just think this whole budget 
deliberation occurs in a never-never 
land where we are talking about surpluses 
and talking about how good everything 
is and we literally are ignoring 
this enormous problem. 

As I said, the people who are going to 
suffer the most are that baby-boom 
generation, and they will find themselves 
in a heck of a dilemma if we do 
not act sooner than later. I appreciate 
the Senator’s willingness to accept my 
amendment and Senator BURNS’ 
amendment. I agree to allow that to go 
forward. 

VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 2214 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question occurs on agreeing to amendment 
No. 2214. 

Without objection, the amendment is 
agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 2214) was agreed 
to. 

VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 2178 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, there 
is pending an amendment No. 2178 by 
Senator BURNS. There is no objection 
on this side and, I understand, no objection 
on the Democrat side. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question occurs on agreeing to the 
amendment. 

Without objection, the amendment is 
agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 2178) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I move to reconsider 
the vote on the two amendments, en 
bloc. 

Mr. ROTH. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I wonder 
if Senator LAUTENBERG would join 
me in just a discussion of where we are. 
And, obviously, I will yield the floor. I 
understand the distinguished chairman 
of the Finance Committee wants to 
speak. I yield myself time off the budget 
resolution. 

Mr. President, fellow Senators, I understand 
we have one vote scheduled on 
or in relationship to the Kyl amendment 
at 12 o’clock. The distinguished 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2893 

Senator is here. He would like to speak 
for 1 minute, and there will be 1 minute 
in opposition. I make that request and 
ask unanimous consent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I would like to just 
tell Senators that we now have about 
29 amendments that are pending, for 
all intents and purposes. I consider 
that everybody wants a vote on them, 
although I hope not. And we still have 
about 18 hours, so there is plenty of 
time for more amendments. And, 
frankly, I just hope everybody understands 
that today is Wednesday, tomorrow 
is Thursday, the next day is 
Friday. 

I think that everybody should share 
with me some concern about whether 
we can finish this resolution unless 
there is some cooperation with reference 
to amendments. I do not ask 
anything of anyone specifically at this 
point, but I hope and I urge that, if 
there are more amendments, you start 
getting them in to us. There is no time 
by which you are bound, but I urge 
that, if you have additional amendments 
or second-degree amendments, 
you let us see them. I am sure my 
friend from New Jersey will join me in 
that. At some point we have to try to 
make a little sense of the process on 
this to see if we can get this work done 
in a timely manner. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG addressed the 
Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. The chairman of 
the Budget Committee neglected to 
mention the fact that voting time is 
not included in the calculation of the 
remaining hours. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Right. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. That is extra 
time. So if we have 29 or 30 votes, and 
even if we were able by some stretch of 
the imagination to reduce that to 15 
minutes, you are talking about more 
than 7 hours added to the—how much 
time do we have remaining, may I ask? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Eighteen 
hours remaining. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Eighteen. So we 
would be looking at prospectively 25 
hours or more. So I say to all of our 
colleagues on both sides, get them in 
here and let us try to get action done 
on them. If a rollcall vote can be dispensed 
with, it will make a huge difference 
in what time we conclude our 
business for this week, reminding everyone, 
all those whose memory is bad 
and can’t recall, the fact that the recess 
begins for 2 weeks, in case anybody 
has forgotten, and should we want 
to hang in through Friday or whatever 
or however long, I understand we are 
going to get this done. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We could stay in 
here very late tonight, into the morning 
and that would put us on a path to 
where we could start voting and we 
could see some daylight. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2169 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I am 
going to yield the floor, but I want to 

make a parliamentary inquiry. Would 
the regular order bring the Kyl amendment 
now to the Senate? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is correct. The Kyl amendment is 
in order. The Senator from Arizona is 
recognized for 1 minute. 

Mr. KYL. Thank you, Mr. President. 

Let me take about 30 seconds and 
then see if anyone on the other side 
wishes to speak to this. This is a very 
simple sense-of-the-Senate resolution, 
and I will read you what the sense is. I 
cannot imagine people would oppose 
this principle. 

It is the sense of Congress that seniors 
have the right to see the physician or health 
care provider of their choice, and not be limited 
in such right by the imposition of unreasonable 
conditions on providers who are willing 
to treat seniors on a private basis. . . 

Mr. President, there are a lot of details 
in legislation that might ultimately 
be passed that we can argue 
about, but I think there is no doubt 
that in expressing the principle, we can 
all be in agreement that just because 
one turns 65 and is eligible for Medicare 
does not mean they lose the right 
to see the physician of their own 
choice. 

Mr. President, I reserve the remainder 
of my time and will see if there is 
anyone who wishes to speak in opposition. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? 

Mr. DASCHLE addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The distinguished 
minority leader. 

Mr. DASCHLE. I understand we have 
1 minute in response. 

Let me just say, this is not in any 
way, shape or form an amendment designed 
to provide patients with more 
choice. This will leave seniors totally 
uncertain about what their Medicare 
will cover and let doctors determine 
the degree of Medicare coverage each 
beneficiary will have. That is what this 
is about: Jeopardizing patients’ rights, 
putting them in a very uncertain set of 
circumstances, taking away the certainty 
and the confidence they have 
when they are in a doctor’s office or in 
a hospital or in an operating room that 
Medicare will pay their bills. Let us 
not jeopardize those patients’ rights or 
their confidence when they are sick 
that the Medicare Program is working 
for them. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I 
want to express my support for Senator 
KYL’s amendment establishing a sense 
of the Congress regarding Medicare 
beneficiaries freedom to privately contract 
with physicians. I understand 
there has been a lot of misinformation 
about private contracting and the Balanced 
Budget Act provision. But the 
fundamental issue behind this debate 
has always been clear. What this really 
boils down to is what is the appropriate 
role of the government. And I just 
don’t believe that the federal government 
should tell seniors how they can 
or cannot spend their own hard earned 
money. While the Balanced Budget Act 

allows private contracting on a limited 
basis, most beneficiaries will not have 
this freedom because physicians who 
privately contract will have to opt out 
of the Medicare program for 2 years. 
Most physicians won’t be able to do 
that, and most beneficiaries would not 
want their doctor to do this. Therefore, 
I support the Kyl amendment to give 
seniors the freedom of choice to privately 
contract. 

Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, 
this past New Year rang in a harsh reality 
for senior citizens of America: As 
of January 1, 1998, senior citizens, for 
all practical purposes, have been 
stripped of a health care right afforded 
to any other insured American—the 
right to pay out-of-pocket for the doctor 
of their choice. 

I am outraged over this provision—a 
provision that was added into the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997 in the twelfth 
hour of negotiations between the White 
House and Congress. 

The provision prohibits doctors who 
privately contract from treating Medicare 
patients for a period of two years. 
Therefore, it is now unlawful for a doctor 
to take a private payment from a 
Medicare-eligible patient if during the 
previous two years he has billed Medicare 
for any service rendered to a patient 
over the age of 65. 

What is the reality of the provision? 
The reality is that it will be almost impossible 
for a senior citizen to contract 
privately for medical services because 
few or no physicians are going to be 
able to make ends meet if they can’t 
accept Medicare patients for two years. 
The reality is that, unlike every other 
insured American, senior citizens have 
now lost a significant right—a right of 
choice in who provides their health 
care. 

Currently seniors are being prohibited 
from going outside of the Medicare 
system for procedures that are not covered 
by Medicare. For example, if a 
senior fell and broke his hip, Medicare 
only reimburses for the lowest-cost hip 
prosthesis. Since seniors cannot pay 
extra to upgrade, they must settle for 
lower quality. (Private contracting 
would enable them to opt for quality.) 

Why is the federal government making 
that decision for seniors? If a 75-
year-old women in Fairbanks, Alaska, 
fell and broke her hip, do you think 
that the government is competent 
enough to decide what hip prosthesis is 
best for her to gain the best mobility 
for the rough weather conditions of 
Fairbanks? 

Last week I turned 65 years old. The 
week before—when I was still 64 years 
old—I could choose any doctor I wanted 
and pay for that doctor in any manner 
I wanted. But now I’m 65, and the 
federal government is suddenly telling 
me I can’t make my own medical decisions—
that I no longer may enter into 
a private contract with my doctor. 

Mr. President, I ask you, isn’t this a 
form of age discrimination against seniors? 
How can the Health Care Financing 
Administration restrict such a fundamental 
liberty—the freedom to 


S2894 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

choose the care and quality of health 
providers? 

The need for a senior citizen to be 
able to privately contract is magnified 
in Alaska. Alaska has no HMOs, physician 
shortages exist in two-thirds of 
the state and health care costs that are 
on average 70 percent higher than the 
rest of the country. 

All these factors combine to create a 
system where doctors can’t afford to 
treat Medicare patients—which means 
that patient choice for Alaskan seniors 
is extremely limited. I’ve received letters 
from Alaskans who have been 
turned down by three or four physicians—
because the doctors cannot afford 
new Medicare patients. 

I am pleased with Senator Kyl’s 
sense of Congress—I believe it is an important 
stand for Congress to make. 
The body must do all it can to ensure 
that Medicare-eligible beneficiaries 
who choose to pay out of pocket will 
have an unrestricted right to health 
care. 

Mr. President, even in the socialized 
medical system of Great Britain, 
choice is offered to the elderly. In 
Great Britain, a senior citizen has the 
choice to pay privately for his or her 
medical services. Don’t the elderly of 
America deserve that same choice? 

Mr. DODD. Mr. President, today I 
rise to express my opposition to Senator 
KYL’s sense of the Senate Amendment 
to the Budget Resolution. While 
this amendment raises important concerns 
about the scope of seniors’ 
choices in determining their personal 
health care needs, this proposal may 
actually restrict the health care options 
available to our nation’s senior 
citizens and undermine the quality of 
care afforded all Medicare beneficiaries. 


Initially, Senator KYL’s amendment 
simply seems to endorse the important 
role of choice for seniors when making 
critical decisions about their personal 
health. I strongly support efforts to increase 
the health care options available 
to Medicare beneficiaries and improve 
the quality of health care that 
seniors receive. However, this amendment 
would move us in the wrong direction. 
With approximately 96 percent 
of physicians treating Medicare patients 
presently, choice of physicians 
does not appear to be a problem for 
Medicare beneficiaries. In reality, 
Medicare allows seniors to choose the 
doctor of their choice along with providing 
protections that shield Medicare 
beneficiaries from unnecessarily high 
out-of-pocket costs. Ironically, in 
many ways, Senator KYL’s amendment 
is a problem in search of a solution. 

Senator KYL’s legislation specifically 
supports private contracting between 
physicians and patients for services 
traditionally covered by Medicare. By 
allowing doctor’s to privately contract 
for these services, this amendment 
could effectively remove consumer protections 
designed to protect seniors’ 
from excessive out-of-pocket costs. 
These protections are critically impor


tant to the elderly who rely on the affordable 
and high-quality care that 
Medicare provides. Private-contracting 
for Medicare-covered services would 
cause seniors to pay 100 percent of any 
given health care service or benefit. 
Few seniors can afford or have any desire 
to pay, such exorbitantly high-
rates. It is also important to note that 
seniors’ are perfectly free to contract 
privately with their doctor on health 
care benefits not covered by Medicare 
such as routine physical exams, eye 
care, and prescription drugs. However, 
by permitting doctors to charge their 
Medicare patients whatever they wish 
for Medicare-covered health care services, 
we would be subjecting seniors’ to 
unnecessarily high-out of pocket costs 
and would compromise the quality of 
care afforded to all Medicare beneficiaries. 


I am also deeply concerned that this 
initiative would create a two-tiered 
health care system for the elderly, 
threatening the quality of care afforded 
all Medicare beneficiaries. Private 
contracting could create an incentive 
for wealthier and healthier beneficiaries 
to opt out of the Medicare program. 
This could lead to a health care 
system that provides high-quality coverage 
to those seniors’ who could afford 
the high out-of-pocket costs associated 
with private-contracting, while leaving 
the majority of Medicare beneficiaries 
with substandard care. Almost 70 percent 
of Medicare beneficiaries have an 
annual income under $25,000. It is simply 
unconscionable for these seniors of 
modest means to be subject to paying 
100 percent of their health care bill to 
services that are normally covered 
under the Medicare program. Additionally, 
the implementation of a private-
contracting system would provide an 
incentive for doctor’s to give priority 
to those Medicare beneficiaries who 
can afford to pay for it at the expense 
of providing quality and affordable 
care to the majority of Medicare beneficiaries. 


Additionally, the Kyl amendment 
would offer the potential for increased 
fraud and abuse within the Medicare 
program. The Medicare system is already 
fraught with staggering levels of 
fraud and abuse. According to the Inspector 
General of the U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Services, $23.2 
billion annually is wasted on fraud and 
abuse in the Medicare program. Given 
the financial challenges that face the 
Medicare program in the near future, 
this level of abuse in unacceptable. Allowing 
physicians to set their own payment 
rates for certain patients, while 
simultaneously permitting them to 
submit claims to Medicare for the 
treatment of traditional Medicare 
beneficiaries for the very same procedures, 
would create the opportunity for 
double billing, a serious form of fraud 
and abuse. While we should be moving 
to prevent fraud and abuse in the Medicare 
system, private contracting would 
offer the potential for increased fraud 
in the Medicare system. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG addressed the 
Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Yes. I want to 
point out that the pending amendment 
is not germane, and I raise a point of 
order that the amendment violates section 
305(b)(2) of the Congressional 
Budget Act. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 

point of order is not sustained. 

Mr. KYL addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from Arizona. 

Mr. KYL. Might I inquire, how much 
time is remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has some 20 seconds. 

Mr. KYL. Thank you. 

I want to respond to the distinguished 
minority leader. 

It is true that legislation that would 
actually change the law would certainly 
have to consider all kinds of 
issues dealing with fraud and abuse and 
similar questions that the distinguished 
minority leader has raised. We 
can have that debate at the time such 
legislation might come before us. 

What is before us today is simply a 
sense of the Senate, an expression of a 
principle that it is the sense of Congress 
that seniors have the right to see 
the physician or health care provider of 
their choice. I hope we can at least 
agree on that basic principle. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question occurs on agreeing to amendment 
No. 2169, the Kyl amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
before we call the roll, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senator from Washington 
be able to send up two amendments. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 2216 AND 2217, EN BLOC 

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I send 
two amendments to the desk and ask 
unanimous consent that they be laid 
aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Washington [Mrs. MURRAY] 
proposes amendments numbered 2216 
and 2217. 

Mrs. MURRAY. I ask unanimous consent 
reading of the amendments be dispensed 
with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendments are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2216 
(Purpose: To increase Function 500 discretionary 
budget authority and outlays to 
accommodate both President Clinton’s investments 
in education and the $2.5 billion 

increase assumed by the resolution for 

IDEA) 

On page 16, line 9, increase the amount by 
$2,088,000,000. 

On page 16, line 10, increase the amount by 
$81,000,000. 

On page 16, line 13, increase the amount by 
$1,776,000,000. 

On page 16, line 14, increase the amount by 
$1,487,000,000. 

On page 16, line 17, increase the amount by 
$1,437,000,000. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2895 

On page 16, line 18, increase the amount by 
$1,686,000,000. 

On page 16, line 21, increase the amount by 
$593,000,000. 

On page 16, line 22, increase the amount by 
$1,301,000,000. 

On page 25, line 8, strike ‘‘¥$300,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$2,388,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 9, strike ‘‘¥$1,900,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$1,981,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 12, strike ‘‘¥$1,200,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$2,976,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 13, strike ‘‘¥$4,600,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$6,087,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 16, strike ‘‘¥$2,700,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$4,137,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 17, strike ‘‘¥$3,000,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$4,686,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 20, strike ‘‘¥$3,800,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$4,393,000,000.’’ 

On page 25, line 21, strike ‘‘¥$7,000,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$8,301,000,000.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 2217 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding the expansion of Medicare bene


fits) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON EXPANDING 
MEDICARE BENEFITS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 
(1) In the 1997 Balanced Budget Agreement, 
changes were made to Medicare that extended 
the solvency of the Trust Fund for 10 
years. 
(2) The Medicare Commission, also established 
in the Balanced Budget Agreement, 
has just started the task of examining the 
Medicare program in an effort to make sound 
policy recommendations to Congress and the 
Administration about what needs to be done 
to ensure that Medicare is financially prepared 
to handle the added burden when the 
baby boomers begin retiring. 
(3) The problems facing Medicare are not 
about more revenues. The program needs to 
do more to improve the health care status of 
retirees and give them more choices and better 
information to make wise consumer decisions 
when purchasing health care services. 
(4) Improving the health care status of senior 
citizens would ensure additional savings 
for Medicare. Helping seniors stay healthier 
should be a priority of any legislation aimed 
at protecting Medicare. 
(5) In order to keep seniors healthier, Medicare 
has to become more prevention based. 
Currently, Medicare offers very few prevention 
benefits. As a result, seniors are often 
sicker when they seek care or are hospitalized. 
(6) If the objective is to use tobacco revenues 
to save Medicare, a portion of these new 
revenues must be allocated to expanding prevention 
benefits. 
(7) Preventing illnesses or long hospital 
stays or repeated hospital stays will save 
Medicare dollars. 
(8) Medicare cannot be saved without 
structural changes and reforms. Simply 
using a new Federal tax to prop up Medicare 
will not extend solvency much beyond a few 
months and will do little to improve the 
health status of senior citizens and the disabled. 
(9) Congress should use these new revenues 
to expand prevention benefits to ensure that 
seniors are healthier and stronger. This is 
how we can truly save Medicare. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals underlying 
this resolution assume the allocation 
of a portion of the Federal share of tobacco 
revenues to expand prevention benefits 
for Medicare beneficiaries with an emphasis 
on improving the health status of Medicare 
beneficiaries and providing long term savings 
to the program. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the two amendments are laid 
aside. 

VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 2169 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to amendment 
No. 2169, the Kyl amendment. The yeas 
and nays have been ordered. The clerk 
will call the roll. 

Mr. FORD. I announce that the Senator 
from Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) 
and the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY) are necessarily absent. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 51, 
nays 47, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 53 Leg.] 

YEAS—51 
Abraham Gorton Mack 
Allard Gramm McCain 
Ashcroft Grams McConnell 
Bennett Grassley Murkowski 
Bond Gregg Nickles 
Brownback Hagel Roberts 
Burns Hatch Roth 
Campbell Helms Santorum 
Coats Hollings Sessions 
Cochran Hutchinson Shelby 
Coverdell Hutchison Smith (NH) 
Craig Inhofe Smith (OR) 
DeWine Jeffords Stevens 
Domenici Kempthorne Thomas 
Enzi Kyl Thompson 
Faircloth Lott Thurmond 
Frist Lugar Warner 
NAYS—47 
Akaka Dorgan Lieberman 
Baucus Durbin Mikulski 
Biden Feingold Moseley-Braun 
Bingaman 
Boxer 
Breaux 
Feinstein 
Ford 
Glenn 
Moynihan 
Murray 
Reed 
Bryan 
Bumpers 
Byrd 
Chafee 
Cleland 
Collins 
Conrad 
Graham 
Harkin 
Inouye 
Johnson 
Kerrey 
Kohl 
Landrieu 
Reid 
Robb 
Rockefeller 
Sarbanes 
Snowe 
Specter 
D’Amato 
Daschle 
Dodd 
Lautenberg 
Leahy 
Levin 
Torricelli 
Wellstone 
Wyden 

NOT VOTING—2 

Kennedy Kerry 

The amendment (No. 2169) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. LOTT. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The distinguished 
majority leader. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, this is not 
aimed at any Senator or group of Senators, 
but it is so that we will all be on 
notice. In order to be able to complete 
this budget resolution, we are going to 
have to stick to the 15 minute-votes. I 
realize that there are markups going 
on and Senators have a lot of commitments, 
but for the remainder of 
today—Senator DASCHLE and I have 
talked about this—we think it is important 
we begin to stick to 15-minute 
votes or 10-minute votes if we have in 
a group stacked votes, so we will start 

sticking pretty close to the time that 
is allocated. 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, will the 
majority leader yield for a question? 

Mr. LOTT. I am glad to yield. 

Mr. FORD. We are in a major markup 
in the Commerce Committee, and if 
there is any way you could stack a 
vote or two to let us come over and 
spend a few minutes and make several 
votes and then go back to the committee, 
I think it might be helpful, 
rather than having us run back and 
forth. There is hope we might be able 
to finish that markup, if not late tonight, 
tomorrow. I am not asking to 
change your schedule or your votes, 
just group them together sometime, if 
you could. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, if I could 
say to the Senator from Kentucky, 
they are certainly involved in very important 
work, and we will take that 
into consideration. As a matter of fact, 
we are going to enter a unanimous consent 
request that would allow us to 
stack some votes. Senator DASCHLE 
had suggested that, and it seems like a 
good way to proceed where we will 
have up to as many as, I think, four 
votes that are stacked. 

Mr. FORD. I thank the Senator. 

Mr. LOTT. Would the Democratic 
leader like to make a comment before 
I make the UC? 

In order to ascertain the remaining 
workload then ahead of us to bring the 
budget resolution to conclusion, I now 
ask unanimous consent that all first-
degree amendments must be offered by 
6 p.m. this evening. I further ask that 
at 5:40 p.m. this evening the minority 
manager be recognized to offer any 
amendments necessary for the minority 
side of the aisle, and at 5:50 p.m. 
Senator DOMENICI be recognized for up 
to 10 minutes to offer amendments necessary 
at that point for the majority 
side. 

I further ask that following the 
scheduled 2 p.m. vote today, all first-
degree amendments be limited to 30 
minutes, all second-degree amendments 
be limited to 20 minutes, with 
any votes ordered on any remaining 
amendments to be stacked in a sequence 
to be decided by the two managers. 
I further ask that the first vote 
in the stacked voting sequence be limited 
to 15 minutes and all remaining 
votes in the sequence be reduced to 10 
minutes in length. 

We hope they will stack as many as 
three and four in those groupings. But 
it will be up to them, after, of course, 
consulting with the leaders, to make 
sure we are taking into consideration 
other things that may be going on. 

I finally ask that all time consumed 
during rollcall votes be counted 
against the overall statutory time 
limit and the new time restraints on 
first- and second-degree amendments 
expire at the conclusion or yielding 
back of the overall time limit. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
reserving the right to object—and 


S2896 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

I will not object—I just want to make 
certain that the time agreement with 
regard to the schools amendment has 
been unchanged. 

Mr. DASCHLE. That is correct. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. That is correct. 


Mr. LOTT. That is correct. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair hears no objection, and it is so 
ordered. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I 
didn’t want to object, and I was going 
to make that clarification following 
the conclusion of the request, but I 
would only add one clarification, which 
I know the majority leader will want 
to do, and that is to allow 1 minute 
prior to each vote in a stacked sequence, 
to be sure that we can explain 
the circumstances, as is normally our 
procedure in stacked votes. I know 
that colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle have requested that in the past. 

With that understanding and also 
with the understanding, of course, that 
Senator MOSELEY-BRAUN would then be 
recognized following this UC to offer 
her amendment, I think this is a good 
plan and I commend all of those involved, 
especially our Chair and ranking 
member. Obviously, we won’t get 
done with this unless we can find a way 
in which to manage more efficiently 
the time remaining. This does it, and I 
appreciate the cooperation of Members 
on both sides. 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I do amend 
the unanimous consent request to include 
the 1 minute before each vote and 
ask for a ruling now. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LOTT. I yield the floor, Mr. 
President. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, might 
I just ask—everybody might want to 
know this—if in fact we don’t complete 
all the amendments under the prescription 
we have just agreed to, then if 
there are remaining amendments, this 
agreement does not pertain to this at 
all, that will be looked at by the Senate; 
we will get it done one way or another? 


Mr. LOTT. That is correct. I think 
this is a very major step forward. We 
will still need to assess where we are 
tonight and in the morning. Any 
amendments still pending at the end, 
we will still have to deal with those in 
as orderly a fashion as we possibly can. 
But I think this will help us move a 
number of amendments so that we 
won’t have as many amendments at 
the end of the session. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
thank the distinguished majority leader 
and the minority leader for helping 
with this. Obviously, this is a much 
more orderly process, and I think it 
has a chance of working to the enhancement 
of the Senate’s ability to do 
this work right. 

I understand that the distinguished 
Senator from Illinois is going to call up 
an amendment, after which she is 
going to yield promptly so that Sen


ator ROTH might speak for a few minutes, 
and then it will return to her for 
control of her time and we will have 
time on our side. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Yes. I say to 
the Senator from New Mexico, I have 
been asked by the Senator from Delaware 
and the Senator from North Dakota 
as well as Senator ROTH—all three 
have business they would like to attend 
to before this amendment is taken 
up, and so I would suggest to the Senator 
from New Mexico that might be 
appropriate—let all three Senators go 
before this amendment is taken up. 

Mr. DOMENICI. That is fine with me. 
I thought the minority leader had 
asked me to call her amendment up 
and then go ahead and yield this time. 
But if you want to do it another way— 
Senator ROTH, are you satisfied? 

Mr. ROTH. I want to speak next. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Would it be possible 
that we could agree then that if you 
are going to withhold until the following 
events occur, that Senator 
ROTH be permitted to speak for 15 minutes? 
But he would be preceded by two 
Senators who want to just offer amendments. 


Mr. BIDEN. If the Senator will yield, 
I need 5 seconds, 10 seconds possibly. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Is that possible? 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, might I clarify. 
I would like 5 seconds as well to 
offer an amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
North Dakota. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 2218 AND 2219 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent the pending amendment 
be set aside that I may send two 
amendments to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from North Dakota [Mr. DORGAN] 
proposes amendments numbered 2218 
and 2219. 

The text of the amendments follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2218 
(Purpose: To strike section 301 of the concurrent 
resolution, which expresses the sense 
of Congress regarding the sunset of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, and replace it 
with a section expressing the sense of Congress 
that important tax incentives such 

as those for encouraging home ownership 

and charitable giving should be retained) 

Strike page 33, line 3, through page 34, line 
3, and insert the following: 

SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE TAX 

TREATMENT OF HOME MORTGAGE 

INTEREST AND CHARITABLE GIVING. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) current Federal income tax laws embrace 
a number of fundamental tax policies 
including longstanding encouragement for 
home ownership and charitable giving; 
(2) the mortgage interest deduction is 
among the most important incentives in the 
income tax code and promotes the American 
Dream of home ownership—the single largest 
investment for most families, and preserving 
it is critical for the more than 20,000,000 families 
claiming it now and for millions more 
in the future; 
(3) favorable tax treatment to encourage 
gifts to charities is a longstanding principle 
that helps charities raise funds needed to 
provide services to poor families and others 
when government is simply unable or unwilling 
to do so, and maintaining this tax incentive 
will help charities raise money to meet 
the challenges of their charitable missions in 
the decades ahead; 

(4) legislation has been proposed to repeal 
the entire income tax code at the end of the 
year 2001 without providing a specific replacement; 
and 
(5) recklessly sunsetting the entire income 
tax code threatens our Nation’s future economic 
growth and unwisely eliminates existing 
tax incentives that are crucial for taxpayers 
who are often making the most important 
financial decisions of their lives. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that the levels in this resolution 
assume that Congress supports the continued 
tax deductibility of home mortgage interest 
and charitable contributions. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2219 
(Purpose: To establish a reserve fund for 
health research at the National Institutes 

of Health, funded by receipts from tobacco 
legislation) 
At the appropriate place in the resolution, 

insert the following: 

SEC. . HEALTH RESEARCH RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be adjusted 
and allocations may be adjusted for legislation 
that reserves 21 percent of the Federal 
share of receipts from tobacco legislation for 
the health research purposes provided in subsection 
(b), provided that, to the extent that 
this concurrent resolution on the budget 
does not include the costs of that legislation, 
the enactment of that legislation will not increase 
(by virtue of either contemporaneous 
or previously-passed deficit reduction) the 
deficit in this resolution for— 
(1) fiscal year 1999; 
(2) the period of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003; or 
(3) the period of fiscal years 2004 through 
2009. 
(b) ELIGIBLE HEALTH RESEARCH.—Of the receipts 
from tobacco legislation reserved pursuant 
to subsection (a), the following 
amounts may be used for the following purposes: 
(1) 7.5 percent of such receipts to fund research 
into the prevention and cure of cancer; 
(2) 7.5 percent of such receipts to fund research 
into the prevention and cure of heart 
disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases; 
(3) 2 percent of such receipts, to be allocated 
at the discretion of the Director of the 
National Institutes of Health, to fund the responsibilities 
of this office and to fund construction 
and acquisition of equipment or facilities 
for the National Institutes of Health; 
(4) 2 percent of such receipts for transfer to 
the National Center for Research Resources 
to carry out section 1502 of the National Institutes 
of Health Revitalization Act of 1993; 
(5) 1 percent of such receipts to fund prevention 
research programs at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention; 
(6) 1 percent of such receipts to fund quality 
and health outcomes research at the 
Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; 
and 
(7) the remainder of such receipts to fund 
other member institutes and centers, including 
the Office of AIDS Research, of the National 
Institutes of Health in the same proportion 
to such remainder, as the amount of 
annual appropriations under appropriations 
acts for each member institute and center 
for a fiscal year bears to the total amount of 
appropriations under appropriations acts for 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2897 

all member institutes and centers for that 
fiscal year. 

(c) REVISED LEVELS, AGGREGATE AND ALLOCATIONS.— 
(1) ADJUSTMENTS FOR LEGISLATION.—Upon 
the consideration of legislation pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file 
with the Senate appropriately-revised allocations 
under Section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this 
section. 
(2) ADJUSTMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS.—If the 
Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of 
the Senate submits an adjustment under this 
section for legislation in furtherance of the 
purposes described in subsection (b), upon 
the offering of an amendment that would necessitate 
such submission, the Chairman 
shall submit to the Senate appropriately-revised 
allocations under Section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revised 
functional levels and aggregates to carry out 
this section. 
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Revised allocations, 
functional levels and aggregates 
submitted or filed pursuant to this subsection 
shall be considered for the purposes 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, 
functional levels and aggregates 
contained in this resolution. 
(c) REPORTING REVISED ALLOCATIONS.—The 
appropriate committees shall report appropriately-
revised allocations pursuant to Section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 to carry out this section. 
(d) APPLICATIONS OF SECTION 202 OF 
H.CON.RES. 67.—Section 202 of H.Con.Res. 67 
(104th Congress) shall not apply for purposes 
of this section. 
Mr. DORGAN. I ask unanimous consent 
they be set aside. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
The Senator from Delaware is recognized. 


AMENDMENT NO. 2220 
(Purpose: To permit the use of Federal tobacco 
funds to reimburse the Veterans Ad


ministration for the costs of treating 

smoking-related illnesses) 

Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the pending 
amendment be set aside temporarily so 
I may offer an amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BIDEN. I send the amendment to 
the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Delaware [Mr. BIDEN] 

proposes an amendment numbered 2220. 

Mr. BIDEN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 28, line 5, before the period insert 
‘‘and Veterans Administration health care’’. 

Mr. BIDEN. I further ask that my 
amendment be set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Arizona. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2221 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

supporting a supermajority requirement 

for raising taxes) 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the pending amend


ment be set aside for the purpose of offering 
an amendment, which I send to 
the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Arizona [Mr. KYL], for 
himself, Mr. GRAMS, Mr. HELMS, Mr. BROWNBACK, 
and Mr. HAGEL, proposes an amend


ment numbered 2221. 

The text of the amendment follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING A 

SUPERMAJORITY REQUIREMENT 

FOR RAISING TAXES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the Nation’s current tax system is indefensible, 
being overly complex, burdensome, 
and severely limiting to economic opportunity 
for all Americans; 
(2) fundamental tax reform should be undertaken 
as soon as practicable to produce a 
tax system that— 
(A) applies a low tax rate, through easily 
understood laws, to all Americans; 
(B) provides tax relief for working Americans; 
(C) protects the rights of taxpayers and reduces 
tax collection abuses; 
(D) eliminates the bias against savings and 
investment; 
(E) promotes economic growth and job creation; 
(F) does not penalize marriage or families; 
and 
(G) provides for a taxpayer-friendly collections 
process to replace the Internal Revenue 
Service; and 
(3) the stability and longevity of any new 
tax system designed to achieve these goals 
should be guaranteed with a supermajority 
vote requirement so that Congress cannot 
easily raise tax rates, impose new taxes, or 
otherwise increase the amount of a taxpayer’s 
income that is subject to tax. 
(b) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of 
Senate that the assumptions underlying the 
functional totals of this resolution assume 
fundamental tax reform that is accompanied 
by a proposal to amend the Constitution of 
the United States to require a supermajority 
vote in each House of Congress to approve 
tax increases. 
Mr. KYL. I ask that the amendment 
be temporarily laid aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Delaware. 

Mr. ROTH. Mr. President, this budget 
resolution contains some provisions 
that I applaud, but it falls short in several 
areas: first, the proposed tax cuts 
are too small to provide the relief that 
taxpayers need and deserve; second, it 
does not adequately restrain the 
growth and reach of the Federal Government. 
Third, it is not what the 
hardworking men and women of America 
desire nor deserve. They deserve 
better. 

The current economic expansion is 
now 84 months old, the third longest on 
record. Overall growth rate has been 
relatively steady and moderate. In the 
last three months alone, more than one 
million new jobs have been created, 
while the unemployment rate has been 
reduced to a 24-year low. In addition, 
inflation as measured by the CPI is 
only 1.6 percent. 

In the midst of this prosperity our 
citizens are burdened by levels of tax


ation that are increasingly oppressive—
all to satisfy the appetite of the 
Federal behemoth. This condition runs 
contrary to counsel handed down from 
President Jefferson—counsel we would 
do well to heed as we move forward 
with the budget debate. In his First 
Annual message to the Congress, President 
Jefferson wrote that the object of 
congressional efforts should be ‘‘to preserve 
the general and State governments 
in their constitutional form and 
equilibrium; to maintain peace abroad, 
and order and obedience to the laws at 
home; to establish principles and practices 
of administration favorable to the 
security of liberty and prosperity, and 
to reduce expenses to what is necessary 
for the useful purposes of government.’’ 

These are among the core principles 
which have thus far separated our nation 
from the rest of the world. 

It is up to this Congress to apply 
President Jefferson’s principle to ‘‘reduce 
expenses to what is necessary for 
the useful purposes of government.’’ 
All else should remain in the hands of 
our citizens. 

Today, revenue levels are at all time 
highs, approaching 20 percent of GDP 
in both this fiscal year and the next. 
Not only are these levels high in historical 
terms, they are unprecedented 
for a peace-time economy. In fact, the 
only time in this century that revenues 
were higher was during World War II. 

Unfortunately, this does not appear 
to be an anomaly; the Congressional 
Budget Office projects that unusually 
high levels of revenue will continue to 
be extracted from taxpayers for the 
foreseeable future. 

It is worth noting, Mr. President, 
that these very same revenues are 
largely responsible for the budget surplus 
that has generated so much excitement 
here in Washington. In fact, 
the current surplus is mainly attributable 
to additional unanticipated revenues 
of about $72 billion in 1997, rather 
than the effect of spending cuts. It is 
also worth noting that these revenues 
have been fueled mainly by our strong 
economic growth in the last year. 

Yet, despite the record high level of 
revenues that the Federal Government 
now collects to feed its appetite for 
spending, we are told that we need additional 
Federal programs! Over the 
past 2 months, President Clinton has 
engaged in a well orchestrated campaign 
to secure approval for spending 
billions of dollars more on new and expanded 
government programs. He has 
set a trap for the American people by 
promising to do more for them in exchange 
for higher taxes on their capital 
and labor. 

We have balanced the Federal budget. 
But that is only one of the steps to be 
taken to meet Jefferson’s objective. We 
must go on to examine whether the 
current size and breadth, let alone further 
expansion, of the Federal Government 
for these purposes justifies the 
taxation on the toil of our fellow citizens. 
Let’s never forget that the revenue 
collected by Washington does not 


S2898 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

belong to the Federal Government; it 
belongs to the hard-working men and 
women of this country. 

Mr. President, the budget resolution 
should allow for immediate and significant 
tax relief for American taxpayers. 
However, the $30 billion of tax cuts proposed 
in the current resolution are not 
sufficient to provide this relief. 

I would like to see this budget resolution 
contain total tax cuts of at least 
$65 billion over 5 years. These cuts 
could take a number of forms, including 
marriage penalty reforms, family 
tax relief, and savings and investment 
incentives. 

For example, half of American families 
face the marriage penalty. The 
Congress proposed to phase out the 
marriage penalty for non-itemizers as 
part of the 1995 Balanced Budget Act, 
but the proposal was vetoed by President 
Clinton. In addition to marriage 
penalty relief, consideration could be 
given to tax relief for families such as 
a child care credits for both stay-at-
home parents and working parents. Ultimately, 
whatever the final form that 
tax cuts take, the crucial consideration 
is that they be substantive and immediate. 


However, we are limited in the ways 
that we can offset these tax cuts. While 
the President’s Fiscal Year 1999 budget 
contains a number of revenue raisers, 
many are rehashed, or controversial 
proposals that have failed before due to 
opposition on both sides of the aisle. 

We also cannot look to the spending 
programs within the jurisdiction of the 
Finance Committee for savings. We are 
all firmly committed to protecting the 
reforms we have made to the Medicare, 
Medicaid and welfare programs, and 
should make no further changes at this 
time. In my opinion, the best option is 
for the cuts to be offset through the 
use of a portion of the tobacco settlement 
revenues. 

While the lack of meaningful tax relief 
is my main objection to this budget 
resolution, I am also disappointed to 
see that there is no provision to make 
better use of the budget surplus. 

We should not simply spend this surplus, 
or set it aside; we can do better 
for our families and the future. I 
strongly believe that the most productive 
use of thee surpluses is to fund individual 
Social Security investment 
accounts for all workers who contribute 
to the payroll tax. Therefore, 
Mr. president, I will be offering a sense-
of-the-Senate amendment to instruct 
the Finance Committee to report a Social 
Security bill this year. The bill 
would dedicate the budget surplus to 
fund Social Security personal retirement 
accounts. Equally important, my 
bill will place the Senate on record for 
putting these surpluses to work for the 
American taxpayers, and not simply 
setting them aside to be spend on other 
less important priorities than social security. 


Finally, Mr. President, I must express 
my concern over some of the 
methods for shifting funds around 

under the budget resolution. Budget 
rules should not be invented to give authority 
to one committee to achieve 
budget savings under the jurisdiction 
of another committee. More specifically, 
this resolution gives control over 
the Medicaid program and welfare programs 
to the Appropriations Committee. 
Moreover, savings are to be 
achieved through administrative reforms 
which may prove to be unfair 
and unworkable with our partners, the 
states. Reforming Medicaid and finding 
program savings in the child support 
enforcement system or finding other 
alternatives should be a task for the 
committee of jurisdiction—namely the 
Finance Committee. 

Mr. President, the American people 
expect more from us. And it is incumbent 
upon us to see that they get it. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. I 
make a point of order a quorum is not 
present. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
THOMAS). Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it is my 
understanding the Senator from Illinois, 
under the rule previously agreed 
to, has 2 hours for debate on her 
amendment? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Two 
hours. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2175 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
I thank the Senator from Illinois. 
I call up amendment No. 2175 and ask 
for its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 
The Senator from Illinois [Ms. MOSELEY-

BRAUN] proposes an amendment numbered 
2175. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
I ask unanimous consent that 
reading of the amendment be dispensed 
with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(The text of the amendment is printed 
in the March 30, 1998 edition of the 
RECORD.) 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
I ask unanimous consent that 
Senators DASCHLE, KENNEDY, HARKIN, 
and MURRAY be added as cosponsors of 
this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
I yield myself as much time as I 
may require, until such time as someone 
else comes up to speak. 

This amendment expresses the sense 
of the Senate that the fiscal year 1999 
budget resolution assumes that we will 
enact legislation creating a partnership 
between State and local governments 
and the private sector to rebuild 

and modernize our schools and classrooms 
for the 21st century. The amendment 
calls for the enactment of legislation 
similar to S. 1705, the Public 
School Modernization Act of 1998, 
which I have introduced along with a 
number of my colleagues. Our bill 
would establish a simple and effective 
means of helping communities modernize 
and revitalize their schools. 

The bill creates a new category of 
zero coupon bonds for States and 
school districts to issue to finance capital 
improvements. States and school 
districts would be able to issue $21.8 
billion worth of these bonds over the 
next 2 years. Purchasers of the new 
bonds would receive Federal income 
tax credits in lieu of interest, thereby 
cutting the cost of upgrading the 
schools by at least a third and in some 
cases up to 50 percent. The bill will 
cost the Federal Government only $3.3 
billion over five years. 

This amendment to the budget resolution 
is the first step toward enacting 
that legislation. It sends a signal that 
we in the Senate are serious about improving 
education in America. 

I call your attention to this report 
card for America’s infrastructure. You 
will notice that school buildings get a 
failing grade; mass transit got a grade 
of C—we have taken up the infrastructure 
needs for mass transit; bridges, a 
C-minus; solid waste, a C-minus; waste 
water treatment, D-plus; roads, D-
minus—but schools get an F. We are 
literally sending our children to crumbling 
schools in which education becomes 
well-nigh impossible. 

Those children—14 million of them, 
in fact—every day attend schools that 
are so deteriorated that they do not 
even meet basic code; 14 million children 
in this country every day attend 
schools which are that dilapidated, Mr. 
President. From all indications, in failing 
to provide for the modernization, 
renovation and repair of school facilities, 
we are literally causing these children 
to get less educational opportunity 
than they should be entitled to, 
but we are also hampering our Nation’s 
ability to be competitive in the 21st 
century. 

At no point in our history has education 
been more important to both individual 
achievement or national prosperity. 
As H. G. Wells wrote nearly 80 
years ago: ‘‘Human history becomes 
more and more a race between education 
and catastrophe.’’ 

Education in America correlates with 
opportunity for individuals, for families 
and for our entire Nation. Indeed, 
the rungs on the ladder of opportunity 
in America are crafted in the classroom. 
It is very clear that high school 
graduates earn more money over the 
course of a lifetime. As a matter of 
fact, every year they earn 46 percent 
more than people who do not graduate 
from high school. College graduates 
earn 155 percent more than those who 
do not complete high school. And, of 
course, over the course of a lifetime, 
the most educated Americans will earn 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2899 

five times as much as the least educated 
Americans. That is on an individual 
level. 

The truth is that education correlates 
with every indicia of economic 
and social well-being. Educational attainment 
can be tied directly to income, 
to health, to the likelihood of 
being on welfare, to the likelihood of 
being incarcerated, and even to the 
likelihood of voting and participating 
in our democracy. 

It is, however, more than a tool to 
lift people out of poverty or to have a 
better standard of living. It is also the 
engine that will drive America’s economy 
into the 21st century. In a Wall 
Street Journal survey last year of leading 
economists, 43 percent of them said 
the single most important thing we 
could do to increase our long-term economic 
growth rate would be to invest 
more in education, research and development. 
Nothing else came even close 
in the survey. One economist said: 

One of the few things economists will agree 
upon is the fact that economic growth is 
very strongly dependent on our own abilities. 


Another study, looking at the changing 
nature of the American work force, 
said: 

The crucial factor accounting for long-
term success in the work force is a basic education 
provided at the primary and secondary 
levels. 

Of course, a recent study by the Manufacturing 
Institute confirmed that 
claim. It concluded that increasing the 
education level of workers by just 1 
year raises the productivity level by 8.5 
percent in manufacturing. 

If we fail to invest in education, we 
will put our Nation’s economic future 
at risk. Unfortunately, too many of our 
schools, again, are not in adequate 
physical condition to meet the educational 
needs of our children. Too 
many of our schools are literally crumbling 
down around the students. 

The General Accounting Office, 
which did a major study, a landmark 
study, on this issue found that 14 million 
children attend schools in need of 
major renovation or outright replacement. 
Some 7 million children every 
day attend schools with life-threatening 
safety code violations. And they 
concluded that it will cost $112 billion 
just to bring our schools up to code— 
$112 billion across the country just to 
bring our schools up to code. That does 
not equip them with computers. That 
is not bells and whistles. That is just 
to address the toll that decades of deferred 
maintenance has taken. So this 
F relates to the $112 billion demand on 
us as Americans just to get our schools 
up to code in this country. 

I say ‘‘the country’’ broadly, and the 
truth is that crumbling schools are to 
be found in every corner of America. 
Again, according to the GAO, some 38 
percent of schools in urban areas are in 
this kind of dilapidated condition; 30 
percent of rural schools are in the same 
condition; and 29 percent of suburban 
schools are in the worst condition. 

Again, this is not statistically all that 
different between 29 percent in the suburbs, 
30 percent in rural areas and 38 
percent in urban areas. 

Mr. President, the problem with 
crumbling schools has become so widespread 
that even Peppermint Patty in 
the Peanuts cartoon has a leaky school 
roof. Take a look here. In this series of 
Peanuts cartoon, Peppermint Patty 
and her friend Marcie express their 
frustration over the fact that they cannot 
get anyone to repair the leaky 
roof. ‘‘It’s keeping me awake.’’ The 
roof is leaking. They still don’t take it. 

Marcie forgot to mention the repair 
of the roof as she talked about the fact 
that the children were having difficulty 
learning. But the truth of the 
matter is that we cannot forget about 
the fact that our schools are dilapidated. 


In my State of Illinois, school modernization 
and construction needs top 
$13 billion. Many of Illinois’ school districts 
have a difficult time even buying 
textbooks and pencils, much less financing 
major capital improvements. 
This legislation would free up local resources 
in my State for education by 
providing Federal support for rebuilding 
the schools. 

This $112 billion national school repair 
price tag, as enormous as it may 
sound, again, does not include the cost 
of wiring schools and getting them up 
to speed for modern technology. One of 
the greatest barriers to the incorporation 
of modern computers into classrooms 
is that the physical condition of 
many school buildings will not allow 
for it. You cannot very well use a computer 
if you cannot plug it into the 
wall. 

Again, to quote the General Accounting 
Office, almost half of all schools 
lack enough electrical power for the 
full-scale use of computers; 60 percent 
of them lack enough conduits in the 
school to connect classroom computers 
to a network; and 60 percent of schools 
lack enough phone lines for instructional 
use. 

Last year, a teacher from Waukegan, 
IL, came to Washington and was talking 
about the use of computers in the 
school and that when they plugged in 
the computers, when they deployed the 
computers around the school, fires 
started all through the school because 
the wiring was so old. 

That situation is replicating itself all 
over the country. We are seeing situations 
in which the schools cannot give 
our children the tools they need to 
learn so that they can compete in this 
21st century because the physical 
structures simply will not allow it. 

This legislation also will give communities 
the power to relieve overcrowding. 
Again, according to the Department 
of Education, enrollment this 
year is at an all-time high and will 
continue to grow over the next 10 
years. Just to keep up with growing enrollment, 
we will need to build 6,000 
new schools over the next 10 years. 

Again, in my State, I visited schools 
where study halls are held in the hall


ways because there is no other space. I 
have seen stairway landings converted 
into computer labs, cardboard partitions 
used to turn one classroom into 
two. There is one school where the 
lunchroom has been converted into two 
classrooms, where the students eat in 
the gymnasium, and instead of gym, 
they have what is called ‘‘adaptive 
physical education’’ while they stand 
next to their desks. 

One youngster from Virginia talked 
about the fact that the congestion in 
his school is so profound that the kids 
get into fights in the hallway, and they 
call it ‘‘hall rage,’’ when there is just 
too much human presence for them to 
walk around the hallways and they get 
into disruptive behavior. 

The teachers and parents know full 
well these conditions directly affect 
the ability of their children to learn, 
and the research, of course, has backed 
up that intuition. Two separate studies 
found a 10 to 11 percent achievement 
gap between students who attend 
school in good buildings and quality 
surroundings and those who attend 
school in poor buildings after accounting 
for all other factors. 

Other studies have found that when 
the buildings are in poor condition, 
again, the students are more likely to 
misbehave. Three leading researchers 
recently concluded: 

There is no doubt but that building condition 
affects academic performance. 

Again, if we are going to address the 
need to provide our youngsters with 
quality education, we clearly have to 
look at the factors and the environment 
in which they are called upon to 
learn. 

Just last month, the results came in 
on a set of international math and 
science tests. The results were, quite 
frankly, profoundly disturbing. 

The results of that study placed 
American students at or near the bottom 
on every one of the math and 
science tests that were offered. This 
cannot be. We cannot go into the 21st 
century with our children performing 
below some less-industrialized countries 
because we do not provide a quality 
educational opportunity and, frankly, 
consistent educational opportunity 
throughout the country. 

We know that we have some of the 
best schools in the world in this country 
on the one hand. I have some that 
I visited in the State of Illinois—the 
First in the World School. Those 
schools are in good condition, and the 
youngsters who go there have a great 
opportunity for education. They have 
scored above the international norm. 

But at the same time we have the 
other instance of the crumbling 
schools, the dilapidated conditions and 
the poor performance across the board 
as well. We have this patchwork quilt 
of school facilities throughout the 
country. Again, I point out these facilities’ 
problems are related to how we finance 
the system, how we pay for 
schools. 

Crumbling schools are not just accidents; 
they are the predictable result 


S2900 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

of the way we fund education. The current 
system was established a century 
ago when the Nation’s wealth was 
measured in terms of landholdings. 
Wealth, of course, is no longer accumulated 
just in land, and the funding 
mechanism relying on the local property 
tax is just not appropriate, nor is 
it adequate. 

The current school finance structure 
works against most American children 
and mitigates against most families’ 
best efforts to improve local schools. 
Again, according to the General Accounting 
Office, poor and middle-class 
schools try the hardest to raise the 
revenue to get the money together to 
fix up their schools. But the system 
works against them. 

In some 35 States, poor districts have 
higher tax rates than wealthy districts, 
but they raise less revenue because, of 
course, there is less property wealth to 
tax. Now, this local funding model does 
not work for school infrastructure, just 
as it would not work for highways or 
other infrastructure. 

Imagine for a moment what would 
happen if we based our system of roads 
on the same funding model that we use 
for schools. If every community was responsible 
for the construction of and 
maintenance of the roads within its 
borders and no one else contributed, 
where we did not have a partnership, 
we relied on the local property tax, in 
all likelihood we would have smooth, 
good roads in the wealthy towns, a 
patchwork of mediocre roads in middle-
income towns, and very few roads 
at all in poor communities. 

Transportation, then, Mr. President, 
would be hostage to the vagaries of 
wealth and geography. Commerce and 
travel would be difficult and navigation 
of such a system would not serve 
the interests of our whole country. 

Mr. President, unfortunately, that 
hypothetical situation that I have just 
described in terms of roads precisely 
describes our school funding system. 
Schools with a lot of wealth have good 
schools or are more likely to have good 
schools, middle-class schools have a 
patchwork, poor communities have little 
or nothing to point to. 

Again, I made the point, as the GAO 
found, that the phenomenon of crumbling 
schools, the infrastructure, finds 
itself in all kinds of communities, suburban, 
rural and urban, but, again, it is 
based on the local property tax in the 
main. 

The American Society of Civil Engineers 
released a report card on America’s 
infrastructure, and, again, they 
found that the only category to get an 
F was the schools. 

We have just recently acted, and the 
ranking member, the Senator from 
New Jersey, will point out that we just 
passed the ISTEA bill, the highway and 
mass transit bill, which addresses a 
number of these issues. The Senate 
passed that bill almost with unanimous 
support, and we put an additional $214 
billion into infrastructure in that legislation. 


Schools, however, do not benefit from 
that bill, and that is why I believe we 
need to talk about a partnership to 
fund the redevelopment of our school 
infrastructure. Our children need the 
same level of commitment for school 
infrastructure as we have given to our 
highways. 

I think the way we ought to look at 
this is not in the sense of finger pointing, 
saying it is the fault of the States 
or it is the fault of the local governments. 
I think, if anything, we need to 
engage a partnership in which we all 
contribute and we all weigh in to try to 
fix these schools and give our children 
an environment that is worthwhile to 
learn in. 

We have a situation in which 
States—the argument has been made 
that school construction is just a State 
or a local responsibility. Some of my 
colleagues have argued that, notwithstanding 
the fact that the school districts 
face a maintenance backlog of 
$112 billion—and, again, $73 billion in 
new school construction needed—the 
States can meet these costs on their 
own and by themselves. 

The truth is that this is not in the interest 
of our country, that we rely on 
the accident of State effort and the accident 
of geography and the accident of 
wealth in order to make certain that 
we address this national problem. 

We have an interest, as citizens of 
this great country, to see to it that 
every child gets an opportunity to 
learn, that every child gets an environment 
in which learning can take place, 
and that every child no matter where 
they live in the United States is given 
a chance to take advantage of the new 
technologies that school modernization 
would allow. 

The General Accounting Office found 
that only 13 of the States take a comprehensive 
approach to school modernization 
and construction. In 1994, 
for example, the States spent a total of 
$3.5 billion on school repair and construction—$
3.5 billion. So again with 
$112 billion worth of deferred maintenance, 
$73 billion worth of needed new 
construction, the States alone will 
simply not be able to bear that economic 
burden. 

Some of my colleagues have argued 
that because the economy is doing so 
well the States are now in a position to 
supplement what they spend on school 
facilities with funds from the surpluses 
that are beginning to accumulate in 
the State treasuries. Most States have 
a surplus. All but two States had some 
sort of surplus at the end of fiscal year 
1997, ranging from a $3.2 billion surplus 
in Alaska to a $32 million surplus in 
Alabama. My own State of Illinois 
ended 1997 with a $108 million surplus. 
But the sum total of all the surpluses 
put together is $28.2 billion. If we were 
to spend every dime of every State’s 
surplus on this issue, you would just 
begin to make a dent in it. 

I think that the notion of the finger-
pointing, the notion of blaming one 
level of Government or another, is 

something that we, frankly, do not 
have time for. We do not have time for 
that argument any longer. I believe we 
have a responsibility to engage as a national 
community to work together, 
giving the States and the local governments 
control, certainly, giving them 
responsibility for making certain that 
the schools are rebuilt, but providing 
the financial help that we can at the 
national level in the simplest way possible. 


We have the capacity, at the national 
level, to provide the funding leverage 
that this legislation will provide that 
will cost us $3 billion to allow these 
local communities and school districts 
to go into the capital markets and 
raise $22 billion. I think it just makes 
absolute sense, and I encourage my colleagues 
to support this sense-of-the-
Senate amendment. 

Mr. President, I now yield 5 minutes 
to the Senator from New Mexico, 2 
minutes to the Senator from Washington, 
and such time to the Senator 
from California as she may require. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2223 
(Purpose: To establish a deficit-neutral re


serve fund for civilian research and devel


opment) 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, before 
I give my few comments here in 
support of the amendment of the Senator 
from Illinois, I ask unanimous 
consent that it be in order that I send 
an amendment to the desk and then 
have that laid aside and then return to 
the amendment of the Senator from Illinois. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. BINGAMAN] 
for himself and Mr. LIEBERMAN, proposes 
an amendment numbered 2223. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. I ask unanimous 
consent that reading of the amendment 
be dispensed with and the amendment 
be set aside and we return to the 
amendment of the Senator from Illinois. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the fol


lowing: 

‘‘SEC. . DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR 

CIVILIAN RESEARCH AND DEVELOP


MENT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates and other appropriate 
budgetary levels and limits may be 
adjusted and allocations may be revised for 
legislation to fund civilian scientific and 
technological research and development, to 
increase research and development for the 
health sciences, or to increase research and 
development to improve the global environment, 
provided that, to the extent that this 
concurrent resolution on the budget does not 
include the costs of that legislation, the enactment 
of that legislation will not increase 
(by virtue of either contemporaneous or previously-
passed deficit reduction) the deficit 
in this resolution for— 

‘‘(1) fiscal year 1999; 

‘‘(2) the period of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003; or 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2901 

‘‘(3) the period of fiscal years 2004 through 
2009. 

‘‘(b) REVISED ALLOCATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) ADJUSTMENTS FOR LEGISLATION.—Upon 
the consideration of legislation pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file 
with the Senate appropriately-revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this 
section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered for 
the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as allocations, functional levels, 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 

‘‘(2) ADJUSTMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS.—If 
the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget 
of the Senate submits an adjustment 
under this section for legislation in furtherance 
of the purpose described in subsection 
(a), upon the offering of an amendment to 
that legislation that would necessitate such 
submission, the Chairman shall submit to 
the Senate appropriately-revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this section. 
These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered for 
the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as allocations, functional levels, 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 

‘‘(c) REPORTING REVISED ALLOCATIONS.— 
The appropriate committees shall report appropriately-
revised allocations pursuant to 
section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 to carry out this section.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2175 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I, 
first, say that putting together a budget 
resolution is a very complex, difficult 
process. I commend those who 
have worked on this, particularly my 
colleague from New Mexico for bringing 
in a budget resolution that is within 
the constraints of the balanced 
budget agreement. I think that is certainly 
progress and is to be commended. 
I am, however, troubled by 
many aspects of it. One aspect is that 
which is intended to be dealt with by 
this amendment by the Senator from 
Illinois. 

I fear this budget does not reflect the 
forward-looking perspective that prepares 
us for the world that we are facing 
in the 21st century. 

I do not think anyone would dispute 
the paramount importance of education, 
of research, and of a safe, 
healthy start for our children. The importance 
of those items, in my view, 
are not reflected in this budget. They 
are not given the priority they should 
be given in this budget. 

Let me give a few examples. In the 
area of education, and, of course, the 
Senator from Illinois was talking 
about this general area of education, 
the President has proposed at least $1.6 
billion more than the Republican budget 
in 1999 for the budget functions that 
include education, training, and social 
services. The Republican budget does 
not increase Federal spending by 1 cent 
over last year’s balanced budget 
amendment in that regard. 

More specifically, the President and 
the Senate Democrats have put forth 
some very significant education proposals, 
one of which is this amendment 

by the Senator from Illinois. The Republican 
budget does not give the same 
priority to those concerns. The Democratic 
alternative and this amendment 
propose to help communities to renovate 
and build school facilities, including 
BIA schools, which are very 
important in my home State of New 
Mexico. The Republican budget essentially 
ignores this request. The Democratic 
proposal provides for the hiring 
and training of 100,000 new teachers, 
which is projected to reduce the average 
class size in grades 1 through 3 
from 22 students in a class to 18 students 
in a class. Again, the Republican 
budget ignores that proposal. 

In addition, the Republicans claim 
they are providing an increase of $2.5 
billion over the freeze level during this 
5-year period for the Individuals with 
Disabilities Act. It turns out that this 
funding does not keep pace with inflation. 


While this resolution proposes to increase 
money for one type of block 
grant, the simple fact is that spending 
is cut significantly overall and that 
means that very important programs 
will have to be cut. Some of those programs—
we are not clear as to which 
ones yet, of course, since that is not 
specified in the resolution—but some of 
those might include title I for disadvantaged 
children, Head Start, training 
and technology for teachers, and 
teacher quality. 

The resolution also gives short shrift 
to child care, and again Senator DODD 
from Connecticut offered an amendment 
that I support in that regard. 

With regard to tobacco, I am tremendously 
concerned that the budget as 
presently written precludes any meaningful 
consideration of programs to reduce 
teen smoking. While I strongly 
agree with the chairman of the Budget 
Committee that we must do something 
to fix our Medicare Program, I believe 
we do not need to do so at the expense 
of the current and future health needs 
of our children. 

I commend our colleagues for the 
hard work that has gone into this resolution, 
but I do differ with my Republican 
colleagues about the ways in 
which we allocate spending in this bill. 
We are entering the 21st century as a 
strong and vibrant and growing economy, 
but we will only remain that way 
if we invest in the future and ensure 
that every American has the opportunity 
to take advantage of that 
growth. The way we do this is to focus 
on these areas of priority—education, 
training, and the needs of working families. 


I hope we can adopt some amendments 
to this resolution that will allow 
us to do that more effectively. 

I yield the floor. 

Mrs. MURRAY addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Washington. 

Mrs. MURRAY. Thank you, Mr. 
President. 

I rise in strong support of this 
amendment and offer my congratula


tions to the Senator from Illinois for 
bringing this critical issue to the attention 
of the Senate and to the attention 
of the Nation. Certainly it is an 
issue of safety and health for many 
children across our country. For all of 
us who go out and visit schools on a 
regular basis, we see classrooms that 
are in cafeterias, in gymnasiums, and 
in closet space—of all things—all 
across this country, and that is wrong. 
This is an issue that has to be addressed. 


Let me also bring to the attention of 
my colleagues the issue that many of 
us hear about—the high number of jobs 
that are available today in the area of 
technology. The ITEA recently put out 
a study showing there are 200,000 job 
openings today. These are $40,000- to 
$60,000-a-year jobs available in technology, 
yet we don’t have the skills or 
students with the skills available to go 
into these jobs because they haven’t 
had the education and the experience 
in their schools. 

I have worked very hard to bring 
technology to the floor of the Senate 
as an issue. We have put computers 
into our schools, technology into our 
schools. In a few minutes, the Labor 
Committee will be working on the Reauthorization 
Act that includes my 
language to train teachers in technology 
throughout our schools, but if 
we don’t pass the issue of school construction, 
far too many of our children 
will never have access to these skills 
because they are in classrooms where 
you cannot plug in a computer. 

This issue is critical and I urge my 
colleagues to support it. I, again, 
thank my colleague from Illinois for 
bringing it to our attention and appreciate 
her long concern and work on 
this issue. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
rise to speak in support of this amendment, 
and in particular to thank my 
friend and colleague, the senior Senator 
from Illinois, for her hard work. I 
am aware that there is another school 
construction amendment. It is known 
as the Roth amendment. It is part of 
the Coverdell tax bill. These amendments, 
in my view, complement one 
another. 

What the Senator from Illinois has 
done is structure an amendment so it 
really benefits some of the older, more 
stressed urban school districts in 
America. What the other amendment 
would do is stress the smaller, suburban 
rural areas where there is substantial 
growth going on. So between the 
two of them, they provide to the States 
and the cities and the counties of 
America a truly major, major commitment 
to new school construction. 

This is a $21.8 billion authority for 
State and local governments to issue 
bonds to construct and rehabilitate 
schools. For California alone, this 
would mean $2.2 billion in bonds. It is 
the most of any State. Thirty-five percent 
of these bonds would be used by 


S2902 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

the 100 largest school districts based on 
their ESEA title I funding which assists 
disadvantaged children; 65 percent 
would be distributed by States based 
on their own criteria; in addition, the 
Secretary of Education could designate 
25 additional districts based on the 
State’s share of Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act title I grants, 
excluding the 100 largest districts. 

Under this amendment, California 
school districts are really helped. Bakersfield 
would get $19 million; Compton, 
$30 million; Fresno, $56 million; 
Long Beach, $48 million; Los Angeles, 
deeply troubled, and I will show you 
why in a moment, $488 million; 
Montebello, $22 million; Oakland, $35 
million; Pomona, $18 million; Sacramento, 
$31 million; San Bernardino, 
$32 million; San Diego, $69 million; San 
Francisco, $28 million; Santa Ana, $27 
million; and Stockton Unified, $24 million. 


This proposal, again, helps the large 
urban poor districts. California’s public 
school enrollment, much of it in these 
districts alone, between 1997 and the 
year 2007, is going to grow by almost 16 
percent. That is triple the national 
projected rate of growth of 4.1 percent. 
California schools will grow three 
times faster than schools in the rest of 
the United States. 

Each year, between 160,000 and 190,000 
new students will come into California 
schools. The high school enrollment is 
projected to increase by 35 percent by 
2007. Approximately 920,000 students— 
that is almost 1 million—are to be admitted 
to schools in the State during 
that period, boosting total enrollment 
from 5.6 million to 6.8 million. 

Our school population is bigger than 
the population of most of the States. 
That is how important this bill is to 
California. California needs to build 7 
classrooms a day, at 25 students per 
class, just to keep up with the average 
growth that is going to take place. We 
need to build 327 schools over the next 
3 years just to keep pace with the 
growth that is going to take place. We 
have the largest class sizes in the Nation. 
Students are crammed into every 
available hallway, assembly room, and 
many of them in temporary buildings. 
Los Angeles—and this is staggering— 
Unified School District has 560,000 
seats for 681,000 students. That means 
they don’t even have seats for 120,000 
students. So the absence of seats in Los 
Angeles is bigger than most of the 
school districts in a State. And this is 
just one city in the State. 

I could go on and on with examples. 
But of 60 percent of the schools over 30 
years old, most do not have modern infrastructure. 
Eighty-seven percent of 
the schools need to upgrade and repair 
buildings. The California Department 
of Education estimates that this 
State—one State alone—just to stay 
even, needs $22 billion during the next 
decade to modernize public schools and 
an additional $8 billion just to meet enrollment 
growth. That is $30 billion in 
the next decade just to stay even. 

I have heard a lot of talk on this 
floor about education, and I can say 
only one thing: If you talk education 
and you have crowded and dilapidated 
schools and you don’t have seats for 
the children in the schools, there is 
only one thing you can really do, and 
that is put your money where your 
mouth is. This is the first step toward 
‘‘putting your money where your 
mouth is’’ amendment. 

I am so proud of the Senator from Illinois. 
There is no single piece of legislation, 
there is no single amendment 
on any bill, that will help the school 
system of the great State of California 
more than the Moseley-Braun amendment. 
I want to make that crystal 
clear. 

Here is what it costs. I mentioned the 
cost and that we need $30 billion just to 
stay even. Here is what it costs to 
build a school in California: An elementary 
school, $5.2 million; a middle 
school, $12 million; a high school, $27 
million. 

Our schools must be built to withstand 
earthquakes, floods, El Nino, and 
myriad other natural disasters. The 
cost of building a high school in California 
is almost twice the national 
cost. The U.S. average is $15 million; in 
California, it is $27 million. We have 
the largest pupil-per-teacher ratio in 
the country. And thanks to the Governor 
and the legislature, we are now 
beginning to reduce class size. K–3 is 
now limited to 20 students per teacher. 

In conclusion, studies show that test 
scores of students in schools in poor 
condition can fall as much as 11 percentage 
points below scores of students 
in good buildings. I think this amendment 
is important. I really hope that 
no one in this body would not vote for 
this amendment because of the Cover-
dell bill. The Coverdell bill and the 
Roth amendment cover very different 
school districts than does this amendment. 
If you want to help the big urban 
school districts of America, where the 
dilapidated schools are, where the 
learning really needs improvement, 
there is only one game in town, and it 
is CAROL MOSELEY-BRAUN’s school construction 
amendment. I am proud to 
support it. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. I thank the 
Senator from California for her eloquence. 
I did, however, want to take 
issue with one little part. This is just a 
sense of the Senate, but the underlying 
legislation does relate to suburban and 
rural schools as well as city schools. 
The Senator is right about the urban 
schools. It does a lot more for urban 
schools than the alternative legislation, 
but it also covers suburban and 
rural, because in my State, of course, 
just outside of Chicago is a place called 
Illinois, so I have to make sure that is 
covered. 

In fact, if I may, for a moment, pick 
up where the Senator from California 
left off, this is a picture from a suburban 
school. This is outside of Chicago. 
You can see it is a portable classroom. 
The doors are falling off, and the gut


ters are down on the ground. It is in a 
dilapidated condition. So we see it all 
over. 

Senator FEINSTEIN was exactly right 
to point out how much will be required 
for new construction, in addition to 
fixing the crumbling schools we have 
already. The GAO points out that we 
need $112 billion just to repair the 
schools that are falling down. They 
also found, however, that we have 
about $73 billion worth of need for new 
schools. So what we are really looking 
at is not just the $112 billion price tag, 
but a $185 billion price tag. 

If you take the argument that somehow 
this is a local responsibility, it 
should come out of local property 
taxes, then what you are really saying 
is that the local property taxpayers 
should cough up an additional $185 billion—$
185 billion. When you consider 
that property taxes around the country 
have been increasing, frankly, at a 
greater rate than the taxes at the national 
level have increased, State and 
local taxes, as a share of income, have 
risen nearly 10 percent in the last decade. 
In the last 10 years alone, in my 
State of Illinois, the property taxes 
have more than doubled. All across the 
country, voters reject the property tax 
hikes to pay for schools and other municipal 
improvements. 

Again, we cannot continue to rely on 
the property tax alone to build the 
schools that we need for the next century. 
I think what is called for here is 
a partnership—a partnership in which 
we come together and work together at 
the Federal, State, and local government 
level to provide the funding that 
will be required to help rebuild our 
crumbling schools. 

Mr. President, just yesterday a Manhattan 
State Supreme Court justice ordered 
New York City and the New York 
Board of Education to eliminate hazardous 
school conditions and to begin 
regular inspections and maintenance of 
its 1,200 school buildings. That decision 
came out of a lawsuit brought on the 
issue of the crumbling schools. According 
to that report that was commissioned 
by the New York board, 40 percent 
of the schools in New York lack 
functioning or accessible bathrooms 
and water fountains with clean water; 
760 buildings had serious heating and 
ventilation problems; an average of 47 
percent of the schools in New York are 
falling into unacceptable disrepair. 

Again, this is the kind of dilapidation 
we are seeing all over. In fact, there is 
litigation pending in another 16 States 
on this point. I think this amendment 
we are considering today expressing 
the sense of the Senate will go in the 
right direction. 

The point I believe we have to make 
is that it is appropriate for us at the 
national level to stop pointing fingers, 
to stop the divisive blame game that 
stalls Federal support for school improvements, 
and that we all have a responsibility 
to come together and work 
on this. I am pleased that Senator 
FEINSTEIN came to the floor to discuss 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2903 

this matter. It was my understanding 
that the Senator from New Jersey 
wanted to speak on this matter. I yield 
to him. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I thank the Senator 
from Illinois. I do want to say 
something about this important piece 
of legislation. 

Mr. President, I stand to support the 
amendment presented by the distinguished 
Senator from Illinois. Senator 
MOSELEY-BRAUN’s amendment is a critical 
issue in terms of how we deal with 
the educational requirements of our 
young people. 

The Senator from Illinois has had a 
long record—certainly since she has 
been here, and I understand before she 
arrived to the U.S. Senate—of interest 
and involvement in children, particularly 
focused on education in the early 
years. I am delighted to join with her 
and others here who are supporting an 
investment in bringing our school facilities 
up to date, making sure that 
the place in which children are expected 
to learn invites the process of 
learning and doesn’t distract them, because 
it is either too cold, too hot, or 
too dangerous, or because of water 
leaking through the roof, or perhaps 
asbestos in the building, or insufficient 
facilities to attend to the children’s 
needs. The condition is so outrageous 
that the GAO says that there are more 
than 14 million children attending 
schools that are in need of extensive 
repair or replacement. Several million 
attend schools with safety code violations, 
and, as I mentioned, leaky roofs 
are in schools that house 12 million 
students. 

The GAO found the problem of crumbling 
schools transcends demographic 
and geographic boundaries. Roughly 
one-third of urban rural and suburban 
schools report that at least one building 
is in need of extensive repair, or to 
be completely replaced. Furthermore, 
the GAO reports that most schools are 
not prepared to incorporate modern 
technology in the classroom. Forty-six 
percent of schools lack adequate electrical 
wiring to support the full-scale 
use of technology. More than a third of 
the schools lack the requisite electrical 
power. And 56 percent of schools 
have insufficient phone lines for 
modems. 

When we talk about percentages of 56 
percent here and 12 percent there, it 
kind of escapes into an amorphous condition 
that prevents us from really 
analyzing what the effects of these inadequate 
facilities represent. It takes a 
real toll on students, on children. 

I came out of the computer business. 
I arrived here some years ago from the 
city of Paterson, NJ, where my company 
was founded and where I was 
born. We had a population, I would say, 
of somewhere around 150,000 people 
with a commensurate number of students. 
I have been back there many 
times. I have a fondness of that place 
of my birth. I know a lot of the people 
who live in the town. One of my schoolmates 
was a fellow named Larry Doby, 

who was just admitted to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. 

I visit the city regularly. Until recently, 
I used to go to the same barbershop 
every couple of weeks since I was 
a college student. I return there and 
very often bring people around my old 
neighborhood to kind of give them a 
sense of what kind of beginning and opportunity 
I had. They were amazed at 
the dilapidated condition of the facility. 
I met children there and told them 
I lived in the building. They asked me 
what floor. I said, ‘‘The second floor.’’ 
The number of the building was 310 
Hamilton Avenue. They asked me, 
‘‘What floor?’’ I lived on the second 
floor. ‘‘Yes. What apartment?’’ I said, 
‘‘In the back apartment.’’ They said, 
‘‘You lived there?’’ ‘‘Yes. I lived 
there.’’ 

So it established a particular attachment. 


I was called on by the board of education 
at Paterson a year or two ago to 
see if I could get them some help so 
they could get the schools wired in 
preparation for connection into the 
Internet. They couldn’t raise the 
money within the city. People wanted 
it; they couldn’t afford to pay the taxes 
necessary. The city was in arrearages 
all over the place. I arranged for some 
people I knew in my old company to 
pay for the facility to be wired. We 
went down there, and we stood with the 
people from the telephone company 
and pulled wire. What a pitiful condition. 
Can you imagine that you have to 
depend on someone’s goodness, or some 
company’s willingness to step forward 
so a school can be affixed to the Internet 
so the kids can learn that there is 
something besides pens and pencils and 
pads that are going to be required in 
the lives that they expect and hope to 
lead one day? It is pretty discouraging 
if kids don’t know what it is that the 
outside world holds for them. 

I once visited a school in Newark earlier 
in my days in the Senate. It caused 
me to write a piece of legislation called 
‘‘computers in schools’’ to try to make 
sure that there was a computer available 
in classrooms with a reasonable 
population-to-computer ratio so that 
the children there would have a chance 
to learn the applications. 

One of the things that we saw in a 
visit to a school in a very poor neighborhood 
with high crime in a broken-
down neighborhood was that one child 
I was introduced to was sitting at a 
computer terminal. They told me that 
he was in about the third or fourth 
grade. They told me that this child had 
such a bad deportment record that 
they were looking for a way perhaps to 
expel him from the school. Then they 
brought in a couple of computers. This 
child couldn’t keep up academically. 
His behavior, as I say, was bad. They 
sat him in front of a computer. They 
taught him a couple of basic exercises 
that children learn. He was so proficient 
in such a short time that he 
began to outdistance the other children. 


I tell you this story only because to 
me it established the fact that children 
have to be given a chance to learn and 
develop based on their own ability, 
based on their own capacity to learn, 
and not be restricted to staying with a 
class where perhaps there is some maladjustment 
to it. 

So I fully support this amendment. 

Broken-down schools have a negative 
effect on the ability of students to 
learn. They see this grim surrounding, 
and they begin to believe that is the 
way the world around them exists and 
will exist for them. Academic research 
has proven that there is a direct correlation 
between the condition of 
school facilities and student achievement. 


Georgetown researchers found that 
test scores of students assigned to 
schools in poor condition can be expected 
to fall 11 percentage points 
below the test scores of students in 
buildings in adequate condition. Unfortunately, 
many local educational agencies 
have difficulty securing financing 
for school facility improvements. The 
proposal called for in this amendment 
would really help. The zero interest 
school modernization bond and the 
Federal income tax credits to purchase 
those bonds in lieu of interest payments 
would be an important step toward 
rebuilding and modernizing our 
Nation’s schools. 

Mr. President, I say to those who 
criticize test scores, who intimate that 
our children are inadequate to the task 
that they are assigned to, I ask those 
people to look to where the problem is. 
It is not simply looking at students’ 
surroundings. We should provide facilities 
through our Government. Why is it 
that we encourage this feeling of being 
forlorn, or outside of the mainstream? 
It is because the condition of the facility 
says that these children are not 
worth the effort that it takes to have 
them in a better learning condition. 

Mr. President, if we want our kids to 
learn, if we want our children to be 
competitive in the years ahead, if we 
expect them to be leaders in the true 
sense of the word, where we are not 
just making speeches but we want to 
do something about it, then this is an 
excellent opportunity to register our 
support. 

Again, my commendation goes to the 
distinguished Senator from Illinois for 
her leadership on this issue. 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, 
strongly support Senator MOSELEY-
BRAUN’s amendment to the budget resolution 
to help modernize and repair 
the nation’s public school facilities for 
the 21st century. 

Schools across the nation face serious 
problems of overcrowding. Antiquated 
facilities are suffering from 
physical decay, and are not equipped to 
handle the needs of modern education. 

Across the country, 14 million children 
in a third of the nation’s schools 
are learning in substandard buildings. 
Half the schools have at least one unsatisfactory 
environmental condition. 


S2904 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

It will take over $110 billion just to repair 
existing facilities nationwide. 

Massachusetts is no exception. 41% of 
our schools across the state report that 
at least one building needs extensive 
repair or should be replaced. Three-
quarters report serious problems in 
buildings, such as plumbing or heating 
defects. 80% have at least one unsatisfactory 
environmental factor. 

In Boston, many schools cannot keep 
their heating systems functioning 
properly. On a given day, 15 to 30 
schools complain that their heat is not 
working. 

Faulty boilers and leaky pipes are responsible 
for sewage leaks and backups 
at many schools in Springfield, Massachusetts. 


The leaking roof at Revere High 
School is so serious that the new fire 
system is threatened. School Committee 
members estimate that fixing 
the roof will cost an additional $1 million, 
and they don’t know where to get 
the money. 

It is difficult enough to teach or 
learn in dilapidated classrooms. But 
now, because of escalating enrollments, 
classrooms are increasingly 
overcrowded. The nation will need 6,000 
new schools in the next few years, just 
to maintain current class sizes. 

The student population in Pomona, 
California has increased 37% in the last 
ten years, and most students are now 
forced to study in poorly ventilated 
and dimly lit portable classrooms. To 
accommodate the large number of students 
using the cafeteria, school officials 
have had to schedule five different 
lunch periods every day. 

Malden, Massachusetts is in the process 
of building five new elementary 
schools to accommodate increases in 
student enrollment. The estimated cost 
for constructing these schools will exceed 
$100 million. 

The Senate recently heard testimony 
from a student in Clifton, Virginia 
whose high school is so overcrowded 
that fights often break out in the overflowing 
halls. The problem is called 
‘‘Hall Rage,’’ and it’s analogous to 
‘‘Road Rage’’ on crowded highways. 
The violence in the hallways is bad 
enough. But it’s even worse, because 
it’s difficult for teachers to teach when 
students are distracted by the chaos in 
the hallways and outside their classrooms. 


State governments and local communities 
are working to meet these challenges. 
In Massachusetts, under the 
School Building Assistance Act, the 
state will pay 50–90% of the most severe 
needs. 124 schools now have approved 
projects, and are on a waiting 
list for funding. The state share should 
be $91 million this year, but only $35 
million is available. More than 50 other 
projects are awaiting approval. With 
that kind of deficit at the state and 
local level, it is clear that the federal 
government has a responsibility to act. 

Incredibly, the Republican budget 
proposal ignores these pressing needs. 
The Republican plan cuts funding for 

education. It refuses to provide needed 
new investments to improve public 
education, including school modernization 
and construction. 

Democrats have made it a top priority 
to see that America has the best 
education system in the world. Providing 
safe and adequate school facilities 
is an important step towards meeting 
that goal. 

I urge the Senate to approve this 
amendment. Investing in education is 
one of the best investments America 
can possibly make. For schools across 
America, help is truly on the way—and 
it can’t come a minute too soon. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
do not know, before I relinquish the 
floor, what the expectation is for Senator 
CONRAD, who has a vote coming 
up. What is the order of business, 
please? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The vote 
is expected to occur with respect to 
Senator CONRAD’s amendment 2174 at 2 
p.m. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Has the unanimous 
consent order been propounded 
that would give Senator CONRAD an opportunity 
to discuss his amendment before 
the vote takes place? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. It has 
not. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Will the Senator 
yield? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. It has not. How 
much time remains on the side of the 
proponents? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Six minutes 
20 seconds. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. The Senator 
from Illinois has a question? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Yes. I thank 
the Senator from New Jersey. I was 
just going to ask if this colloquy was 
being charged to time on this side because 
the junior Senator from New Jersey 
wanted to speak, and I wanted to 
have an opportunity to close. We are 10 
minutes from the hour of 2 o’clock, and 
I understand there is a vote scheduled 
by unanimous consent for that time. In 
just trying to accommodate the time, I 
was wondering if it was being charged 
to the time of the proponents of this 
amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. With all due respect, 
I thought the Senator from Illinois 
had suggested that she was 
wrapped up with her commentary, and 
in consideration of accepting that condition, 
it was my understanding we 
were going to provide Senator CONRAD 
with time to address his amendment 
before the vote takes place. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. The Senator 
is correct. In the meantime, the Senator 
from New Jersey came in the 
Chamber and asked for time to speak, 
and, again, I would take a minute to 
close and if the Senator could take 2 
minutes. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I would be happy 
to yield the floor. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. I thank the 
Senator from New Jersey. 

I yield 2 minutes to the Senator from 
New Jersey. 

Mr. TORRICELLI. Mr. President, if 
Senator CONRAD, indeed, desires to 
speak for 5 minutes and the Senator 
from Illinois desires to speak for 5 minutes, 
I would ask unanimous consent 
that this Senator have 5 minutes, the 
Senator from Illinois have 5 minutes, 
and Senator CONRAD have 5 minutes, 
which would mean that the vote would 
take place at approximately 2:10. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I will have to 
raise an objection because there is an 
understanding being proposed that 
would include some time for Senator 
COVERDELL. And I will ask unanimous 
consent, before there be any further 
discussion about this, that at 2 o’clock 
the floor be returned to me so that I 
can engage in a UC with my Republican 
counterpart. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. TORRICELLI. Mr. President, the 
situation is the vote is at 2 o’clock and 
Senator CAROL MOSELEY-BRAUN and I 
will speak until then? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
the understanding. 

Mr. TORRICELLI. I thank the Chair. 

Mr. President, there is a significant 
chance that this Senate will one day be 
remembered for having finally begun 
to address the problems of educational 
quality in America. President Clinton 
in his State of the Union Address challenged 
this Congress to deal with the 
problems of school construction, class 
size, and competence. We are now taking 
up that challenge, and, indeed, in 
the last few weeks in dealing with the 
Coverdell-Torricelli proposal, we also 
address the problem of access to private 
schools and the rights of families 
to save money privately to deal with 
the costs of public and private education. 


Today we return to the subject again. 
Senator CAROL MOSELEY-BRAUN of Illinois, 
as she has on many occasions, is 
now bringing forward consistently and 
repeatedly a message to deal with the 
plight—the construction of our schools. 

I recognize that in this Senate almost 
everyone has an idea to deal with 
the problems of education in America. 
Almost everyone is right except those 
who think they have the only idea. 
This problem is so serious in quality 
and in access that it will require not 
just this Senate but Congresses to 
come, not just this idea but many 
ideas. The quality of education in this 
country is the most serious threat to 
the maintenance of not only social 
order but our quality of life. We recognize 
it has many components but probably 
none more difficult than rebuilding 
our Nation’s schools. 

It is estimated that it could cost $112 
billion to rebuild crumbling schools in 
America. 

Having toured many of these schools 
in my own State of New Jersey, I have 
seen students sitting in hallways because 
there was not enough room. I 
have seen students with buckets next 
to their desks to catch the rain, students 
who did not have restrooms in 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2905 

their own school facilities but were 
sent to other buildings. Our parents 
and their parents before them worked 
and saved and sacrificed to build a system 
of public education in this country 
and an infrastructure that was without 
equal in the world. They met that challenge. 
The simple and regrettable truth 
is we have not. 

This system of education, which 
more than anything else in the Nation 
is the foundation for our country’s 
prosperity, is crumbling around us. 
One-third of the students in the Nation 
face exactly the plight that I have outlined, 
and more will join them unless 
we stand up to this challenge. 

To all of you who are part of the efforts 
to assure there is access to the 
Internet, who joined with us in the 
fight to help private and public savings 
through Coverdell-Torricelli, who believe 
in testing, who join any of these 
fights, join this fight because there is 
no one front in the war dealing with 
educational quality in America. It 
must be fought on all fronts at the 
same time. 

I am very proud to be part of the efforts 
of the Senator from Illinois, 
CAROL MOSELEY-BRAUN, who more than 
anyone else has brought this fight forward 
and will be principally responsible 
when we ultimately do succeed. 

I thank the Senator for yielding the 
time. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. I thank the 
Senator from New Jersey. 

In summation, Mr. President, we 
have heard some of the stories. There 
are many other anecdotal stories, stories 
even in my State about faucets 
and drains in science labs that don’t 
work and electrical wiring that can’t 
support the computers, a school in Alabama 
where the water leaks collapsed 
the ceiling 40 minutes after the children 
left for the day. 

These stories, frankly, are news to no 
one. I hope that this Senate will take a 
good look at the sense of the Senate 
and not let this vote come down on 
truly partisan grounds. I have a sense 
that it will, and that in my opinion is 
tragic because, if anything, our children 
are not Republican or Democrat 
or Independent. Our children require an 
education, and politics should stop at 
the schoolroom door. This should be 
something that would engage nonpartisan 
support based on the policy 
objective of the sense-of-the-Senate 
amendment. 

That is what this vote is about. It is 
about policy. I hope it is not about politics. 
I hope we will send a signal that 
we are prepared, because, again, it is 
only a sense-of-the-Senate amendment, 
that we will send a signal to the country 
that this Congress is prepared to 
take up the challenge of rebuilding our 
crumbling schools; that we are prepared 
to do it in partnership with our 
State and local governments; we are 
not looking to local property taxpayers 
alone to carry the burden of the $185 
billion it will take to build and repair 
schools; that we are not going to try to 

pass the buck to the States and have 
them raise State taxes to do it; that we 
can work together to provide a bureaucracy 
free of raising the capital. 

That is all this amendment does. It 
doesn’t tell anybody which school to 
fix. All it says is here is a way to raise 
the money, and Uncle Sam is going to 
give you a tax credit in lieu of interest 
on these bonds that the local school 
districts will issue. I think it makes 
absolute sense. It is a very straightforward 
way of doing it. It will provide 
support for all kinds of schools in rural 
and suburban districts as well as in 
urban districts where the needs, of 
course, are the most pronounced, but 
certainly they are pronounced all over 
the country. 

I encourage my colleagues to support 
the sense-of-the-Senate amendment, 
and I yield the floor. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
thank the Senator from Illinois. We are 
ready to proceed with the next piece of 
business. I think the manager, the 
chairman of the Budget Committee, 
has something he wants to put down. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, might 
I inquire, where are we on the amendment 
of the distinguished Senator from 
Illinois? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
SMITH of Oregon). All time of the proponents 
on the amendment has expired. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We have not used 
any time in opposition? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2174 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I 
strongly support the amendment offered 
by Senators CONRAD and LAUTENBERG, 
which will ensure that any revenues 
generated from an increase in the 
price of cigarettes is directed first and 
foremost to protecting the nation’s 
children from nicotine addiction and 
smoking-induced diseases. 

The Republican budget creates a 
number of serious barriers to these efforts 
by prohibiting tobacco revenues 
from being used for anti-smoking initiatives. 


In fact, the budget uses Medicare as a 
smokescreen to make funding more difficult 
for important smoking cessation 
programs, counter-advertising to 
deglamorize tobacco use among children, 
biomedical research to cure 
smoking-caused illnesses, and public 
education to inform the American people 
more fully about the dangers of tobacco 
use. 

If the current restrictive resolution 
is adopted, a vote of sixty Senators 
would be required to waive the restrictions. 
The result is that millions of 
Americans who want to quit smoking 
will have a much more difficult time 
achieving their goal. Anti-smoking 
programs are central to any effective 
measure to reduce tobacco use, and 
they should be the first priority for the 
dollars raised by a cigarette price increase. 


If these anti-tobacco initiatives are 
not funded, the problem of teenage 

smoking in the United States will only 
increase. According to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, a million 
youngsters start smoking each 
year—almost 3,000 a day. One third of 
them will die prematurely from smoking-
induced illnesses. The average 
smoker begins at age 13, and becomes a 
daily smoker by age 15. 

These facts are serious enough. But 
the crisis is growing worse. A Spring 
1996 survey by the University of Michigan 
Institute for Social Research found 
that teenage smoking has continued to 
rise since 1991. It climbed by nearly 
fifty percent among eighth and tenth 
graders, and by nearly twenty percent 
among high school seniors between 1991 
and 1996. 

The industry strategy is obvious. The 
tobacco companies target children, because 
once children are hooked on cigarette 
smoking, they become customers 
for life. Ninety percent of current 
adult smokers began to smoke before 
they reached the age of 18. By contrast, 
if young men and women reach 
that age without beginning to smoke, 
they are unlikely to take up the habit 
in later years. 

The tobacco companies know these 
facts. They are fully aware that if they 
do not persuade children to start smoking, 
the industry may collapse within a 
generation. That’s why Big Tobacco 
has targeted children with billions of 
dollars in advertising and promotional 
giveaways that promise popularity and 
success for those who take up smoking. 

The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention estimate that the average 
14-year-old is exposed to $20 billion in 
advertising—$20 billion—beginning at 
age 6. In fact, the name ‘‘Joe Camel’’ is 
as familiar to children as ‘‘Mickey 
Mouse.’’ 

Two recently disclosed industry documents 
illustrate the blatant marketing 
to youths. In a 1981 Philip Morris 
memo entitled ‘‘Young Smokers— 
Prevalence, Implications, and Related 
Demographic Trends,’’ the authors 
wrote that: 

It is important to know as much as possible 
about teenage smoking patterns and attitudes. 
Today’s teenager is tomorrow’s potential 
regular customer, and the overwhelming 
majority of smokers first begin to 
smoke while still in their teens. . . The 
smoking patterns of teenagers are particularly 
important to Philip Morris. . . Furthermore, 
it is during the teenage years that 
the initial choice is made. 

A marketing report by R.J. Reynolds 
researcher Diane Burrows, written 
prior to launching the Joe Camel advertising 
campaign, stated: 

Younger adult smokers are critical to R.J. 
Reynolds’ long-term profitability. Therefore, 
RJR must make a substantial long-term 
commitment of manpower and money dedicated 
to younger adult smoking programs. 

A related RJR document states that 
‘‘young adult’’ refers to the 14–24 age 
group. 

It is no coincidence that shortly after 

R.J. Reynolds launched the Joe Camel 
campaign in 1988, Camel’s share of the 
youth market soared from 0.5% to 
32.8%. 

S2906 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Unless Congress takes action to reverse 
this disturbing trend in adolescent 
smoking, five million of today’s 
children will die prematurely from 
smoking-caused illness. That’s unacceptable. 


Although all of us agree that Medicare 
should be protected for future generations, 
one of the best ways to keep 
Medicare strong is to invest in important 
public health and tobacco control 
programs that prevent children from 
beginning to smoke, and that help current 
smokers to quit smoking. Americans 
will lead healthier lives, and the 
burden of tobacco-induced diseases will 
be greatly reduced. 

Unfortunately, the Republican budget 
earmarks all of the tobacco revenues 
for Medicare. It prohibits using even 
one dollar of the tobacco revenues to 
deter youth from smoking. 

Smoking has inflicted great damage 
on people’s health. It is the leading 
preventable cause of death and disability 
in the nation. Tobacco products 
are responsible for a third of all cancers, 
and 90% of all lung cancers. 

Smoking also causes great harm to 
nonsmokers. A recent study by the 
Agency for Health Care Policy and Research 
reports that second-hand smoke 
is responsible for as many as 60% of 
cases of asthma, bronchitis, and wheezing 
among young children. It makes 
sense to use tobacco revenues to discourage 
children from beginning to 
smoke. 

These programs work. Smoking cessation 
programs are among the most 
effective means to reduce health care 
costs. At the same time, they save and 
improve the lives of millions of Americans. 


They are also cost-effective. Every 
dollar invested in a smoking cessation 
program for a pregnant woman saves $6 
in costs for neonatal intensive care and 
long-term care for low birthweight babies. 


Dr. Michael Fiore, Director of the 
Center for Tobacco Research and Intervention 
at the University of Wisconsin 
at Madison, noted that: 

smoking cessation programs are the most 
cost-effective prevention intervention a physician 
can engage in. . . It is a paradox in 
America that virtually every health insurance 
policy pays for the outcomes of smoking, 
whether it is a heart attack, stroke, or 
cancer, but only half of them pay the $100 to 
$200 it would take to prevent these very expensive 
illnesses. 

The Republican budget offers no help 
in cases like this, and that makes no 
sense. The Republican budget offers no 
help to states and communities for 
public health advertising to counteract 
the $5 billion a year that the tobacco 
industry pours into advertising to encourage 
people to start smoking and 
keep smoking. 

Paid counter-advertising is extremely 
effective in reducing tobacco 
consumption. Both Massachusetts and 
California have demonstrated that 
counter-advertising can discourage 
children from beginning to smoke and 
encourage smokers to quit. It helped 

reduce cigarette use in Massachusetts 
by 17% between 1992 and 1996, or three 
times the national average. Smoking 
by junior high school students dropped 
8%, while the rest of the nation has 
seen an increase. 

In California, a counter-advertising 
campaign reduced smoking rates by 
15% over the last three years. 

A soon-to-be-published study by Professor 
Frank Chaloupka of the University 
of Illinois found that tobacco 
counter-advertising can also reduce illegal 
drugs use among youth. 

The Republican budget, however, will 
provide no funding for these important 
efforts. 

The Republican budget offers no help 
to the Food and Drug Administration 
to enforce the laws against the sale of 
tobacco products to minors, even 
though young people spend $1 billion a 
year to buy tobacco products illegally. 

Last year, Congress tried to get away 
with underfunding the FDA’s tobacco 
regulations by providing only $5 million 
of the $34 million President Clinton 
requested to begin enforcement of 
the youth access rule. An amendment 
by Senator HARKIN to the Agriculture 
Appropriations bill to restore the funding 
was defeated on the Senate floor. 

Two months later, as public outrage 
grew, Congress reversed itself and overwhelmingly 
approved the full amount. 
A similar outcry from our constituents 
and the public health community is 
likely if we do not provide funding for 
these important enforcement efforts. 

Finally, the Republican budget offers 
no help for medical research on to-
bacco-related diseases, even though 
such research can lead to enormous 
savings for Medicare. 

Funding for tobacco-related medical 
research is vital to fulfilling our hopes 
for healthy lives for all citizens. The 
promise of new medical research is 
boundless. As impressive as the 
progress of the past has been, it pales 
in comparison to the opportunities of 
the future. 

In addition, a recent study by researchers 
at Duke University indicates 
that expanded funding for medical research 
can help keep Medicare and 
other federal health care programs solvent 
for the long-term. 

If the goal of this budget resolution 
is to protect Medicare, it makes no 
sense to prevent tobacco revenues from 
being used to support anti-smoking 
programs that will reduce future costs 
for Medicare. 

Currently, smoking-induced diseases 
cost the federal government over $20 
billion a year. If we invest in medical 
research to make Americans healthier, 
we can save enormous sums, protect 
these programs for future generations, 
and prevent many of the illnesses 
caused by smoking. 

The country supports these fundamental 
priorities, and the Senate 
should support them too. They have 
been endorsed by the public health 
community, and by Doctor Koop and 
Doctor Kessler. They are included in 

virtually all of the tobacco bills introduced 
in Congress by Republicans as 
well as Democrats. I urge my colleagues 
to support the Conrad/Lautenberg 
amendment. 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that at 2 p.m. the 
Senate resume consideration of the 
Coverdell amendment and there be 5 
minutes equally divided for debate on 
the Coverdell amendment; following 
that, there be 5 minutes equally divided 
for closing debate on the Conrad 
amendment. 

I further ask a vote occur on or in relation 
to the Conrad amendment at 
2:10, to be followed by a vote on or in 
relation to the Coverdell amendment, 
with 2 minutes of debate equally divided 
between the votes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
note the second vote would be limited 
to a 10-minute vote so Senators who 
come down here should know that they 
cannot go back and expect to spend 15 
or 20 minutes back in the office and 
still be able to vote. 

Mr. DOMENICI. That is the current 
unanimous consent situation in the 
Senate, is it not, Mr. President? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I thank the Senator 
for reminding us. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? The Senator from Georgia. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2199 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, it 
is my understanding that we now have 
5 minutes equally divided on my 
amendment? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, my 
amendment is the middle-class tax relief 
proposal. It calls on the Government 
to cut nondefense discretionary 
spending by 6.9 percent over the next 5 
years. It would return discretionary 
spending to a level of 1996. That does 
not seem too distant a reach for us. It 
would produce $200 billion in new tax 
relief to American workers and it 
would do it by taking 10 million American 
taxpayers who, simply because 
they now make over $25,000 a year, 
have had their taxes increased from 15 
percent to 28 percent. In other words, if 
they got a single raise, or because of 
inflation, that has taken these very 
modest income families and doubled 
their taxes. 

So we are saying we are going to lift 
the bar and we are going to allow those 
families, 10 million of them, to be 
pushed back down into the 15 percent 
tax bracket, remembering that American 
workers today are keeping less 
than half their paychecks by the time 
the Government romps through their 
checking account. No wonder we have 
so much trouble in our country in 
terms of families trying to make ends 
meet. We don’t leave them enough resources 
to do the job we have always 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2907 

asked them to do. This is a major step 
to correct that problem. I might add— 
how much time do I have remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 45 seconds. 

Mr. COVERDELL. I might add that 
one of the functional components of 
American liberty was and remains the 
right of workers to have their resources 
come to them so they can live 
out their dreams and their lives. We 
have changed this over the years. 

I pointed out this morning, my father 
kept 80 percent of his lifetime wages, 
he was born in 1912, and his granddaughter 
will be lucky if she keeps 40 
percent of her lifetime wages. That will 
functionally change the way this country 
governs itself and lives. We must 
restore economic liberty to American 
workers. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
have 21/2 minutes to respond. I won’t 
take 21/2 minutes because I want to 
yield some time to Senator CONRAD. 
But I want to tell you something. My 
father kept 100 percent of his wages. 
They were so meager he couldn’t pay 
taxes on them. But he had an opportunity 
to work whenever he could, and 
he held his head high and he loved 
America every day that he lived here, 
and that is what we are talking about. 
We can beat ourselves to death about 
how terrible conditions are here when 
people are living longer, living better, 
and enjoying life better than ever before 
in the history of mankind—including 
in America. I am proud of this 
country and, as I said earlier: America, 
America the beautiful. 

I yield the remainder of my time to 
Senator CONRAD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2174 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, my 
amendment is designed to allow the reserve 
fund for possible tobacco revenues 
to be used for more than just 
Medicare. My amendment is cosponsored 
by the distinguished Senator 
from New Jersey, Senator LAUTENBERG, 
Senator BINGAMAN of New Mexico, and 
Senator REED of Rhode Island. While 
we acknowledge Medicare is an important 
priority, we understand it is not 
the only priority. We all understand if 
tobacco legislation passes, there are 
other things that are necessary for a 
national tobacco policy. The health 
community has told us very clearly we 
need to fund smoking cessation, smoking 
prevention. We need to promote 
and support additional health research. 
We also need to be able to fund 
counteradvertising and also ease the 
transition for farmers. All of those are 
things that need to be funded by a possible 
tobacco settlement. 

Unfortunately, under the terms of 
the budget resolution, none of those 
things are possible, none of them, even 
though every bill that has been introduced 
on the floor, every comprehensive 
piece of legislation, by Repub


licans and Democrats, has said that 
these other priorities also need to be 
funded. 

Here are the priorities in each of the 
comprehensive bills that have been introduced: 
Tobacco revenue should be 
provided for smoking education initiatives, 
to educate our young people. The 
Republican budget resolution says no, 
not one dime. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
on the amendment has expired. 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I ask 
for 1 additional minute. I ask for an additional 
1 minute. I would go on to the 
amendment itself, that gives me an additional 
21/2 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 21/2 minutes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Senator, there is a 
unanimous consent agreement, so we 
will not disagree. We will give you the 
minute. I am not objecting. 

Mr. CONRAD. We are saying, in addition, 
tobacco revenues need to be used 
for counteradvertising. The resolution 
says no, none of the money can be used 
for that purpose. 

We say some of the money needs to 
be used for tobacco-related research. 
The resolution says no, none of the 
money can be used for that purpose. 

We think some of the money needs to 
be used to fund smoking prevention 
and cessation programs. The resolution 
says no, none of the money can be used 
for that purpose. 

We think some of it should be used to 
assist farmers in the transition. The 
resolution says no, none of the money. 

We will be told that, in fact, there is 
money in other parts of the budget, but 
all of us who are budgeteers understand 
that those are assumptions. There is no 
assurance whatever that 1 penny will 
be available for these purposes from 
these other funds. And even if they 
were available, under the assumptions 
of the Budget Committee, they are 
woefully inadequate. They only provide 
about $100 million a year when the 
health community tells us we need at 
least $2 billion a year if we are really 
going to have a chance to reduce youth 
smoking and protect the public health. 

We have an opportunity now to respond 
and broaden the use of the reserve 
fund so we can have comprehensive 
tobacco legislation pass in this 
Chamber. The only way any of the bills 
that are before us now will be in order 
on the floor of the Senate is if my 
amendment passes. 

I urge my colleagues to support it. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
gather I have 5 minutes to respond? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 21/2 minutes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I have 21/2 minutes— 
it was 5 minutes equally divided. 

Mr. President, this is a very simple 
proposition. Do you want to start and 
create five new entitlement programs 
or do you want to save Medicare? It is 
a very simple proposition. We suggested, 
as Republicans, that Social Se


curity and Medicare are the two most 
important American programs to save, 
reform, and make available well into 
the next century. 

We put our money where our mouth 
is, and we put whatever is left of the 
cigarette settlement on the highest 
priority health expenditure of this Nation: 
the salvaging and reforming of 
the Medicare system. 

In contrast, my good friend who offers 
this amendment says, ‘‘Let’s create 
five new entitlement programs.’’ 
Even though the money will run out 
someday, we will have some permanent 
programs. 

Everyone knows this Nation should 
not have new entitlement programs, 
and everyone knows that there are 
many high-priority items in the American 
budget. We have said in our budget 
that we have made room for high-
priority expenditures, and I will tell 
you quickly what they are: 

$15.5 billion increase in the National 
Institutes of Health. We have taken 
Presidential reductions and said we 
will spend them here; 

$825 million for a smoking cessation 
program, twice the size of the President’s; 


And then we have said in our settlement 
of the tobacco fund, if it ever occurs, 
we pay the States their share and 
the rest of it goes to the program most 
in need—Medicare. 

Let me tell you, there is no relationship 
between some of the new entitlement 
programs that some want to create 
out of this tobacco settlement, but 
there is a direct relationship between 
the insolvency of the Medicare fund 
and tobacco smoking. As a matter of 
fact, in 1995 there was $25 billion of 
costs in the Medicare system that 
came from smoking. So if you are 
going to get money from the tobacco 
settlement, put it where the damage to 
the senior citizens is occurring, and it 
is occurring by virtue of their fund for 
medical care going bankrupt. 

I believe the issue is very simple— 
very simple: Do you want a budget that 
begins to help with Medicare, or do you 
want a budget that says not one nickel 
for Medicare; let’s take care of that 
later with money from somewhere else. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. The Senator 
from North Dakota has 44 seconds remaining. 


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, this 
issue is simple. The question is, Are we 
going to have a reserve fund so that 
there is a solution to the tobacco controversy, 
that we can use the money in 
a way that accommodates every comprehensive 
bill that is before this body, 
introduced by Republicans or Democrats? 


Unfortunately, under the budget resolution, 
the money can only go for one 
purpose: Medicare. While that is an important 
priority, there are other priorities 
as well—smoking cessation, 
smoking prevention, health research, 
countertobacco advertising, easing the 
transition for farmers. We should not 


S2908 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

be creating supermajority hurdles in 
the way of tobacco legislation, and the 
only way we avoid that is to pass this 
amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, the 
pending amendment is not germane to 
provisions of the Budget Act. Pursuant 
to section 305(b)(2) of the Budget Act, I 
raise a point of order against the pending 
amendment. 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I move 
to waive the Budget Act, and I ask for 
the yeas and nays on the motion. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 

sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the motion 
to waive the Budget Act with respect 
to amendment No. 2174. The yeas and 
nays have been ordered. The clerk will 
call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 
the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 46, 
nays 54, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 54 Leg.] 

YEAS—46 
Akaka Feingold Levin 
Baucus Feinstein Lieberman 
Biden Glenn Mikulski 
Bingaman 
Boxer 
Breaux 
Bryan 
Bumpers 
Byrd 
Cleland 
Conrad 
Daschle 
Dodd 
Graham 
Harkin 
Hollings 
Inouye 
Jeffords 
Johnson 
Kennedy 
Kerrey 
Kerry 
Kohl 
Moseley-Braun 
Moynihan 
Murray 
Reed 
Reid 
Robb 
Rockefeller 
Sarbanes 
Torricelli 
Dorgan 
Durbin 
Landrieu 
Lautenberg 
Wellstone 
Wyden 
Faircloth Leahy 
NAYS—54 
Abraham Ford McCain 
Allard Frist McConnell 
Ashcroft Gorton Murkowski 
Bennett Gramm Nickles 
Bond Grams Roberts 
Brownback Grassley Roth 
Burns Gregg Santorum 
Campbell Hagel Sessions 
Chafee Hatch Shelby 
Coats Helms Smith (NH) 
Cochran Hutchinson Smith (OR) 
Collins Hutchison Snowe 
Coverdell Inhofe Specter 
Craig Kempthorne Stevens 
D’Amato Kyl Thomas 
DeWine Lott Thompson 
Domenici Lugar Thurmond 
Enzi Mack Warner 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote, the yeas are 46, the nays are 54. 

Three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen 
and sworn not having voted in the 
affirmative, the motion is rejected. 
The point of order is sustained, and the 
amendment falls. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. COVERDELL. I move to lay that 
motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2199 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, what 
is the next order of business? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
are 2 minutes of debate equally divided 
before the vote on the Coverdell 
amendment. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, there 
are a number of Senators who want us 
to tender amendments on their behalf. 
We will start to accumulate them. 
When the next vote is over, we will get 
them in. 

Mr. MCCAIN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona is recognized. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I thank 
Senator COVERDELL for his leadership 
on this issue. It is one that is important 
to American families. It represents 
an important step toward a 
flatter, fairer tax system, and it also 
provides immediate tax relief for hard-
working Americans and their families. 
The amendment provides broad-based 
middle class tax relief by increasing 
the number of individuals who pay the 
lowest tax rates of 15 percent and significantly 
lessening the impact of one 
of the Tax Code’s most inequitable provisions, 
the marriage penalty. An estimated 
28 percent of Americans would 
reap some benefit from the broad-based 
tax relief provisions in the bill, according 
to the Tax Foundation. 

Again, I thank Senator COVERDELL 
for his leadership on this issue in the 
ongoing efforts to reduce the tax burden 
on the American citizens. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
first I make the point that the pending 
amendment is not germane, and therefore 
I will raise a point of order. Also, 
Mr. President, I rise in strong opposition 
to the McCain-Coverdell amendment. 
The amendment would cut domestic 
programs like education, child 
care, law enforcement, veterans, environmental 
protection, and would violate 
current budget rules. I think it is 
fiscally dangerous and irresponsible, 
and I hope we will marshal a vote 
against this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Georgia has 30 seconds remaining. 


Mr. COVERDELL. Mr. President, I 
yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, pursuant 
to section 904(c), I move to waive the 
Budget Act for the consideration of 
this amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
raise a point of order that this amendment 
is nongermane. 

Mr. GRAMM. Mr. President, I ask for 
the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the motion 
to waive the Budget Act with respect 
to Coverdell Amendment No. 2199. 

The yeas and nays have been ordered. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 38, 
nays 62, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 55 Leg.] 

YEAS—38 
Abraham Grams Nickles 
Allard Gregg Roberts 
Ashcroft Hatch Roth 
Bennett Helms Santorum 
Brownback Hutchinson Sessions 
Burns 
Campbell 
Coverdell 
Craig 
Enzi 
Faircloth 
Frist 
Gramm 
Hutchison 
Inhofe 
Kempthorne 
Kyl 
Lott 
McCain 
McConnell 
Murkowski 
Shelby 
Smith (NH) 
Smith (OR) 
Thomas 
Thompson 
Thurmond 
Warner 
NAYS—62 
Akaka Dorgan Leahy 
Baucus Durbin Levin 
Biden Feingold Lieberman 
Bingaman 
Bond 
Feinstein 
Ford 
Lugar 
Mack 
Boxer Glenn Mikulski 
Breaux 
Bryan 
Bumpers 
Byrd 
Chafee 
Cleland 
Coats 
Cochran 
Gorton 
Graham 
Grassley 
Hagel 
Harkin 
Hollings 
Inouye 
Jeffords 
Moseley-Braun 
Moynihan 
Murray 
Reed 
Reid 
Robb 
Rockefeller 
Collins Johnson Sarbanes 
Conrad 
D’Amato 
Kennedy 
Kerrey 
Snowe 
Specter 
Daschle Kerry Stevens 
DeWine Kohl Torricelli 
Dodd Landrieu Wellstone 
Domenici Lautenberg Wyden 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote, the yeas are 38, the nays are 62. 
Three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen 
and sworn not having voted in the 
affirmative, the motion is rejected. 
The point of order is sustained and the 
amendment falls. 

Mr. LEAHY addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Vermont. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, will the 
distinguished Senator from New Jersey 
yield 2 minutes? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I am happy to 
yield 2 minutes to the Senator from 
Vermont. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Vermont is recognized. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, using 
that 2 minutes, I ask unanimous consent 
to speak for the purpose of introducing 
legislation, if it would be appropriate 
to do that. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEAHY. I thank the Chair. 

(The remarks of Mr. LEAHY pertaining 
to the introduction of S. 1901 
are located in today’s RECORD under 
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and 
Joint Resolutions.’’) 

AMENDMENT NO. 2174 

Mr. FAIRCLOTH. Mr. President, I 
wish to offer a few remarks to make 
clear my vote on the Conrad amendment. 
I don’t want to see a potential 
tobacco settlement degenerate into 
just a piggy bank for the Clinton Administration’s 
plans to expand social 
programs. Certainly, the revenues need 
to go to health care, but I will not let 
the Senate forget about tobacco farmers. 
I voted for this amendment today 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2909 

because it included the tobacco farmers, 
and the Smith amendment does 
not. I do not want my vote to imply an 
endorsement of other programs in this 
amendment, however, and I do not 
want to see public health programs 
turned into politicized slush funds. I 
think that this scenario poses a real 
danger. However, I want to see the Senate 
on record in support of farmers, 
and this amendment recognizes the 
need to protect them from the impact 
of tobacco legislation. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
pending question is amendment No. 
2175 by the Senator from Illinois, Senator 
MOSELEY-BRAUN. 

The Senator from Wisconsin. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. I ask unanimous 
consent the pending amendment be 
temporarily laid aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
yield to the Senator from Wisconsin 
who just wants to make an introduction. 
I give him 1 minute of my time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Wisconsin is recognized for 1 
minute. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2224 

(Purpose: To establish a disability reserve 

fund) 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk and ask for 
its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Wisconsin [Mr. FEINGOLD], 
for himself, Mr. KENNEDY and Mr. 
HARKIN, proposes an amendment numbered 
2224. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end of title II, add the following: 

SEC. ll. DISABILITY RESERVE FUND FOR FISCAL 
YEARS 1999–2003. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—If legislation generates 
revenue increases or direct spending reductions 
to finance disability programs designed 
to allow persons with a disability to become 
employed and remain independent and to the 
extent that such increases or reductions are 
not included in this concurrent resolution on 
the budget, the appropriate budgetary levels, 
allocations, and limits may be adjusted (but 
by amounts not to exceed $2,000,000,000 for 
the period of fiscal years 1999 through 2003) if 
such adjustments do not cause an increase in 
the deficit in the resolution. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT FOR BUDGET AUTHORITY.— 
After the reporting of legislation (the offering 
of an amendment thereto or conference 
report thereon) that reduces nondisability 
direct spending or increases revenue for a fiscal 
year or years, the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget shall submit appropriately 
revised allocations and aggregates 
by an amount that equals the amount such 
legislation reduces direct spending or increases 
revenues for a fiscal year or years. 
(c) ESTABLISHING A RESERVE.— 
(1) REVISIONS.—After the enactment of legislation 
described in subsection (a), the 
Chairman of the Committee on the Budget 
shall submit revisions to the appropriate allocations 
and aggregates by the amount that 
provisions in such legislation generates revenue 
increases or direct nondisability-related 
spending reductions. 

(2) REVENUE INCREASES OR DIRECT SPENDING 
REDUCTIONS.—After the submission of revisions 
under paragraph (1), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget shall also submit 
the amount of revenue increases or non-
disability related direct spending reductions 
such legislation generates and the maximum 
amount available each year for adjustments 
pursuant to subsection (d). 
(d) EFFECT OF REVISED ALLOCATIONS AND 
AGGREGATES.—Revised allocations and aggregates 
submitted under subsection (c) shall 
be considered for the purposes of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(e) REPORTING REVISED SUBDIVISIONS.—The 
appropriate committee may report appropriately 
revised subdivisions of allocations 
pursuant to section 302 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 to carry out this section. 
Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent my amendment be 
laid aside at this time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from New Mexico. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2225 

(Purpose: To state the sense of the Senate 

regarding the quality of teachers) 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk on behalf of 
Senator DEWINE. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. DOMEN


ICI], for Mr. DEWINE, proposes an amendment 
numbered 2225. 

The amendment (No. 2225), is as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF THE SENATE. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) while it is important to study the effects 
of class size on learning and study the 
need to hire more teachers, each type of 
study must be carried out in conjunction 
with an effort to ensure that there will be 
quality teachers in every classroom; 
(2) all children deserve well-educated 
teachers; 
(3) there is a teacher quality crisis in the 
United States; 
(4) individuals entering a classroom as 
teachers should have a sound grasp on the 
subject the individuals intend to teach, and 
the individuals should know how to teach; 
(5) less than 40 percent of the individuals 
teaching core subjects (consisting of English, 
mathematics, science, social studies, and 
foreign languages) majored or minored in the 
core subjects; 
(6) the quality of teachers impacts student 
achievement; 
(7) the measure of a good teacher is how 
much and how well the teacher’s students 
learn; 
(8) teachers should have the opportunity to 
learn new technology and teaching methods 
through the establishment of teacher training 
facilities so that teachers can share their 
new knowledge and experiences with children 
in the classroom; 
(9) school officials should have the flexibility 
the officials need to have teachers in 
their schools adequately trained to meet 
strenuous teacher standards; 
(10) knowledgeable and eager individuals of 
sound character and various professional 
backgrounds should be encouraged to enter 
kindergarten through grade 12 classrooms as 
teachers; and 
(11) States should have maximum flexibility 
and incentives to create alternative 
teacher certification and licensure programs 
in order to recruit well-educated people into 
the teaching profession. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution on the budget assume— 
(1) the enactment of legislation to provide 
assistance for programs that— 
(A) focus on teacher training delivered 
through local partnerships, with private and 
public partners, to ensure that current and 
future teachers possess necessary teaching 
skills and knowledge of subject areas; and 
(B) focus on alternative certification to recruit 
knowledgeable and eager individuals of 
sound character to enter kindergarten 
through grade 12 classrooms as teachers; 
(2) that the quality of teachers can be 
strengthened by improving the academic 
knowledge of teachers in the subject areas in 
which the teachers teach; 
(3) that institutions of higher education 
should be held accountable to prepare teachers 
who are highly competent in the subject 
areas in which the teachers teach, including 
preparing teachers by providing training in 
the effective uses of technologies in classrooms; 
and 
(4) that there should be recruitment into 
teaching of high quality individuals, including 
individuals from other occupations. 
Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I understand 
that amendment will be put 
in the process whereby it will be assigned 
an opportunity to be voted on, if 
that is the case, in due course. 

Mr. President, I might discuss with 
the distinguished Senator from New 
Jersey where we are now. Senator TIM 
JOHNSON has an amendment that he 
would like not only to call up but to 
take 3 or 4 minutes on. I am a cosponsor. 
I think we should accept it. We 
might be able to get that one done 
today. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I appreciate the 
fact the manager is going to yield to 
our friend from South Dakota. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2210, AS MODIFIED 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding repair and construction needs of 

Indian schools) 

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to send a modified 
version of the amendment to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has a right to modify his amendment. 


The amendment (No. 2210) as modified, 
is as follows: 
At the end of Title III, insert the following: 

Sec . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING RE


PAIR AND CONSTRUCTION NEEDS 

OF INDIAN SCHOOLS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) many of our nation’s tribal schools are 
in a state of serious disrepair. The Bureau of 
Indian Affairs (BIA) operates 187 school facilities 
nationwide. Enrollment in these 
schools, which presently numbers 47,214 students, 
has been growing rapidly. A recent 
General Accounting Office report indicates 
that the repair backlog in these schools totals 
$754 million, and that the BIA schools 
are in generally worse condition than all 
schools nationally; 

S2910 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(2) approximately 60 of these schools are in 
need of complete replacement or serious renovation. 
Many of the renovations include 
basic structural repair for the safety of children, 
new heating components to keep students 
warm, and roofing replacement to keep 
the snow and rain out of the classroom. In 
addition to failing to provide adequate learning 
environments for Indian children, these 
repair and replacement needs pose a serious 
liability issue for the Federal government; 
(3) sixty-three percent of the BIA schools 
are over 30 years old, and twenty-six percent 
are over 50 years old. Approximately forty 
percent of all students in BIA schools are in 
portable classrooms. Originally intended as 
temporary facilities while tribes awaited 
new construction funds, these ‘‘portables’’ 
have a maximum 10 year life-span. Because 
of the construction backlog, children have 
been shuffling between classrooms in the 
harsh climates of the Northern plains and 
Western states for ten to fifteen years; 
(4) annual appropriations for BIA education 
facilities replacement and repair combined 
have averaged $20–$30 million annually, 
meeting only 4% of total need. At the 
present rate, one deteriorating BIA school 
can be replaced each year, with estimates of 
completion of nine schools in the next seven 
years. Since the new construction and repair 
backlog is so great and growing, the current 
focus at BIA construction must remain on 
emergency and safety needs only, without 
prioritizing program needs such as increasing 
enrollment or technology in the classroom; 
and 
(5) unlike most schools, the BIA schools 
are a responsibility of the federal government. 
Unfortunately, the failure of the federal 
government to live up to this responsibility 
has come at the expense of quality 
education for some of this nation’s poorest 
children with the fewest existing opportunities 
to better themselves. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this budget 
resolution assume that the repair and construction 
backlog affecting Bureau of Indian 
Affairs school facilities should be eliminated 
over a period of no more than five years beginning 
with Fiscal Year 1999, and that the 
President should submit to Congress a plan 
for the orderly elimination of this backlog. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the 
Senator from New Mexico yield time? 

Mr. DOMENICI. I believe he is calling 
up an amendment and he has time on 
the amendment. 

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, the 
amendment that is being offered is 
with the cooperation of Chairman 
DOMENICI. It is cosponsored by Senators 
DASCHLE, DORGAN, BINGAMAN, 
WELLSTONE, MCCAIN, KOHL, CONRAD and 
MURRAY, and it is a sense-of-the-Senate 
resolution, which is designed to reflect 
on the crisis that we have with Indian 
school funding in the United States 
today. This is an issue that Chairman 
DOMENICI has shared with me as a matter 
of great concern on the Senate 
Budget Committee. 

We recognize the budget resolution 
assumes $166 million will be allocated 
for Indian school repair work and replacement 
work. However, we recognize 
this is part of the budget resolution 
and is not binding on the Appropriations 
Committee. 

There is a need to raise the visibility 
of the very real crisis that exists in 
terms of BIA school funding and re


placement needs. That is the purpose of 
this sense of the Senate. The BIA manages 
some 143 schools within the 
United States. It is a Federal responsibility. 
This is not a question of whether 
the Federal Government ought to be 
involved in these schools or not. In this 
instance, these schools are Federal 
property and it is a Federal responsibility. 


We have a repair and replacement 
backlog now of about $754 million. The 
rate at which we have been replacing 
some 60 schools that currently are in 
need of replacement has been at about 
one per year. So obviously the backlog 
is getting larger and larger as we go 
about this kind of underfunded replacement 
and renovation. 

Mr. President, 40 percent of the BIA 
students attending class are attending 
class in portable classrooms. We have a 
fast-growing population attending 
these schools, and it is clear that something 
far different from what we have 
been doing in the past is absolutely essential 
if, in fact, we are going to 
meaningfully address this backlog. 

It is our concern that we have to infuse 
more resources into the backlog 
problem, and that we have greater direction 
from the White House itself, 
from the BIA itself, relative to a concrete 
plan to get this done over a relatively 
modest timeframe, over the 
next 5 years. 

So this resolution calls on the administration 
to work with us in arriving at 
a plan that is infused with sufficient 
funds to make significant progress over 
these coming years on this backlog. 
This resolution will send a signal, and 
I think an important signal, to the appropriators 
and to the administration 
that this is a crisis that we recognize 
and we acknowledge, and for which 
there is a bipartisan concern. 

So that is the thrust of this resolution. 
I commend Chairman DOMENICI 
for working with me, and for the work 
of his staff, working with my staff, trying 
to arrive at a strategy that is constructive 
and is meaningful on this 
problem. The Senator represents a 
State with a significant Indian population, 
suffering many of the same 
problems that the Native American 
population in my State of South Dakota 
suffer. So this is a problem about 
which we jointly share a great concern. 

The chairman is commended for a 
longstanding commitment to trying to 
enhance opportunities and the quality 
of life for the Native American population 
of his State and around the 
United States in general. This is one 
area where we both agree; I believe 
that higher visibility and a higher level 
of commitment is badly needed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I wonder if the Senator 
will yield me 5 minutes? 

Mr. JOHNSON. I yield the Senator 5 
minutes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. First, I want to ask, 
did the Senator name me as a cosponsor? 


Mr. JOHNSON. Yes; I did. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I wonder if Senator 
BINGAMAN of New Mexico has been 
asked about being a cosponsor? 

Mr. JOHNSON. Senator BINGAMAN 
was also named. We are very proud to 
have both Senators from New Mexico 
on this amendment as cosponsors. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Is Senator CAMPBELL, 
the chairman of the Indian Affairs 
Committee, on it? 

Mr. JOHNSON. We do not have Senator 
CAMPBELL on it. Senator CAMPBELL 
held a hearing and a mark-up 
today at his committee, and we have 
not been able to reach him on this 
amendment as yet. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I wonder if you 
would mind having him called and we 
will modify it by adding him on it. I 
think we should ask to have the chairman 
on it. 

Mr. JOHNSON. That is a good idea. 

Mr. DOMENICI. What has been amazing 
to the Senator from New Mexico is 
the way the U.S. Government fails to 
recognize its sole and singular responsibility. 
We are busy all the time, 
every year, with budgets that try to do 
new things. Frankly, the President of 
the United States had a very long list 
of new things, new programs. In fact, 
he had a suggestion that we use a lot of 
the money for helping classroom size, 
helping build public schools. But the 
real problem here is that if we do not 
rebuild the Indian schools that are run 
by the Government and put them under 
some management and maintenance, 
nobody will. They don’t belong to anybody 
else. They are not being run by 
the State of Georgia, or the school 
board of Bernalillo County, Albuquerque. 
It is either we do it or the Indian 
young people go to school in 
buildings that are not fit for occupancy, 
much less for Indian education. 

I don’t know what to do about it. The 
Senator from New Mexico doesn’t know 
what to do about it. I work at it every 
year. We need to get some proposal to 
get this huge backlog taken care of and 
get on with being able to say to our Indian 
young people and the teachers 
who are in those schools, ‘‘We think 
enough of you to give you a school that 
offers you an opportunity like the rest 
of Americans to get educated.’’ The 
school building doesn’t make the child, 
but I tell you, you can have a bad 
enough school building that the child 
can hardly learn. 

So I have asked that this resolution 
contain another provision, just in an 
effort to see if we can get there, and 
that provision, which was in the modification 
that Senator JOHNSON sent to 
the desk, asked the President of the 
United States—if I am not correct—it 
asked the President to submit to us by 
a date certain a 5-year plan to see to it 
that, regarding the Indian schools the 
Government owns, the Government 
must maintain them or they will not 
get maintained, and those where we 
have to build a new one because the old 
one is decrepit, that entire package be 
put in a 5-year plan and the President 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2911 

recommend to us how we might get 
that done. 

Frankly, I believe unless and until 
that shows up in a Presidential budget, 
we are not going to find the resources 
in the Senate or the House to do what 
we must do. This is not a little $50 million 
problem; this is a hundreds-of-million-
dollar problem. So I believe we are 
on to something here in this resolution. 
It is not just a hollow one; it is 
one that is to get something back from 
the Chief Executive of America, and it 
is going to tell us whether we agree on 
this problem, and if they do, how do we 
take care of it in a given number of 
years. 

I anxiously await, and I will see to it 
that we hold this in conference, because 
I think it is the kind of thing 
that should be in the budget. Some 
sense-of-the-Senates don’t belong in, 
but this belongs in because this is a 
problem we can’t fix in a budget resolution. 
We can hardly fix it in appropriations, 
as you know. So, Senator, 
thanks for your leadership. I am glad 
to be on board. This will be welcome 
news in Indian country. 

Mr. JOHNSON. I thank the chairman 
for his supportive remarks here. The 
chairman has a great understanding, 
profound understanding, of the immensity 
of the problem that this country 
faces relative to Indian schools and the 
need for White House leadership on this 
issue. We will work with the White 
House in that regard, but it is going to 
require a cooperative effort if we are 
going to have any success on a problem 
of this immensity. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that Senators KOHL, CONRAD, 
INOUYE, and MURRAY be added as cosponsors 
to this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. And the Senator 
from North Dakota? 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I will 
be proud to be made a cosponsor of this 
amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DORGAN. Let me just take 30 
seconds. 

Mr. JOHNSON. I yield to the Senator. 


Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I support 
fully the comments made by the 
Senators from South Dakota and New 
Mexico, and in fact I hope in just a moment 
to be able to speak off the bill on 
the Moseley-Braun amendment, and I 
intend to address a few of these issues 
with respect to that as well. And I am 
pleased the Senator offered the amendment 
and pleased to hear the comments 
of the Senator from New Mexico 
as a cosponsor. 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I rise 
today in support of the Johnson 
amendment, which expresses the sense 
of the Senate about the need to address 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs school 
construction backlog. 

The conditions at the schools on 
America’s Indian reservations are some 
of the worst in the nation. They are 

truly deplorable. In January, I accompanied 
the Assistant Secretary for Indian 
Affairs on a tour of the Standing 
Rock Community School at Fort 
Yates, North Dakota. I wish every one 
of my colleagues in the Senate could 
see the conditions at this school. The 
school was built in an open-classroom 
design, without walls between the 
classrooms. The noise at the school can 
be deafening at times, and this is not 
an environment in which students can 
learn. How is it that we can have a 
school in which the physical conditions 
actually prohibit learning from happening? 
In addition, the heating and 
cooling system at the school is grossly 
inadequate, so it can be 50 degrees in 
one wing of the school, and 80 degrees 
in another. 

As bad as this is, things have recently 
gotten worse: the lights at this 
school and the local elementary school 
have begun to leak an oily substance 
that has been found to contain PCBs. 
The Bureau of Indian Affairs is in the 
process of removing these lights and 
conducting additional testing for further 
contamination. They are also testing 
the ceiling tiles, which preliminary 
tests show may contain dioxin. To protect 
the health of the students, the 
schools were shut down for weeks. The 
BIA is in the process of reopening the 
schools’ classrooms and other facilities, 
as clean-up is completed. These 
conditions pose serious threats to the 
health of the children of the Standing 
Rock Reservation. How can we ask 
families to sent their children to be 
educated in such deplorable conditions? 


In looking at conditions at schools 
throughout Indian Country, the Standing 
Rock Community is not an anomaly. 
In January, the GAO released a report 
on conditions at BIA schools and 
the costs to repair these schools. The 
BIA estimates that the costs of total 
inventory repair need for BIA education 
facilities is $754 million. 

Data from a 1994 National Schools 
Facilities Survey conducted by GAO 
show that BIA schools are generally in 
poorer physical condition, have more 
unsatisfactory environmental factors, 
more often lack key facilities requirements 
for educational reform, and are 
less able to support computer and communications 
technology, compared to 
other schools nationwide. 

Of the conditions found at BIA 
schools: 

62 percent had at least one building 
in less than adequate condition, compared 
with 33 percent of all schools. 

79 percent had at least one inadequate 
building feature (such as roofs, 
floors, foundations, plumbing, heating, 
electrical power, and life safety codes). 
Nationwide, 57 percent of all schools 
had at least one inadequate building 
feature. 

94 percent had at least one unsatisfactory 
environmental condition, compared 
with 50 percent of schools nationwide. 
Environmental conditions include 
lighting, heating, ventilation, in


door air quality, acoustics, flexibility 
of instructional space, energy efficiency, 
and physical security of building. 


These are serious school construction 
needs—about $754 million worth—that 
should be addressed, and should be addressed 
quickly. The Johnson amendment 
expresses the sense of the Senate 
that the BIA school construction backlog 
should be eliminated within five 
years. We need a serious, sustained effort 
to get the job done and provide a 
safe environment in which Native 
American children can get an education. 


The Johnson amendment also requires 
the Administration to submit to 
Congress a plan for how this construction 
backlog will be addressed. As a 
member of the Senate Committee on 
Indian Affairs, I intend to work closely 
with Kevin Gover, Assistant Secretary 
for Indian Affairs, to ensure that the 
job gets done. Assistant Secretary 
Gover visited North Dakota and quickly 
grasped the magnitude of the school 
construction problem. He has made a 
commitment to me and other members 
of the Committee to take action on 
this school construction backlog. 

We cannot let these conditions persist. 
We cannot let the BIA school construction 
backlog continue to grow out 
of control. And we cannot continue to 
ask parents to send their children to 
school where learning cannot take 
place and where serious health hazards 
exist. I hope that all of my colleagues 
will vote for the Johnson amendment 
and show their support for the will-
being of Native American children. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, today 
there is a $1.5 billion backlog of repairs, 
renovation, and replacement for 
all federally owned and operated BIA 
schools, including elementary, secondary, 
and post-secondary schools. 

A December, 1997 report by the General 
Accounting Office (GAO) concluded 
that ‘‘the cost of the total inventory 
of repairs needed for BIA education 
facilities (elementary and secondary 
only) is $754 million. This includes 
$693 million for repairs to school 
buildings, including dormitories for 
students. It also includes $61.7 million 
in repairs needed for education quarters 
such as employee housing. 

The footnote to this estimate notes 
that $754 million ‘‘does not include the 
costs of replacing school buildings. 
BIA’s priority list for constructing 
education facilities includes eight unfunded 
school replacement projects 
with a total estimated cost of $112 million.’’ 


THE BIA CONSTRUCTION PRIORITY LIST 

Mr. President, we in the Senate who 
pay close attention to this BIA priority 
list for school construction are well 
aware that this list has been frozen for 
several years now. This means that the 
eight school scheduled for replacement 
are the ones on this frozen priority list. 
I am attaching this list of 16 total BIA 
schools from the Administration’s FY 
1999 budget request for the RECORD. 


S2912 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Obviously, a school that is replaced 
would be deleted from the list of school 
needing repair. The GAO report includes 
the costs of schools scheduled 
for replacement. In short, the GAO estimate 
does not fully estimate the 
costs of replacement schools. 

To get a rough idea of the costs of replacing 
these schools, including those 
that are not on the frozen priority list, 
I have checked with the Assistant Secretary 
for Indian Affairs, Kevin Gover. 
His office informs me that 50% of the 
185 BIA schools are over 30 years old 
and fail to meet current codes and 
standards. 

The GAO, has noted that 25% of BIA 
schools are over 50 years old, and, of 
course fail to meet the same standards 
for safety and teaching. 

TOTAL BIA SCHOOLS NEEDING REPLACEMENT 
AND REPAIR 

There are 93 BIA schools that should 
be replaced—well beyond the current 
priority list of 16. At an average cost of 
$180 per square foot, these 93 schools 
would cost one billion dollars to replace. 


Replacing these 93 oldest BIA schools 
would leave about $200 million in repair 
and renovation costs for the remaining 
92 BIA schools. 

This simple arithmetic gives us a 
current estimate of about $1.2 billion 
to bring all federally operated BIA 
schools up to par. 

INDIAN COMMUNITY COLLEGES 

These Indian community colleges fall 
into two categories: those run by the 
BIA and those that are tribally controlled 
community colleges. 

In the first category, those run by 
the BIA, Haskell (Kansas) and SIPI (Albuquerque) 
are the only two that are 
fully federally operated by the BIA. 
The BIA now has 26 tribally controlled 
community colleges eligible to receive 
funds through the Tribally Controlled 
Community Colleges Act, and one 
more, United Tribes Technical College, 
funded through the BIA’s Community 
Development funds. 

In total, then, there are 29 Indian 
Community Colleges with direct BIA 
funding, and one, Crownpoint Institute 
of Technology, that is funded primarily 
through the Carl Perkins Vocational 
Education program of the U.S. Department 
of Education. 

These Indian community colleges 
have an estimated repair and renovation 
cost of about $310 million. Replacement 
costs, such as the Shiprock 
branch of Navajo Community College, 
are not included. The Shiprock branch 
is estimating the costs for a new campus 
at about $28 million. The need for 
married student housing at Crownpoint 
Institute of Technology is also not included. 


TOTAL BIA SCHOOLS AND INDIAN COMMUNITY 
COLLEGES 

For the sake of simplicity, we can 
easily estimate that total repair, renovation, 
and replacement costs for all 
elementary, secondary, and post-secondary 
BIA schools and tribal schools 
eligible for BIA funds, exceed $1.5 billion. 


GAO REPORT ON BIA SCHOOLS 

For the benefit of my colleagues, I 
would like to submit an edited version 
of the GAO study on Indian school repair 
needs. Please keep in mind that 
this report is focused on elementary 
and secondary schools only. 

The GAO finds that 47,200 Indian students 
are served by 173 schools. The 
BIA count is 185 schools and over 50,000 
students. The BIA schools range in size 
from 15 to 1,144 students, with about 
half of these schools enrolling fewer 
than 200 pupils. 

Growth is very high in these schools 
with an increase in student enrollment 
of 25 percent since 1987. Most of this 
growth has occurred in the last 5 years. 

About 10 percent of all Indian students 
attend BIA schools, funded or operated 
by the BIA. The vast majority 
or 90% of Indian students in America 
attend regular public schools. 

BIA schools are located in 23 states, 
but are highly concentrated in 5 
states—North Dakota, South Dakota, 
Arizona, New Mexico, and Washington. 

BIA schools are generally in poorer 
physical condition that even central 
city schools and lack more key facility 
requirements than typical American 
schools. 

The BIA schools are older and less 
able to support computer and communications 
technology than average 
American schools. 

CONCLUSION (S. RES. 100 ON EDUCATION OF 
AMERICAN INDIANS) 

In addition to the physical needs of 
our federally operated Indian schools 
and colleges, there is a parallel crisis 
in operating funds for Indian schools 
nationwide. 

American Indian students have the 
highest dropout rate of any racial ethnic 
group (36%) and the lowest high 
school completion and college attendance 
rates of any minority group. 

Average annual funding for Indian 
college students is $2,900 compared to 
$6,200 for Americans as a whole. 

Senate Resolution 100, introduced in 
the First Session of this Congress 
which I introduced with the cosponsor-
ship of Senators CAMPBELL, INOUYE, 
JOHNSON, DORGAN, and WELLSTONE, discusses 
the overall situation of Indian 
education and calls upon the 105th Congress 
to address these issues through 
major education bills under consideration. 


I urge my colleagues to review Senate 
Resolution 100, and support its passage 
by this body in order to draw 
more needed attention to the major 
problems we face today in Indian education. 


I ask unanimous consent that S. Res. 
100 be printed in the RECORD, along 
with the BIA school construction priority 
list, and my summary of the GAO 
report on Indian school repairs. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

REPLACEMENT SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION 

Program Description ($19,200,000: During fiscal 
years 1991 thru 1997, $117.2 million was appropriated 
to complete construction of 
schools at Laguna, Choctaw, Dunseith, Pine 
Ridge, and the Haskell Dormitory, as well as 
the first eight schools on the Replacement 
School Construction Priority List (List). 
Funds appropriated in FY 1998 were used to 
start construction of the Many Farms 
School complex. This school is ranked no. 4 
on the Replacement School Priority List 
(List). Funds appropriated in FY 1998 will be 
used to accomplish site work at both the Sac 
& Fox Settlement School and the Pyramid 
Lake High School. These schools are ranked 
10 and 11, respectively, on the List. Congress 
also funded this rebuilding of the Wa-He-Lut 
School which was completed in seven months 
and is occupied. The status of each school 
project on the List is presented below. 

Replacement school project Project status 

1. Pinon Community School Dorms ........................................................ Funded, Construction is Complete, except Employee Quarters for which Public Law 93–638 construction contract due for completion March, 1998. 
2. Eastern Cheyenne River Consol. School ............................................. Funded, Construction is Complete; school is occupied. 
3. Rock Point Community School ............................................................ Funded, Construction is Complete; school is occupied. 
4. Many Farms High School .................................................................... Funded, Construction anticipated to start in summer of 1998. 
5. Tucker Day School .............................................................................. Funded, Construction is Complete; school is occupied. 
6. Shoshone Bannock School .................................................................. Funded, Construction is Complete; school is occupied. 
7. Standing Pine Day School .................................................................. Funded, Construction is Complete; school is occupied. 
8. Chief Leschi School ............................................................................ Funded, Construction is Complete; school is occupied. 
9. Seba Dalkai School ............................................................................. Design scheduled for completion July 1998; construction funds requested in 1999. 
10. Sac & Fox Settlement School ........................................................... Design 70% complete; requesting construction funding in FY 1999. 
11. Pyramid Lake High School ................................................................ Design completed; requesting construction funding in FY 1999. 
12. Shiprock Alternative School .............................................................. Planning is nearly complete; funded for design; not funded for construction. 
13. Tuba City Boarding School ............................................................... Planning to begin Spring of 1998; funded for design; not funded for construction. 
14. Fond Du Lac Ojibway School ............................................................ Design is underway; not funded for construction. 
15. Second Mesa Day School .................................................................. Design to 40% is underway; not funded for construction. 
16. Zia Day School .................................................................................. Planning completion is anticipate in second quarter of 1998; funded for design; not funded for construction. 
SUMMARY OF GAO REPORT ON CONDITION OF cludes the cost of repairs to all school build-responding BIA schools: (a) are generally in 
BIA SCHOOLS ings, including dormitories for students and poorer physical condition; (b) have more un


(1) BIA reports that the cost of the total employee housing; and (3) data from GAO’s satisfactory environmental factors; (c) more 
inventory of repairs needed for BIA edu-1994 National School Facilities Survey show often lack key facilities requirements for 
cation facilities is $754 million; (2) this in-that, compared to other schools nationally, education reform; and (d) are less able to 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2913 

support computer and communications technology. 


PERCENT OF INDIAN CHILDREN IN BIA SCHOOLS 

While most Native American children attend 
regular public schools, about 10 percent 
attend BIA schools, which are funded by BIA 
and operated either by BIA or by various 
tribes through grants or contracts from BIA. 

BIA schools are found in 23 states but are 
highly concentrated in 5—North Dakota, 
South Dakota, Arizona, New Mexico, and 
Washington. 

BIA funded 173 schools (including boarding 
schools) in school year 1996–97, with a total 
enrollment of 47,214. The schools ranged in 
size from 15 to 1,144 students, with about 
one-half enrolling fewer than 200 pupils. 

Enrollment in BIA schools is growing and 
overall has increased 25 percent since 1987. 
Most of this growth has occurred in the last 
5 years. 

GAO ESTIMATES ON NATION’S SCHOOLS 
We estimated that the nation’s schools 
needed about $112 billion (+/¥ 6.6% sampling 
error) to repair or upgrade facilities to good 
overall condition. Responses to our survey 
indicated that about 33 percent of America’s 
schools reported needing extensive repair or 
replacement of one or more buildings; almost 
60 percent reported problems with at 
least one major building feature, such as 
plumbing; and about 50 percent reported unsatisfactory 
environmental conditions. 
Furthermore, many reported lacking critical 
physical capabilities to meet the functional 
requirements of education reform and 
key technology elements to support computers 
and communications technology. 

ISOLATION OF BIA SCHOOLS 

BIA officials told us that BIA schools are 
often located in isolated areas and have to 
provide and maintain extensive campus infrastructures 
because they are too far from 
population centers to have access to town or 
city services. For example, one school we 
visited had to house and maintain a fire 
truck on campus because it is too far from 
the nearest city to use its fire department. 

In addition, some schools must provide 
dormitory space for students and/or housing 
for faculty and staff because they are so distant 
from population centers. BIA officials 
told us that this isolation may also contribute 
to maintenance difficulties and costs 
when materials have to be shipped long distances 
and construction/repair staff have to 
be housed while on site. 

AGE OF BIA SCHOOLS 

Officials also told us that about 25 percent 
of BIA school buildings are at least 50 years 
old, and many of these buildings are on the 
National Historic Register. BIA officials told 
us that this listing often restricts the ability 
to make education-related renovations and 
improvements. 

BIA TO UPDATE REPAIR INVENTORY 

BIA reports that, as of October 1997, 
the cost of the total inventory of repairs 
needed for education facilities at 
all BIA schools is $754 million. This includes 
$693 million for repairs to school 
buildings, including dormitories for 
students. It also includes $61.7 million 
in repairs needed for education quarters 
such as employee housing. 

BIA’s inventory of repairs needed— 
the facilities backlog—is an amalgam 
of information collected by architects, 
engineers, and BIA staff over the years. 
The inventory describes in detail individual 
work items required by national 
standards and codes such as the Uniform 
Building Code, National Fire 

Codes, and National Electrical Codes to 
repair the facilities. The facilities 
backlog contains the repair cost for deficiencies 
identified in a building or at 
a site. 

The deficiencies may involve safety 
and health, access for persons with disabilities, 
or noncompliance with other 
building codes. BIA is currently developing 
a new Facilities Management Information 
System and will be validating 
and reassessing the entire facilities 
backlog and inventory. The validation 
will include professional estimates 
of the cost of all backlog repair items 
and a determination of the relative 
economic values of repair versus replacement. 
The system development 
and validation projects are scheduled 
for completion in fiscal year 1999. 

Our 1994 survey asked school officials 
to estimate the total cost of all repairs, 
renovations, and modernizations 
required to put their school buildings 
in good overall condition. The amounts 
reported by the 71 BIA schools responding 
to our survey were generally in 
agreement with BIA’s estimates of the 
costs required to address the inventory 
of repairs needed at these schools. 

S. RES. 100 
Whereas there exists a unique legal and political 
relationship between the United 
States and tribal governments and a unique 
Federal responsibility to American Indians 
and Alaska Natives; 
Whereas, under law and practice, the 
United States has undertaken a trust responsibility 
to protect and preserve Indian tribes, 
Indians, and tribal assets and resources; 
Whereas the Federal Government’s commitment 
to Indian education has been recognized, 
reinforced, and carried out through 
most treaties with Indian tribes, Congressional 
legislation, numerous court decisions 
and Presidential executive orders; 
Whereas this Federal responsibility includes 
working with tribal governments and 
their members to improve the education of 
tribal members; 
Whereas the 1990 census shows the poverty 
rate for American Indians and Alaska Natives 
was nearly twice the national average—
31 percent of Indians live below the poverty 
level, compared to 13 percent of the 
total population. Nearly 38 percent of Indian 
children above the age of 5 were living below 
the poverty level in 1990, compared with 11 
percent of non-minority children; 
Whereas the development of tribal economies 
is dependent on physical infrastructure, 
capital investment, and highly developed 
human capital and an educated labor force; 
Whereas excellence in educational facilities 
and services is a key to building the 
skills necessary for Indian people to develop 
vibrant tribal economies; 
Whereas ever-increasing regional, national, 
and international economic competition 
demands that Indians have every competitive 
advantage accruing from achieving 
excellence in education; 
Whereas there are approximately 600,000 
American Indian and Alaska Native children 
attending schools in this country. An estimated 
87 percent of these children attend 
public schools located on or near reservations 
and in urban areas; another 10 percent 
attend schools funded by the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs (BIA) and an estimated 3 percent 
attend private schools; 
Whereas these schools have experienced an 
increase in student population of 3–4 percent 

in the past 5 years, however, annual funding 
for the education of Indian children has not 
increased proportionately; 

Whereas United States census data shows 
that the Indian and Alaska Native population 
has increased significantly in the past 
three decades. Primary growth concentrations 
are at ages 5 through 19; 

Whereas the 1994 National Assessment of 
Education Progress (NAEP) showed over 50 
percent of American Indian fourth graders 
scored below the basic level in reading proficiency, 
compared with 42 percent of all students; 


Whereas American Indian students have 
the highest dropout rate of any racial ethnic 
group (36 percent) and the lowest high school 
completion and college attendance rates of 
any minority group. As of 1990, only 66 percent 
of American Indians aged 25 years or 
older were high school graduates, compared 
to 78 percent of the general population; 

Whereas the demonstrated need for improvements 
to Indian schools and colleges is 
acute as reflected in the great disparity between 
average annual college funding per 
student of $2,900 for Indian students, and 
$6,200 for non-Indians in America, and the 
Federal Government should assist in bringing 
the Indian schools and colleges up to parity 
with the rest of America; 

Whereas tribal scholarship programs nationally 
are only able to serve an estimated 
40 percent of the eligible college student population 
and funding for graduate scholarships 
has been cut in half in the past 2 years; 

Whereas there is a major backlog of $680 
million in funding need for facilities constructions, 
maintenance and repair for the 
185 BIA-funded schools as well as for public 
schools located on and near Indian reservations; 


Whereas there exists an alarming decline 
in the use of Native languages indigenous to 
the United States. A 1969 Senate Committee 
report stated that in 1969 there were 300 separate 
languages still being spoken. In 1996, the 
number had dropped to 206 still being spoken. 
These languages are spoken nowhere 
else in the world; and 

Whereas, despite these alarming statistics, 
funding for the education of American Indian 
and Alaska Native students has been reduced 
substantially in the past 3 years. The United 
States Congress in fiscal year 1996 eliminated 
discretionary education programs in 
the Office of Indian Education budget which 
had funded adult education, research and 
demonstration programs, the Indian Fellowship 
Program and teacher training and professional 
development projects. At the same 
time, funding for reservation-based education 
programs in the BIA budget was reduced 
by more than $100 million in the fiscal 
year 1996 budget: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That it is the sense of the United 
States Senate— 

(1) that the Senate recognizes and supports 
the Federal Government’s legal and moral 
commitment to the education of American 
Indian and Alaska Native children, which is 
a part of treaties, Executive orders, court decisions 
and public laws which have been enacted 
by the House and Senate of the United 
States Government; 
(2) that funding for all bills, including reauthorizing 
legislation in the 105th Congress 
with specific programs for American Indians 
and Alaska Natives be funded at levels sufficient 
to meet the ever-increasing educational 
and economic demands facing Indian 
people on reservations, urban communities 
and Alaska Native villages; 
(3) that the Senate recognizes the adult literacy 
needs of American Indians and Alaska 
Natives through the inclusion of tribal provisions 
in the administration’s proposal to reauthorize 
the Adult Education Act; 

S2914 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(4) that the administration’s bill for reauthorization 
of the Higher Education Act of 
1965, Public Law 102–325, preserve the original 
purpose and intent of the Tribally-Controlled 
Community Colleges Act and promote 
access to higher education opportunities 
for American Indians and Alaska Natives; 
(5) that during the 105th Congress’ reauthorization 
of agricultural research programs, 
the needs of tribal colleges as designated 
land-grant institutions must be 
given close attention, through amendments 
to the Educational Equity in Land-Grant 
Status Act of 1994; 
(6) that early childhood programs such as 
Head Start (Public Law 103–252) and Healthy 
Start contain resources needed to meet a 
growing number of American Indian and 
Alaska Native children whose rate of growth 
exceeds the national average; and 
(7) that the Senate recognizes the need for 
development and implementation of a Government-
wide policy on Indian education 
which addresses the needs of American Indian 
and Alaska Native people. 
Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, from 
what I understand, we have no objection 
on this side, and I understand 
there are no objections on the Democratic 
side. Therefore, I believe if we 
yield back our respective times, we can 
accept this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. JOHNSON. I yield back my time. 

Mr. DOMENICI. If there was time in 
opposition—I don’t know what it is— 
we yield it back. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the Johnson amendment is 
agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 2210), as modified, 
was agreed to. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider the vote by which 
the amendment was agreed to. 

Mr. JOHNSON. I move to lay that 
motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
yield 10 minutes, or such time as may 
be needed, to the Senator from North 
Dakota. The time is to come off the 
resolution. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota is recognized 
for such time as he may consume. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2175 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I very 
much appreciate Senator LAUTENBERG 
yielding me the time. I am going to 
visit a bit some of the items that were 
just discussed about Indian schools and 
schools generally. I wanted to come 
and talk about the Moseley-Braun 
amendment. 

We talk a lot about family values in 
this Chamber. It seems to me that 

every family that sits around in the 
evening and talks about their lives 
must certainly talk about the schools 
their kids are going to. We have 14 million 
students who attend schools in 
this country now, schools that are in 
need of extensive repair—extensive repair. 


This afternoon, we sit in a nice 
Chamber. We have people here who 
enjoy their lives, and they are well 
dressed. We talk about education and 
theory in the abstract. In Cannonball, 
ND, today there is some little kid sitting 
in school, and I bet you that child 
is smelling sewer gas backed up from 
the pipes, because that is the way the 
school is down in Cannonball. That 
school is 70 years old. There are 150 
kids attending that school with two 
bathrooms and one water fountain, and 
that school is in serious disrepair. 

I just mention that one, but I could 
mention thousands of schools across 
this country that are in desperate need 
of repair. Senator MOSELEY-BRAUN has 
proposed an amendment that says in 
this Budget Act let us make room for 
school construction, for the Federal 
Government to provide some incentive, 
some small incentive to State and 
local governments to help repair and 
rebuild our schools. 

I have two children in public school 
this afternoon. Last year in public 
school, one of those children was in a 
classroom with 30 students. That is too 
big. This year, one of them is in a temporary 
classroom or an expanded mobile 
home. That is too bad. It is a good 
school, and both of them are getting a 
good education. The fact is, we can do 
better in all of these areas, especially 
with respect to school construction. We 
know what the problem is and we know 
how to fix it. The issue of the budget 
on the floor of the Senate is a matter 
of priorities. What do each of us think 
is important for this country. 

I watched last week during consideration 
of the supplemental appropriations 
bill someone come into this 
Chamber and offered an amendment 
that went just like that, just that 
quick, for $170 million for missile defense. 
It wasn’t debated, it wasn’t discussed, 
it was just added. And there it 
was, $170 million. 

Let me talk about these schools for a 
moment, and let me talk specifically 
about the Indian schools, because while 
we are talking about the 14 million students 
who are in school today in 
schools that need extensive repair, let 
me talk just for a moment about the 
students in the Indian schools run by 
the BIA. These are schools owned by 
the Federal Government. They are 
owned by us. We have no one else to 
blame if we don’t fix those schools, and 
it doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure 
out how to fix it. You can look at 
the school, find out what is wrong and 
spend the money to invest in that 
school to help those children. 

Let me tell you about the Ojibwa 
school. That is up on the Turtle Mountain 
Indian Reservation. Those chil


dren walk between portable classrooms 
in the middle of the winter up to six 
times a day in bone-chilling weather. A 
health and safety inspection of that 
school and temporary classrooms in 
1995 found 156 violations—fire hazards, 
broken windows, roof leaking, wooden 
stairs and landings for portable classrooms 
had deteriorated so much to the 
point they were no longer safe, wires 
hanging exposed from some classrooms. 

The Cannonball School is a public 
school. It is not a BIA school. It is on 
the Standing Rock Indian Reservation 
for grades K through five. The school is 
70 years old. It has been condemned as 
a fire hazard, but the local tax base 
cannot support building a new school. 
The second level of the school isn’t 
used because the stairs are unsafe. The 
water and sewer systems are old and 
regularly back up. 

Last week, when we talked to the 
Cannonball School superintendent, she 
said two classes had to be moved in 
with other classes because the smell of 
sewage got so bad in the classrooms of 
these young children. One wing of the 
school doesn’t have running water. Mr. 
President, 145 students and 40 staff 
share two bathrooms and one water 
fountain. The electric wiring is so old 
that it cannot support computers in 
the classrooms, but it doesn’t matter, 
because there can’t be computers in 
these classrooms. The classrooms are 8 
foot by 12 foot. The music classes take 
place in what used to be the janitor’s 
closet, 8 foot by 10 foot. 

Standing Rock Reservation: Standing 
Rock School has PCBs leaking 
from the light fixtures. PCB, as we 
know, is a carcinogen. It is very dangerous. 
Federal law says that PCB levels 
over 50 parts per million are unsafe. 
In the Fort Yates school, the PCBs 
leaking from the light fixtures measured 
not 50 parts per million, which is 
unsafe, but 143,000 parts per million. 
That is in our school. That is with kids 
attending school. 

What happened? They shut the 
school. The took the kids out of the 
school and placed them around town in 
portable classrooms, some in a home. 
Six classes have been meeting in the 
school gymnasium. The others have 
been meeting in portable trailers and a 
private home. The extra classes, like 
physical education, music and art, of 
course, have been suspended, and the 
school officials don’t yet know when 
the students will return to their classrooms. 


PCBs leaking from light fixtures in a 
school that is in disrepair—this happens 
to be on an Indian reservation 
where, incidentally, in 9 months, 48 
teenagers attempted suicide. In the 
last 9 months, 48 attempted suicides, 6 
of which were successful. 

If I sound a little angry about this, I 
am. Every single year I have come to 
the floor of the Senate to talk about 
this problem, and these kids go to 
school in conditions for which we 
ought to be ashamed. This Congress 
can do something about it, and the 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2915 

budget process is a process in which we 
make decisions. If someone stands up 
here and says, ‘‘No, school construction 
doesn’t count because we have 
other priorities,’’ I ask them, ‘‘What is 
your priority if it is not your children?’’ 
By ‘‘your children,’’ I mean this 
country’s children. 

All across this country, when our 
kids go to school, I hope every parent 
wants their child to walk into a school 
that is safe, secure, and in good repair. 
I defy anybody in this Chamber to 
stand up and say to me that kids who 
go to school where sewer gas leaks into 
the classrooms and they have to move 
kids out of those classrooms because of 
the stench of sewer gas, I defy anybody 
to say it is a good thing for kids. If it 
is not a good thing for kids, and we 
know it is going on around this country—
and anecdotically we see it in a 
GAO report and other investigations— 
then let’s decide we want to do something 
about it. The question isn’t 
whether, the question is what. 

Senator MOSELEY-BRAUN has made a 
proposal. Her proposal is modest. I suspect 
it will be voted down. It will be 
voted down because we have people 
who construct the budget and say, 
‘‘Here are our priorities; this is what 
we want to spend money on, and it 
doesn’t include this.’’ 

The amount of school repairs necessary 
in this country last year—3 percent 
of the funds available to meet the 
needs of school repairs was allocated to 
the State and local governments last 
year. If this Congress doesn’t have the 
nerve and the will to say on behalf of 
our kids that you matter, this is a 
problem we know we can fix and we are 
going to put in our budget the provisions 
that allow us to say to kids, 
‘‘We’re going to invest in your young 
lives,’’ if this Congress doesn’t have the 
capability to do that, then there is 
something, in my judgment, fundamentally 
wrong with the priorities we have 
established for public spending. 

I said yesterday that everybody in 
this Chamber will be dead in 100 years. 
Everybody. Nobody will be around here 
feeling good, working. They will all be 
dead. We will all be dead. Only historians 
will evaluate through our budget, 
by looking back at the budget process 
in this Congress, the 105th Congress, 
what were our values; what did we 
think was important; what did we decide 
to invest in; what did we think 
would improve this country. 

I hope historians will not look back 
at us and say, ‘‘Well, oh, they had discussions 
about a terrible deplorable 
condition in some schools in their 
country, but they decided not to invest 
in schools, because, somehow, schools 
took a backseat, schools were in second 
place to a range of other priorities, 
some of them very strange priorities.’’ 

I hope historians will say that this 
Congress, yes, in tight fiscal times decided 
that one of the most important 
investments they could make in America 
was to make a good investment in 
the education of our kids. 

No kid in this country can go to 
school and learn the way we expect 
children to be able to learn unless 
those schools are in decent repair. 
They must be safe, in decent repair, 
good places of learning. You have to 
have a teacher who knows how to 
teach, a student who is willing to 
learn, and a parent involved in that 
education. When you have that at work 
and have invested in good school facilities 
that are necessary to make that 
take place, then we will have done our 
job as a country. 

I wanted to come and say Senator 
MOSELEY-BRAUN has offered an amendment 
that is very, very important. I 
can think of a thousand reasons why 
people will stand up and say they are 
against it. None of them are good. 
Mark Twain was once asked to debate—
I have told my colleagues this 
before. He said, ‘‘Of course.’’ 

‘‘We’ve not told you the subject.’’ 

He said, ‘‘Doesn’t matter, as long as 
I can take the negative side; that takes 
no preparation.’’ 

It takes very little preparation to oppose. 
The Senator from Illinois has 
proposed something that ought to rank 
right at the top of the list of what is 
important for this country. When we 
vote today, I hope the American people 
who listen to this debate will call the 
offices and say, ‘‘We agree that this 
represents the first priority for the 
Congress, the first priority for this 
country, to invest in the lives and education 
of the American children.’’ 

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
yield such time as needed to my colleague 
from Illinois so that she may 
discuss her amendment. And until such 
time as my colleague is ready—— 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. I am. I 
thank the Senator from New Jersey. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois is recognized for such 
time as she may consume. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. I thank the 
Senator from New Jersey for his indulgence, 
for allowing additional time to 
talk about this issue because it is such 
an important issue and we were limited 
by virtue of the agreement on this 
budget discussion so we did not get the 
time to really go through all the details. 
But I did want to pick up on a 
couple points that were made while the 
Senator from North Dakota spoke. He 
was so eloquent in his support of the 
legislation. But he touched on two 
themes that I would like to touch on or 
respond to now. 

The first one goes to, whose job is it? 
Whose responsibility is it to see to it 
that our children go to school in envi


ronments that are suitable for learning? 
Whose fault is it? Whose fault is it 
that we have crumbling schools, that 
we have schools that fall below building 
codes? We have schools where the 
ceilings are falling in because of faulty 
plumbing. We have schools where the 
wiring is insufficient to maintain a 
computer. We have schools with broken 
windows in this country. 

Almost fully a third of the schools, 
according to the General Accounting 
Office, fall below the code standards, 
decent environments for learning, just 
basic kinds of facilities requirements. 
This is not bells and whistles. This is 
not anything exceptional, just the 
basic level of facilities and infrastructure. 
Almost a third of the schools in 
this country fall below that level. 

So as you go through the debate, a 
lot of this debate really comes down to, 
whose fault is it that it is this way? 
And what the sense-of-the-Senate 
amendment proposes is that we stop 
playing the game, the blame game, 
that we stop trying to pass the buck, 
that we stop trying to point the finger 
to assess the blame, to make it somebody 
else’s problem, because, indeed, 
the children of this country are all of 
our problem. 

We will not be able to maintain the 
standard of living that we all talk 
about and maintain as the American 
dream, we will not be able to maintain 
that American dream into the next 
century if we do not give every one of 
our children an opportunity to learn, if 
we do not give every child the best access 
to education that we can possibly 
make available to them. Quite frankly, 
we cannot give quality education to 
children in school buildings that are 
literally falling down. 

It should be intuitive to everybody in 
this Chamber, but beyond intuition, 
the fact is that the studies actually 
have confirmed that performance is directly 
related to the condition of the 
environment in which learning is supposed 
to take place. 

Children who go to schools that are 
falling down consistently score below 
children in quality facilities, across 
the board, on all the tests. We should 
have gotten a warning call as a nation 
just a couple weeks ago when the results 
came in on the international 
tests in math and science. What those 
results said to us was that the United 
States has fallen behind most industrialized 
countries. 

The United States scored below Slovenia. 
I do not mean to disparage Slovenia, 
but we scored below Slovenia in 
math and in science. How can we possibly 
expect to compete in this global 
economy with this kind of laissez faire 
attitude, this kind of neglect, this kind 
of, I would even suggest, triage of our 
children, that leaves their education up 
to how much their parents happen to 
be able to afford? 

That gets to the point of—there was 
a chart over there, and it has kind of 
fallen. I do not know where it went. I 
actually would like to use it for a second. 
It was on the opponents’ side. It 


S2916 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

was a quote from one of the White 
House assistants in 1996 when this proposal 
got cut out of the budget. In spite 
of the fact that the White House said 
at the time they were in support, the 
fact is—and everybody in this room 
knows; and I am not embarrassed 
about it anymore—that the White 
House said, ‘‘Well, we have some other 
priorities. We can’t afford to do this 
now.’’ So they punted on the school 
construction proposal. They essentially 
let it get cut out at the table because 
there was opposition on the other side 
of the aisle, and the majority objected 
to it. The White House said, ‘‘OK, fine. 
We’ll let it go.’’ So the proposal fell 
once again that time just under the 
circumstances of that debate. 

But that loss, in my opinion, should 
have just been temporary because, if 
nothing else has happened, I think in 
the ensuing years people have had a 
chance to take a look at the whole 
question of whose fault it is and whose 
responsibility it is. The truth is, we 
cannot just expect to pay for rebuilding 
our crumbling schools based on the 
local property tax. 

Right now our school finance structure 
proceeds from the local property 
tax. That is one of the reasons why we 
have this patchwork of schools across 
the country. In much the same way 
General Eisenhower, when he set up 
the Interstate Highway System, concluded 
that the only way we were going 
to serve the national interest in transportation 
from one end of the country 
to the other was to have a system that 
had some congruence and some core 
communication and some networking, 
if you will, to it. So we were able then 
to get around the wealth of a specific 
community by saying we are going to 
have one good road that takes us from 
one end of this country to the other. 

Well, so it is with facilities. If we just 
rely on the local property tax, we will 
be forced then to have a school system 
where in wealthy communities there 
will be good faculties, in middle class 
communities there will be a patchwork 
of full school facilities, and in poor 
communities there will be school facilities 
with broken windows and falling 
bricks and leaky roofs. That is the 
situation we are in. And that is the situation 
we have come to. 

Let me suggest this debate and this 
sense of the Senate does not say that 
State and local governments do not 
have a role to play or that we should 
take this up as a new program for the 
Federal Government. Indeed, we should 
not. If anything, this calls on all levels 
of government to go into a partnership, 
to work together, to collaborate, to get 
beyond the blame game and the finger 
pointing and the skirting of responsibility, 
to say let us work together to 
make this happen, to fix these crumbling 
schools. 

The property taxes have already—already—
been rising. In fact, State and 
local taxes as a share of income have 
risen nearly 10 percent—nearly 10 percent. 
And the increase in State and 

local taxes has been greater than the 
increase in Federal taxes. It is stunning. 
People think, ‘‘Oh, taxes are terrible.’’ 
Well, most of the tax hikes have 
come at the State and local level. This 
is going to dawn in the general conversation 
fairly soon, I suspect, because 
the problem is not coming from 
here, it is coming because we are pushing 
off to State and local governments 
a lot of responsibility that we could 
help them with. That is the point, not 
that we are going to take it over; we 
can help them. 

Indeed, if we do not create a more equitable 
partnership to modernize our 
schools, the local property taxpayers 
will have to come up with an additional 
$153 billion—$153 billion. This 
sense of the Senate suggests that we 
have that partnership, that we work 
together, that we provide some financial 
assistance to local governments, 
that we provide an opportunity for 
them to give some relief of the local 
property taxes, that we support State 
efforts to rebuild the schools, that we 
work together for our children, because 
they are all our children and we have a 
stake as citizens of this great country 
in the education of each and every one 
of them. 

It seems to me that if we form this 
partnership, we will be able to meet 
this challenge, we will be able to provide 
our children with decent facilities, 
we will be able to give them the tools 
they need to take up the challenges of 
this technological age of their time. 

I thank the ranking member for giving 
me this time. It appears that the 
majority is prepared to take the floor. 
But I yield back to the Senator from 
New Jersey. I thank the Senator so 
much for his support of this. He has 
been a builder. I have to say one thing 
about the Senator from New Jersey. He 
likes and he understands the importance 
of infrastructure; of the basics; 
of making certain that our roads are 
good in this country, because that is 
how business gets done; of making certain 
that we have infrastructure with 
the bridges so we do not have accidents, 
so that people can get from one 
place to the other, can get to work; of 
making certain that our children have 
the quality education and that the infrastructure 
is adequate to that end. 

It seems to me that there can be no 
more fundamental priority for us. And 
this is an opportunity for us to provide 
for educational excellence, again, in 
collaboration and cooperation and in 
partnership with State and local governments 
on ways in which they retain 
control. There is not a lot of bureaucracy 
with the proposal. Actually, this 
is not a proposal. The sense of the Senate 
is so general, I would expect it to 
have unanimous—it could very well, if 
it were not so partisan an issue, it 
could very well have unanimous support 
in this Senate. It should have. It 
should have. 

The politics, frankly, should stop at 
the schoolroom door, and it should stop 
on something like a sense of the Senate 

that just says, look, this makes sense 
for us to do. It does not legislate, it 
does not mandate, it does not dictate 
anything. A sense-of-the-Senate 
amendment, as the Presiding Officer 
knows, is just a statement of what we 
think is the right thing to do. 

And I hope that we could have unanimous 
support for the right thing to do 
by our children, by our school facilities. 
I hope to have 99, if not 100, votes. 
It would be very nice. But I am a realist 
in this matter. I know that it is 
going to fall prey to partisan politics. I 
think that is a shame too, because I 
really think the time when we have to 
just have these partisan divides on 
these kinds of issues, that time has 
passed. 

I think the American people have 
gotten to the point where they are 
tired of the blame game, they are tired 
of the finger pointing, they are tired of 
the argument, the argument of, ‘‘This 
is what’s wrong with America, and 
isn’t this a shame?’’ Let us move to the 
constructive, to the positive, and talk 
about what is right with America, what 
is right with our generation. Our generation 
is as capable as any of the generations 
that have gone before us of 
meeting the challenges of our times. I 
submit to you that this crumbling 
school initiative is precisely such a 
challenge. 

When I went to school, we were in 
schools largely my parents’ generation 
built, my grandparents’ generation 
built. What is our generation going to 
leave as its legacy to the kids? Schools 
based on whether or not your parents 
are wealthy? Schools based on whether 
or not you live in a community that 
has a big shopping center so there are 
a lot of property taxes? Are we going to 
just leave it to an accident of geography 
whether or not a youngster has a 
chance to be educated in a decent facility? 
I hope not. 

I hope we take advantage of this opportunity 
and see this sense-of-the-
Senate amendment as an opportunity— 
as an opportunity—for us to come together 
as Americans for something 
that we all believe is the right thing to 
do. 

I want to again thank the Senator 
from New Jersey. I yield to the Senator 
from New Jersey and thank him again 
for his indulgence and for all of his 
great support in this matter. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I wonder if I might 
ask a couple questions. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Absolutely. 

Mr. DOMENICI. How much is the program 
that you envision going to cost 
the Federal Treasury? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. $3.3 billion. 

Mr. DOMENICI. $3.3 billion? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Yes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Can you explain how 
we will get so much for so little? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. In the first 
instance, this sense of the Senate does 
not prescribe a level. The sense-of-the-


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2917 

Senate amendment is conceptual; it 
does not go to $3.3 billion. That is the 
underlying legislation that has that 
figure in it. 

How do we get so much for so little? 
That is a very good question. I will tell 
you how. What we do is provide the 
issuers of the zero coupon bonds with 
the ability to give, basically, a tax 
break to purchasers of the bonds. So 
instead of having even an interest rate 
buydown, an individual will get a tax 
credit when they buy one of these instruments. 
They will get a tax credit 
instead of interest. That will allow for 
the leveraging to the $22 billion or 
thereabouts of the bond issue. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Let me make sure I 
understand a couple more things. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. $21.8 billion. 
The $3 billion I mentioned will leverage 
into $21.8 billion worth of these bonds 
over the next 2 years. Again, it is calling 
for a partnership. It calls for private-
sector investment—private-sector 
investment—in helping to rebuild these 
schools. It is not all out of the Treasury. 
It is largely the private sector 
stepping forward and saying, ‘‘As purchasers 
of these instruments, we want 
to help achieve a national goal.’’ 

Mr. DOMENICI. In a sense, if this 
sense of the Senate is ever carried out, 
the Finance Committee would have to 
find room on the tax side for $3.3 billion 
of tax cuts; is that correct? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. We have the 
tradition of paying for those things 
that are authorized out of the Finance 
Committee. 

We passed a bill last night that 
wasn’t fully paid for, as I know the distinguished 
Senator from New Mexico is 
aware. However, yes, we would have to 
find the ‘‘pay for.’’ There is no question 
about it. Whether or not that would 
come out of some of the various revenue 
streams mentioned in connection 
with the bill we passed out last night 
or some other—we can be innovative. 
The chairman of the Finance Committee 
is sitting here, and he is one of 
the most innovative persons I know in 
coming up with things like that. We 
can work together to find the revenue 
stream to support the $3.3 billion. It is 
a small price to leverage $21 billion of 
private-sector investment to achieve 
the goal of helping to start down the 
path of meeting this $112 billion worth 
of deferred maintenance. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I don’t have any further 
questions. I think there are some 
other Senators on our side that do, and 
in due course they will come down. I 
have nothing further. 

Are you finished on your side? 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. I yielded for 
the Senator from New Jersey. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2209 

Mr. ROTH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the pending amendment 
be set aside, and I ask for the immediate 
consideration of amendment 
No. 2209. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That will 
be the pending question. 

Mr. ROTH. Mr. President, this 
amendment deals with a vital national 
issue—Social Security reform. This 

amendment is cosponsored by Senators 
BREAUX, GREGG, ROBB, HATCH, NICKLES, 
GRAMM, GORDON, SMITH, and 
SANTORUM. 

Let me say first that as the chairman 
of the Finance Committee I am acutely 
aware of Social Security’s future financial 
problems. I am sure these problems 
are familiar to most members, 
but nonetheless they bear repeating. 

In just 14 years, in 2012, revenues to 
the Social Security trust funds will no 
longer cover benefits. Social Security 
will then cash in Treasury bonds that 
are now accumulating in the trust 
funds. This will place major pressure 
on the Federal budget and crowd out 
other important spending. 

By 2029 the bonds will be gone. Social 
Security will then be able to cover only 
75 percent of benefits directly from revenues. 
The long-term debt of the Social 
Security system—the difference between 
revenues and benefit through 
2075—is estimated to be an astounding 
$121 trillion. 

The purpose of my amendment is 
simple. Nevertheless, it is important 
and urgent. The amendment instructs 
the Finance Committee to dedicate the 
budget surplus to establishing Social 
Security personal retirement accounts. 

Despite its simplicity, I know that 
many of my colleagues will have at 
least two questions about this amendment. 
First: ‘‘Why establish personal 
retirement accounts this year, rather 
than wait until next year?’’ And second: 
‘‘Why not begin with comprehensive 
Social Security reform, rather 
than start with personal retirement accounts?’’ 


Mr. President, the easy course would 
be to wait until next year to begin Social 
Security reform. But the fact is, 
Social Security reform will be a big 
job. I am very concerned that trying to 
do it all in one year—in 1999—will simply 
not be possible. 

Americans have learned that big, 
comprehensive proposals, with many 
parts, often run into problems in Congress 
and can easily take several years 
to enact. Particularly proposals that 
deal with an important, sensitive program 
like Social Security. 

The place to start with Social Security 
reform is to establish a program of 
personal retirement accounts—funded 
by the budget surpluses. Dedicating the 
surplus to personal retirement accounts 
allows us to get started on reform 
without running into controversies 
over changes to the traditional 
program. 

Personal retirement accounts themselves 
would be a big, new feature of 
Social Security. We will need to explain 
these accounts to the American 
people, and writing a bill will require 
thoughtful action by the Finance Committee. 


Mr. President, let me note for the 
record that there is a growing bipartisan 
consensus that personal retirement 
accounts must be an essential 
feature of Social Security reform. And 
I want to emphasize the word ‘‘bipartisan.’’ 


In the Senate, Senator BOB KERREY, 
another member of the Finance Com


mittee, was an early and vocal advocate 
of personal retirement accounts. 
In the last Congress, he and Senator 
Alan Simpson, now retired, introduced 
a ground-breaking Social Security reform 
bill with personal retirement accounts 
that grew out of their experience 
on the 1994 Bipartisan Commission 
on Entitlement and Tax Reform. 

Other Democrats support this concept. 
For example, Senator ROBB, another 
cosponsor of my amendment, 
proposed a sense-of-the-Senate to last 
year’s budget resolution that would 
have funded Social Security retirement 
accounts. 

And just two weeks ago, Senator 
MOYNIHAN, the ranking Democrat on 
the Finance Committee and a recognized 
expert on Social Security, introduced 
a comprehensive Social Security 
reform package that included personal 
retirement accounts. 

On the Republican side of the aisle, 
there is strong support as well. Senators 
JUDD GREGG, DON NICKLES, PHIL 
GRAMM, RICK SANTORUM, and ROD 
GRAMS, among others, have been enthusiastic 
advocates of Social Security 
personal retirement accounts. 

Let me explain why Social Security 
personal retirement accounts find so 
much support—not only in Congress, 
but among the American people. While 
proposals differ, the basic objective of 
this program is to provide each working 
American with funds to be deposited 
into personal retirement accounts. 

With even conservative investment, 
such accounts have the potential to 
grow to provide a secure and generous 
retirement nest egg. Indeed, for the 
first time Americans could look forward 
to having real personal wealth in 
old age, not just enough to keep body 
and soul together. 

A recent report by the Congressional 
Research Service provides many illustrations 
of what Social Security personal 
accounts may offer. For example, 
for an individual who is 28 years old 
today and earns an average wage— 
about $27,000, just 1 percent of an 
amount equal to his or her wages invested 
over the next 37 years in the 
S&P 500 would grow to $132,000, which 
would be worth about 20 percent of his 
or her Social Security benefits. By the 
way, CRS assumed a 10-percent rate of 
return for the S&P 500. In fact, over the 
past 10 years, the compounded annual 
return on the S&P 500 has been 18 percent. 


Mr. President, using the budget surpluses 
to create retirement accounts 
represents an opportunity to get these 
accounts up and running. Once in 
place, we can then begin looking at Social 
Security benefits for the long run. 
It will help insure that Social Security 
benefits continue to provide a secure 
foundation of retirement income. Establishing 
these accounts this year—as 
a new program in addition to the current 
Social Security program—would 
allow us to demonstrate their value in 


S2918 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

providing retirement benefits for working 
Americans in the years to come. 

Creating these accounts would also 
give the majority of Americans who do 
not own any investment assets a new 
stake in America’s economic growth, 
because that growth will be returned 
directly to their benefit. More Americans 
will be the owners of capital—not 
just workers. 

Creating these accounts will help 
Americans to better be prepared for retirement, 
generally. According to the 
Congressional Research Service, 60 percent 
of Americans are not actively participating 
in a retirement program 
other than Social Security; this, in 
spite of the fact that Social Security 
was never intended to be the sole 
source of retirement income. 

Mr. President, could there be a more 
important use of the budget surplus? 
Some may believe that the budget surplus 
should be used to reduce the debt, 
not dedicated to personal retirement 
accounts. That is exactly what we will 
do by using the surplus to create these 
accounts. Social Security, a $121 billion 
unfunded liability over the next 75 
years, is a huge debt and we need to 
recognize it as such. 

Retirement accounts and other solvency 
proposals would be a critical 
first step in reform. At the same time, 
it would tackle that debt and protect 
benefits. Most observers expect a surplus 
upwards of $60 billion this fiscal 
year, enough to get started on retirement 
accounts and to begin reducing 
the Federal debt. Some may be concerned 
that the President and others 
have called for a year-long national dialog 
on Social Security reform. They 
may be erroneously believing that 
doing reform this year might undermine 
the national dialog. On the contrary, 
I can think of no better way to 
focus it than with specific proposals 
and action by a U.S. Senate committee. 


Mr. President, Congress has talked 
for a long time about the need to do 
something to shore up Social Security. 
The time has come for action. It is indeed 
a blessing that we have a surplus 
to work with. Now let’s put that surplus 
to work. The Finance Committee 
must get started on Social Security reform 
this year. The place to start is by 
dedicating the budget surplus to fund 
personal retirement accounts. This 
amendment will get the ball rolling. I 
urge Members to support it. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise 
in support of the Roth amendment. 
Clearly, there is a long way to go before 
we have rendered Social Security 
solvent way into the next century. But 
it is even more obvious that this is the 
era when part of what a citizen who is 
working should have for retirement 
should be a personalized savings account 
or an annuity that comes from 
that personalized savings account. 
There can be no doubt that it can be 

structured in such a way that it will 
turn out to be better for the senior citizen. 
They will be assured of the benefits 
that they are getting now and, in 
most cases, will come out far, far 
ahead. 

In the meantime, if it works right, 
the surpluses of the U.S. Government, 
if used partially for this, will be invested 
in a safe way, not solely in 
IOU’s from the Federal Government, 
which is where they go now, which is 
the law now; rather, they will be invested 
where they can, without much 
risk, yield significantly more and, 
when compounded, the power of 
compounding is enormous. 

So in a very real sense I come here 
today saying to the distinguished Senator, 
Senator ROTH, chairman of the 
Finance Committee, that the time has 
come for some significant reforms that 
will not put in jeopardy the Social Security 
system, but rather in the long 
run make sure that it is not short of 
money, that its liabilities will not be 
there to destroy the system, but rather 
that in years to come, it will be more 
solvent, and that ultimately, with part 
of it being compounded because of the 
annual return that will come from safe 
investments, it is clear that everyone 
gains. The seniors gain, the 21-year-old 
paying into the system today gains, 
and the American economy is the beneficiary 
of individuals investing in this 
economy across the board so that the 
working people of the United States 
will own an interest in the American 
companies that produce our wealth. 

Frankly, I am delighted that we are 
going to discuss this today. If we discuss 
it for a long time, that is fine with 
me. If we discuss it for a short time 
and it passes, that is fine with me. But 
clearly, we discuss a lot of things that 
are not nearly as important to our future, 
and we adopt sense-of-the-Senate 
resolutions that are, in many instances, 
not even important to the fiscal 
policy of our Nation and the future 
well-being of our people. 

This is moving in the direction of reform 
and personalized accounts, and is 
a very appropriate thing to be doing on 
a budget resolution. It has everything 
to do with what we do with our surpluses, 
if we have them, what we do 
with capital needs in the future, and 
how we assure senior citizens that they 
are going to be guaranteed a Social Security 
check or better, because they 
will have invested some portion of it in 
personalized accounts. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, may 
I have some time under the bill? 

Mr. DOMENICI. How much time does 
the Senator want? 

Mr. SANTORUM. Fifteen minutes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield Senator 
SANTORUM 15 minutes, and then Senator 
NICKLES needs 15 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, I 
rise in very strong support of Chairman 
ROTH’s amendment. There is nobody in 

this Chamber who has done more to 
look out for the retirement security of 
Americans than Senator ROTH from 
Delaware. It is with his Roth IRA and 
other kinds of innovation in his work 
on the Finance Committee that he has 
helped to provide for retirement security 
for millions of Americans, which is 
legendary. I commend him for that and 
for firing, if you will, here on the floor 
of the Senate, the first salvo in what I 
believe will be a long debate, and I 
hope will not be a hostile debate, on 
the issue of transitioning Social Security. 


What we have seen is now a bipartisan 
agreement that personal savings 
accounts must have a very significant 
role in transitioning Social Security. 
Why is that? Social Security is in trouble. 
It is not in trouble next year or the 
year after, but Social Security, which 
was ‘‘saved’’ back in 1983 with the most 
recent revision—it was supposed to 
save it for generations to come, but it 
is now scheduled to go bankrupt some 
30 years sooner than originally expected. 
That number is not set in stone 
either. It is now 2029 when the system 
goes bankrupt. In the year 2013, the 
system starts running a deficit, paying 
out more than it takes in. Now is the 
time, before that bulk of the population, 
the baby boom generation, goes 
into retirement, to begin to look at 
how we can begin to solve this problem. 
Well, there are things you can do 
within the current structure, like 
changing benefits—when I say ‘‘changing,’’ 
I don’t mean raising them, I 
mean cutting benefits—increasing 
taxes, and do a whole lot of things to 
try to preserve a pay-as-you-go system 
that will not work over time because of 
very simple demographics, the most 
important of which is that people are 
living much longer, which is a good 
thing, and also we have very low birth 
rates in this country. You have people 
living longer and fewer people to pay 
for them. So you are looking at dramatic 
increases in taxes or cuts in benefits, 
and that is a mindset of a finite, 
fixed pie. 

What Senator ROTH is suggesting 
here is, let’s grow the pie. So when he 
says let’s grow the pie, let’s invest this 
money, not, as Senator DOMENICI said, 
in Treasury bonds that earn a very 
small rate of return—in fact, if you are 
entering the work force now, the rate 
of return on Social Security taxes you 
are going to pay is below zero. That is 
not a good deal for young people in this 
country. But what we have to do is 
transition the system using the ideas 
of growth in producing more retirement 
income for people who are just 
entering the work force, or who have 
been in the work force a relatively 
short period of time, but at the same 
time, make sure that we do not change 
what has been promised to those at or 
near retirement. 

That is our challenge. But with challenge 
comes tremendous opportunity; 
in crisis comes a tremendous will to be 
innovative in using the private market 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2919 

systems that work so well in this country 
to provide wealth. As the Senator 
from Delaware said, our modest 
amount of money being paid on Social 
Security was never intended to be the 
sole source of retirement. As a result, 
it is a very modest amount. People living 
on Social Security today will tell 
you that if that is their only income 
and they have no other pension income 
or savings income, they are hard 
pressed to make a living. This is not an 
adequate savings system. What we need 
to do is enhance that, create an opportunity 
for more growth in people’s 
wealth and, at the same time, protect 
those who are in the system or have 
been in the system such a long period 
of time, so that they will keep at least 
what we have promised in the past. 

We can do that, but we must use the 
power of the marketplace, the power of 
investment and savings. In so doing, we 
will not only open up the opportunity 
for wealth and a better retirement income 
for generations to come, but open 
up huge economic benefits for this 
country with the amount of money 
that is going to be poured into the capital 
markets and the debt markets, to 
be able to finance future economic expansion 
and growth, better jobs, and 
higher standards of living and real 
wage growth. I heard earlier today 
from Jose Pinero, who was the Secretary 
of Labor during the time Chile 
went to a private personal saving system 
there, some 17 years ago. He said 
that 30 years prior to Chile going to 
that system, they had a real wage 
growth of 1 percent a year, on average. 
Since they passed the personal savings 
accounts in Chile, they have had a real 
wage growth of 7 percent a year, for almost 
15 years, in that country. 

What they have done is dramatically 
increase—over double; two and a half 
times—their savings rate. People now 
understood. Senator ROTH said a very 
important thing, that only 40 percent 
of the people in this country have some 
investment in the marketplace and understand 
the dynamics of how the market 
works, how our economy works. 
That is a disability, if you will, for millions 
of Americans who don’t have that 
advantage. The average, ordinary Chilean 
has that knowledge now and understands 
the marketplace and uses that 
knowledge to their own benefit—and 
not only their own benefit in their personal 
savings account, but in their life 
and in their savings and other skills of 
interacting in the economic marketplace. 
It creates such synergy that it 
will have a dramatically positive impact 
on the future of this country. 

This is the opportunity that is before 
us, and what I am so excited about is 
what I see is a real chance for a bipartisan 
solution to this problem. With 
Senator MOYNIHAN’s proposal of putting 
2 percent aside in private savings, 
I think that is a very healthy initiative. 
We want to build, in my opinion, 
from that as to how we can transform 
this system to provide the security for 
those at or near retirement, put it in 

the law, which is not the case today, so 
that those benefits will be there as 
long as they are alive, that we will not 
change the benefit structure as long as 
they are alive—there is no law that 
says that right now—guarantee it. 
Then we can create opportunities for 
those, frankly, who have very little expectation 
that Social Security will be 
there. 

I talk to a lot of young people. I have 
been to over 110 high schools in my 
State since I have been in office. I can 
tell you, when I ask the question, ‘‘How 
many believe Social Security will be 
there when you retire?’’ if anybody 
raises their hand, the other kids in the 
crowd look at them and laugh at them. 
They have no expectation that Social 
Security will be there. They think it is, 
in fact, a pyramid scheme, a ponzi 
scheme, some sort of thing that the 
folks who are in power right now are 
just going to make them pay and then 
slash the heck out of Social Security 
when it comes their time. 

Well, what we are going to do here is 
create hope. One of the things I hear so 
much about is how young people are 
cynical in this country and they don’t 
believe in our institutions and our culture, 
and what we are doing here is, in 
fact, giving them something they can 
hold, they can have a passbook with 
their money in it so they can track it 
every day and see how it grows, and 
they can say, ‘‘This is my money,’’ 
from the first day they worked flipping 
that first hamburger at a fast food restaurant. 
That money goes into their 
account and is building for their retirement 
security. They can see that happening 
with them at work. They can 
see hope. They can see the potential for 
wealth and for a good life. They will 
understand the dynamics that are so 
important for all of us to understand 
that have to survive economically in 
this country and in the world that is 
out in front. This is truly not something 
we should be looking at and saying, 
how are we going to fix Social Security? 
Such a problem, such a crisis. 
What are we going to do and have 
money? But to walk hand in hand and 
jump at the opportunity to create a 
whole new way of looking at providing 
opportunities for millions of Americans 
upon their retirement and energizing 
and uplifting an economy 
through that process, this is a great opportunity 
for all of us. 

What the chairman of the Finance 
Committee has done today is to lay 
down the first mark on the budget 
where it should be laid down, because 
what we will be doing by allowing private 
investment is dramatically 
lower—not everyone talks about how 
we are going to use the surplus in transition. 
That is a big concern we have to 
worry about—how we transition these 
costs. That is the big nut we have to 
crunch. But at the end, what will happen 
is that budget deficits and the huge 
unemployment liability in $7 trillion 
or $8 trillion of unfunded liability in 
the Social Security trust fund today 

will in effect over time vanish because 
of the dynamics of allowing private 
savings to occur. 

This is in fact a multifaceted solution 
to many problems that are out 
there, one of which is the long-term 
problems of the budget deficit in the 
outyears when the baby boomers are 
beginning to take retirement—not only 
Social Security but Medicare as well— 
when the budget deficit comes back 
again. You hear so much about surplus. 
It comes back again. That is the era, 
that is the time that we can, by acting 
now, keep surpluses coming long into 
the future and grow the economy, create 
stability, create hope for those who 
now do not have it. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

Mr. NICKLES addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oklahoma. 

Mr. NICKLES. Mr. President, I compliment 
my colleague from Pennsylvania 
for his statement. I also compliment 
Senator ROTH for his resolution. 
I am happy to cosponsor this resolution. 
I hope we will have overwhelming 
bipartisan support for it, and 
hopefully everyone can understand 
what we are talking about doing. We 
are talking about saving Social Security. 


The President during his State of the 
Union speech says we want to save Social 
Security; we don’t want to spend 
one dime of the surplus. Senator ROTH 
is trying to save Social Security. Because 
we do not just save Social Security 
by not spending the surplus either 
in the form of additional outlays— 
frankly, the President is violating that 
as we speak because he wants to have 
a supplemental appropriations bill and 
doesn’t want to pay for it. He is already 
violating what he said in the 
State of the Union Address. 

But I agree. We should save Social 
Security. This resolution says that we 
should take the surplus and allow individuals 
to set up personal savings accounts. 
I think that is the way to save 
Social Security. I think that is the way 
to fund Social Security. Right now we 
don’t fund Social Security. It is an unfunded 
paying system. One generation 
pays for retired generations, or working 
employees today pay the Social Security 
tax. Social Security taxes are 
enormous. They have grown, and they 
have exploded in cost. 

As a matter of fact, somebody paying 
Social Security today is paying a 
total—if you look at Social Security 
taxes, their contribution today is a 
total of $10,465 if they have the maximum 
amount of income, which is 
$68,400. That is a lot. That actually includes 
Social Security and Medicare, I 
might mention. So that is a lot. Social 
Security is 12.4 percent of $68,000. That 
is a lot of money. That is over $9,000 
that people are paying. If somebody 
happens to be making $68,000, they are 
paying a lot. What do they have to 
show for it? Nothing. They can’t open 
up a bank account and say, ‘‘Here is 


S2920 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

my money for an investment.’’ Basically 
they are funding a previous commitment. 


Senator ROTH is saying we should 
take the surplus and allow people to 
set up their own individual retirement 
accounts, let them be able to invest in 
the marketplace, let them be able to 
enjoy the rewards of compounding interest. 
Right now the rate of return on 
Social Security as an investment— 
some people say 1 percent, some people 
say 1.2 percent, or 1.3 percent. That is 
not a very good rate of return. It is pathetic 
if you consider what the market 
has done in the last several years. The 
marketplace—the Dow Jones or Standard 
& Poors 500—has been compounding 
in the 20 and 30 percent range for the 
last 4 years. But to have individuals be 
able to enjoy this? The answer is no, 
not in Social Security. 

Senator ROTH has done something 
else. I really appreciate it, because it is 
important. He said not only should 
they be able to invest a portion, but 
also we should be able to use that 
money to reduce the unfunded promises 
that we now have in Social Security. 


I want to do this proposal for two 
reasons. 

One, I want millions of Americans to 
become millionaires. If we let them 
take—some people say 2 percent. I 
think it should be up to maybe 5 or 6 
percent, maybe half of their Social Security 
tax. Of the Social Security tax 
of 12.4 percent of their income up to 
$68,000, you would let them put 6.2 percent 
of their income in for 40-some-odd 
years before they retire, and you will 
find that we will have lots of people 
who started out maybe making $20,000 
a year who are going to be millionaires. 


Senator ROTH’s example is they put 
in 1 percent at age 28, and they can 
have over 100-some-odd thousands. 
That is 1 percent. Let’s get it up, and it 
can really compound, and individuals 
can have hundreds of thousands of dollars, 
if not over a million dollars. 

I want those individuals to be 
wealthy, whether they are on the lower 
end of the income scale or in the higher 
end. We want them to be independent. 

Likewise, I want to reduce the unfunded 
promises that we don’t have the 
money to pay for. I am really concerned 
about what our kids are going 
to have to pay for 20 years from now. If 
we do not do something, as Senator 
ROTH is proposing—Senator MOYNIHAN, 
Senator BREAUX, and Senator KERREY, 
and others of us have been working on 
it—our kids are going to be inheriting 
a debt that is twice as large as our national 
debt. Everybody is bragging 
around here. We are patting ourselves 
on the back. ‘‘Hey, we balanced the 
budget.’’ We are balancing the budget 
on using a great deal of Social Security 
surplus. That debt right now has accumulated, 
the Federal debt—usually 
people say about $3.3 trillion or $4 trillion. 
The unfunded vested promises 
that we have in Social Security today 

is almost $10 trillion, twice as large as 
our national debt. 

What this change by going to a capitalist-
funded retirement system would 
do would provide security, provide retirement 
funds for individuals, and 
likewise could reduce the Government’s 
obligations in the future—to me 
that is a very positive thing—so future 
generations won’t have to have a payroll 
tax that is maybe twice as high as 
the payroll taxes we have today. I 
think it is a very positive thing. 

I might mention—I see a couple of 
colleagues on the floor who talked 
about how we should not use Social Security 
funds to balance the budget. 
Today the Social Security trust fund, 
this year 1998, $101 billion more will go 
in than goes out. That is a surplus. 
Yet, we are using that surplus just like 
every administration has used it since 
we have had Social Security. 

What I would like to see it do—I 
might mention the Budget Committee 
has already passed it. I was interested. 
I was going to introduce a resolution 
that says we should pass in 2 or 3 
years—3 years, let’s say—the budget 
resolution that doesn’t use one dime of 
Social Security trust funds to balance 
the budget. 

I tell my colleague from North Dakota, 
who has talked about this on 
more than one occasion, that I am willing 
to do it. It won’t be easy, but we 
should do it. I tell my colleague that in 
10 years the Social Security surplus 
will be $197 billion, almost $200 billion. 
I don’t think we should use these Social 
Security revenues to balance the 
budget. If we balance the budget without 
that, we can make these moneys 
available for personal security accounts. 
Now you are talking about real 
money. You are talking about $200 billion 
in the year 2008 alone that can go 
into personal security accounts that 
can be invested in the stock market, 
that can be invested in mutual funds, 
that can be invested in bonds, that can 
be invested in T bills. Let the individual 
decide how he wants to invest it. 
We allow Federal employees to invest 
in the stock market, in bonds, and in T 
bills. Federal employees are able to do 
this. My colleague from Pennsylvania 
mentioned that they do it in Chile. 
They make investments. Surely Americans 
are capable of making these investments. 
I think it would be exciting 
to allow people to be able to invest 
their own money. It is their money. It 
is not the Government’s money. We 
have been taking it from them. 
Shouldn’t we allow, out of that 12.4 
percent, the individuals to take maybe 
4 percent or 5 or 6 percent and be able 
to invest it for themselves? In exchange 
for that, they will be a lot more 
dependent on themselves and a lot less 
dependent on the Government. 

This is a mandatory tax. Shouldn’t 
we allow them to have part of that for 
themselves so they can have an account 
and look at it on a monthly 
basis, so it is there, and it is something 
they can count on, not for an unfunded 

Government promise that we hope will 
be there. Demographically, everybody 
who has ever looked at this problem 
says we have a real problem. Some people 
say we don’t have problems until 30 
years. That is hogwash. We have problems, 
as Senator ROTH mentioned, in 12 
years. 

It is estimated that by the year 2010 
or 2012, for Social Security that line of 
more money going in switches. More 
money goes out. No later than 2012, 
more money goes out than in. We will 
start drawing on the trust fund. What 
is in the trust fund? Nothing but Government 
IOUs. That is the promise. 
The way we finance those—you say 
they are the same things as T bills or 
the paper equivalent. It is just an IOU. 
The way we pay for these is we issue 
more T bills. In 12 years we have a big 
problem. We will have enormously high 
payroll taxes and a lot of debt. You 
have to issue more debt. I think that is 
a bad solution. This is the right solution, 
and I will tell you that millions of 
people in the private sector have done 
this. We did it in my company. We 
went from a defined benefit to defined 
contribution plan. Our employees love 
us. I think we should give every American 
an opportunity to do this for at 
least part of their Social Security. It 
doesn’t have to be for all of it. Some 
people say 2 percent. I said maybe it 
should be half of it—maybe 6.4 percent, 

6.2 percent. The Government, the employer 
portion, can still go to meet 
current obligations. But, likewise, we 
would be reducing current or future obligations. 
I think that is very important. 
What Congress has done in the past— 
we have had problems with Social Security—
is raise taxes. We raised the 
base. We raised the tax rate. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
to have printed in the RECORD a 
chart showing payroll taxes—Social 
Security taxes and employer taxes 
combined. For the record—my colleagues 
can see this—if you look at Social 
Security and if you look at disability, 
Medicare, if you add those 
taxes together, in 1998, for a person 
making maximum of the base, the base 
amount, which is $68,000, it shows they 
are paying in payroll taxes alone 
$10,465. That is a lot of money. I am 
saying we should allow individuals to 
take part of that, a few thousand dollars 
of it, and be able to put it into 
their own account and likewise reduce 
Government’s obligation at the same 
time. I think it is awfully important. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD a chart that I 
have prepared that shows the budget 
deficits and Social Security and how 
that equates. It shows that we are becoming 
more and more reliant over the 
next several years on Social Security 
surpluses that I mentioned before, 
which disappear by the year 2012. 

There being no objection, the chart 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2921 

BUDGET DEFICITS & SOCIAL SECURITY 

On-budget 
deficit 
Social Security 
deficit/ 
surplus 
Unified 
budget def-
icit/surplus 1 
1962 ....................................... 
1963 ....................................... 
1964 ....................................... 
1965 ....................................... 
1966 ....................................... 
1967 ....................................... 
1968 ....................................... 
1969 ....................................... 
1970 ....................................... 
1971 ....................................... 
1972 ....................................... 
1973 ....................................... 
1974 ....................................... 
1975 ....................................... 
1976 ....................................... 
1977 ....................................... 
1978 ....................................... 
1979 ....................................... 
1980 ....................................... 
1981 ....................................... 
1982 ....................................... 
1983 ....................................... 
1984 ....................................... 
1985 ....................................... 
1986 ....................................... 
1987 ....................................... 
1988 ....................................... 
1989 ....................................... 
1990 ....................................... 
1991 ....................................... 
1992 ....................................... 
1993 ....................................... 
1994 ....................................... 
1995 ....................................... 
1996 ....................................... 
1997 ....................................... 
1998 ....................................... 
(5.9) 
(4.0) 
(6.5) 
(1.6) 
(3.1) 
(12.6) 
(27.7) 
(0.5) 
(8.7) 
(26.1) 
(26.4) 
(15.4) 
(8.0) 
(55.3) 
(70.5) 
(49.8) 
(54.9) 
(38.7) 
(72.7) 
(74.0) 
(120.1) 
(208.0) 
(185.7) 
(221.7) 
(238.0) 
(169.3) 
(194.0) 
(205.2) 
(277.8) 
(321.6) 
(340.5) 
(300.4) 
(258.8) 
(226.3) 
(174.0) 
(103.3) 
(92.0) 
(1.3) 
(0.8) 
0.6 
0.2 
(0.6) 
4.0 
2.6 
3.7 
5.9 
3.0 
3.0 
0.5 
1.8 
2.0 
(3.2) 
(3.9) 
(4.3) 
(2.0) 
(1.1) 
(5.0) 
(7.9) 
0.2 
0.3 
9.4 
16.7 
19.6 
38.8 
52.4 
58.2 
53.5 
50.7 
46.8 
56.8 
60.4 
66.4 
81.3 
101.0 
(7.1 ) 
(4.8 ) 
(5.9 ) 
(1.4 ) 
(3.7 ) 
(8.6 ) 
(25.2 ) 
3.2 
(2.8 ) 
(23.0 ) 
(23.4 ) 
(14.9 ) 
(6.1 ) 
(53.2 ) 
(73.7 ) 
(53.7 ) 
(59.2 ) 
(40.7 ) 
(73.8 ) 
(79.0 ) 
(128.0 ) 
(207.8 ) 
(185.4 ) 
(212.3 ) 
(221.2 ) 
(149.8 ) 
(155.2 ) 
(152.5 ) 
(221.2 ) 
(269.4 ) 
(290.4 ) 
255.1( ) 
(203.1 ) 
(163.9 ) 
(107.3 ) 
(22.0 ) 
8.0 
1999 ....................................... 
2000 ....................................... 
2001 ....................................... 
2002 ....................................... 
2003 ....................................... 
2004 ....................................... 
2005 ....................................... 
2006 ....................................... 
2007 ....................................... 
2008 ....................................... 
(104.0) 
(121.0) 
(117.0) 
(72.0) 
(94.0) 
(88.0) 
(96.0) 
(64.0) 
(59.0) 
(59.0) 
113.0 
123.0 
130.0 
139.0 
148.0 
158.0 
170.0 
179.0 
189.0 
197.0 
9.0 
1.0 
13.0 
67.0 
53.0 
70.0 
75.0 
115.0 
130.0 
138.0 
Totals for 1999–2008 (874.0) 1,546.0 671.0 

1 The unified budget deficit/surplus includes the on-budget deficit, the 
Social Security surplus, and the Postal Service deficit/surplus. 

PAYROLL TAXES 

TAX RATE AND WAGE BASE 
[Employee and employer combined] 

Tax rates (in percent) Wage base 

Total

Social 

Dis-Medi-(in per-

Secu


ability care cent) OASDI HI

rity 

(DI) (HI)

(OASI) 

1950 ............... 3.00 n/a n/a 3.00 3,000 n/a 
1955 ............... 4.00 n/a n/a 4.00 4,200 n/a 
1960 ............... 5.50 0.50 n/a 6.00 4,800 n/a 
1965 ............... 6.75 0.50 n/a 7.25 4,800 n/a 
1970 ............... 7.30 1.10 1.20 9.60 7,800 7,800 
1975 ............... 8.75 1.15 1.80 11.70 14,100 14,100 
1980 ............... 9.04 1.12 2.10 12.26 25,900 25,900 
1985 ............... 10.40 1.00 2.70 14.10 39,600 39,600 
1990 ............... 11.20 1.20 2.90 15.30 51,300 51,300 
1995 ............... 10.52 1.88 2.90 15.30 61,200 No limit 
1996 ............... 10.52 1.88 2.90 15.30 62,700 No limit 
1997 ............... 10.70 1.70 2.90 15.30 65,400 No limit 
1998 ............... 10.70 1.70 2.90 15.30 68,400 No limit 
1999 ............... 10.70 1.70 2.90 15.30 70,800 No limit 
2000 ............... 10.60 1.80 2.90 15.30 74,100 No limit 
2001 ............... 10.60 1.80 2.90 15.30 76,800 No limit 
2002 ............... 10.60 1.80 2.90 15.30 79,800 No limit 
2003 ............... 10.60 1.80 2.90 15.30 82,800 No limit 

TOTAL PAYROLL TAX CONTRIBUTION 1 

[Employee and employer combined] 

Social Se-

Disability Medicare

curity Total

(DI) (HI)

(OASI) 

1950 ...................................... 90 0 0 90 
1955 ...................................... 168 0 0 168 
1960 ...................................... 264 24 0 288 
1965 ...................................... 324 24 0 348 
1970 ...................................... 569 86 94 749 
1975 ...................................... 1,234 162 254 1,650 
1980 ...................................... 2,341 290 544 3,175 
1985 ...................................... 4,118 396 1,069 5,584 
1990 ...................................... 5,746 616 1,488 7,849 
1995 1 ................................... 6,438 1,151 1,775 9,364 
1996 1 ................................... 6,596 1,179 1,818 9,593 
1997 1 ................................... 6,998 1,112 1,897 10,006 
1998 1 ................................... 7,319 1,163 1,984 10,465 

TOTAL PAYROLL TAX CONTRIBUTION 1—Continued 

[Employee and employer combined] 

Social Security 
(OASI) 
Disability 
(DI) 
Medicare 
(HI) Total 
1999 1 ................................... 
2000 1 ................................... 
2001 1 ................................... 
2002 1 ................................... 
2003 1 ................................... 
7,576 
7,855 
8,141 
8,459 
8,777 
1,204 
1,334 
1,382 
1,436 
1,490 
2,053 
2,149 
2,227 
2,314 
2,401 
10,832 
11,337 
11,750 
12,209 
12,668 

1 The Medicare (HI) contribution shown above is based on the OASDI wage 
base. The HI wage base was eliminated beginning in 1994, making the 
maximum HI contribution unlimited. 

Mr. NICKLES. Mr. President, we 
need to wean ourselves and get off of 
this addiction to this and take that 
money and allow people to put it in 
their own account. That to me is a 
challenge. We shouldn’t be sitting back 
and saying, ‘‘Oh, we balance the budget. 
Aren’t we proud of ourselves? We 
are doing good. We have a unified budget.’’ 


I think we should have a unified 
budget. But I think we should go back 
and let’s balance the budget without 
using Social Security. Then let’s allow 
people to take that amount of money 
and be able to put that in their own account. 


I might mention that in the 10 years, 
if we did that, there would be over $1.5 
trillion that could go into individual 
accounts and we would have more constituents 
that would be happier with us 
than anything else we would do. We 
would do more to secure their retirement 
and their future than anything 
else we could do. 

I have even told the President’s representatives. 
I said, if the President 
really wants to go down in history and 
show that he has done something significant, 
this change, this evolution of 
allowing at least part of Social Security 
to be funded as a defined contribution 
in a personal savings accounts 
would be an astronomically positive 
impact for not only this generation; I 
think it would be a positive impact for 
future generations, which history will 
record as having truly been a great 
thing to do for seniors, a very positive 
thing to do for future generations as 
well. 

So I compliment my colleague from 
Delaware, the chairman of the Finance 
Committee. I tell him that, as a member 
of that committee, I will work energetically 
to try to see that we can 
make this happen as soon as possible. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I wish to 
join my colleague, Senator JOHN 
BREAUX, in delivering a statement as 
to why we support the sense of the Senate 
language put forth by the chairman 
of the Finance Committee, Senator 
ROTH. 

For the past year, Senator BREAUX 
and I have co-chaired the National 
Commission on Retirement Policy, 
convened by the Center for Strategic 
and International Studies. Our task is 
to review the situation facing our Nation 
with respect to retirement income 
in the 21st century. 

We will soon be releasing a final report 
of our findings and recommenda


tions, and we need not preview them 
here in detail. Suffice to say that each 
of the major sources of retirement income—
Social Security, employer-provided 
pensions, and personal savings— 
will be under severe strain in the 21st 
century, as a consequence of the aging 
of our population, and the declining 
ratio of workers to retirees. 

The situation facing Social Security 
is sufficiently dire to command our immediate 
attention. We, as co-chairs of 
the NCRP, wrote to President Clinton 
last December, urging him to make 
this issue a priority in his state of the 
union address, and we were extremely 
pleased that he did so. Social Security 
will begin running operating deficits in 
the year 2012 under current law, and 
even if the $2.89 trillion that the Federal 
Government will owe Social Security 
is repaid in full, the Trust Fund 
would still run dry in the year 2029. 
The unfunded liabilities of the Social 
Security—the gap between projected 
outlays and projected revenues—is on 
the order of $3 trillion. The true ‘‘unfunded 
liability,’’ however, is much 
greater, because those taxes haven’t 
been collected yet, and therefore all of 
the future liabilities of the program 
are in a sense unfunded, to be financed 
from tax revenue at the time that they 
are paid. 

We have carefully studied this problem 
for a year, and we believe that 
there are several problems that must 
be solved simultaneously. The actuarial 
soundness of Social Security is 
but one of these. There is also a huge 
problem residing in the size of the tax 
burden that is awaiting the future 
economy if we do not advance fund 
some of Social Security’s future liabilities. 
A solution to this problem is no 
solution at all if it achieves actuarial 
soundness at the price of an unfair tax 
burden on tomorrow’s economy, or at 
the price of further worsening the quality 
of the deal that today’s young 
workers will receive from the Social 
Security program. 

It is for this reason that Senator 
BREAUX and I believe that personal accounts 
must be a component of the Social 
Security solution. Tough choices 
will need to be made in order to bring 
the outlays and the revenues of Social 
Security back into balance, and we believe 
that personal accounts should be 
established within this context. Creating 
a funded savings account component 
within the Social Security system 
is perhaps the only way to give something 
back to today’s young workers to 
improve their treatment by the Social 
Security system relative to a set of 
traditional solutions alone. This is one 
way that we have found to prevent the 
income provided by the Social Security 
system from declining below the level 
that we expect from the program. 

Before turning to Senator BREAUX, 
let me also note the flexibility of Senator 
ROTH’s language with regard to 
the administration of such accounts. 
This language does not commit the 
Senate to any particular method of administration. 
Senator BREAUX and I, 


S2922 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

after a year of study, have reached the 
conclusion that the best way to administer 
personal accounts is through the 
existing payroll tax collection system. 
That money is already being paid in a 
timely way by employers on behalf of 
individual employees, and is a structure 
that we can practicably work 
through to set up accounts in every 
wage-earner’s name through a refund 
of some portion of the payroll tax. The 
Roth language is flexible enough to 
permit a variety of approaches to administering 
the accounts, as it should 
be. I hope that Senators who differ as 
to the best administrative mechanism 
will be able to unite behind it. 

Mr. BREAUX. I thank Senator GREGG 
for his unwavering leadership on this 
issue. It has been a pleasure to work 
with him over the past year. I also 
want to thank Chairman ROTH for his 
leadership. Times have certainly 
changed since the days when no one 
would even talk about Social Security 
reform. Today, we have key members 
of the Senate presenting innovative 
ideas about how to address the looming 
liabilities of the Social Security program. 
I applaud Chairman ROTH’s efforts 
because he is moving this debate 
forward. 

This is critical because the motto 
must be ‘‘sooner rather than later’’. 
There is no better time to tackle entitlement 
reform than during good economic 
times. While SS’s financing is 
projected to pay full benefits until 
2029—the strain on the Federal budget 
will begin much earlier, only 10 years 
from now. The Social Security Advisory 
Council could not agree on an approach 
to reform Social Security; however, 
they all agreed that early action 
should be taken. This call has been 
echoed time and time again by the 
General Accounting Office, Alan Greenspan, 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve 
Board, as well as most other experts. 

The budget resolution already contains 
Sense of the Senate language regarding 
the budget surplus and Social 
Security reform. It reads as follows: 
‘‘Congress should use unified budget 
surpluses to reform Social Security for 
future generations . . .’’ I support 
Chairman ROTH’s Sense of the Senate 
because it takes this language a step 
further. It suggests that individual accounts 
are the direction in which Social 
Security reform should move. I 
agree with this. 

The American people will hear again 
and again over the next several months 
about the financial instability of Social 
Security—about the promises 
made that we can no longer afford to 
keep. Americans will also hear about 
what is necessary to put Social Security 
on sound financial footing—the 
difficult sacrifices and the tough 
choices. This dialogue will only compound 
the already low level of confidence 
most Americans have in our nation’s 
public retirement system. I adamantly 
believe we must do something 
to reverse this trend. We must provide 
some good news in the middle of this 

debate. If we include individual accounts 
within Social Security reform 
we are giving all Americans a new 
chance to provide substantial retirement 
savings for themselves—that is 
the good news. 

This Sense of the Senate does not 
dictate or even suggest how these individual 
accounts should be administered 
or that they be done independently of 
fundamental Social Security reform. 
Senator GREGG and I have our own 
ideas about how Social Security should 
be reformed and, specifically, how individual 
accounts should be set-up and 
administered. I look forward to our 
ideas being discussed and debated during 
the coming weeks and months, 
along with all the other ideas being put 
on the table. The Aging Committee, 
which I am pleased to serve as Ranking 
Member, is looking at this issue closely. 
I hope the Finance Committee will 
hold hearings as soon as May. 

In looking to Social Security reform 
we cannot lose sight of the larger budget 
picture and the difficult steps we 
have taken in this Congress to get our 
country’s books in order. What we 
tried to do with the balanced budget— 
and what we should be trying to do 
with the surplus—is reduce this country’s 
overall financial liabilities. As 
stated in the budget resolution, Social 
Security’s unfunded liability stands at 
around $3 trillion. Obviously, Social 
Security is a large part of this country’s 
debt and must be addressed. 
Again, it must be addressed sooner 
rather than later. In conclusion, I want 
to again thank Chairman ROTH and 
Senator GREGG for their efforts in moving 
this debate forward. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? 

Several Senators addressed the 
Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, a 
few moments ago I had an opportunity 
to discuss with the chairman of the 
Budget Committee how we might proceed, 
because one of the things we are 
running into is that, although we had 
agreed to have a half-hour limit on 
amendments equally divided, as a result 
of courtesy, we have extended time 
on the resolution. It, thusly, then challenges 
whether or not we are ever 
going to get done here, because we 
have almost 30 amendments. If we take 
30 amendments, you have 2 hours each, 
7 or 8 hours of votes to accompany 
that, that is another, who knows, 7, 8, 
10 hours. 

So what we are going to do, unless 
there is a difference in the conversation 
as I remember it from what the 
distinguished Senator from New Mexico 
agreed, we are going to permit approximate 
time on this side equal to 
the two speakers that we just had. 
Then we are going to eliminate further 
time off the bill itself for amendments. 

With that, I yield some time to the 
Senator from North Dakota, as he sees 
fit. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
INHOFE). The Senator from North Dakota. 


Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I thank 
the Chair and I thank the ranking 
member. We have just seen a proposal 
unveiled on the floor of the Senate 
which has some interesting aspects. I 
must say some of the concepts here are 
ones that I am interested in. But I am 
concerned about the specifics of the 
proposal that is before us in this regard. 
The chairman of the Finance 
Committee suggests we ought to devote 
the budget surpluses to building 
private accounts in Social Security. I 
am on record as one member of the Finance 
Committee who favors moving 
towards private accounts over time. 
But I must say, I am concerned about 
the specifics of the proposal of the Senator 
from Delaware in that it is based 
on, I think, a false assumption. I see 
the false assumption as being that we 
have budget surpluses. 

I am certain there are people listening 
here, here in the Senate Chamber 
and people listening at home, who wonder 
what is this talk about budget surpluses 
and Social Security surpluses? 
What does this all mean? It is confusing. 
Unfortunately, the language we 
use here in Washington, I think, contributes 
to that confusion. We talk 
about budget surpluses but what we do 
not tell people is the way we have calculated 
their surpluses is that we have 
included the Social Security trust fund 
surpluses. This year that amounts to 
over $100 billion. And by throwing that 
money into the pot, by, in effect, raiding 
Social Security, we say there is a 
$8 billion surplus in the budget. 

There is not a surplus in the budget. 
The truth is there is a significant deficit. 
Oh, yes, on a unified basis—if you 
take all the funds of the Federal Government 
and throw them into the pot 
and look at all of the expenditures of 
the Federal Government, we are in balance. 
That is what they call the unified 
budget. But the problem with that is, 
and the little dirty secret here, is that 
$100 billion of the Social Security surplus 
is being put into that calculation. 

If any private company tried to balance 
their books in this way, they 
would be headed for a Federal institution 
all right, but it would not be the 
Congress of the United States. They 
would be headed for a Federal facility 
all right. It would be a Federal prison, 
because that is fraud. That is fraud. To 
take money for one purpose and use it 
for another is fraud. Unfortunately, 
that is the pattern and practice here 
and has been for 30 years. We are taking 
Social Security trust fund surpluses, 
throwing those into the pot, 
and this year we are saying we have 
balanced the budget. 

If any company tried to take the retirement 
funds of its employees and 
throw those into the pot and say they 
balanced the operating budget of the 
company, they would be in violation of 
Federal law. So I think we want to be 
cautious when we have a proposal that 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2923 

in many ways is attractive. I want to 
say to the Senator from Delaware, I am 
on record as favoring a partial privatization. 
I like the idea of individuals 
being able to have several percentage 
points of Social Security trust fund 
payments that they make be reserved 
in private accounts that they could invest. 
I like that basic concept. 

But how do you fund it? How do you 
fund it? It seems to me the first thing 
we have to do is stop the practice of 
looting Social Security. If we are going 
to secure the long-term prospects for 
Social Security, we ought to stop raiding 
it. We ought to stop looting it. And 
we ought to stop the talk that we have 
a budget surplus. Because the only way 
we got a budget surplus is by counting 
those Social Security trust fund surpluses, 
which we are going to need for 
the day when the baby boom generation 
starts to retire. 

We have a demographic time bomb 
just over the horizon, and it is the baby 
boom generation. When they start to 
retire in the year 2012, all of a sudden 
everything that looks rosy now is 
going to change and change quickly. In 
fact, by the year 2029 we anticipate the 
Social Security fund will have run 
through these massive surpluses that 
are being built now. They are not built 
up in terms of money actually in the 
bank, but built up in terms of IOUs 
that are being registered and accumulated 
based on borrowing by the other 
parts of Government that are spending 
those moneys, even though we know we 
are going to need those funds when the 
baby boomers start to retire. 

I think the basic concept the Senator 
from Delaware has merit. But I am 
very concerned about the specifics that 
he has proposed, because to take these 
so-called budget surpluses that we have 
on paper that only exist because we are 
raiding Social Security and use those 
funds before we use them to preserve 
and protect Social Security, has the 
prospect of undermining our first responsibility 
and our first obligation. 
Our first responsibility and our first 
obligation is to keep the promise to the 
tens of millions of people who are relying 
on that Social Security check. 

Before we go off and raid the Social 
Security trust fund surpluses in order 
to claim we have a budget surplus, we 
ought to stop that practice. We ought 
to clean up our act, stop raiding Social 
Security, stop looting Social Security, 
and then we can move in the direction 
proposed by the Senator from Delaware. 
But I think the proposal that he 
has before us at this moment is based 
on a misnomer. And the misnomer is 
that there are budget surpluses. There 
are only budget surpluses because we 
are taking $100 billion a year from Social 
Security surpluses and throwing 
those into the pot when we make the 
calculation of budget surpluses. So we 
say we have a budget surplus next year 
of $8 billion, but we are taking $100 billion 
from Social Security surpluses in 
order to make that claim. 

So I just say to my colleagues, I 
favor the notion of having some por


tion of Social Security in an account 
where people control their own investment. 
I like that idea. But we have to 
work through the transition costs of 
this very carefully or we will undermine 
and threaten the solvency, the 
long-term solvency, of the Social Security 
trust fund itself. That should not 
be anything that we do. 

Our first obligation, I believe, is to 
stop raiding the Social Security trust 
fund, stop raiding those funds, and 
move to secure the long-term solvency 
of Social Security and then have a 
chance to move in the direction the 
Senator from Delaware has asked for. 

Mr. President, I will be happy to 
yield back my time so the distinguished 
Senator from New York has a 
chance to comment on the issue before 
us. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
yield up to 15 minutes to the Senator 
from New York, Senator MOYNIHAN. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New York. 

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, I 
thank my friend and neighbor from 
New Jersey, the manager on our side, 
and my friend Senator CONRAD of the 
Finance Committee, for his remarks. 

Mr. President, I rise not so much in 
opposition to the proposal by the esteemed 
chairman of our committee, as 
to see if it is not possible to clarify 
some of these issues. And to welcome 
the Senate to what should be a substantive, 
constructive debate over the 
next 6 months—pending the time when 
our distinguished Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, Mr. Franklin 
D. Raines, has indicated the administration 
plans to begin to have legislation 
on this issue, in the first session of 
the next Congress. In my view, we 
ought to take up such legislation as a 
first order of business in that session. 

May I take the presumed responsibility 
of this body, which tends to have 
long tenure, to give a bit of history? In 
1935, we established the Social Security 
system on a pay-as-you-go basis. It was 
no time, in the midst of a great economic 
depression, to take more money 
out of the economy than was being put 
back, even if it was only a nominal 
process. 

This went on until 1977 when we 
moved from a pay-as-you-go system to 
a partially funded system. I was a 
member of the committee of conference 
between the Senate and the 
House which adopted that change, and 
I can say there was very little attention 
paid to it. We put in place a huge 
surplus to provide for the baby boom 
retirement, as the phrase was. But we 
did not put in place any mechanism to 
save that surplus. 

Indeed, if I look around the horizon 
of political economy, I do not think 
there is any such mechanism. You can 
strengthen an economy by paying down 
debt such that the private sector 
grows. Theoretically you could build 
warehouses and fill them with cans of 
Campbell soup to be opened in 30 years 
time. But in a system of this kind, a 

defined benefit arrangement for retirement 
and for survivors and the disabled—
only 62 percent of persons receiving 
Social Security benefits are retired 
persons; the rest are spouses and 
children of persons who have died, and 
the disabled—there is no way to save a 
surplus. 

The result was that for 21, now 22 
years, we have had each year a large 
surplus from the payroll tax. This is 
what Senator CONRAD was speaking 
about. And we have used it for other 
reasons altogether. We have abused it 
because at a minimum we have never 
let our debt be paid down so our private 
savings and investment would rise 
as an absolute reciprocal, as mathematicians 
say. For every dollar of debt 
you pay down you get a dollar of savings 
that will be used for private investment. 


Instead, we used this money to conceal 
the enormity of the deficits we ran 
in the 1980s and which we now have 
gotten past. We are now down to a stable 
situation, not yet one of surplus, 
because we still have this money coming 
in from the partially funded system 
we put in place in 1977 with a very regressive, 
high payroll tax, 12.4 percent 
of payroll, paid on the first dollar of income 
and up to $68,400 this year. 

But this is no longer much of a surplus. 
The numbers are approximately 
this, and I say approximately because 
we won’t know for another year or so, 
but next year the combined costs of old 
age and survivors and disability insurance, 
plus hospital insurance, will be 
roughly equal to the combined payroll 
tax revenues for these two programs; 
thereafter you are in deficit. Technically, 
there are Treasury bonds that 
can be cashed in, but then you have to 
get general revenue or borrow more to 
convert them into benefits. 

By about the year 2010, there is no 
longer any surplus in the primary 
OASDI, Old Age, Survivors, and Disability 
Insurance. We have 11 years 
until there is nothing left there either. 

Senator KERREY of Nebraska and I 
have introduced legislation that we 
think accommodates the situation we 
are in which, first of all, does not save 
Social Security. Social Security does 
not need to be saved. What it does not 
need is to be destroyed. There is now 
abroad a powerful ideological movement 
to turn the system of retirement 
benefits and survivors benefits over to 
personal savings in the market. This is 
a legitimate idea, but I am not sure, if 
it were understood, it would be a very 
popular idea. 

It puts at risk much more than we 
would ever wish to do in terms of the 
entire population. It translates the experience 
of successful entrepreneurial 
people in an age of great economic 
growth into a proposition that this is 
something that the whole of the population 
can and ought to want to do. 

We have a plan which does two 
things: One, it secures Social Security 
as a defined benefit for retired persons, 
for disabled persons, for survivors indefinitely. 
Simultaneously, it provides 


S2924 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

for lowering payroll taxes and allowing 
the difference to be used for just the 
kind of personal savings accounts, investment 
accounts, that our friend 
from Delaware would like to do. 

Specifically, we move from the current 
12.4 percent payroll tax—half of it 
by the employee, half by the employer—
to 10.4. That will pay your benefits 
for more than 30 years; thereafter 
the payroll tax is gradually increased 
to a combined 13.4 percent thereby, 
with some other adjustments I will 
mention, securing the system for more 
than a century. Then we say give the 
employee the option of taking his or 
her 1 percent as income—some will do 
that; young persons will do, no doubt— 
or having the 2 percent deposited into 
some kind of thrift savings plan. 

We have such an arrangement in the 
Federal Government. You can contribute 
part of your salary, which the 
Federal Government matches. There is 
a booklet, and you pick the kind of investment 
you would like. Some people 
like index funds, bonds, mutual funds— 
there are a whole range of these products, 
as they are called, and you can 
pick what you wish, and from time to 
time you can change, if you wish. 

The prospect for the average earner 
with a 2 percent investment is that, 
after contributing for 45 years into the 
system, the worker would have a nominal 
asset from that 2 percent contribution 
in the range of $400,000. This would 
mean Americans would have an estate. 
They could leave something to their 
grandchildren, who might even be more 
attentive given that prospect. 

We have an idea of an America very 
different from the world of the 1930s 
and the system we put in place, which 
was put in place in Europe in the 1880s. 
We have an idea of a retirement system 
in which persons begin to have a three-
tiered system: You have your Social 
Security, a fixed amount, an annuity. 
You have benefits from private pensions 
that you earned with your employer. 
About half of American workers 
now have such. And then you have 
income, if you wish it, from your savings 
and investment accounts. 

That requires a few other changes. It 
requires that we get an accurate cost-
of-living index by which to adjust the 
benefits for changes in the cost of living. 
We do not now have one. There is 
a small group of economists who dissent, 
but the overwhelming judgment 
of the profession is that the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index 
is not a cost-of-living index, which the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics insists it is 
not. They do not misrepresent their 
product; it is we who misuse it. 

I will say that again. The Department 
of Labor does not misrepresent 
its Consumer Price Index; it is we who 
misuse it. We began the practice in 1972 
at a time when Social Security benefits 
were the object of a biannual auction 
on the House and Senate floors as 
Members rose to say, ‘‘I propose we 
raise benefits 5 percent,’’ then 10 percent, 
then 15 percent. I think on one 

occasion we went up 20 percent. We had 
to stop that. The nearest thing at hand 
was the CPI. We can make a correction. 


A committee of distinguished economists, 
headed by Professor Michael 
Boskin, the former chairman of the 
Council of Economic Advisers under 
President Bush, reported to the Committee 
on Finance a year and a half 
ago recommending a correction of 1.1 
percentage points. 

Different economists, different Government 
officials, have different judgments, 
but they are almost all in the 
same range. And just at this moment, 
the principal economic planners of the 

U.S. Government do not use the CPI as 
a measure of inflation. They just don’t; 
they know otherwise. 
We have to gradually increase the 
age of retirement to 70, as we do in our 
bill, way into the next century. Under 
current law, we are already approaching 
an increase to 67. The majority of 
beneficiaries, Mr. President, retire at 
age 62 at a reduced benefit, which is actuarially 
sound. 

We get rid of that dumb earnings 
test. It wasn’t dumb in 1935 when we 
were encouraging people not to be in 
the labor force. Right now, if you work 
between ages 62 and 70, you lose some 
or all of your benefits. At age 70 and 
above, you would then get increased 
benefits. That is, you receive the same 
benefits over the course of your retirement. 
Under our bill, you can decide 
when to collect your benefits, regardless 
of whether you are working. You 
don’t have to fool around. 

We would tax these benefits at the 
rate at which ordinary pension income 
is taxed. May I say, Mr. President, for 
a very, very large number of our 
present recipients, particularly the old 
ones, their Social Security benefit and 
any other income they might have is so 
low that they pay no Federal taxes of 
any kind and would not pay any taxes 
under this new proposal. 

But I say that this can be done, but 
it won’t be done if we don’t understand 
that we are dealing with a group, a 
body of respectable opinion, that basically 
thinks Social Security is a failed 
plan, perhaps never should have been 
put in place and now should be 
transitioned out. This is not the view 
of the Senator from Delaware. He 
would like to see a basic annuity for all 
Americans continue. But it is the view 
of many more people than we know, or 
perhaps are aware of, or perhaps are 
collected in a coherent manner. 

This morning in the Committee on 
Ways and Means, Mr. GINGRICH spoke 
very much in these terms. Typically, 
Senator Dole, who appeared as a witness, 
did not. The problem is, right now 
there are groups who are so attached to 
the present system that they will not 
make the changes necessary to maintain 
the present system. It is painful. 
They know who they are. If I may say, 
the White House knows who they are. I 
daresay there aren’t many of us in the 
Finance Committee who do not know. 

But they must recognize that the alternative 
is the loss of everything we have 
developed over 60 years, 60 years in 
which the system has never been a day 
late or dollar short on any payment, 
but which has somehow lost the confidence 
of the public. I ask my distinguished 
friend for another 2 minutes to 
conclude. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I will be happy 
to yield up to 5 minutes, as needed, by 
the Senator from New York. 

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, I 
want to make this point. I want to 
shout this point at the American people: 
They are trying to scare you out of 
your Social Security. You don’t think 
you are going to get it now. Why, I am 
not sure. But ask anyone on the streets 
at home. Ask someone in their thirties 
or in their forties. The polls are clear. 
People do not expect to get it. Partly 
this is bad management at the Social 
Security Administration. It got lost in 
the HEW and then HHS. 

In 1994, we re-created it as an independent 
agency with an independent 
Administrator, but the SSA never tells 
people that the agency knows their 
name, what they are going to get in 
benefits, and that they are on top of 
this. 

I say it right now, there are people 
who would like to scare you into thinking 
you are not going to get Social Security, 
so don’t worry about it when 
they take it away, and what they are 
going to make you instead is a millionaire 
in the stock market. I don’t think 
that will happen. I don’t think it 
should. I think we should allow the accommodation 
of both. I think we 
should begin, if I can use a term from 
the academy, to demystify some of 
these claims, not by Senator ROTH, 
who is loyal to this institution. He has 
been on the Finance Committee for 30 
years and has helped maintain the system. 


But there are those who are out to do 
away with it. Why, I do not know. They 
take as their model the system in the 
Nation of Chile, a nation of some 12 
million people, I believe, a system developed 
under General Pinochet, which 
does not immediately suggest sound social 
policy or equity. I don’t say there 
is anything wrong with their system, 
but there is nothing wrong with ours 
either. It is ours to maintain. We 
should do it, and we should not let our 
people be frightened into giving up 
something so important to them and to 
their children and to their parents. 

I thank my friend for giving me this 
time. I regretfully have to say that 
while I very much endorse the idea of 
personal savings accounts, right now 
we should use the surplus money we 
have to pay down the debt, increase investment, 
and get on with the simple 
changes we need to make this system 
permanent and stable. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor, and I 
thank the manager for his courtesy. 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, this 
amendment sounds innocuous, but it is 
a direct assault on Social Security, and 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2925 

it deserves resounding rejection by the 
Senate. 

Millions of senior citizens depend on 
Social Security. In fact, Social Security 
benefits comprise more than 75% 
of the income of half of the nation’s 28 
million recipients. It is a sacred compact 
between citizens and their government 
that says, ‘‘pay into Social Security 
during your working years, and we 
will guarantee you a decent retirement 
income during your golden years.’’ 

Social Security is one of the most 
popular programs ever enacted. It is 
also one of our nation’s most successful 
anti-poverty programs. In 1959, 35% of 
the nation’s elderly lived in poverty. 
Today, that number has dropped to 9%. 

We all recognize that legislative action 
is necessary to assure that Social 
Security will be solvent throughout 
the 21st century. There is no crisis— 
but there is a problem, and the sooner 
we take action to solve it the better. 
All of us know that Social Security 
will run out of money in 2030. All of us 
know that the single highest priority 
of the American people is to see Social 
Security preserved. 

All of us know that the President has 
said that none of the budget surplus 
should be spent until we solve the Social 
Security problem—and the American 
people strongly support this approach. 


But this amendment takes a different 
approach. It says: ‘‘Let’s forget about 
preserving Social Security. Let’s go 
ahead and spend the surplus on a risky 
and untried experiment with individual 
retirement accounts.’’ 

We all know what is going on here. 
There are a number of members of this 
body who want to throw Security on 
the scrap heap of history. They think 
it ought to be privatized. They think 
the concept of Social Security is 
wrong. They think individuals, instead 
of relying on the tried and true and 
guaranteed support that Social Security 
provides, should take their 
chances by speculating in the stock 
market. If they do well, they can become 
rich. If they do poorly and are 
impoverished in their old age—so be it. 

I reject that philosophy. The American 
people, I believe, also reject that 
philosophy. And the Senate should reject 
that amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
just to be certain, if we combine the 
time that was yielded off the resolution 
and off of the amendment, the proponents 
used a total of? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Forty 
minutes. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. We to this point 
have used a total of? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Thirty 
minutes. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Thirty. So I will 
yield myself some time off of the 
amendment, which I understand is the 
time that remains to respond to the 
proposal by the distinguished chairman 
of the Finance Committee, the Senator 
from Delaware, whose proposals we always 
take seriously. This is a man who 

is intelligent, who is committed to the 
proper procedure of getting things 
done. We have great respect and regard 
for the Senator from Delaware. But we 
can nevertheless disagree. 

On this particular proposal, I do disagree 
because I see things in perhaps a 
different light. When I think of the 
prospect—and I thank the Senator 
from New York because, as usual, he 
has a grasp of issues that goes way beyond 
the capacity of the average 
human being. And, boy, do we learn, 
and we learn in a hurry here. But nevertheless, 
I listened carefully to what 
the Senator from New York said. He 
talked about the possibilities of some 
investment on the private side, and I 
respect that, when combined with 
other changes that have to be made. I 
think otherwise we are rushing almost 
willy-nilly into a change, if this proves 
to be law at some time, that would 
rock the timbers of our society. 

When we think of Social Security, we 
think of the foundation that it holds 
for senior citizens. I kind of ask myself, 
well, would we recommend to the 
elderly across this country that they 
go ahead with some investment adviser, 
or make a decision on their own, 
whether it is to buy fund X, A, B, or C? 
We saw what happened to this investment 
club that was doing so well, according 
to the papers, and finally they 
admitted they made a few accounting 
mistakes. Would anyone want to have 
to face that widow who perhaps gets 
$700, $800 a month and say, ‘‘Sorry, 
there’s an error; you don’t have $800 a 
month, you have $400 a month or $500 a 
month’’? Or would you rather say, 
‘‘Listen, what you have is guaranteed. 
It may not have provided the kinds of 
things that your husband and you had 
when you were living together, but you 
will not be chased out of your room or 
your house. You will have a chance to 
continue to live at some scale, modest 
as it may be.’’ 

But when I look at companies like 
the Prudential Insurance Company, 
one of the great companies of the 
world, one of, if not the largest company 
in the world—it was among the 
top five—it had some inappropriate 
management problems there. And they 
are good friends of mine, so I do not 
knock the company. But they, nevertheless, 
had to reduce the interest they 
were paying on policies, on cash reserves 
on their policies. This giant 
company, the Rock, the Rock of Gibraltar 
was their trademark, and they 
had to reduce their interest rates. 

In October, a few years ago, 1987, the 
market lost a substantial portion of 
the holdings. I was at a meeting in Boston 
and people up there were shaken to 
their foundation to see their investments, 
their growth in investments, 
suddenly whittled away by some 15-
plus percent. While I am excited about 
the market and where it is going, just 
like everybody else, I know one thing: 
That going down is always faster than 
going up when there is any velocity attached 
to it. 

I think that without full deliberation 
about what the consequences might be, 
pro and con, with this kind of investment, 
it is excessively hasty. I would 
not want to be talking to people who 
suddenly decided they wished they had 
had Social Security IOUs, as they were 
described here. I do not know about 
you, but I know that I still feel pretty 
good about an IOU owed by the U.S. 
Government, by the people of America. 
Those are, as they say in the movies, 
as good as it gets, not high-paying but 
everybody pretty much feels that, listen, 
the worst that happens, we are 
going to get paid. We may even have it 
monetized a little bit with inflation, 
but the fact is we know it is there. 

So when I look at the proposition 
that is offered, I say that I hope my 
colleagues will vote against it. When 
you cast your vote, you must look or 
try to look in the eyes of an elderly 
parent or grandparent, or perhaps, at 
some of our ages, a brother or sister, 
who are totally dependent on Social 
Security for their survival—for their 
survival. 

I tell you, I would not recommend on 
a personal basis—and I have had a lot 
of experience. I ran a big company. And 
I managed, as part of my responsibilities, 
the company’s investments. I 
managed acquisition. I had a lot to do 
with the financial side of things. I 
could hardly imagine myself recommending 
to someone whose principal 
asset, exclusive asset in some cases, 
was Social Security, that they invest 
in the market a little bit, buy a hedge 
fund maybe or, gee, your adviser—I remember 
when one of the great unions, 
I say to Senator MOYNIHAN, sued a 
bank in New York, who I will not identify 
here, for the poor performance 
that this bank had with hundreds of 
millions of dollars that belonged to 
this union’s pension funds because it 
underperformed. 

Who, with an investment of a couple 
thousand dollars a year or a thousand 
dollars a year or less, is going to be 
able to pick just the right adviser? 
There is some genius sitting there 
waiting to take your $1,000 a year and 
monitor it and watch it? Come on, 
what do we think this is? The guys who 
get that kind of attention are the guys 
who hit the new scales on the heights— 
$500 million in net worth, $1 billion in 
net worth, the people who are outside. 

I know of one university fund, common 
among investments, being made 
today by university endowments, who 
wants to get into investments that 
they can be out of in 5 years. They do 
not want to be stuck in investments 
that carry them indefinitely. And you 
will find that true in place after place. 

I say also that everyone is aware 
today that capital is not a problem in 
this country. Capital is chasing investment 
all over. I know people in the real 
estate business. I know people in the 
investment business and merchant 
banks. And people are coming to 
them—institutions, universities, companies, 
individuals—with money saying, 
‘‘Please help me invest it properly. 


S2926 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Please help me place it securely. 
Please help me make sure that it’s 
safe.’’ 

So how is a person who has a modest 
Social Security income going to have 
the security to know that they have 
the right person advising them or 
whether they know how to read a financial 
statement? It is an interesting 
idea, but an idea, in my view, whose 
time has not come. I hope that we will 
stand securely against it, give it a 
chance, led by the leadership that the 
chairman of the Finance Committee 
can so aptly provide, and have a full review 
of what it means. 

We have discussed it. We have discussed 
it in the Budget Committee, and 
we have discussed it with other committees, 
with Alan Greenspan and with 
other distinguished economists: What 
does it mean? What about privatization? 
Some say yes, some say no. I tell 
you this, I would far rather be one who 
said no, just leave it where it is, than 
take the risk that we have to face 
someone who is depending on Social 
Security and not finding the reserve 
there when they need it. 

So I hope this amendment does not 
pass. I urge my colleagues to vote 
against it. No disrespect to the chairman 
of the Finance Committee or 
those who are supporting it, but it just 
needs more time than we have. 

Mr. President, as I stated, I must oppose 
the proposal to allocate the surplus 
for personal savings accounts. In 
my view, this proposal has serious 
ramifications for the future of Social 
Security. And we shouldn’t endorse it 
without first carefully examining all of 
its implications. 

Mr. President, let me just discuss a 
few of the concerns raised by this 
amendment. 

First, this proposal represents a 
major step toward privatizing Social 
Security. And privatization, in my 
view, is directly inconsistent with the 
fundamental purpose of the program. 

Social Security is supposed to guarantee 
that all American seniors can 
avoid poverty and live their lives with 
a basic level of dignity. It is a social 
insurance program. It is not supposed 
to be the only source of retirement income 
for most seniors. 

Moving to a system of private accounts 
represents a dramatic shift in 
risks. Away from government. And 
onto the backs of individual senior 
citizens. 

Under a privatized system, seniors 
would lose: protection against declines 
in stock prices; protection against inflation 
through cost of living adjustments; 
and protection against outliving 
their assets. 

Mr. President, protections against 
these kinds of risks—which are completely 
beyond the control of any individual—
are why we need social insurance 
in the first place. 

Let me be clear. I’m all for private 
retirement savings. I support IRAs and 
401(k)s, and believe Americans need to 
save more. But private savings should 

supplement, not replace, social insurance. 
Otherwise, most Americans will 
spend their old age walking a financial 
high wire, without a safety net. And as 
someone who lived through the Great 
Depression, that is not what I want for 
my children and grandchildren. 

If we use a surplus to roll back payroll 
taxes and force people to put this 
money into private accounts, money 
would be drained from the Social Security 
trust funds. That would accelerate 
the date when the program will go 
bankrupt. And that is the opposite of 
what we should be doing. 

There are many other points I could 
make about this proposal, but I will 
not get into great detail here. Let me 
just say again that this is not the kind 
of change that we should endorse without 
a great deal of careful and thoughtful 
debate. That discussion is only now 
just getting underway. And it would be 
premature to rush to judgment on such 
a fundamental change in our system. 

So I hope my colleagues will oppose 
this proposal. Let us fix Social Security. 
But let us do it carefully. And let 
us do it right. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed some editorials in the RECORD. 
The Senator from New York has asked 
us to do that, and I put them forward. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

[From USA Today, Mar. 17, 1998] 
SOCIAL SECURITY NEEDS REPAIR, BUT POOR 
SHOULDN’T PAY FOR IT—MOYNIHAN’S PLAN 
ISN’T PERFECT, BUT AT LEAST HE’S GOT 
PEOPLE TALKING 
(By Michael Tanner) 
Before the nation can solve its $15 trillion 
problem of financing 70 million baby-boomer 
retirements, people need to start talking 
about it. On Monday, Sen. Daniel Patrick 
Moynihan, D–N.Y., gave them a place to 
begin. 
His conversation starter: a 15% cut in the 
Social Security payroll tax that could all go 
into a personal retirement account. 
In a speech at Harvard, Moynihan tacked 
that concept on to his long-standing plan to 
put Social Security on a pay-as-you-go basis. 
That’s a small step, perhaps, but one that 
could help break a political stalemate over 
Social Security reform. 
It bows to GOP plans to give people more 
control over Social Security contributions 
while keeping the safety net Democrats 
favor. 
To pay for these enticements. Moynihan 
proposes some hard medicine members of 
both parties have balked at swallowing. 
Neither party has shown enthusiasm for 
Moynihan’s plan to end their balanced-budget 
charade. Payroll tax cuts now would take 
away revenue that’s used to mask government’s 
$100 million operating deficit. 
And even those who embrace budget honesty 
aren’t likely to enjoy the senator’s proposals 
for making up the money and ensuring 
Social Security’s fiscal soundness. 
He’d reduce cost-of-living adjustments for 
both tax deductions and benefit increases. 
He’d also subject more income to the payroll 
tax, raise the retirement age to 67 more 
quickly than now planned, and raise payroll 
taxes higher than today’s levels after 2025. 
Trade-offs like those are inevitable if Social 
Security is to be saved. But the real 
problem with Moynihan’s plan is the risk 

that it may not go far enough to protect the 
poorest workers in their old age. 

That is Social Security’s fundamental 
goal. And it has almost been achieved. 

In 1935 when the program was initiated, 
more than half of all elderly were supported 
by their children. Today, most are independent. 
In 40 years, poverty rates among 
the elderly have plummeted from 35% to 
under 11%, with Social Security providing 
the bulk of income for 40% of elderly households. 


Unlike most plans to privatize all or part 
of Social Security, Moynihan’s would not 
make savings mandatory. So low-income 
families, squeezed for pennies, likely would 
spend the $4 a week they’d get from the payroll 
tax cut. 

That permissiveness is counterproductive. 
If the money were saved for 40 years at 7% 
interest, it would generate more than $40,000. 
The income from those savings—about $2,800 
a year at the same 7% rate—combined with 
other Social Security payments would keep 
recipients out of poverty. Such savings are 
essential for laborers who may not be able to 
work into their late 60s as Moynihan’s higher 
retirement age would require. 

Congress needs to start moving soon on Social 
Security reform. Time is the great 
enemy of affordable answers. And enabling 
people to invest some Social Security themselves 
may be part of the answer. 

But the test for any changes is whether 
they’ll assure all Americans of an adequate 
retirement. Social Security shouldn’t be 
saved or altered by robbing the poor. 

[From USA Today, Mar. 17, 1998] 
TINKERING WON’TDOTHE JOB—THE ONLY 
SENSIBLE SOLUTION ALLOWS PRIVATE INVESTMENT 
(By Michael Tanner) 
From President Clinton on down, there is 
now a national consensus that Social Security 
is in trouble. Indeed, the retirement program 
will begin running a deficit by 2012, 
just 14 years from now. The program’s total 
unfunded liabilities top $9 trillion. 
Yet, in the face of the coming crisis, some 
still resist serious change. They will suggest 
that a little tinkering around the edges will 
be enough to fix Social Security. 
Some want to raise taxes. But payroll 
taxes have already been raised more than 38 
times since Social Security began. Even 
after accounting for inflation, payroll taxes 
are 800% higher than at the program’s inception. 
Three out of four American workers 
now pay more in payroll taxes than they pay 
in federal income taxes. 
Others want to cut benefits. But young 
workers are already going to receive less 
back in benefits than they pay in Social Security 
taxes. Reducing benefits will only 
make Social Security a worse deal for these 
young workers. 
Tinkering will not fix Social Security’s 
most basic flaw. Social Security is a pay-as-
you-go program, similar to the type of pyramid 
scheme that is illegal in every state. 
Taxes paid by today’s workers are not 
saved for their retirement, but rather are 
spent immediately to pay benefits for today’s 
retirees. When those workers retire, 
they have to hope that the next generation 
of workers will be large enough to support 
them. But with people living longer and having 
fewer children, the number of workers 
supporting each retiree is shrinking. 
What we really need is a new Social Security 
system based on the power of private investment 
and individual savings. 
Under such a plan, benefits to current retirees 
would be guaranteed, but workers 
would be given the option of shifting their 
payroll taxes to individually owned retirement 
accounts, similar to IRAs or 401(k) 
plans. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2927 

Those accounts would be privately invested 
in real assets such as stocks, bonds, 
annuities, etc. Because private investment 
brings much higher returns, individuals 
could expect to receive much higher retirement 
benefits. 

It’s time to stop tinkering and get on with 
the fundamental reform necessary to preserve 
retirement security for future generations. 


[From the Wall Street Journal, Mar. 18, 1998] 
PUBLIC TRUST BUSTING 
When Senator Pat Moynihan speaks, liberals 
listen. So it just might mark a watershed 
in the Social Security reform debate 
that the New York Democrat this week embraced 
private investment retirement accounts. 
Mr. Moynihan’s welfare state credentials 
are impeccable. He helped to expand it during 
the Johnson and Nixon years and he’s 
been its most intellectually nimble defender 
since. He bitterly opposed President Clinton’s 
decision to sign a welfare reform law. 
And only last year, writing in the New York 
times, he seemed to rule out any significant 
change in Social Security. 
Well, he’s now revising and extending 
those remarks. On Monday at Harvard, he 
said Social Security can be saved only by 
changing it. And not merely with the usual 
political kamikaze run of raising taxes and 
slashing benefits. He’s also endorsing a redesign 
that would allow individuals to invest 
two percentage points of their payroll tax as 
they please, presumably in stocks, bonds and 
other private investments. 
This is a big breakthrough, ideologically 
and politically. The idea of a private Social 
Security option has until recently been the 
province of libertarians and other romantics. 
When Steve Forbes talked up the concept in 
1996, he was demagogued by fellow Republicans. 
Even such a free-marketeer as Ronald 
Reagan was forced to accept a Social Security 
fix in 1983 that relied mostly on tax 
hikes. 
What’s changed? Only the world, as Mr. 
Moynihan admits. The weight of the looming 
Baby Boom retirement has caused a loss of 
public faith in Social Security’s sustainability. 
Few Gen-Xers even expect to receive 
it. More and more Americans also began to 
see the virtue of private retirement vehicles 
like IRAs and 401(k)s, which grew like Topsy 
as the stock market boomed. 
‘‘In the meanwhile the academic world had 
changed,’’ Mr. Moynihan also told the mostly 
liberal academics at Harvard. ‘‘The most 
energetic and innovative minds had turned 
away from government programs—the nanny 
state-toward individual enterprise, self-reliance, 
free markets.’’ (No, he wasn’t quoting 
from this editorial page.) Privatizing Social 
Security suddenly became thinkable, in 
many minds even preferable. 
In short, the same economic and political 
forces that have remade American business 
are now imposing change on government. 
Global competition and instant information 
have forced industry to streamline or die. 
Now those forces are busting up public monopolies—
the public trusts, to adapt a Teddy 
Roosevelt phrase—that deliver poor results. 
In the U.S. that means breaking a public 
school monopoly that traps poor kids in mediocrity 
or worse. And it means reforming a 
retirement system that gives individuals 
only a fraction of the return on their savings 
that they know they’d receive if they invested 
the money themselves. These are ultimately 
moral questions, because in the name 
of equity these public trusts are damaging 
opportunity for those who need it most. 
The rich have known for years how to exploit 
the magic of compound interest, for ex


ample. Why shouldn’t working stiffs have 
the same chance? Mr. Moynihan shows that 
a worker earning $30,000 a year can, at a 
modest 5% annual return, amass $450,000 in 
savings over 45 years by shifting just 2% of 
the payroll tax into a private account. Thus 
do even liberals become capitalists. 

Now, let us acknowledge that 
‘‘privatizing’’ Social Security is not what 
Mr. Moynihan desires. His political goal is to 
reform Social Security just enough to be 
able to save its universal guarantee. He 
fears, sensibly enough, that if liberals oppose 
any change they may find the debate has 
moved on without them. ‘‘The veto groups 
that prevented any change in the welfare 
system,’’ he says, ‘‘looked up one day to find 
the system had vanished.’’ 

No doubt many conservatives will want to 
go much further than the New Yorker, us 
among them. If investing 2% of the payroll 
tax rate is desirable, why not more? Workers 
ought to be able to decide for themselves if 
they want to trade lower taxes now for a 
lower Social Security payment at retirement. 


We also disagree with Mr. Moynihan on 
some of his details. To defray the cost of reducing 
the payroll tax, he would increase the 
amount of wages subject to that tax—from 
$68,400 now to $97,500 by 2003. This is a large 
increase in the marginal tax rate for many 
taxpayers that would defeat reform’s very 
purpose. He’d also raise the payroll tax rate 
down the line as the Boomers retire—something 
that needn’t happen if the reform were 
more ambitious than the Senator says he 
wants. 

Yet for all of that, Mr. Moynihan moves 
the debate in the direction of more individual 
control and more market sense. Along 
with his pal and co-sponsor, Nebraska’s Bob 
Kerrey, he has broken with liberal orthodoxy. 
Maybe their daring will even give courage 
to Republicans. 

[From the New York Times, Mar. 29, 1998] 
WRONG WAY ON SOCIAL SECURITY 
Proposals from archconservatives to chip 
away at a gargantuan Government program 
like Social Security shock no one. But when 
an influential moderate like Senator Daniel 
Patrick Moynihan proposes to divert Social 
Security taxes into private retirement accounts, 
a flawed idea gains ominous support. 
Mr. Moynihan’s rationale is complex. But it 
is also misleading and unwise. 
Mr. Moynihan exaggerates the financial 
predicament by pointing to 2029 as the date 
that actuaries say the Social Security trust 
fund will empty out. But actuaries also say 
that annual revenues will continue to cover 
almost all of each year’s outlays. Indeed, the 
financial gap amounts to only about 2 percent 
of payrolls and can be eliminated with 
modest benefit trims, changes in retirement 
rules and small tax increases. Instead, Mr. 
Moynihan proposes a cut of up to 30 percent 
in future benefits, larger even than what is 
needed to balance the trust fund’s books. He 
does so because his plan includes a second 
agenda—partial privatization. 
Mr. Moynihan would temporarily cut payroll 
taxes and invite workers to deposit the 
money saved into individual tax-sheltered 
retirement accounts. Some will accept the 
invitation and, depending on the outcome of 
risky investment, replace some or all of the 
30 percent benefit cut. But based on past behavior, 
most workers will not save for their 
future. Mr. Moynihan’s reasons for cutting 
revenues of a program that he depicts as 
near bankrupt are political. He wants to stop 
Congress from frittering away the current 
temporary surpluses in the program to support 
other programs in the Federal budget. 
He also proposes partial privatization to 

ward off a more sweeping privatization assault 
by conservatives. 

Private accounts are popular because, if invested 
in stocks, they can grow faster than 
money deposited in the trust fund, which is 
invested in low-yielding Treasury bonds. Mr. 
Moynihan warns that liberals who oppose his 
partial privatization risk having the entire 
Social Security program scrapped, along 
with its magnificent record in redistributing 
money from the rich to poor and thereby 
lifting millions of retirees out of poverty 
each year. 

But Mr. Moynihan refuses to acknowledge 
the harm his partial privatization scheme 
would do. Small savings accounts are expensive 
to administer, threatening to burn up a 
quarter of a low-wage worker’s annual deposit 
in commissions and bank fees. Besides, 
the seemingly small return on money turned 
over to Social Security is partly an optical 
illusion. 

Social Security has promised to pay millions 
of retirees benefits that far exceed the 
amounts they pay into the trust fund. Part 
of the payroll tax that workers turn over to 
the Social Security system covers these unfunded 
benefits. If part of the money that 
workers would deposit in private retirement 
accounts under the Moynihan plan were siphoned 
off to pay their fair share of unfunded 
benefits, then the yield on these accounts 
would look puny too. 

By reinforcing the false notion that private 
accounts are far superior to public accounts, 
Mr. Moynihan risks setting off a political 
process that would feed the conservative 
goal to replace virtually the entire 
public program with private savings. 

Mr. Moynihan’s warning that Social Security 
looks like a lousy deal for workers 
should be heeded. The best way to increase 
retirement funds is to invest payroll taxes in 
stocks. But rather than having a hundred 
million workers invest itsy-bitsy amounts on 
their own, the trust fund itself, through a 
process insulated from politics, should invest 
in equities on behalf of everyone. The Social 
Security problem is modest. So too are the 
right solutions 

[From the Christian Science Monitor, Mar. 

19, 1998] 

SOS FOR SS 

Always pungent Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
has gotten to the heart of America’s 
Social Security problem. In a speech at Harvard 
this week he offered a specific, tough-
minded formula for saving Social Security 
from the demographic collision it faces in future 
decades. 

Moynihan, long an expert on Social Security, 
shrewdly weds (a) a conservative plan 
to allow workers to invest a portion of their 
SS payroll tax in a private nest egg to (b) a 
return to a Rooseveltian pay-as-you-go pension 
system. 

As ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance 
Committee, he plans to propose such a 
reform immediately. 

Compare that with the official Washington 
crawl on Social Security. 

In his state of the union speech last month, 
President Clinton claimed to be concentrating 
mightily on Social Security, but 
then sent it out for yet another scrutiny by 
commission. Mr. Clinton also cast himself as 
a latter day Horatius telling politicians to 
keep their hands off federal budget surpluses. 
He said he was earmarking those surpluses 
to save SS. 

Good theater. Poor economics. The best 
way to preserve those surplus revenues for a 
need starting two decades hence would be to 
use them now to reduce the national debt. 
That would trim those huge interest bills on 
the debt for years to come. And that, in turn, 


S2928 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

would allow more pay-as-you-go money for 
SS. 

Instead, Clinton announced a clutch of new 
programs that would eat up the surpluses— 
despite iffy funding from tobacco revenues. 

Hence the appeal of Moynihan’s approach. 
It would allow Americans to voluntarily use 
as much as 15 percent of their SS payroll tax 
for personal pension savings accounts. Because 
that’s optional and restricted to a 
modest percentage, it would minimize the 
danger that at retirement a pensioner might 
suffer from a market drop. And the upside— 
higher compounded returns over decades of 
savings—would compensate for increased 
risk. 

Meanwhile, Moynihan would seek to ensure 
that the basic SS pension remains rock 
solid by assuring its yearly pay-as-you-go integrity. 
To make bearable the tax burden 
borne by next generation workers paying for 
their retiring baby boom parents, he adapts 
two existing ideas: (1) Speed the move to a 
standard retirement age of 70, reflecting longevity 
statistics. (2) Trim the rate of indexing 
for inflation. 

There will be battles to come. But at least 
one of our most thoughtful political statements 
has gotten a realistic mix of elements 
on the table. Now it’s up to his colleagues. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. With that, Mr. 
President, I yield back the time on our 
side and hope that we can proceed 
forthwith. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the amendment. 


Mr. DOMENICI. The Senator wants 
to ask for the yeas and nays on his 
amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? There appears to be 
a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Mr. ROTH. I also ask unanimous consent 
that Senator BROWNBACK be added 
as a cosponsor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I have a request. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Did you have a request? 


Mr. LAUTENBERG. I do. 

Mr. President, the Senator from Iowa 
has asked for some time to discuss 
something, and I would give him 5 minutes 
off of the resolution to do that, 
unless there is an objection. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Let me just see if we 
can get an agreement that you and I 
have spoken to. 

I say to the Senator, are you going to 
speak on the subject that is before us? 
Or do you just want consent to speak 
on a subject not pertaining to the 
budget for 5 minutes? 

Mr. HARKIN. It has something to do 
with the budget. 

Mr. DOMENICI. But it is not a proposal? 


Mr. HARKIN. No. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We are going to be 
able to arrange that for the Senator. 

Mr. President, I want to suggest that 
when we entered into the unanimous 
consent agreement, the idea was that 
we would expedite the voting on 
amendments and minimize the number 
perhaps that was going to be voted on 
in the so-called ‘‘votarama’’ with 1 
minute on a side by amending the 

statutorily allotted amount of time for 
amendments and second-degree amendments. 
And we did so agree. But we 
were not specific in saying that there 
shall be no time yielded off the bill to 
those new time agreements. So I just 
ask, with the concurrence of my friend 
from New Jersey, unanimous consent 
that there be added to the unanimous 
consent agreement regarding the time 
allotted on amendments and second-degree 
amendments, the following language: 
And that no time, no additional 
time, shall be allotted from time remaining 
on the bill by either side. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I thank the Chair. 

I say to the Senator, did you want to 
do something? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. If we can let our 
friend from Iowa make his statement. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I say to the Senator, 
we will yield you 5 minutes off the bill. 

Mr. HARKIN. I thank the Senator. I 
appreciate it. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

f 

THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 
CONFERENCE REPORT 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I want 
to speak for a couple of minutes about 
a conference report that is now before 
the Senate which is of the utmost urgency 
that we proceed to and pass yet 
today. I am hopeful we can do it. That 
is S. 1150. It is the agricultural research 
bill which we passed here last 
year by unanimous consent. What happened 
is, the House passed it also last 
year but the House, for one reason or 
another, refused to go to conference, 
and then the session ended last year. 

About 3 weeks ago, the House finally 
consented to go to conference. We went 
to conference. We worked out our 
agreements on a very important bill. 
And that bill now is before the Senate. 

In the ag research bill, there are at 
least three very important parts: The 
ag research; crop insurance, to work 
out the problems in crop insurance so 
we can have a disaster crop insurance 
program for the next 5 years; and there 
is also a food stamp provision for refugees 
and the asylees that were inadvertently 
left out of the welfare-to-
work reform bill that we passed in August 
of 1996. 

We need to pass this bill today. It is 
of the utmost urgency. We have over 
717,000 catastrophic crop insurance 
policies in America today, farmers all 
over this country, from California to 
Maryland, from North Dakota to 
Texas. All rely upon this crop insurance 
program. 

If we don’t pass this bill very soon, 
those policies will start to lapse and 
those farmers who have to plant in the 
summertime for winter crops will not 
be able to get their crop insurance. 
That means if they were to have a natural 
disaster that would wipe them out 
completely, they would be in here to 

Congress again begging us to bail them 
out. That is why it is so important we 
pass this today. 

Now, why today? Because we have a 
very strange parliamentary situation. 
If we don’t pass it today and this budget 
passes tomorrow, which it will, then 
we lose all the money that we have for 
crop insurance to help out our farmers. 
I might also add, we lose the money 
that is in there to meet a need for refugees 
and asylees who are legal immigrants 
in this country. Some of them, 
like the Hmong who fought alongside 
our American troops in Laos during 
the Vietnam war, were inadvertently 
cut out of the welfare reform bill. This 
is in the bill before us, S. 1150. 

As I said, S. 1150 had bipartisan support 
in conference, Republicans and 
Democrats, House and Senate. We 
worked out all the differences. There 
are no objections in our committees to 
this. That is why it is so vitally important 
that we pass it today. 

I guess I ask here on the floor, the 
majority leader, and to the staff who 
are here, if they could possibly bring 
up S. 1150 today, sometime by the end 
of the day. I don’t know if the managers 
of the bill would mind if we set it 
aside for 15 minutes—I don’t think it 
would take longer than that; after all, 
it passed by unanimous consent last 
year—and pass it today. I don’t think 
it would take much time. As I said, I 
am sure Senator LUGAR, being the 
chairman, and I, the ranking minority 
member, don’t need more than 15 minutes 
on this bill. It is vitally important, 
because if we don’t pass it, we 
will lose the crop insurance for our 
farmers, especially those who need to 
plant summer crops. 

I yield to Senator CONRAD from 
North Dakota. 

Mr. CONRAD. Mr. President, I want 
to add my voice to the strong voice of 
the Senator from Iowa, Senator HARKIN. 
We are now facing an emergency 
with respect to the research bill. The 
research title is a bit of a misnomer because 
much more is involved here than 
agricultural research, although that is 
critically important. That is critically 
important because we have been hit all 
across the country with a set of diseases 
because we are in a wet cycle. 
That wet cycle has been devastating in 
my State. We lost 30 percent of the 
crop last year, over $1 billion of economic 
loss because of scab and 
vomitoxin, and those losses continue. 

Now we are in a situation where we 
desperately need research into those 
diseases, but it goes much beyond that. 
It goes to the heart of the crop insurance 
system in America. As the Senator 
from Iowa has indicated, there are 
700,000 policyholders in America. They 
are about to get a notice that there is 
no crop insurance available for them. 
That is the danger that we risk if we 
fail to act, and act today. 

The crop insurance shortfall may result 
in farmers across the Nation receiving 
cancellation notices. This is a 
dire emergency. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2929 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
is expired. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I am delighted 
to yield 1 minute to our colleague from 
North Dakota. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DORGAN. I will be brief. 

The Senator from Iowa raise a concern 
of some urgency for the United 
States Senate. What he is describing is 
a bipartisan agreement on legislation 
that is critical to our part of the country. 
It deals not only with research, 
but also with crop insurance. It deals 
with critically needed investment for 
research in crop diseases such as fusarium 
head blight or scab which produces 
vomitoxin in wheat and barley. 

We have an awful problem out in our 
part of the country with these crop diseases 
and crop losses. We need a viable 
crop insurance program. We were delighted 
when the Senator from Iowa 
and the Senator from Indiana and others 
reached this bipartisan agreement 
and moved it through the conference 
with the House of Representatives. I 
know how hard that was. That was a 
tough thing to do because the sides 
were quite far apart. When they 
reached this agreement, we were delighted 
with that. It is an important 
agreement. 

Now, as usual, in the case of politics, 
timing is everything. It is very important 
for this bipartisan conference 
agreement to be considered by the Senate 
and moved along. Time is of the essence 
here. 

I commend the Senator from Iowa. 

Mr. HARKIN. I thank both Senators 
from North Dakota for their strong 
voices and strong support for the crop 
insurance program. 

To sum it up, our farmers, our refugees, 
our asylees, should not be penalized 
because of the delay on the part of 
the House last year—not going to conference—
and they should not be penalized 
because of this odd parliamentary 
situation we have. 

I hope the majority leader and his 
staff who are listening to this will 
hopefully bring up this bill today, and 
let’s get it passed. I don’t think it will 
take more than 10 or 15 minutes to get 
the job done and we can say to our 
farmers that their crop insurance policies 
are, indeed, going to be renewed 
for next year. 

I thank both of the managers of the 
bill for yielding us this time to talk 
about this very important subject. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR 
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
FOR FISCAL YEARS 1999, 
2000, 2001, AND 2003 

The Senate continued with consideration 
of the concurrent resolution. 

VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 2209 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the Roth 
amendment. The yeas and nays have 
been ordered. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk called the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 51, 
nays 49, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 56 Leg.] 

YEAS—51 
Abraham Gorton McConnell 
Allard Gramm Murkowski 
Ashcroft Grams Nickles 
Bennett Grassley Robb 
Breaux Gregg Roberts 
Brownback Hagel Roth 
Burns Hatch Santorum 
Campbell Helms Sessions 
Chafee Hutchinson Shelby 
Cochran Hutchison Smith (NH) 
Coverdell Inhofe Smith (OR) 
Craig Kempthorne Specter 
DeWine Kyl Stevens 
Domenici Lott Thomas 
Enzi Lugar Thompson 
Faircloth Mack Thurmond 
Frist McCain Warner 
NAYS—49 
Akaka Durbin Leahy 
Baucus Feingold Levin 
Biden Feinstein Lieberman 
Bingaman Ford Mikulski 
Bond 
Boxer 
Bryan 
Bumpers 
Byrd 
Cleland 
Coats 
Collins 
Conrad 
D’Amato 
Daschle 
Glenn 
Graham 
Harkin 
Hollings 
Inouye 
Jeffords 
Johnson 
Kennedy 
Kerrey 
Kerry 
Kohl 
Moseley-Braun 
Moynihan 
Murray 
Reed 
Reid 
Rockefeller 
Sarbanes 
Snowe 
Torricelli 
Wellstone 
Dodd Landrieu Wyden 
Dorgan Lautenberg 

The amendment (No. 2209) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. ROTH. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote by which the 
amendment was agreed to. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I move to lay 
that motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG addressed the 
Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey is recognized. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
once again, I don’t think we are going 
to hear any profound speeches in the 
next few minutes, but at least we 
ought to know what it is that is going 
on, because if those amendments are 
not up there by the witching hour of 6 
o’clock, they will not have a chance to 
get an amendment considered, whether 
it is a ‘‘vote-a-thon,’’ ‘‘vote-a-rama,’’ 
‘‘rapid fire,’’ or whatever you want to 
call it, or whether there will be a 
chance for debate. Six o’clock is it. We 
all turn into pumpkins at that time. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2204, AS MODIFIED, AND 
AMENDMENT NOS. 2226 THROUGH 2247, EN BLOC 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
have amendments to send to the desk 
on behalf of the following Senators: 
Senator KOHL from Wisconsin has a 
modification to amendment No. 2204, 
Senator ROCKEFELLER, Senator CONRAD, 
Senator BUMPERS, Senator FEINSTEIN, 
Senator JOHN KERRY, Senator 
WELLSTONE, Senator CHARLES ROBB, 
Senator BIDEN, Senator BOXER, Senator 
BINGAMAN, Senator BINGAMAN 
again, Senator ROBERT KERREY, Sen


ator MOSELEY-BRAUN, Senator 
MOSELEY-BRAUN again, Senator 
MOSELEY-BRAUN again, Senator DURBIN, 
Senator DORGAN, Senator LAUTENBERG, 
Senator LAUTENBERG again, Senator 
TORRICELLI, Senator TORRICELLI 
again, and Senator MOYNIHAN. 

I offer those amendments and ask for 
their consideration. I ask unanimous 
consent that we suspend the reading of 
the amendments. 

Mr. President, I offer them en bloc. I 
also ask unanimous consent that they 
be put aside after being laid at the 
desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment numbered 2204, as 
modified, and amendments numbered 
2226 through 2247, en bloc, are as follows: 


AMENDMENT NO. 2204, AS MODIFIED 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
regarding the establishment of a national 

background check system for long-term 

care workers) 

At the end of title III add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL 
BACKGROUND CHECK SYSTEM FOR 
LONG-TERM CARE WORKERS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The impending retirement of the baby 
boom generation will greatly increase the 
demand and need for quality long-term care 
and it is incumbent on Congress and the 
President to ensure that medicare and medicaid 
patients are protected from abuse, neglect, 
and mistreatment. 
(2) Although the majority of long-term 
care facilities do an excellent job in caring 
for elderly and disabled patients, incidents of 
abuse and neglect and mistreatment do 
occur at an unacceptable rate and are not 
lim9ited to nursing homes alone. 
(3) Current Federal and State safeguards 
are inadequate because there is little or no 
information sharing between States about 
known abusers and no common State procedures 
for tracking abusers from State to 
State and facility to facility. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this concurrent 
resolution on the budget assume that a national 
registry of abusive long-term care 
workers should be established by building 
upon existing infrastructures at the Federal 
and State levels that would enable long-term 
care providers who participate in the medicare 
and medicaid programs (412 U.S.C. 1395 
et seq.; 1396 et seq.) to conduct background 
checks on prospective employees. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2226 
On page 14, line 7, strike ‘‘$51,500,000,000.’’ 
and all that follows through line 24, and substitute 
in lieu thereof the following: 
‘‘$51,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $42,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 

(A) New budget authority, $50,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $43,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $50,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $43,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $48,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $42,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $48,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $42,900,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 8, strike ‘‘¥$300,000,000.’’ 
and all that follows through line 25, and substitute 
in lieu thereof the following: 


S2930 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

‘‘$200,000,000. 

(B) Outlays, ¥$1,400,000,000. 

Fiscal year 2000: 

(A) New budget authority, ¥$200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$3,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$4,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$1,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,000,000,000. 
On page 31, line 24, strike subsection (6) in 
its entirety. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2227 
(Purpose: To ensure that the tobacco reserve 

fund in the resolution may be used to 

strengthen Social Security) 

On page 28, strike line 2 through line 17 and 
insert the following: 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be adjusted 
and allocations may be revised for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation for the Medicare 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the 
Federal Old-Age, Survivors and Disability 
Insurance Trust Funds. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES AND ALLOCATIONS.—
Upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
may file with the Senate appropriately-revised 
allocations under section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revised 
functional levels and aggregates to carry out 
this section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered 
for the purposes of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in the Federal share of receipts resulting 
from tobacco legislation shall not be 
taken into account. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2228 
(Purpose: To provide for funding to help the 
states comply with the Individuals with 

Disabilities Education Act by eliminating 

an unjustified tax loophole) 

On page 3, line 10, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 3, line 11, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 3, line 14, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 3, line 19, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 4, line 22, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 4, line 23, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 16, line 9, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 16, line 10, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 16, line 13, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 16, line 14, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 16, line 17, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 16, line 18, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 16, line 21, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 16, line 22, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 16, line 25, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 17, line 1, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2229 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on education goals) 
At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON EDUCATION 
GOALS. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the functional 
totals underlying this resolution assume 
that the Federal Government should 
work hand-in-hand with States, school districts, 
and local leaders— 

(1) to accomplish the following goals by 
the year 2005: 
(A) establish achievement levels and assessments 
in every grade for the core academic 
curriculum; measure each regular student’s 
performance; and prohibit the practice 
of social promotion of students (promoting 
students routinely from one grade to the 
next without regard to their academic 
achievement); 
(B) provide remedial programs for students 
whose achievement levels indicate they 
should not be promoted to the next grade; 
(C) create smaller schools to enable students 
to have closer interaction with teachers; 
(D) require at least 180 days per year of instruction 
in core curriculum subjects; 
(E) recruit new teachers who are adequately 
trained and credentialed in the subject 
or subjects they teach and encourage excellent, 
experienced teachers to remain in 
the classroom by providing adequate salaries; 
require all teachers to be credentialed 
and limit emergency or temporary teaching 
credentials to a limited period of time; hold 
teachers and principals accountable to high 
educational standards; and 
(F) require all regular students to pass an 
examination in basic core curriculum subjects 
in order to receive a high school diploma; 
and 
(2) to reaffirm the importance of public 
schooling and commit to guaranteeing excellence 
and accountability in the public 
schools of this nation. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2230 

(Purpose: To ensure that the tobacco reserve 
fund in the resolution protects public health) 
On page 28, strike line 2 through line 17 and 

insert the following: 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be adjusted 
and allocations may be adjusted for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation for— 

(1) (A) public health efforts to reduce the 
use of tobacco products by children, including 
youth tobacco control education and prevention 
programs, counter-advertising, research, 
and smoking cessation; 
(B) transition assistance programs for tobacco 
farmers; 
(C) increased funding for the Food and 
Drug Administration to protect children 
from the hazards of tobacco products; 
(D) improving the availability, afford-
ability and quality of child care; 
(E) increased funding for education; 
(F) increased funding for health research; 
(G) reimbursements to States for tobacco-
related health costs; or, 
(H) expanding children’s health insurance 
coverage; and, 
‘‘(2) savings for the Medicare Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund or the Social Security 
Federal Old-Age, Survivors and Disability 
Insurance Trust Funds. 

(b) REVISED AGGREGATES AND ALLOCATIONS.—
Upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
may file with the Senate appropriately-revised 
allocations under section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revised 
functional levels and aggregates to carry out 
this section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered 
for the purposes of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in the Federal share of receipts resulting 
from tobacco legislation and used to fund 
subsection (a)(2) shall not be taken into account. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2231 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

supporting additional funding for fiscal 
year 1999 for medical care for veterans) 
On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 317. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON FUNDING 
FOR MEDICAL CARE FOR VETERANS. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the functional 
totals underlying this resolution assume 
that $159,116,000 in additional amounts 
above the President’s budget levels will be 
made available for veterans health care for 
fiscal year 1999. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2232 
(Purpose: To ensure that the tobacco reserve 

fund in the resolution protects tobacco 
farmers) 
On page 28, strike lines 1 through 17, and 

insert the following: 

SEC. 202. TOBACCO RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be increased 
and allocations may be increased for legislation 
which reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation only for the 
Medical Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or 
for providing transition assistance to tobacco 
farmers. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES.—Upon the consideration 
of legislation pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file with 
the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and increased aggregates 
to carry out this section. These aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2931 

(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
shall not be taken into account, except the 
portion dedicated to providing transition assistance 
to tobacco farmers. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2233 
At the appropriate place, insert: 

SEC. . A RESOLUTION REGARDING THE SENATE’S 
SUPPORT FOR FEDERAL, 
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT. 


(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that:— 
(1) Our Federal, State and local law enforcement 
officers provide essential services 
that preserve and protect our freedom and 
safety, and with the support of federal assistance, 
state and local law enforcement officers 
have succeeded in reducing the national 
scourge of violent crime, illustrated by a 
murder rate in 1996 which is projected to be 
the lowest since 1971 and a violent crime 
total in 1990 which is the lowest since 1990; 
(2) Through a comprehensive effort to attack 
violence against women mounted by 
state and local law enforcement, and dedicated 
volunteers and professionals who provide 
victim services, shelter, counseling and 
advocacy to battered women and their children, 
important strides have been made 
against the national scourge of violence 
against women, illustrated by the decline in 
the murder rate for wives, ex-wives and 
girlfriends at the hands of their ‘‘intimates’’ 
fell to a 19-year low in 1995; 
(3) Recent gains by Federal, State and 
local law enforcement in the fight against 
violent crime and violence against women 
are fragile, and continued financial commitment 
from the Federal Government for funding 
and financial assistance is required to 
sustain and build upon these gains; and 
(4) The Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund as adopted by the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 funds 
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994, the Violence Against 
Women Act of 1994, and the Antiterrorism 
and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 
without adding to the federal budget deficit. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that the provisions and the 
functional totals underlying this resolution 
assume the Federal Government’s commitment 
to fund Federal law enforcement programs 
and programs to assist State and local 
efforts to combat violent crime, including violence 
against women, shall be maintained 
and funding for the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund shall continue to at least fiscal 
year 2003. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2234 
(Purpose: To expand the uses of the tobacco 
reserve fund to include funding for health 

research, including the National Institutes 
of Health) 
On page 28, beginning on line 5, after 

‘‘Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund,’’ 
strike all through the end of line 17, and insert 
the following: 

‘‘, or for health research, including funding 
for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). 

‘‘(b) REVISED BUDGETARY LEVELS AND LIMITS.—
Upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
may adjust all appropriate budgetary levels 
and limits, including aggregates and allocations, 
to carry out this section. These budgetary 
levels and limits shall be considered 
for the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as the budgetary levels and limits 
contained in this resolution. 

‘‘(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
shall not be taken into account, except 
the portion dedicated to health research, 
including the National Institutes of 
Health.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 2235 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding the analysis of civilian science 

and technology expenditures in the budget 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON 
ANALYSIS OF CIVILIAN SCIENCE AND 
TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS IN THE FEDERAL 
BUDGET. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 


‘‘(1) The National Academy of Sciences, 
National Academy of Engineering, and Institute 
of Medicine have recommended, in their 
1995 report, entitled ‘Allocating Federal 
Funds for Science and Technology,’ that the 
Federal science and technology budget ‘be 
presented as a comprehensive whole in the 
President’s budget and similarly considered 
as a whole at the beginning of the congressional 
budget process before the total federal 
budget is disaggregated and sent to the appropriations 
committees and subcommittees.’ 


‘‘(2) Civilian federal agencies are supporting 
more than $35 billion of research and 
development in fiscal year 1998, but it is difficult 
for the Congress and the public to 
track or understand this support because it 
is dispersed among 12 different budget functions. 


‘‘(3) A meaningful examination of the overall 
Federal budget for science and technology, 
consistent with the recommendation 
of the National Academies, as well as an examination 
of science and technology budgets 
in individual civilian agencies, would be facilitated 
if the President’s budget request 
clearly displayed the amounts requested for 
science and technology programs across all 
civilian agencies and classified these 
amounts in Budget Function 250. 

‘‘(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the Congressional budget 
for the United States for fiscal years 2000, 
2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004 should consolidate 
the spending for all federal civilian science 
and technology programs in Budget Function 
250, and that the President should accordingly 
transmit to the Congress a budget 
request for fiscal year 2000 that classifies 
these programs, across all federal civilian 
departments and agencies, in Budget Function 
250.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2236 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding long-term civilian science and 

technology budget trends) 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON CIVILIAN 

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PRO


GRAMS IN THE FEDERAL BUDGET. 

‘‘It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the function totals in 
this budget resolution assume that expenditures 
for civilian science and technology programs 
in the Federal budget will double over 
the period from fiscal year 1998 to fiscal year 
2008.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2237 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

on long-term Federal budgeting and the re


payment of the public debt) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON LONG-TERM 
BUDGETING AND REPAYMENT OF 
THE PUBLIC DEBT. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) today, there are 34,000,000 Americans 
over the age of 65, and by the year 2030, that 
number will grow to nearly 70,000,000; 
(2) in 1963, mandatory spending represented 
30 percent of the Federal budget, while discretionary 
spending made up 70 percent, and 
by 1998, those proportions have almost completely 
reversed, in that mandatory spending 
now accounts for 68 percent of the Federal 
budget, while discretionary spending represents 
32 percent; 
(3) according to the 1997 Annual Report of 
the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age 
and Survivors Insurance and Disability Insurance 
(OASDI) Trust Fund— 
(A) the difference between the income and 
benefits for the OASDI program is a deficit 
of 2.23 percent of taxable payroll; 
(B) the assets in the Trust Fund are expected 
to be depleted under present law in 
the year 2029; 
(C) by the time the assets in the Trust 
Fund are depleted, annual tax revenues will 
be sufficient to cover only three-fourths of 
the annual expenditures; 
(D) intermediate estimates are that OASDI 
will absorb nearly 17.5 percent of national 
payroll by the year 2030; and 
(E) the cost of the OASDI program is estimated 
to rise from its current level of 4.7 
percent of Gross Domestic Product to 6.7 percent 
by the end of the 75-year projection period; 
(4) according to reports by the Congressional 
Budget Office, the Economic and 
Budget Outlook: Fiscal Years 1999-2008 (January 
1998) and Reducing the Deficit: Spending 
and Revenue Options (March 1997)— 
(A) the Medicare Part A Trust Fund will be 
exhausted early in fiscal year 2010; 
(B) enrollment in Medicare will increase 
dramatically as the baby boomers reach age 
65; 
(C) between the years 2010 and 2030, enrollment 
in Medicare is projected to grow by 2.4 
percent per year, up from the 1.4 percent average 
annual growth projected through 2007; 
(D) by the year 2030, Medicare enrollment 
will have doubled, to 75,000,000 people; and 
(E) the increase in Medicare enrollment 
caused by the aging of the population will be 
accompanied by a tapering of the growth 
rate of the working age population, and the 
number of workers will drop from 3.8 for 
every Medicare beneficiary in 1997 to 2.02 per 
beneficiary by 2030; 
(5) the demographic shift that is currently 
taking place, and will continue for the next 
30 years, will put a tremendous burden on 
workers as the cost of programs such as Social 
Security and Medicare are borne by proportionately 
fewer workers; 
(6) the current Budget Resolution, which 
projects revenues and spending only for the 
next 10 years, does not give Congress a clear 
picture of the budget problems that confront 
the United States shortly after the turn of 
the century; 
(7) currently, 14 percent of the Federal 
budget is spent on interest payments on the 
national debt; and 
(8) if projected surpluses are used entirely 
for debt reduction and current tax and 
spending policies remain unchanged, the 
share of Federal income needed to pay interest 
would drop below 5 percent within 12 
years, and in 1997, that 10 percentage-point 
reduction would have amounted to 
$158,000,000,000 available for other priorities. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution assume that future 
budget resolutions and future budgets 
submitted by the President should include— 

S2932 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(1) an analysis for the period of 30 fiscal 
years beginning with such fiscal year, of the 
estimated levels of total budget outlays and 
total new budget authority, the estimated 
revenues to be received, the estimated surplus 
or deficit, if any, for each major Federal 
entitlement program for each fiscal year in 
such period; and 
(2) a specific accounting of payments, if 
any, made to reduce the public debt, or unfunded 
liabilities associated with each major 
Federal entitlement program. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2238 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding tax legislation that increases the 
complexity of any tax return) 
At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING LEGISLATION 
THAT INCREASES COMPLEXITY 
OF TAX RETURNS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 
(1) As part of the consideration by the Senate 
of tax cuts for the families of America, 
the Senate should also examine the condition 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 
(2) According to the Congressional Research 
Service, the Revenue Reconciliation 
Act of 1997 added 1,000,000 words and 315 
pages to the Internal Revenue Code. 
(3) The Internal Revenue Code continues to 
grow more complex and difficult for the average 
taxpayer to understand, and the average 
tax return has become more time-consuming 
to prepare. 
(4) The average taxpayer will spend 9 hours 
and 54 minutes preparing Form 1040 for the 
1997 tax year. 
(5) The average taxpayer spend between 21 
and 28 hours each year on tax matters. 
(6) In 1995, 58,965,000 of the 118,218,327 tax 
returns that were filed, almost 50 percent, 
were filed by taxpayers who utilized the help 
of paid tax preparers. 
(7) The average taxpayer spends $72 each 
year for tax preparation. 
(8) The total burden on all taxpayers of 
maintaining records, and preparing and filing 
tax returns is estimated to be in excess 
of 1,600,000 hours per year. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the budgetary levels in 
this resolution assume that the Senate 
should give priority to tax proposals that 
simplify the tax code and reject proposals 
that add greater complexity in the tax code 
and increase compliance costs for the taxpayer. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2239 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
that the President should submit a 

generational study with the budget request) 
At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
PRESIDENT’S BUDGET. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budgetary 
levels in this resolution assume that 
the President should submit, as part of the 
budget request of the President that is submitted 
to Congress, a study of the impact of 
the provisions of the budget on each generation 
of Americans and its long-term effects 
on each generation. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2240 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding the value of the social security 
system for future retirees) 
At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
VALUE OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY 
SYSTEM FOR FUTURE RETIREES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The social security system has allowed 
a generation of Americans to retire with dignity. 
Today, 13 percent of the population is 
65 or older and by 2030, 20 percent of the population 
will be 65 or older. More than 1/2 of 
the elderly do not receive private pensions 
and more than 1/3 have no income from assets. 
(2) For 60 percent of all senior citizens, social 
security benefits provide almost 80 percent 
of their retirement income. For 80 percent 
of all senior citizens, social security 
benefits provide over 50 percent of their retirement 
income. 
(3) Poverty rates among the elderly are at 
the lowest level since the United States 
began to keep poverty statistics, due in large 
part to the social security system. 
(4) 78 percent of Americans pay more in 
payroll taxes than they do in income taxes. 
(5) According to the 1997 report of the Managing 
Trustee for the social security trust 
funds, the accumulated balance in the Federal 
Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
Fund is estimated to fall to zero by 2029, and 
the estimated payroll tax at that time will 
be sufficient to cover only 75 percent of the 
benefits owed to retirees at that time. 
(6) The average American retiring in the 
year 2015 will pay $250,000 in payroll taxes 
over the course of a working career. 
(7) Future generations of Americans must 
be guaranteed the same value from the social 
security system as past covered recipients. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the budgetary levels in 
this resolution assume that no change in the 
social security system should be made that 
would reduce the value of the social security 
system for future generations of retirees. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2241 
(Purpose: To express the sense of Congress 

regarding the right to affordable, high-
quality health care for seniors) 
At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING 
AFFORDABLE, HIGH-QUALITY 
HEALTH CARE FOR SENIORS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following: 
(1) Seniors deserve affordable, high quality 
health care. 
(2) The medicare program under title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et 
seq.) has made health care affordable for millions 
of seniors. 
(3) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
deserve to know that such program 
will cover the benefits that they are currently 
entitled to. 
(4) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
can pay out-of-pocket for health care 
services whenever they— 
(A) do not want a claim for reimbursement 
for such services submitted to such program; 
or 
(B) want or need to obtain health care 
services that such program does not cover. 
(5) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
can use doctors who do not receive any 
reimbursement under such program. 
(6) Close to 75 percent of seniors have annual 
incomes below $25,000, including 4 percent 
who have annual incomes below $5,000, 
making any additional out-of-pocket costs 
for health care services extremely burdensome. 
(7) Very few beneficiaries under the medicare 
program report having difficulty obtaining 
access to a physician who accepts reimbursement 
under such program. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this resolution assume 
that seniors have the right to affordable, 
high-quality health care, that they 
have the right to choose their physicians, 
and that no change should be made to the 
medicare program that could— 

(1) impose unreasonable and unpredictable 
out-of-pocket costs for seniors or erode the 
benefits that the 38,000,000 beneficiaries 
under the medicare program are entitled to; 
(2) compromise the efforts of the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to screen inappropriate 
or fraudulent claims for reimbursement 
under such program; and 
(3) allow unscrupulous providers under 
such program to bill twice for the same services. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2242 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on ensuring Social Security solvency) 
At the appropriate place in the resolution, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON SOCIAL SECURITY 
SOLVENCY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the Social Security system provides 
benefits to 44,000,000 Americans, including 
27,300,000 retirees, over 4,500,000 people with 
disabilities, 3,800,000 surviving children, and 
8,400,000 surviving adults, and is essential to 
the dignity and security of the Nation’s elderly 
and disabled; 
(2) the Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and 
Survivors Insurance and Disability Insurance 
Trust funds have reported to Congress 
that the ‘‘total income’’ of the Social Security 
system ‘‘is estimated to fall short of expenditures 
beginning in 2019 and in each year 
therafter. . .until [trust fund] assets are exhausted 
in 2029’’; 
(3) intergenerational fairness, honest accounting 
principles, prudent budgeting, and 
sound economic policy all require saving Social 
Security first, in order that the Nation 
may better afford the retirement of the baby 
boom generation beginning in 2010; 
(4) in reforming Social Security in 1983, 
Congress intended that near-term Social Security 
trust fund surpluses be used to 
prefund the retirement of the baby boom 
generation; 
(5) in his State of the Union message to the 
joint session of Congress on January 27, 1998, 
President Clinton called on Congress to 
‘‘save Social Security first’’ and to ‘‘reserve 
one hundred percent of the surplus, that is 
any penny of any surplus, until we have 
taken all the necessary measures to 
strengthen the Social Security system for 
the twenty-first century’’; 
(6) the nation will engage in a national dialogue 
during 1998 on the future of Social Security, 
which will include 4 regional conferences 
organized by the Concord Coalition 
and the American Association of Retired 
Persons, a White House summit on private 
retirement savings in July, and a White 
House Conference on Social Security in December; 
and 
(7) saving Social Security first would work 
to expand national savings, reduce interest 
rates, enhance private investment, increase 
labor productivity, and boost economic 
growth. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE—It is the 
sense of the Senate that the levels in this 
resolution assume that: 
(1) Congress should save Social Security 
first by reserving any unified budget surplus 
until legislation is enacted to make Social 
Security actuarially sound and capable of 
paying future retirees the benefits to which 
they are entitled; 
(2) enactment of such legislation will require 
a broad base of public support that 
should be developed during 1998 through a 
national bipartisan discussion of alternative 
approaches to ensuring Social Security solvency; 
and 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2933 

(3) since that discussion has just begun, 
Congress should not act now to foreclose policy 
options that could help ensure Social Security 
solvency. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2243 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
that the Congress and the Administration 
should fulfill the intent of the Amtrak Reform 
and Accountability Act of 1997 and 
appropriate sufficient funds in each of the 
next five years to enable Amtrak to implement 
its Strategic Business Plan, while 
preserving the integrity of the $2.2 billion 
provided under the Taxpayer Relief Act for 

the statutory purpose of capital investment) 
At the appropriate place, insert the fol


lowing: 

SEC. .> SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING AMTRAK 
FUNDING. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) on November 13, 1997 the Senate unanimously 
passed the Amtrak Reform and Accountability 
Act of 1997, P.L. 105–134, authorizing 
appropriations of $1,058,000,000 for FY99; 
$1,023,000,000 for FY00, $989,000,000 for FY01; 
and $955,000,000 for FY02, totaling $4.025 billion 
FY99–02; 
(2) in P.L. 105–134 the Congress declared 
that ‘‘intercity rail passenger service is an 
essential component of a national inter-
modal passenger transportation system’’; 
(3) section 201 of the Amtrak Reform and 
Accountability Act of 1997 has now statutorily 
formalized prior Congressional directives 
to Amtrak to reach operating self-sufficiency 
by fiscal year 2002; 
(4) the Congress and the President, through 
enactment of this legislation, have effectively 
agreed that Congress will provide adequate 
funding to permit Amtrak to achieve 
the goal of operating self-sufficiency; 
(5) capital investment is critical to reducing 
operating costs and increasing the quality 
of Amtrak service; 
(6) capital investment is essential to improving 
Amtrak’s long-term financial 
health; 
(7) the $2.2 billion provided to Amtrak 
through the Taxpayer Relief Act is for the 
sole purpose of capital expenditures and 
other qualified expenses and is intended to 
supplement, no supplant, annual appropriations. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE—It is the 
sense of the Senate that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this budget 
resolution assume that Congress and the Administration 
will fulfill the intent of the 
Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 
1997 and appropriate sufficient funds in each 
of the next five fiscal years for Amtrak to 
implement its FY 1998-FY 2003 Strategic 
Business Plan, while preserving the integrity 
of the $2.2 billion provided under the Taxpayer 
Relief Act for the statutory purpose of 
capital investment. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2244 

The text of Amendment No. 2244 is 
printed in today’s RECORD under 
‘‘Amendments Submitted.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 2245 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on battlefield preservation) 
On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 3 . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON BATTLEFIELD 
PRESERVATION. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budget 
levels in this resolution assume that— 

(1) preserving Revolutionary War, War of 
1812, and Civil War battlefields is an integral 
part of preserving our Nation’s history; 
(2) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War and War of 1812 battlefields, 
by making funds available for the conduct 
of the Revolutionary War and War of 
1812 Historic Preservation Study as authorized 
by section 603 of Public Law 104–333 (16 

U.S.C. 1a–5 note); and 
(3) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil 
War battlefields by allocating funds in the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund for the 
purchase of battlefield sites the integrity of 
which is threatened by urban or suburban development. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2246 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on the Land and Water Conservation Fund) 
On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 3 . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE LAND 
AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budget 
levels in this resolution assume that programs 
funded from the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund should be funded in the full 
amount authorized by law. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2247 
(Purpose: To express the Sense of the Senate 
that the Committee on Finance should 
consider legislation to preserve Social Security 
and ensure its long-run solvency; 
and that no policy options, affecting either 
outlays, revenues, or the manner of invest


ment of funds, should be excluded from 
consideration) 
At the appropriate place, insert: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE FUTURE 
OF SOCIAL SECURITY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Public confidence in the long-term viability 
of the Social Security System is low, 
with opinion polls repeatedly indicating that 
a majority of non-retired young adults do 
not believe they will receive Social Security 
when they retire; 
(2) In the year 2012, outlays for Old Age 
Survivors and Disability Insurance will exceed 
its tax revenues; 
(3) Early action by the Congress is needed 
in order to strengthen public confidence in 
Social Security and address the long-run actuarial 
deficit of the program; 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that: 
(1) the Committee on Finance should at 
the earliest possible date hold hearings on 
and begin consideration of legislation to preserve 
the Social Security program and ensure 
its long-run solvency; and that no policy 
options affecting either revenues, outlays 
or the manner of investment of funds, should 
be excluded from consideration. 
AMENDMENTS NOS. 2203, 2212, AND 2193, EN BLOC 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
have three more amendments that are 
currently at the desk, and I ask unanimous 
consent that they be called up 
and then put aside: Senator WYDEN’s 
amendment No. 2203, Senator 
TORRICELLI’s amendment No. 2212, and 
Senator HOLLINGS’ amendment No. 
2193. 

Again, I ask unanimous consent that 
they be brought up and then put aside. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I ask unanimous 
consent that we forgo the reading of 
the amendments. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
The amendments numbered 2203, 2212, 
and 2193, en bloc, are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2203 

(Purpose: To direct the Congressional Budget 
Office to calculate inflation swings or 
shortfalls in each function of the Government) 


At the end of title II, add the following: 

SEC. ll. CALCULATING INFLATION SAVINGS OR 
SHORTFALLS. 

For each fiscal year, the Congressional 
Budget Office shall calculate the inflation 
savings or shortfall that occurs when inflation 
is less or more than anticipated for each 
function of the Government and report its 
findings to Congress in March and August of 
each year. If inflation is less than anticipated 
the report shall also include a detailed 
explanation of how surplus funds are allocated. 


AMENDMENT NO. 2212 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on battlefield preservation) 
On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 3ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON BATTLEFIELD 
PRESERVATION. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budget 
levels in this resolution assume that— 

(1) preserving Revolutionary War, War of 
1812, and Civil War battlefields is an integral 
part of preserving our Nation’s history; 
(2) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War and War of 1812 battlefields, 
by making funds available for the conduct 
of the Revolutionary War and War of 
1812 Historic Preservation Study as authorized 
by section 603 of Public Law 104–333 (16 
U.S.C. 1a–5 note); and 
(3) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil 
War battlefields by allocating funds in the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund for the 
purchase of battlefield sites the integrity of 
which is threatened by urban or suburban development. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2193 
(Purpose: To provide a supermajority point 

of order against any change in the off-
budget status of Social Security) 
At the end of title II, add the following: 

SEC. ll. PROTECTING THE OFF-BUDGET STATUS 
OF SOCIAL SECURITY. 

(a) POINT OF ORDER.—It shall not be in 
order in the Senate to consider any bill, resolution, 
or amendment or motion thereto or 
conference report thereon, including legislation 
reported by the Committee on the Budget 
of either House pursuant to section 306 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, that 
changes section 301(i), 302(f), 310(g), or 311 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, or section 
13301 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 
1990, section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104 Congress), 
or this section, or would otherwise 
change budget procedures regarding Social 
Security. 
(b) WAIVER.—This section may be waived 
or suspended in the Senate only by the affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members, 
duly chosen and sworn. 
(c) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from 
the decisions of the Chair relating to any 
provision of this section shall be limited to 1 
hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
by, the appellant and the manager of 
the bill or joint resolution, as the case may 
be. An affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
Members of the Senate, duly chosen and 
sworn, shall be required in the Senate to sustain 
an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on 
a point of order raised under this section. 
Mr. BUMPERS. Mr. President, will 
the Senator yield for a question? In the 


S2934 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

calling off of the names of the amendment, 
I have an amendment there, and 
I did not hear my name called. Is it at 
the desk? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Yes. 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, if my 
colleague will yield for a question on 
one of the amendments, I did not hear 
my name mentioned. I have two 
amendments. I am hopeful that you received 
both amendments. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. In response to 
the Senator, both amendments were received 
that she offered and were sent to 
the desk. 

Mrs. BOXER. Thank you very much. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 
AMENDMENTS NOS. 2266, 2222, AND 2208, EN BLOC 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, pursuant 
to the unanimous consent request, 
it is now my privilege to introduce the 
amendments that we have on this side. 

Let me start it this way. There is 
pending at the desk an amendment 
numbered 2266, Senator GRAMS numbered 
2222, and an amendment numbered 
2208 by Senator HUTCHISON. 

I would like to call them up and set 
them aside. I ask unanimous consent 
to do that. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendments numbered 2266, 2222, 
and 2208, en bloc, are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2266 
(Purpose: To extend the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund) 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . EXTENSION OF VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION 
TRUST FUND. 

‘‘(a) DISCRETIONARY LIMITS.—In the Senate, 
in this section and for the purposes of allocations 
made for the discretionary category 
pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
budget Act of 1974, the term ‘discretionary 
spending limit’ means— 

‘‘(1) with respect to fiscal year 1999— 

‘‘(A) for the defense category: 
$271,570,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$266,635,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(B) for the nondefense category: 
$255,450,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$289,547,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(C) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$5,800,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $4,953,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(2) with respect to fiscal year 2000— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$532,693,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$558,711,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,500,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $5,554,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(3) with respect to fiscal year 2001— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$537,632,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$558,415,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,400,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $5,981,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(4) with respect to fiscal year 2002— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$546,574,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$556,269,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,500,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $4,530,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘as adjusted in strict conformance with subsection 
(b) of section 251 of the Balanced 

Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985; and section 314 of the Congressional 
Budget Act. 

‘‘(b) POINT OF ORDER IN THE SENATE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), it shall not be in order in the 
Senate to consider— 

‘‘(A) a revision of this resolution or any 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
years 1999, 2000, 2001, or 2002 (or amendment, 
motion, or conference report on such a 
resolution) that provides discretionary 
spending in excess of the discretionary 
spending limit or limits for such fiscal year; 
or 

‘‘(B) any bill or resolution (or amendment, 
motion, or conference report on such bill or 
resolution) for fiscal year 1999, 2000, 2001, or 
2002 that would cause any of the limits in 
this section (or suballocations of the discretionary 
limits made pursuant to section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974) to be exceeded. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not 
apply if a declaration of war by the Congress 
is in effect or if a joint resolution pursuant 
to section 258 of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 has 
been enacted. 

‘‘(c) WAIVER.—This section may be waived 
or suspended in the Senate only by the affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members, 
duly chosen and sworn. 

‘‘(d) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from 
the decisions of the Chair relating to any 
provision of this section shall be limited to 1 
hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
by, the appellant and the manager of 
the concurrent resolution, bill, or joint resolution, 
as the case may be. An affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members of the 
Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required 
in the Senate to sustain an appeal of 
the ruling of the Chair on a point of order 
raised under this section. 

‘‘(e) DETERMINATION OF BUDGET LEVELS.— 
For purposes of this section, the levels of 
new budget authority, outlays, new entitlement 
authority, revenues, and deficits for a 
fiscal year shall be determined on the basis 
of estimates made by the Committee on the 
Budget of the Senate.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2222 
(Purpose: To use any budget surplus to reduce 
payroll tax and establish personal re


tirement accounts for hard-working Amer


icans) 

At the appropriate place in the resolution, 
insert the following new section: 

SEC. . USE OF BUDGET SURPLUS TO REFORM 
SOCIAL SECURITY. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
included in the resolution assume— 

(a) the Congress and the President should 
use any budget surplus to reduce the Social 
Security payroll tax and to establish personal 
retirement accounts with the tax reduction 
for hard-working Americans. 
(b) the Congress and the President should 
not use the Social Security surplus to finance 
general government programs and 
other spending, should begin to build real assets 
for the trust funds, and work to reform 
the Social Security system. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2208 
(Purpose: to express the sense of the Senate 
that any budget surplus should be dedi


cated to debt reduction or direct tax relief 

for hard-working American families) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 
SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE USE OF 

BUDGET SURPLUS FOR TAX RELIEF 

OR DEBT REDUCTION. 

It is the sense of the Senate that this resolution 
assumes that any budget surplus 

should be dedicated to debt reduction or direct 
tax relief for hard-working American 
families. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 2248 THROUGH 2272 EN BLOC 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I send 
to the desk the following amendments: 
Senator BOND amendment, Senator 
ABRAHAM, Senator THURMOND, Senator 
SESSIONS, Senator DOMENICI in behalf 
of Senator FAIRCLOTH, Senator SPECTER, 
a second amendment in behalf of 
Senator SPECTER, and a third amendment 
in behalf of Senator SPECTER, 
Senator NICKLES, Senator FRIST, Senator 
MCCONNELL, Senator SESSIONS, 
Senators CRAIG and DOMENICI, Senators 
COVERDELL and SHELBY, Senator 
SANTORUM, second Santorum amendment, 
Senator KEMPTHORNE, Senator 
GRAMM, Senator COVERDELL, second 
Senator COVERDELL, a third, fourth, 
fifth, and Senator MACK. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows:. 

The Senator from New Mexico (Mr. 
DONENICI) proposes amendments numbered 
2248 through 2272, en bloc. 

The amendments are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2248 
At the appropriate place insert: 
It is the Sense of the Senate that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that included 
in the funding for the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service (INS) is $2 million 
for the establishment of INS circuit 
rides in the former Soviet Union for the purpose 
of processing refugees and conducting 
medical examinations of refugees who will 
enter the United States under the Refugee 
Act of 1980. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2249 
(Purpose: To express the sense of Congress 
that the Budget Act should be amended to 
facilitate the use of future unified budget 
surpluses to strengthen and reform Social 

Security, reform the tax code, and reduce 

the tax burden on middle-class families) 

In the pending resolution, insert the following 
section at the appropriate place: 

SEC. . SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING BUDGET 
ACT REFORMS. 

It is the sense of the Congress that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that The 
Budget Control Act of 1974 and the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 should be amended to facilitate the 
use of future unified budget surpluses to 
strengthen and reform Social Security, reform 
the tax code, and reduce the tax burden 
on middle-class families, including: 

(1) Eliminating Paygo rules with regard to 
revenue reductions while the unified budget 
is in surplus; and 
(2) Striking points of order against reducing 
the Social Security payroll tax. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2250 
(Purpose: To express the Sense of the Senate 
regarding long-term care needs) 
On page 43, strike line 4 through line 17 and 
insert the following: 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) Our Nation is not financially prepared 
to meet the long-term care needs of its rapidly 
aging population and that long-term 
care needs threaten the financial security of 
American families; and 
(2) Many people are unaware that most 
long-term care costs are not covered by 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2935 

Medicare and that Medicaid covers long-
term care only after the person’s assets have 
been exhausted. 

(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that— 
(1) this concurrent resolution on the budget 
assumes that the National Bipartisan 
Commission on the Future of Medicare 
should, as part of its deliberations, describe 
long-term care needs and make all appropriate 
recommendations including private 
sector options that reflect the need for a 
continuum of care that spans from acute to 
long-term care. This is not a specific recommendation 
that any new program be 
added to Medicare; 
(2) the Federal Government should take all 
appropriate steps to inform the public about 
the financial risks by long-term care costs 
and about the need for families to plan for 
their long-term care needs; 
(3) the Federal Government should take all 
appropriate steps to inform the public that 
Medicare does not cover most long-term care 
costs and that Medicaid covers long-term 
care costs only when the beneficiary has exhausted 
his or her assets; 
(4) the appropriate committees of the Senate, 
together with the Department of Health 
and Human Services and other appropriate 
Executive Branch agencies, should develop 
specific ideas for encouraging Americans to 
plan for their own long-term care needs; and 
(5) the upcoming National Summit on Retirement 
Income Savings should ensure that 
planning for long-term care is an integral 
part of any discussion of retirement security. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2251 
Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

that the Congress should begin to phase 
out the marriage penalty this year 
At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
ELIMINATION OF THE MARRIAGE 
PENALTY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that: 
(1) Marriage is the foundation of the American 
society and the key institution preserving 
our values; 
(2) The tax code should not penalize those 
who choose to marry; 
(3) However, the Congressional Budget Office 
found that 42 percent of married couples 
face a marriage penalty under the current 
tax system; 
(4) The Congressional Budget Office found 
that the average penalty amounts to $1380 a 
year; 
(5) This penalty is one of the factors behind 
the decline of marriage. 
(6) In 1970, just 0.5 percent of the couples in 
the United States were unmarried. By 1996, 
this percentage had risen to 7.2 percent. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the provisions in this 
budget resolution assume that the Congress 
shall begin to phase out the marriage penalty 
this year. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2252 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
regarding the display of the Ten Command


ments by a judge on the circuit court of 
the State of Alabama) 
At the appropriate place, insert the fol


lowing new section: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING DISPLAY 
OF TEN COMMANDMENTS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The senate finds that— 
(1) the Ten Commandments have had a significant 
impact on the development of the 
fundamental legal principles of Western Civilization; 
and 
(2) the Ten Commandments set forth a 
code of moral conduct, observance of which 
is acknowledged to promote respect for our 
system of laws and the good of society. 

(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution on the budget assume 
that— 
(1) the Ten Commandments are a declaration 
of fundamental principles that are the 
cornerstones of a fair and just society; and 
(2) the public display, including display in 
the Supreme Court, the Capitol building, the 
White House, and other government offices 
and courthouses across the nation, of the 
Ten Commandments should be permitted. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2253 
(Purpose: Setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government 
for fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 

2003 and revising the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year—) 
In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 

the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING OUTLAY 
ESTIMATES OF THE DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE BUDGET. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 created 
a new era for federal spending and forced the 
Department of Defense to plan on limited 
spending over the five year period from fiscal 
year 1998 through 2002. 
(2) The agreements forged under the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997 specifically defined 
the available amounts of budget authority 
and outlays, requiring the Department of Defense 
to properly plan its future activities in 
the new, constrained budget environment. 
(3) The Department of Defense worked with 
the Office of Management and Budget to develop 
a fiscal year 1999 budget which complies 
with the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. 
(4) Based on Department of Defense program 
plans and policy changes, the Office of 
Management and Budget and the Department 
of Defense made detailed estimates of 
fiscal year 1999 Department of Defense outlay 
rates to ensure that the budget submitted 
would comply with the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997. 
(5) The Congressional Budget Office outlay 
estimate of the fiscal year 1999 Department 
of Defense budget request exceeds both the 
outlay limit imposed by the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 and the Office of Management 
and Budget’s outlay estimate, a disagreement 
which would force a total restructuring 
of the Department of Defense’s fiscal year 
1999 budget. 
(6) The restructuring imposed on the Department 
of Defense would have a devastating 
impact on readiness, troop morale, 
military quality of life, and ongoing procurement 
and development programs. 
(7) The restructuring of the budget would 
be driven solely by differing statistical estimates 
made by capable parties. 
(8) In a letter dated March 31, 1998, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget identified multiple differences between 
the Office of Management and Budget’s 
estimated outlay rates and the Congressional 
Budget Office’s estimated outlay 
rates. 
(9) New information on Department of Defense 
policy changes and program execution 
plans now permit the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office 
to reevaluate their initial projections of 
fiscal year 1999 outlay rates. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that not later than April 22, 
1998, the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, the Secretary of Defense, 
and the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office shall complete discussions and develop 
a common estimate of the projected fiscal 
year 1999 outlay rates for Department of Defense 
accounts. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2254 
(Purpose: To modify the use of the tobacco 
reserve fund) 
On page 28, strike lines 1 through 17, and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 202. TOBACCO RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be increased 
and allocations may be increased for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation for— 
(1) tobacco-related programs and activities, 
including extending the solvency of the 
Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund; 
and 
(2) not less than $2,000,000,000 for biomedical 
research in fiscal year 1999 and other 
public health research. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES.—Upon the consideration 
of legislation pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file with 
the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and increased aggregates 
to carry out this section. These aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
used to reimburse the Medicare Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund shall not be taken into 
account. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2255 
(Purpose: To modify the tobacco reserve fund 
to allow up to $10.5 billion to be spent on 

post-service smoking related Veterans 

compensation benefits) 

On page 28, line 17, after the material that 
appears on line 17, insert the following: 

‘‘(d) VETERANS.— 

‘‘(1) Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this section, upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to section (a), the Chairman 
of the Budget Committee may increase 
the appropriate budget authority and outlay 
aggregates and allocations by the amount 
such legislation increases spending for post-
service smoking related Veterans compensation 
benefits. 

‘‘(2) The adjustments made pursuant to 
this subsection shall not exceed $500,000,000 
for fiscal year 1999 and $10,500,000,000 for fiscal 
years 1999 through 2003. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2256 
On page 28, line 17, after the material that 
appears on line 17, insert the following: 

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this section, $500,000,000 in receipts from tobacco 
legislation shall be reserved for purposes 
of section 204(a) in function 920, Allowances, 
as additional new budget authority 
for fiscal year 1999 and additional outlays for 
fiscal year 1999; and $10,500,000,000 in receipts 
from tobacco legislation shall be reserved for 
purposes of section 204(a) in function 920, Allowances, 
as additional new budget authority 
for fiscal years 1999–2003, and additional 
outlays for fiscal years 1999–2003. 
On page 31, line 24, strike subsection (6) in 
its entirety. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2257 
(Purpose: Prohibiting precatory language on 
budget resolutions) 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 



S2936 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

‘‘SEC. . PROHIBITION ON PRECATORY AMENDMENTS. 


In setting forth the budget authority and 
outlay amounts in this resolution, the Senate 
assumes that the Senate of the United 
States instructs the Senate Parliamentarian 
to interpret Section 305(b)(2) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as amended by inserting 
after the second sentence the following: 
‘‘For purposes of the preceding sentence 
an amendment is not germane if it 
states precatory language.’’; and that precatory 
includes, in the context of Senate consideration 
of any budget resolution, amendments 
which reference the budget resolution’s 
assumptions regarding budgetary levels; 
federal revenues; Federal Insurance Contributions 
Act revenues for hospital insurance; 
budget authority; budget outlays; deficits; 
public debt; social security revenues, 
and outlays; loan obligations; loan guarantees; 
allowances; undistributed, and distributed, 
offsetting receipts; reconciliation; reserve 
funds; allocations; revenue, spending, 
and revised aggregates; offsets; appropriations; 
mandatory spending; entitlements; 
and any other term or definition employed, 
under the Budget Act, in a budget resolution. 


AMENDMENT NO. 2258 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding funding for the Airport Improve


ment Program) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 
SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 

FUNDING FOR THE AIRPORT IM


PROVEMENT PROGRAM. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the congressional 
budget for the United States Government 
as provided for in this resolution 
should assure that— 

(1) the contract authority level for the Airport 
Improvement Program (provided for in 
part B of subtitle VII of title 49, United 
States Code) not be reduced below the current 
level of $2,347,000,000; and 
(2) the critical infrastructure development, 
maintenance, and repair of airports not be 
jeopardized. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2259 

(Purpose: Expressing the sense of the Con


gress that the award of attorneys’ fees, 

costs, and sanctions of $285,864.78 ordered 

by United States District Judge Royce C. 

Lamberth on December 18, 1997, should not 

be paid with taxpayer funds) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC.ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON PAYMENT OF 
COSTS OF LITIGATION. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds that— 
(1) the President’s Task Force on National 
Health Care Reform, convened by President 
Clinton in 1993, was charged with calling together 
officials of the Federal Government 
and others to debate critical health issues of 
concern to the American public; 
(2) the Task Force convened behind closed 
doors and inappropriately included individuals 
who were not employees of the Federal 
Government; 
(3) United States District Judge Royce C. 
Lamberth ruled in Association of American 
Physicians and Surgeons, Inc., et al. versus 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, et al., that representatives 
of the administration engaged 
in ‘‘dishonest’’ and ‘‘reprehensible’’ conduct 
in characterizing the membership of the 
Task Force; 
(4) Judge Royce C. Lamberth on the basis 
of such conduct ruled against the defendants 
and ordered them to pay $285,864.78 in attorneys’ 
fees, costs, and sanctions for the plaintiffs; 
and 
(5) American taxpayers should not be held 
responsible for the inappropriate and dishonest 
conduct of Federal Government officials 
and lawyers involved with the Task 
Force. 
(b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.—It is the sense 
of the Congress that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution on the budget assume 
that the award of $285,864.78 in attorneys’ 
fees, costs, and sanctions that Judge 
Royce C. Lamberth ordered the defendants 
to pay in Association of American Physicians 
and Surgeons, Inc., et al. versus Hillary 
Rodham Clinton, et al., should not be 
paid with taxpayer funds. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2260 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding limitations on attorneys’ fees 
under any global tobacco settlement) 
At the end of title III add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
LIMITATIONS ON ATTORNEYS’ FEES 
UNDER ANY NATIONAL TOBACCO 
SETTLEMENT. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
in this resolution assume that legislation 
providing for a national tobacco settlement 
should provide the following: 

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State that receives funds under such 
legislation may not utilize those funds to 
pay attorneys’ fees, on behalf of attorneys 
for the State in connection with an action 
maintained by a State against one or more 
tobacco companies to recover tobacco-related 
medicaid expenditures, or for other 
causes of action, in excess of the reasonable 
and customary fee for similarly skilled legal 
services for the specific locale. In no event 
should the rate exceed $500 per hour. 
(2) The limitation described in paragraph 
(1) shall not apply to any amounts provided 
for the attorneys’ reasonable and customary 
expenses. 
(3) No award of attorneys’ fees shall be 
made under any national tobacco settlement 
until the attorneys involved have— 
(A) provided State officials with a detailed 
time accounting with respect to the work 
performed in relation to any legal action 
which is the subject of the settlement or 
with regard to the settlement itself; and 
(B) made public disclosure of the time accounting 
under subparagraph (A) and any fee 
agreements entered into, or fee arrangements 
made, with respect to any legal action 
that is the subject of the settlement. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2261 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on the eligibility of individuals suffering 

from post-service smoking-related illnesses 
for VA compensation) 
At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON VA COMPENSATION 
AND POST-SERVICE 
SMOKING-RELATED ILLNESSES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the President has twice included in his 
budgets not permitting the program expansion 
that the Veterans Administration (referred 
to as the ‘‘VA’’) is proposing to allow 
post-service smoking-related illness to be eligible 
for VA compensation; 
(2) Congress has never acted on this program 
expansion; 
(3) the Congressional Budget Office and the 
Office of Management and Budget have concluded 
that this change in VA policy would 
result in at least $10,000,000,000 in additional 
costs to the VA; 
(4) these increased number of claims and 
the resulting costs may present undue delay 
and hardship on veterans seeking claim review; 
and 
(5) the programs expansion apparently runs 
counter to all existing VA policy, including 
a statement by former Secretary Brown that 
‘‘It is inappropriate to compensate for death 
or disability resulting from veterans’ personal 
choice to engage in conduct damaging 
to their health.’’. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the function totals and 
assumptions underlying this resolution assume 
the following: 
(1) The support of the President’s proposal 
to not allow post-service smoking related illnesses 
to be eligible for VA compensation 
until the study annd report required by paragraph 
(2) are completed. 
(2) The Veterans Administration and the 
Office of Management and Budget are jointly 
required to— 
(A) jointly study (referred to in this section 
as the ‘‘study’’) the VA General Counsel’s 
determination (O.G.C. 2–93) and the resulting 
actions to change the compensation 
rules to include disability and death benefits 
for conditions related to the use of tobacco 
products during service; and 
(B) deliver an opinion as to whether illnesses 
resulting from post-service smoking 
should be considered as a compensable disability. 
(3) The study should include— 
(A) the estimated numbers of those filing 
such claims, the cost resulting from such 
benefits, the time necessary to review such 
claims, and how such a number of claims will 
affect the VA’s ability to review its current 
claim load; 
(B) an examination of how the proposed 
change corresponds to prior VA policy relating 
to post-service actions taken by an individual; 
and 
(C) what Federal benefits, both VA and 
non-VA, former service members having 
smoking-related illnesses are eligible to receive. 
(4) The study shall be completed no later 
than July 1, 1999. 
(5) The Veterans Administration shall report 
its finding to the Majority and Minority 
Leaders of the Senate and the chairmen and 
ranking minority members of the Senate 
Budget and Veterans’ Affairs Committees. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2262 

(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
on the procurement of Blackhawk utility 
helicopters for Colombia to reduce illicit 
drug trafficking) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON COLOMBIAN 
DRUG WAR HELICOPTERS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) Colombia is the leading illicit drug producing 
country in the Western Hemisphere; 
(2) 80 percent of the world’s cocaine originates 
in Colombia; 
(3) based on the most recent data of the 
Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), 
more than 60 percent of the heroin seized in 
the United States originates in Colombia; 
(4) in the last 10 years more than 4,000 officers 
of the Colombian National Police have 
died fighting the scourge of drugs; 
(5) in one recent year alone, according to 
data of the United States Government, the 
United States had 141,000 new heroin users 
and the United States faces historic levels of 
heroin use among teenagers between the 
ages of 12 and 17; 
(6) once Colombian heroin is in the stream 
of commerce it is nearly impossible to interdict 
because it is concealed and trafficked in 
very small quantities; 
(7) the best and most cost efficient method 
of preventing Colombian heroin from entering 
the United States is to destroy the 
opium poppies in the high Andes mountains 
where Colombian heroin is produced; 
(8) the elite anti-narcotics unit of the Colombian 
National Police has the responsibility 
to eradicate both coca and opium in 
Colombia, including the reduction and elimination 
of cocaine and heroin production, and 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2937 

they have done a remarkably effective job 
with the limited and outdated equipment at 
their disposal; 

(9) more than 40 percent of the anti-narcotics 
operations of the Colombian National 
Police involve hostile ground fire from 
narco-terrorists and 90 percent of such operations 
involve the use of helicopters; 
(10) the need for better high performance 
helicopters by the Colombian National Police, 
especially for use in the high Andes 
mountains, is essential for more effective 
eradication of opium in Colombia; 
(11) on December 23, 1997, one of the antiquated 
Vietnam-era UH–1H Huey helicopters 
used by the Colombian National Police in an 
opium eradication mission crashed in the 
high Andes mountains due to high winds and 
because it was flying above the safety level 
recommended by the original manufacturer; 
(12) in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations 
Act, 1998 (Public Law 105–118), amounts 
were appropriated for the procurement by 
the United States for the Colombian National 
Police of three UH–60L Blackhawk 
utility helicopters that can operate safely 
and more effectively at the high altitudes of 
the Andes mountains where Colombian 
opium grows at altitudes as high as 12,000 
feet; 
(13) the Blackhawk helicopter is a high 
performance utility helicopter, with greater 
lift capacity, that can perform at the high 
altitudes of the Andes mountains, as well as 
survive crashes and sustain ground fire, 
much better than any other utility helicopter 
now available to the Colombian National 
Police in the war on drugs; 
(14) because the Vietnam-era Huey helicopters 
that the United States has provided 
the Colombian National Police are outdated 
and have been developing numerous stress 
cracks, a sufficient number should be upgraded 
to Huey II’s and the remainder should 
be phased-out as soon as possible; 
(15) these Huey helicopters are much older 
than most of the pilots who fly them, do not 
have the range due to limited fuel capacity 
to reach many of the expanding locations of 
the coca fields or cocaine labs in southern 
Colombia, nor do they have the lift capacity 
to carry enough armed officers to reach and 
secure the opium fields in the high Andes 
mountains prior to eradication; 
(16) the elite anti-narcotics unit of the Colombian 
National Police has a stellar record 
in respecting for human rights and has received 
the commendation of a leading international 
human rights group in their operations 
to reduce and eradicate illicit drugs in 
Colombia; 
(17) the narco-terrorists of Colombia have 
announced that they will now target United 
States citizens, particularly those United 
States citizens working with their Colombian 
counterparts in the fight against illicit 
drugs in Colombia; 
(18) a leading commander of the Revolutionary 
Armed Forces of Colombia (‘‘FARC’’) 
announced recently that the objective of 
these narco-terrorists, in light of recent successes, 
will be ‘‘to defeat the Americans’’; 
(19) United States Government personnel 
in Colombia who fly in these helicopters accompanying 
the Colombian National Police 
on missions are now at even greater risk 
from these narco-terrorists and their drug 
trafficking allies; 
(20) in the last six months four anti-narcotics 
helicopters of the Colombian National 
Police have been downed in operations; 
(21) Congress intends to provide the necessary 
support and assistance to wage an effective 
war on illicit drugs in Colombia and 
provide the equipment and assistance needed 
to protect all of the men and women of the 
Colombian National Police as well as those 
Americans who work side by side with the 
Colombian National Police in this common 
struggle against illicit drugs; 

(22) the new Government of Bolivia has 
made a commitment to eradicate coca and 
cocaine production in that country within 5 
years; 
(23) the United States should support any 
country that is interested in removing the 
scourge of drugs from its citizens; and 
(24) Bolivia has succeeded, in large measure 
due to United States assistance, in reducing 
acreage used to produce coca, which 
is the basis for cocaine production. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals underlying 
this resolution assume that— 
(1) the President should, with funds made 
available under Public Law 105–118, expeditiously 
procure and provide to the Colombian 
National Police three UH–60L 
Blackhawk utility helicopters solely for the 
purpose of assisting the Colombian National 
Police to perform their responsibilities to reduce 
and eliminate the production of illicit 
drugs in Colombia and the trafficking of 
such illicit drugs, including the trafficking 
of drugs such as heroin and cocaine to the 
United States; 
(2) if the President determines that the 
procurement and transfer to the Colombian 
National Police of three UH–60L Blackhawk 
utility helicopters is not an adequate number 
of such helicopters to maintain operational 
feasibility and effectiveness of the 
Colombian National Police, then the President 
should promptly inform Congress as to 
the appropriate number of additional UH–60L 
Blackhawk utility helicopters for the Colombian 
National Police so that amounts can be 
authorized for the procurement and transfer 
of such additional helicopters; and 
(3) assistance for Bolivia should be maintained 
at least at the level assumed in the 
fiscal year 1998 budget submission of the 
President and the Administration should act 
accordingly. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2263 
(Purpose: expressing the Sense of the Senate 

regarding reauthorization of the Farmland 
Protection Program) 
At the appropriate place, insert the fol


lowing new section: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT THE 105TH 
CONGRESS, 2ND SESSION SHOULD 
REAUTHORIZE FUNDS FOR THE 
FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings— 
(1) Eighteen states and dozens of localities 
have spent nearly $1 billion to protect over 
600,000 acres of important farmland; 
(2) The Farmland Protection Program has 
provided cost-sharing for eighteen states and 
dozens of localities to protect over 82,000 
acres on 230 farms since 1996; 
(3) The Farmland Protection Program has 
generated new interest in saving farmland in 
communities around the country; 
(4) The Farmland Protection Program represents 
an innovative and voluntary partnership, 
rewards local ingenuity, and supports 
local priorities; 
(5) current funds authorized for the Farmland 
Protection Program will be exhausted 
in the next six months; 
(6) The United States is losing two acres of 
our best farmland to development every 
minute of every day; 
(7) These lands produce three quarters of 
the fruits and vegetables and over one half of 
the dairy in the United States; 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals contained 
in this resolution assume that the 
105th Congress, 2nd Session will reauthorize 
funds for the Farmland Protection Program. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2264 

(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
concerning health care quality for participants 
in the Federal Employees Health 
Benefits Program) 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON HEALTH CARE 
QUALITY. 

(A) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Out of a total 549 plans under the 
FEHBP, which includes fee-for-service, point 
of service, and HMOs, only 186 were fully accredited; 
(2) Out of a total 549 plans under the 
FEHBP, which includes fee-for-service, point 
of service, and HMOs, 7 were denied accreditation. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that the assumptions underlying 
this resolution provide for the enactment 
of legislation requiring all health plans 
participating in the Federal Employees 
Health Benefits Program to be accredited by 
a nationally recognized accreditation organization 
representative of a spectrum of health 
care interests including purchasers, consumers, 
providers and health plans. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2265 
At the appropriate place, insert: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING MARKET 
ACCESS PROGRAM. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 
(1) The Market Access Program (MAP) continues 
to be a vital and important part of 
U.S. trade policy aimed at maintaining and 
expanding U.S. agricultural exports, countering 
subsidized foreign competition, 
strengthening farm income and protecting 
American jobs. Further, the Senate finds 
that: 
(A) The Market Access Program is specifically 
targeted towards small business, farmer 
cooperatives and trade associations. 
(B) The Market Access Program is administered 
on a cost-share basis. Participants, 
including farmers and ranchers, are required 
to contribute up to 50 percent or more toward 
the cost of the program. 
(2) The Market Access Program has been a 
tremendous success by any measure. Since 
the program was established, U.S. agricultural 
exports have doubled. In FY 1997, U.S. 
agricultural exports amounted to $57.3 billion, 
resulting in a positive agricultural 
trade surplus of approximately $22 billion, 
and contributing billions of dollars more in 
increased economic activity and additional 
tax revenues. 
(3) The Market Access Program has also 
helped maintain and create needed jobs 
throughout the nation’s economy. More than 
one million Americans now have jobs that 
depend on U.S. agricultural exports. Further, 
every billion dollars in additional U.S. agricultural 
exports helps create as many as 
17,000 or more new jobs. 
(4) U.S. agricultural, including farm income 
and related jobs, is more dependent 
than ever on maintaining and expanding U.S. 
agricultural exports as federal farm programs 
are gradually reduced under the FAIR 
Act of 1996. 
(5) In addition to the Asian economic situation 
and exchange rate fluctuations, U.S. 
agricultural exports continue to be adversely 
impacted by continued subsidized foreign 
competition, artificial trade barriers and 
other unfair foreign trade practices. 
(6) The European Union (EU) and other foreign 
competitors continue to heavily outspend 
the U.S. by more than 10 to 1 with regard 
to export subsidies. 
(A) In 1997, the EU budgeted $7.2 billion for 
export subsidies aimed at capturing a larger 

S2938 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

share of the world market at the expense of 

U.S. agriculture. 
(B) EU and other foreign competitors also 
spent nearly $500 million on market promotion 
activities. The EU, spends more on 
wine promotion than the U.S. currently 
spends on all commodities and related agricultural 
products. 
(C) The EU has announced a major new initiative 
aimed at increasing their exports to 
Japan-historically, the largest single market 
for U.S. agriculture exports. 
(7) U.S. agriculture is the most competitive 
industry in the world, but it can not and 
should not be expected to compete alone 
against the treasuries of foreign governments. 
(8) Reducing or eliminating funding for the 
Market Access Program would adversely affect 
U.S. agriculture’s ability to remain 
competitive in today’s global marketplace. A 
reduction in U.S. agricultural exports would 
translate into lower farm income, a worsening 
trade deficit, slower economic growth, 
fewer export-related jobs, and a declining tax 
base. 
(9) U.S. success in upcoming trade negotiations 
on agriculture scheduled to begin in 
1999 depends on maintaining an aggressive 
trade strategy and related policies and programs. 
Reducing or eliminating the Market 
Access Program would represent a form of 
unilateral disarmament and weaken the U.S. 
negotiating position. 
(10) The Market Access Program is one of 
the few programs specifically allowed under 
the current Uruguay Round Agreement. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that funding for the Market 
Access Program (MAP) should be fully maintained 
as authorized and aggressively utilized 
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
to encourage U.S. agricultural exports, 
strengthen farm income, counter subsidized 
foreign competition, and protect American 
jobs. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2266 
Purpose: To extend the Violent Crime 
Reduction Trust Fund) 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . EXTENSION OF VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION 
TRUST FUND. 

‘‘(a) DISCRETIONARY LIMITS.—In the Senate, 
in this section and for the purposes of allocations 
made for the discretionary category 
pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, the term ‘discretionary 
spending limit’ means— 

‘‘(1) with respect to fiscal year 1999— 

‘‘(A) for the defense category: 
$271,570,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$266,635,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(B) for the nondefense category: 
$255,450,000,000 in new budget authority and 
289,547,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(C) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$5,800,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $4,953,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(2) with respect to fiscal year 2000— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$532,693,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$558,711,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,500,000,000 in budget authority and 
$5,554,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(3) with respect to fiscal year 2001— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$537,632,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$558,415,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,400,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $5,981,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(4) with respect to fiscal year 2002— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$546,574,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$556,269,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,500,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $4,530,000,000 in outlays; 
‘‘as adjusted in strict conformance with subsection 
(b) of section 251 of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985, and section 314 of the Congressional 
Budget Act. 

‘‘(b) POINT OF ORDER IN THE SENATE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), it shall not be in order in the 
Senate to consider— 

‘‘(A) a revision of this resolution or any 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
years 1999, 2000, 2001, or 2002 (or amendment, 
motion, or conference report on such a 
resolution) that provides discretionary 
spending in excess of the discretionary 
spending limit or limits for such fiscal year; 
or 

‘‘(B) any bill or resolution (or amendment, 
motion, or conference report on such bill or 
resolution) for fiscal year 1999, 2000, 2001, or 
2002 that would cause any of the limits in 
this section (or suballocations of the discretionary 
limits made pursuant to section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974) to be exceeded. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not 
apply if a declaration of war by the Congress 
is in effect or if a joint resolution pursuant 
to section 258 of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 has 
been enacted. 

‘‘(c) WAIVER.—This section may be waived 
or suspended in the Senate only by the affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members, 
duly chosen and sworn. 

‘‘(d) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from 
the decisions of the Chair relating to any 
provision of this section shall be limited to 1 
hour, to be equally divided between and controlled 
by, the appellant and the manager of 
the concurrent resolution, bill, or joint resolution, 
as the case may be. An affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members of the 
Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required 
in the Senate to sustain an appeal of 
the ruling of the Chair on a point of order 
raised under this section. 

‘‘(e) DETERMINATION OF BUDGET LEVELS.— 
For purposes of this section, the levels of 
new budget authority, outlays, new entitlement 
authority, revenues, and deficits for a 
fiscal year shall be determined on the basis 
of estimates made by the Committee on the 
Budget of the Senate.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2267 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding the Department of Justice’s pur


suit of Medicare fraud and abuse) 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING EF


FORTS TO COMBAT MEDICARE 

FRAUD AND ABUSE. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that while 
fighting Medicare fraud and abuse is critical, 
so is the avoidance of criminalizing those 
parties whose errors were made inadvertently. 
The Senate applauds heightened attention 
to fraud and abuse issues in the effort 
to promote Medicare solvency. In evaluating 
the enforcement activities of the Department 
of Justice regarding fraud and 
abuse, the Senate should ensure that standards 
of proof as prescribed by law are present 
in these activities. It is incumbent upon the 
Senate to ensure that parties are not subject 
to criminal penalties absent a finding of specific 
intent to defraud. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2268 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING NATIONAL 
RESPONSE TO THE THREAT 
OF ILLEGAL DRUGS. 

SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense of 
the Senate that— 

1) the provisions of this resolution assume 
that Congress will significantly increase 
funding for drug interdiction operations by 
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 
Customs Service, Coast Guard, Department 
of Defense and other responsible agencies; 
2) the provisions of this resolution assume 
that Congress will continue to support and 
increase funding for anti-drug education and 
prevention efforts aimed at informing every 
American child in the middle school and 
high school age brackets about the dangers 
of drugs and at empowering them to reject 
illegal drug use; 
3) increasing grassroots parental involvement 
should be a key component of our national 
drug education and prevention efforts; 
4) Congress should promote efforts to establish 
annual measures of performance for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the National 
Drug Control Strategy. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2269 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

on Wasteful Spending in Defense Department 
Acquisition Practices) 
At the appropriate place, insert the fol


lowing: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
WASTEFUL SPENDING IN DEFENSE 
DEPARTMENT ACQUISITION PRACTICES. 


a) FINDINGS.—the Senate finds that— 
1) According to the Defense Department’s 
Inspector General, despite efforts to streamline 
government purchases, the military, in 
some cases, paid more than ‘‘fair value’’ for 
many items; 
2) efficient purchasing policies, in the context 
of decreasing defense budgets, are more 
important than ever to ensure Defense Department 
spending contributes to military 
readiness. 
b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—it is the sense of 
the Senate that the provisions of this resolution 
assume that the Defense Department 
should continue efforts to eliminate wasteful 
spending such that defense spending allocated 
in the FY 99 budget, and all subsequent 
budgets, is spent in the manner most efficient 
to maintain and promote military 
readiness for U.S. armed forces around the 
globe. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2270 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
UNITED STATES RESPONSE TO THE 
CHANGING NATURE OF TERRORISM 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) The threat of terrorism to American 
citizens and interests remains high, with 
Americans suffering one-third of the total 
terrorist attacks in the world in 1997; 
(2) The terrorist threat is changing—while 
past acts were generally limited to the use of 
conventional explosives and weapons, terrorists 
today are exploiting technological advances 
and increasingly lethal tools and 
strategies to pursue their agenda; 
(3) On a worldwide basis, terrorists are focusing 
on afflicting mass casualties on civilian 
targets through the acquisition of chemical, 
biological and nuclear weapons of mass 
destruction; 
(4) Chemical and biological weapons in the 
hands of terrorists or rogue nations constitute 
a threat to the United States; 
(5) The multi-faceted nature of the terrorist 
threat encompasses not only foreign 
terrorists targeting American citizens and 
interests abroad, but foreign terrorists operating 
within the United States itself, as well 
as domestic terrorists; 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2939 

(6) Terrorist groups are becoming increasingly 
multinational, more associated with 
criminal activity, and less responsive to external 
influences; 
(7) Terrorists exploit America’s free and 
open society to illegally enter the country, 
raise funds, recruit new members, spread 
propaganda, and plan future activities; 
(8) Terrorists are also making use of computer 
technology to communicate, solicit 
money and support, and store information 
essential to their operations; 
(9) State sponsors to terrorism and other 
foreign countries are known to be developing 
computer intrusion and manipulation capabilities 
which could pose a treat to essential 
public and private information systems in 
the United States; 
(10) The infrastructures deemed critical to 
the United States are the telecommunications 
networks, the electric power grid, oil 
and gas distribution, water distribution facilities, 
transportation systems, financial 
networks, emergency services, and the continuity 
of government services, the disruption 
of which could result in significant 
losses to the United States economic well-
being, public welfare, or national security; 
(11) A national strategy of infrastructure 
protection, as required by the Defense Appropriations 
Act of 1996, and subsequent 
amendments, has yet to be issued; and 
(12) We as a nation remain fundamentally 
unprepared to respond in a coordinated and 
effective manner to these growing terrorist 
threats. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE—It is the sense of 
the Senate that the provisions of this resolution 
assume that— 
(1) The federal government must take the 
lead in establishing effective coordination 
between intelligence-gathering and law enforcement 
agencies, among federal, state, 
and local levels of government, and with the 
private sector, for the purpose of assessing, 
warning, and protecting against terrorist attacks; 
(2) Technical preparedness for the detection 
and analysis of chemical and biological 
weapons, and for swift and adequate emergency 
response to their use by terrorists, 
must be a near-term continuing priority; 
(3) The United States must seek full international 
cooperation in securing the capture 
and conviction of terrorists who attack or 
pose a threat to American citizens and interests; 
(4) The United States should fully enforce 
its laws intended to deny foreign terrorist 
organizations the ability to raise money in 
the United States, prevent the evasion of our 
immigration laws and furthering of criminal 
activities, and curtail the use of our country 
as a base of operations; and 
(5) A national strategy, adequate to addressing 
the complexity of protecting our 
critical infrastructures, and as required by 
the Defense Appropriations Act of 1996 and 
subsequent amendments, must be completed 
and implemented immediately. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2271 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING A 
MULTINATIONAL ALLIANCE 
AGAINST DERUG TRAFFICKING. 

FINDINGS.—the Senate finds that— 

(1) the traffic in illegal drugs greatly 
threatens democracy, security and stability 
in the Western Hemisphere due to the violence 
and corruption associated with drug 
trafficking organizations; 
(2) drug trafficking organizations operate 
without respect for borders or national sovereignty; 
(3) the production, transport, sale, and use 
of illicit drugs endangers the people and legitimate 
institutions of all countries in the 
hemisphere; 

(4) no single country can successfully confront 
and defeat this common enemy; 
(5) full bilateral cooperation with the 
United States to reduce the flow of drugs is 
in the national interests of our neighbors in 
the hemisphere; 
(6) in addition, victory in the hemispheric 
battle against drug traffickers requires expanded 
multilateral cooperation among the 
nations of the region. 
SENSE OF THE SENATE—it is the sense of 
Senate that the provisions of this resolution 
assume that in addition to existing bilateral 
cooperative efforts, the Administration 
should promote at the Summit of the Americas 
and in other fora the concept of a multinational 
hemispheric ‘‘war alliance’’ bringing 
together the United States and key illicit 
drug producing and transiting countries 
in the Western Hemisphere for the purpose of 
implementing a coordinated plan of action 
against illegal drug trafficking and promoting 
full cooperation against this common 
menace. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2272 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 
that, at a minimum, appropriations for the 
National Institutes of Health should match 

the recommendations provided in the budget) 
At the appropriate place insert the fol


lowing: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) heart disease was the leading cause of 
death for both men and women in every year 
from 1970 to 1993; 
(2) mortality rates for individuals suffering 
from prostate cancer, skin cancer, and kidney 
cancer continue to rise; 
(3) the mortality rate for African American 
women suffering from diabetes is 134 percent 
higher than the mortality rate of Caucasian 
women suffering from diabetes; 
(4) asthma rates for children increased 58 
percent from 1982 to 1992; 
(5) nearly half of all American women between 
the ages of 65 and 75 reported having 
arthritis; 
(6) AIDS is the leading cause of death for 
Americans between the ages of 24 and 44; 
(7) the Institute of Medicine has described 
United States clinical research to be ‘‘in a 
state of crisis’’ and the National Academy of 
Sciences concluded in 1994 that ‘‘the present 
cohort of clinical investigators is not adequate’’; 
(8) biomedical research has been shown to 
be effective in saving lives and reducing 
health care expenditures; 
(9) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has contributed significantly 
to the first overall reduction in cancer 
death rates since recordkeeping was instituted; 
(10) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of health has resulted in the identification 
of genetic mutations for 
osteoporosis; Lou Gehrig’s Disease, cystic fibrosis, 
and Huntington’s Disease; breast, 
skin and prostate cancer; and a variety of 
other illnesses; 
(11) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has been key to the development 
of Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI) and Positron Emission Tomography 
(PET) scanning technologies; 
(12) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has developed effective 
treatments for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia 
(ALL). Today, 80 percent of children 
diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia 
are alive and free of the disease after 
5 years; and 
(13) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health contributed to the development 
of a new, cost-saving cure for peptic 
ulcers. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the function totals in this 
budget resolution assume that— 
(1) appropriations for the National Institutes 
of health should be increased by 100 
percent over the next 5 fiscal years; 
(2) appropriations for the National Institutes 
of Health should be increased by 
$2,000,000,000 in year 1999 over the amount appropriated 
in fiscal year 1998; 
(3) the budget resolution takes a major 
step toward meeting this goal; and 
(4) at a minimum, appropriations for the 
National Institutes of Health should match 
the recommendations provided in the budget 
resolution. 
Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
would like to explore with the Senate 
how we might proceed. 

Mr. President, what I have discussed 
with the leader and with the ranking 
member is that we try to have three 
amendments ready to vote pursuant to 
the order at 7 o’clock. I think we can 
do that. 

First, we will attempt to have the 
amendment of Senator MOSELEY-
BRAUN. It would be on or in relation 
thereto. Then I understand Senator 
HOLLINGS has an amendment. Could he 
quickly tell us what it is? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Just requiring a 60-
vote margin relating to the Social Security 
trust fund. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Then we have a sense 
of the Senate; Senator FAIRCLOTH, or I 
in behalf of, on the marital deduction 
disparity and efforts that we want the 
Senate to make in terms of clearing 
that deficiency with reference to the 
marital deduction. The first vote will 
be 15 minutes, and 10 minutes thereafter, 
as we have already agreed to. 

Would Senator LAUTENBERG like to 
let Senator HOLLINGS proceed? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Yes. I ask unanimous 
consent that the next amendment 
that is brought up be that offered 
by the Senator from South Carolina. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I ask the Senator 
from New Mexico. As part of the 
structure that we have arranged, which 
is a half hour for those amendments 
that can be heard that are equally divided, 
and then there is a provision for 
20 minutes for any second-degree 
amendment. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2273 
(Purpose: To assure that use of the tobacco 
reserve fund is consistent with comprehen


sive tobacco legislation approved by the 

Senate) 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, before 
the clock strikes 6, I have one additional 
amendment which would not be 
in order after that. 

In behalf of Senator HATCH, I send 
this amendment to the desk. It is the 
last one. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico (Mr. DOMENICI), 
for Mr. HATCH, proposes an amendment 
numbered 2273. 


S2940 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

On page 28, strike lines 1 through 17, and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 202. TOBACCO RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be increased 
and allocations may be increased for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
for tobacco-related programs and activities 
authorized by Senate-passed comprehensive 
tobacco legislation. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES.—Upon the consideration 
of legislation pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file with 
the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and increased aggregates 
to carry out this section. These aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
used to reimburse the Medicare Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund shall not be taken into 
account. 
Mr. LAUTENBERG. I wanted to just 
explore publicly a question that arose, 
and that is we have not yet had an opportunity 
to examine these amendments 
and there may be an interest on 
either side to have a second degree. So 
we are not precluded, I assume, by 
that. I just wanted to confirm that 
with the chairman of the Budget Committee 
as to the process, assuming that 
there is no obstruction to that, and I 
know of none now, but I do have an inquiry 
that says what happens in a particular 
case if we have a second degree? 
There is no prohibition to that? 

Mr. DOMENICI. I understand when 
we entered into the unanimous consent 
request we very particularly and specifically 
did not mention the issue of 
second-degree amendments, other than 
the amount of time that would be allotted 
to debate them. That means 
when an amendment comes up or as it 
is getting prepared, Senators who are 
interested in a second degree would obviously 
have time before the amendment 
and have time during the amendment, 
which is 30 minutes, to prepare 
and send to the desk the second-degree 
amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I thank the 
chairman of the Budget Committee. I 
ask one more question, or at least seek 
to get a clarification among those who 
hear us. That is, it is my understanding 
we are going to be very strict. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. COLLINS). 
The Senator will suspend. The 
Senate will be in order. 

The Senator from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, 
I understand, with the approval 
of the leadership, which I am asking indirectly, 
that we will be very strict 
about the time on these amendments. 
The traditional 15- or 20-minutes will 
be as it is and thereafter 10 minutes. 
But I ask all of our colleagues—because 
as I did a mental count here, we probably 
have 60 or 65 amendments sitting 
there—that we ought to not have any


body saying just give me a minute 
more. We made those decisions as of 
this moment and we are going to try to 
move the agenda along as expeditiously 
as we can. 

Last, everyone should understand 
that this is done at the request of Senators 
on both sides, lots of Senators 
who say let’s get our business done, 
let’s complete our agenda and let’s be 
prepared to conclude the week, hopefully, 
by tomorrow evening. I do not 
mean to put words in the mouth of the 
Senator from New Mexico, but as I remember 
our discussion, that’s where 
we want to be. 

Mr. DOMENICI. That is correct. 

Mr. KYL addressed the Chair. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
ask consent that it be in order to file 
an amendment in behalf of Senator 
SESSIONS. It was not part of my package. 
I ask it be in order nonetheless at 
this time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2274 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding limitations on attorneys’ fees 

under any global tobacco settlement) 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
send an amendment to the desk and 
ask for its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. DOMENICI], 
for Mr. SESSIONS, proposes an amendment 
numbered 2274. 

The amendment follows: 

At the end of title III add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
LIMITATIONS ON ATTORNEYS’ FEES 
UNDER ANY NATIONAL TOBACCO 
SETTLEMENT. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
in this resolution assume that legislation 
providing for a national tobacco settlement 
should provide the following: 

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State that receives funds under such 
legislation may not utilize more than 
$5,000,000 to pay attorneys’ fees on behalf of 
attorneys for the State in connection with 
an action maintained by a State against one 
or more tobacco companies to recover to-
bacco-related medicaid expenditures, or for 
other causes of action. 
(2) The limitation described in paragraph 
(1) shall apply to attorneys’ fees provided for 
or in connection with an action of the type 
described in such paragraph under any— 
(A) court order; 
(B) settlement agreement; 
(C) Contingency fee arrangement; 
(D) arbitration procedure; 
(E) alternative dispute resolution procedure 
(including mediation); or 
(F) other arrangement providing for the 
payment of attorneys’ fees. 
(3) The limitation described in paragraph 
(1) shall not apply to any amounts provided 
for the attorneys’ reasonable and customary 
expenses. 
(4) No award of attorneys’ fees shall be 
made under any national tobacco settlement 
until the attorneys involved have— 
(A) provided to the Governor of the appropriate 
State, a detailed time accounting 
with respect to the work performed in relation 
to any legal action which is the subject 
of the settlement or with regard to the settlement 
itself; and 

(B) made public disclosure of the time accounting 
under subparagraph (A) and any fee 
agreements entered into, or fee arrangements 
made, with respect to any legal action 
that is the subject of the settlement. 
Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
ask that Senator GRASSLEY be added as 
a cosponsor on amendment No. 2213 on 
behalf of Senator BOND. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I want to follow up 
on the remarks of my distinguished 
ranking member. The leader has indicated 
to me that we are supposed to 
proceed as the floor managers see best 
tonight. We are going to try to have 
three votes at 7 p.m.. They will be expeditious 
in terms of time allotted to 
both, and then we intend to continue 
on for the evening, perhaps an hour, 
hour and a half. After that we will have 
another group of amendments, and we 
will do this until we see some daylight, 
in terms of the entire time running out 
on this bill. 

With that I yield the floor. 

Mr. HOLLINGS addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from South Carolina. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2193 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Madam President, I 
call up my amendment No. 2193 on behalf 
of Senator DASCHLE, Senator CONRAD, 
Senator FEINGOLD, Senator DORGAN 
and Senator REID of Nevada. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is pending. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Madam President, 
this goes right to the point of the requirement 
of a 60-vote supermajority 
in order to spend the Social Security 
funds or report a budget with respect 
to Social Security funds. It conforms 
to the sense of the Senate that the 
Members will find on page 37 and 38 of 
the concurrent resolution itself. We 
passed in the Budget Committee the 
sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
included in this resolution assume that 
Congress and the President should continue 
to rid our country of debt and 
work to balance the budget without 
counting Social Security trust fund 
surpluses. 

There was, of course, a unanimous 
vote in the Budget Committee. Incidentally, 
it was partly a response to 
the clarion call of the President of the 
United States, in his State of the 
Union address to the joint session of 
Congress, that we ‘‘save Social Security 
first.’’ And, incidentally, some 8 
years ago, 98 Senators voted for the 
very same thing. 

The reason for the 98–Senator vote 
back in 1990 was to comply with the 
suggestions of the Greenspan Commission 
on Social Security. The Greenspan 
Commission in 1983 suggested a very 
high payroll tax, not just to balance 
Social Security’s budget, but also to 
build up a surplus for the baby boomers 
in the next generation. For example, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2941 

the Commission’s report included projections 
to the year 2056. 

We have constantly heard on the 
floor of the Congress, in both Houses, 
‘‘Oh, the baby boomers are going to 
cause a problem, the baby boomers are 
going to cause a problem in the next 
generation.’’ Not at all, not at all, 
Madam President. The fact is, if we 
quit looting the Social Security trust 
fund, we could get along well with just 
minor adjustments to the Social Security 
program. The problem is being 
caused not by the baby boomers, but by 
the adults on the floor of the Congress 
itself—in that we have this euphemism 
called the unified budget. 

Let me tell you about that unified 
budget. The unified budget is a device 
of the financial community, of corporate 
America, of the Federal Reserve 
Board, to keep interest rates low. They 
could care less about the burden of 
having to pay the bill. They are not 
Congressmen. They are not Senators. 
They don’t have to face up to the 
present deficit of $631 billion we owe 
Social Security now, or the $1.2 trillion 
this government will owe Social Security 
by the end of the budget under 
consideration. 

We are going right up against the 
wall. We will owe this money and then 
someone will say, ‘‘Well, we can’t raise 
taxes.’’ Someone is going to say, ‘‘Well, 
we have to raise the age.’’ Then someone 
will say, ‘‘We have to limit the 
benefits.’’ These are the remarks we 
can expect to hear in this Congress at 
the turn of the century. 

The President, to his credit, grabbed 
ahold of this particular issue, which we 
have been working on for years. He 
said, ‘‘Save Social Security first.’’ We 
passed, already, one sense of the Senate 
by a vote of 100 to nothing. We 
passed the one I now propose by 20 to 
nothing in the Budget Committee. I 
would like to remark on a comment 
made in the Commerce Committee’s 
markup of the tobacco bill just a few 
moments ago, when the distinguished 
chairman turned to another Senator 
and said, ‘‘Now, wait a minute, is this 
a sense of the Senate?’’ 

And the Senator responded, ‘‘No, this 
is real. This counts.’’ 

I want, and I am sure every Senator 
here wants, the desire to save Social 
Security to count. One of the best ways 
to make sure it counts here is to require—
for the first time on the parliamentary 
treatment of issues here, in 
the reading of bills and concurrent resolutions—
at least a 60-vote super-
majority margin in order to spend Social 
Security surpluses, or list them, or 
waive the requirement they not be expended. 


To return to the Greenspan Commission 
report for a moment, I believe 
that report was very judicious in its vision 
with respect to the baby boomers. 
The report said we know we have this 
high tax and we are going to have surpluses. 
But we want to make sure these 
surpluses are not expended by some 
tricky device called a unified budget, 

or a unified deficit. Section 21 of the 
Greenspan Commission report required 
just that, that Social Security be put 
off-budget. After the Commission made 
its report, we struggled within the 
Budget Committee for years to implement 
its suggestions. It wasn’t until 
1990 that we finally were able to require, 
by a vote of 20 to 1, that trust 
funds be taken off-budget. And then, on 
the floor of the Senate, by a vote of 98 
to 2, we passed section 13301 of the statutory 
law of the Budget Act—which 
was then passed by the House and 
signed into law by President Bush on 
November 5, 1990. Section 13301, which I 
have a copy of now, prohibited Congress 
from including Social Security 
trust funds in the budget. 

I ask unanimous consent it be printed 
in the RECORD at this particular 
point. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

SUBTITLE C SOCIAL SECURITY 

SEC. 13301. OFF-BUDGET STATUS OF OASDI 
TRUST FUNDS. 

(a) EXCLUSION OF SOCIAL SECURITY FROM 
ALL BUDGETS.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the receipts and disbursements 
of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability 
Insurance Trust Fund shall not be 
counted as new budget authority, outlays, 
receipts, or deficit or surplus for purposes 
of— 
(1) the budget of the United States Government 
as submitted by the President, 
(2) the congressional budget, or 
(3) the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985. 
(b) EXCLUSION OF SOCIAL SECURITY FROM 
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET.—Section 301(a) of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘The concurrent resolution shall not include 
the outlays and revenue totals of the old age, 
survivors, and disability insurance program 
established under title II of the Social Security 
Act or the related provisions of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 in the surplus or 
deficit totals required by this subsection or 
in . . . 
Mr. HOLLINGS. As you can see, we 
passed the law. But it has been ignored. 
And we are ignoring it again, Madam 
President, because if you look on page 
67 of the committee’s report, you will 
find at the bottom line: ‘‘on budget for 
1998, minus $95.6 billion.’’ Then: ‘‘off 
budget, $103.4 billion.’’ The report then 
states a total surplus of ‘‘$7.8 billion.’’ 

That is not the actual deficit, Madam 
President—not at all. That is the so-
called unified deficit, which its adherents 
arrive at by looting trust funds. 
But if you look on page 5 of the resolution 
itself, you will see the deficit is 
listed for fiscal year 1999 as $108.2 billion. 
This is a far cry from a surplus. 
That is in response to section 13301. 
That is the actual deficit. Just go down 
one step further to the section, on that 
same page 5, labeled ‘‘Public debt.’’ 
You will find that from 1998 to 1999, in 
the present budget under consideration, 
all you need to do to compute 
the actual deficit is to subtract the increase 
in the national debt. That is the 
actual spending that occurs that we do 

not pay for. That is the actual outlay 
that is not taken care of by revenues 
themselves. You only have to do simple 
arithmetic to find that for the year 
1999, according to this present budget 
under consideration, the deficit will be 
$186.3 billion. 

Madam President, it is interesting, in 
this time of headlines that tout surpluses 
as far as the eye can see, to just 
look at the deficits for the next 5 
years—the additions to the national 
debt. You will see that they add up 
each year to a total of $905 billion. In 
other words, under the budget currently 
being considered, the government 
will spend almost $1 trillion more 
than it receives in revenue. Yet, we 
have people claiming on the floor of 
the Congress, and in newspapers and 
editorials, ‘‘Look at what a wonderful 
job we have done.’’ 

The fact is, instead of balancing the 
budget, instead of continuing to lower 
deficits as we have done 6 years in a 
row—and I give the current administration 
credit for having done so —we 
are going to turn and change course 
and, for the first time now with this 
1999 concurrent resolution for this particular 
budget for 1999, we will increase 
rather than lower the deficit. We will 
increase the deficit some $32 billion. 
We will go from $153 to $186 billion—$31 
billion, not counting decimals here. 
That is $31 billion that we are increasing 
the deficit. 

Madam Chairman, I would like to return 
to the original point: some kind of 
parliamentary restriction to bring sobriety 
to this body, to prevent politicians 
from claiming, ‘‘I voted for a 
sense of the Senate; I voted not to 
spend Social Security.’’ That was just 
not real. That was just a sense of the 
Senate. This resolution would be binding 
at least for a 60-vote majority. It 
ought to really have 100 votes, because 
that is what we voted time and time 
again when actually voted on. 

I yield the floor to my distinguished 
colleague from Wisconsin. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Wisconsin is recognized. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. How much time is 
remaining on the time of the Senator 
from South Carolina? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 4 minutes 15 seconds. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Madam President, I 
thank the Senator from South Carolina 
for yielding and, more importantly, for 
taking the lead on this amendment. 
There is no more important amendment 
in this whole budget resolution 
than the Hollings amendment. This 
goes to the heart of the matter. 

Madam President, I am pleased to 
join my good friend, the Senator from 
South Carolina (Mr. HOLLINGS), in offering 
this amendment to close a loophole 
in the rules protecting the Social 
Security Trust Fund balances. 

Let me note it gives me particular 
pleasure in cosponsoring this amendment 
with Senator HOLLINGS; both in 
this body and in the Budget Committee, 
he has been a consistent voice 
for fiscal prudence. 


S2942 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

There is a fundamental difference between 
the way many in Congress approach 
the budget, and the way I approach 
it. 

That difference is Social Security. 

Since the time Lyndon Johnson lived 
in the White House, Presidents of both 
parties and Congresses controlled by 
both parties have included the Social 
Security Trust Fund balances in their 
budget calculations. 

The result is a false picture of our 
country’s fiscal health, and, just like a 
false medical report that covers up a 
serious illness, it can lead to major 
problems in the future. 

This false budget picture has been 
used so often it has become almost a 
matter of ‘‘budget convention,’’ and it 
has so impressed itself into the vocabulary 
of the budget that we now hear the 
word ‘‘surplus’’ when there is no surplus. 


We hear people talking about a budget 
‘‘surplus’’ in Congress, in news stories, 
and in the letters we receive from 
constituents. 

But there is no surplus; there is a 
deficit that is still being hidden, and 
Social Security is the curtain used to 
hide it. 

We need look no further than the 
budget resolution itself. 

On page 5 of S. Con. Res. 86, the deficit 
levels are listed for Fiscal Years 
1998 through 2003. 

For Fiscal Year 1998, the deficit is $95 
billion. 

The deficit rises to over $120 billion 
in Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 before returning 
to levels below $100 billion, 
reaching $92 billion in Fiscal Year 2003. 

With surpluses like these, who needs 
deficits? 

Despite these continuing deficits, 
many in this body want to act as if we 
have a surplus—free money to hand out 
in the form of new spending or new tax 
cuts. 

The notion of a so-called unified 
budget, which began as a political convenience 
to mask the deficit almost 30 
years ago, has now become the budget 
reality for many. 

This must stop. 

‘‘Surplus’’ is supposed to mean something 
extra, like a bonus. 

It means, all the bills are paid and 
there is money left over. 

One dictionary defines ‘‘surplus’’ as: 
‘‘something more than or in excess of 
what is needed or required.’’ 

The so-called unified budget surplus 
is not ‘‘more than or in excess of what 
is needed or required.’’ 

Those funds are needed; they are 
needed to pay future Social Security 
benefits. 

They were raised by the Social Security 
system, specifically in anticipation 
of commitments to future Social 
Security beneficiaries. 

When Congress makes budget obligations 
today based on those Social Security 
funds—whether in the form of tax 
cuts or spending increases—we are 
committing to a path of fiscal policy 
that jeopardizes future Social Security 
benefits. 

The amendment Senator HOLLINGS 
and I are offering is designed to shore 
up protections surrounding Social Security, 
and end talk of budget surpluses 
that are not really there. 

Our amendment does so by closing a 
loophole in the supermajority protections 
we give to Social Security. 

It establishes a point of order against 
any measure that would allow Congress 
to change the off-budget status of Social 
Security, directly or indirectly, 
without a supermajority vote. 

Under most circumstances, our rules 
require a supermajority vote to change 
the budget treatment of Social Security. 


But while supermajority points of 
order usually protect the Social Security 
Trust Fund balances, in certain 
circumstances those points of order are 
subject to amendment or repeal by 
only a simple majority vote. 

While legislation to amend budget 
rules and laws generally is subject to a 
supermajority point of order, under 
Section 306 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, this point of order does 
not apply to legislation or a budget 
resolution that has been reported or 
discharged from the Senate Budget 
Committee, or to any amendments to 
such legislation. 

Our amendment eliminates this loophole 
in the supermajority protections 
we have established for Social Security. 


We must play it straight with the 
American people, and we must give 
them an honest balanced budget. 

This means Congress must stop pretending 
there is a surplus, and start acknowledging 
we still have a way to go 
before our budget is truly in balance. 

I very much hope our colleagues will 
support this sensible protection for Social 
Security, and will join us in making 
it harder to change our budget 
rules in a way which would allow Social 
Security Trust Fund balances to 
be used to pay for spending increases or 
tax cuts. 

Madam President, let me reiterate, 
the fact is, we do not have a surplus. 
All this talk about a surplus is not accurate, 
and the American people know 
it. We have made tremendous progress. 
I am glad that much of it was done in 
1993. Some of it was done last year. But 
the fact is, we have a long way to go. 

What the Senator from South Carolina 
is doing is just trying to make this 
body face up to the reality by creating 
a little higher standard, a 60-vote rule 
rather than a majority-vote rule to 
continue this practice. This practice 
should not be continued at all. There 
should not be any 60 votes or 70 votes 
or 80 votes to use Social Security to 
try to pretend there is a real balanced 
budget. At least under the Hollings 
amendment, the standard would be 
tougher. It would require 60 votes. You 
couldn’t sanitize the process by running 
it through the Budget Committee. 

This is to me the most fundamental 
issue here, because we are, in effect, 
telling the American people something 

that just is not true. We have done 
well. The economy has stayed very 
solid throughout this, but to pretend 
that there is extra money, to pretend 
that we can do spending or big tax cuts 
at this time is not straightforward. 
This, of course, is not just with regard 
to our senior citizens. 

The Social Security fund is in good 
shape for a number of years to come 
but it has more to do with the baby 
boomers and the young people in their 
twenties and thirties and those in high 
school and even younger. 

I have had the experience of having 
high school kids ask me at high school 
forums not just about the issues one 
expects high school students to ask 
about, but whether or not Social Security 
will be there when they get to that 
age. That is an unusual question for a 
high school student, but they know 
they are potentially being taken for a 
ride. 

Many of them are working. They are 
getting a check from, let’s say, McDonald’s, 
and they notice something is 
being taken out of their checks. ‘‘What 
is it being taken out for?’’ 

‘‘Well, for Social Security.’’ 

Then they find out it might not be 
there for them. 

What the Senator from South Carolina 
is saying is the Congress should 
stop borrowing from Social Security to 
try to make this look better. This is a 
very, very important amendment for 
truth in budgeting. 

I thank the Senator from South 

Carolina and yield back any time. 

Mr. HOLLINGS addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from South Carolina. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Madam President, I 
thank my distinguished colleague from 
Wisconsin. He has been a Trojan in the 
trenches working on the same side. 

I ask unanimous consent to add the 
distinguished Senator from California, 
Mrs. BOXER, as a cosponsor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, 
I rise in support of this amendment, 
which would establish a new 
point of order to protect the Social Security 
surplus. It’s designed to enforce 
the principle that President Clinton 
emphasized in his State of the Union 
address: ‘‘save Social Security first.’’ 

The Social Security program is the 
most important social insurance program 
in the United States. It’s dramatically 
reduced poverty among older 
Americans. And it provides a critical 
safety net for those who suffer from 
disabilities, or the death of a family 
member. 

Unfortunately, Social Security’s 
long-term viability is now threatened 
by the impending retirement of the 
baby boom generation, and the significant 
new pressures that will place on 
the system. Congress needs to act 
promptly to address this problem. 

Congress already has made a clear 
commitment to Social Security, and 
we’ve created various procedural protections 
to enforce that commitment. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2943 

For example, Section 301(i) of the 
Budget Act prohibits the Senate from 
considering a budget resolution that 
would reduce a Social Security surplus. 
And Section 311(a)(3) prohibits us from 
considering any measure that would 
decrease a Social Security surplus 
below the level set in the budget resolution. 


The point of order proposed today is 
consistent with these precedents. But 
rather than directly protecting Social 
Security, this point of order would protect 
the rules that protect Social Security. 


These budget rules, in effect, require 
60 votes to reduce a Social Security 
surplus. The problem, though, is that 
there’s a loophole. And the loophole is 
that these rules themselves can be 
amended under certain circumstances 
with only 50 votes. 

In general, legislation to amend 
budget laws is subject to a super-
majority point of order, under Section 
306 of the Budget Act. But this point of 
order doesn’t apply to legislation 
that’s been reported from the Budget 
Committee, or to any amendments to 
such legislation. 

So, for example, if the Budget Committee 
reports a minor bill to make 
technical corrections to the Budget 
Act, an amendment to gut the Social 
Security rules could be adopted by a 
simple majority vote. 

In my view, that’s a loophole that we 
need to close. 

Let’s not just proclaim our commitment 
to saving Social Security first. 
Let’s put it in writing. And let’s make 
it enforceable. 

I hope my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle will support the amendment. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I reserve the remainder 
of my time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time in opposition? 

Mr. DOMENICI. How much time has 
Senator HOLLINGS used? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Carolina has used 13 
minutes 44 seconds. 

Mr. DOMENICI. So he has 1 minute-
plus left. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is correct. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, 
unless my friend from New Jersey desires 
to speak, I will not use my entire 
15 minutes. I will make a point of order 
that the Senator’s amendment violates 
the Budget Act and requires 60 votes. 

Frankly, I do not understand what 
the distinguished Senator is talking 
about. He has been a longtime friend, 
and he has been on the Budget Committee. 
He has served on it. Actually, 
the Budget Committee is the source of 
the firewall that protects Social Security 
now. This amendment says he is 
taking away our jurisdiction, that we 
can’t do anything with reference to Social 
Security, and we are the committee 
to make the recommendations. 

If, indeed, the recommendations in 
some other provision of law requires 60 
votes to pass, that is a different thing. 

To say to a committee of jurisdiction 
that you cannot pass on anything because 
there is a supermajority requirement 
just seems to me that we could 
take every committee of jurisdiction, 
we could take away their jurisdiction 
all under the rubric that we are trying 
to keep them from spending money. 
Maybe we don’t like Commerce. They 
have been putting out too many bills. 
So we adopt a process that says whatever 
your jurisdiction is, you can’t report 
out any bills without a super-
majority in these different areas. 

That is not right. The Senator apparently 
has some great goal in mind. I remind 
the U.S. Senate and my friend 
Senator HOLLINGS, he does not like us 
to use the word ‘‘balance,’’ that we are 
in balance. So every time we use it, we 
better say the ‘‘unified budget is in balance.’’ 


Let’s acknowledge that only 6 years 
ago, 5 years ago, if he is worried about 
Social Security, the unified budget was 
$300 billion in the red. Have we made 
any headway in keeping the Social Security 
trust fund from getting spent? 
Of course. For starters, we have made 
$300 billion worth, and right now we 
have a $10 billion surplus. That does 
not mean we have a surplus without 
the Social Security trust fund, but it 
means that we are borrowing $10 billion 
less from the Social Security fund 
because of the balance in the unified 
budget of the United States. Is that 
bad? That seems to me to be good. 

If some think that they can wipe out 
the nonunified deficit quicker, then 
there are only two ways to wipe it out 
quicker: One is to cut more expenditures 
or to raise taxes. 

That is what somebody has to be 
talking about if they want to make us 
stop the $90 billion worth of borrowing, 
which used to be more, and it is down 
from $100 billion to $90 billion this very 
year because of the surplus. Instead of 
talking about the Budget Committee 
doesn’t have any jurisdiction without 
supermajorities to move anything with 
reference to Social Security—all we 
are doing is making recommendations 
to the Senate. 

To act as if this will in some way 
make the Social Security trust fund 
more solvent, frankly, in all honesty, I 
just don’t understand how this is going 
to do any good, and I have not heard 
anything from the Senator yet that indicates 
that it will do anything good. 

In all respect, I just do not believe it 
is going to accomplish what the Senator 
wants. Social Security is not 
going to be any more protected, and we 
are just going to say that there is a 60-
vote point of order against anything 
the Budget Committee would do with 
reference to recommending Social Security 
changes or reforms, which just 
seems to me doesn’t have anything to 
do with the problems that he describes 
because we are still borrowing from the 
Social Security trust fund. 

I repeat, we are doing a lot better 
than we were 5 years ago, 6 years ago, 
and a lot better than we expected to 

do. That means Social Security is getting 
closer and closer to a stable state 
because the unified budget is getting 
more and more surplus, which the surplus 
is for now being applied to that 
debt, and we are borrowing less, which 
is now easy to understand. There is all 
kind of confusion. There are trust 
funds, IOUs. But the truth is, on paper, 
we are borrowing $10 billion less when 
we have a surplus than otherwise. If it 
gets up to $100 billion, we won’t be borrowing 
anything. That is pretty good, 
and that is reality. 

The Budget Committee had something 
to do with that. There is a firewall 
that does not permit us to spend 
any Social Security money that would, 
in any way, affect the actuarial soundness 
of the Social Security system. 
That is a firewall of 60 votes. That was 
recommended by the Budget Committee. 
If we put that in before and 
came to the floor, it would require 60 
votes to become law. It doesn’t seem to 
me that is right. 

When the time has expired, I will 
make a point of order and then we will 
have a vote and try to stack it as early 
as possible so we can dispose of the 
amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. HOLLINGS addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Carolina. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Madam President, 
the distinguished Senator from New 
Mexico doesn’t have to remind the Senator 
from South Carolina that we are 
doing better than we were 6 years ago, 
because this Senator voted for that 
particular plan, which included spending 
cuts and which included tax increases 
to get this economy turned 
around. It included a tax increase on 
Social Security, as well. And we didn’t 
get a single Republican vote for that 
Budget Act—not one vote from that 
side of the aisle. 

Now the Senator from New Mexico 
says we are borrowing $10 billion. Turn, 
if you please, to the analysis of the 
President’s budget proposal by the 
Congressional Budget Office put out 
the day before yesterday. On page 36, 
you will find the actual debt increases 
to $184 billion. So we are not borrowing 
$10 billion less. The actual facts, according 
to the Congressional Budget 
Office, are that we are borrowing $31 
billion more. 

Tell me about the budgets and requirements 
of the Budget Committee 
supermajority. You have to get a 
supermajority to get the tobacco 
money. Why not a supermajority to 
protect Social Security? We have section 
13301 of the Budget Act itself that 
is a firewall anyone disobeys when he 
spends that money. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
of the Senator has expired. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. If I need more time, 
I can get some, I guess, off the resolution. 
But let me hear it. My time has 
expired. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, 
how much time do I have remaining? 


S2944 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico has 8 minutes 54 
seconds. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield back the remainder 
of my time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
has been yielded back. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
make the point of order that the 
amendment of the distinguished Senator, 
Senator HOLLINGS, is out of order 
under the Budget Act. It is not germane. 


Mr. HOLLINGS. Madam President, 
pursuant to Section 904 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, I move to 
waive the applicable sections of that 
act for the consideration of the pending 
amendment. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We will stack the 
vote as soon as we can for three votes. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Can we get the yeas 
and nays? 

Mr. DOMENICI. Surely. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
am going to call up the Faircloth 
amendment with reference to the marriage 
penalty, and then we are going to 
stack four votes which will include two 
Democrat votes and two Republican 
votes. In order to get the second Republican 
vote, I would have to have 
Senator CRAIG offer a second one so we 
would have two. And that would make 
the votes be on two Democrat and two 
Republican amendments. Is that acceptable? 
All right. 

If you have another one that is 
ready—Madam President, I suggest the 
absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2251 

Mr. DOMENICI. I call up amendment 
No. 2251. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the amendment. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

Amendment numbered 2251 previously proposed 
by the Senator from New Mexico [Mr. 
DOMENICI] for Mr. FAIRCLOTH. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield 5 minutes of 
the opening remarks to Senator SESSIONS 
with reference to this amendment. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alabama is recognized for 5 
minutes. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I 
would like to offer some comments in 
support of this sense-of-the-Senate resolution 
regarding the elimination of 
the marriage penalty. Marriage is an 
institution to be venerated, and our 
public policy should affirm marriage 
and we should have laws that treat 
married couples on an equal basis with 
those that are not married. That is the 
fundamental principle of fairness. 

The fact is that under our current 
laws, married couples suffer a financial 
penalty when it comes to taxation. In 
fact, married couples pay often substantially 
more tax than they would 
pay if they were not married. 

For example, the U.S. Congressional 
Budget Office found that 42 percent of 
married couples face a marriage penalty 
under the current tax system. The 
Congressional Budget Office also found 
that the average tax penalty amounts 
to $1,380 per year. That is a $100-a-
month tax penalty on people who 
choose to be married rather than those 
who choose not to marry. As a result of 
that, we are taking more of their 
money to in fact subsidize people who 
are not married who receive those benefits. 


I think some people have suggested 
this is in fact a realistic cause of people 
not to marry. For example, in 1970, 
just .5 percent of the couples in the 
United States were not married. By 
1996, that number had risen to 7.2 percent. 


So, Madam President, I would say 
that this is a very important debate. 
And I will not belabor the subject. This 
is a matter that has been the subject of 
much debate, with much intellectual 
and financial study, and the conclusion 
of these numbers is plain and obvious. 
Under our current tax system, married 
couples are being subjected to an unfair 
financial penalty. This is a matter 
that this Senate must address. 

It may be a bit late this year to 
make those changes. I wish it could 
have been done this year, but it is a 
change we are going to have to make. 
We are going to have to eliminate the 
circumstance in which a married couple 
is penalized for being married. It is 
not just, it is not fair, not appropriate, 
and it is unbecoming of the laws of the 
United States. 

So, Madam President, I support this 

resolution and yield the floor. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I compliment the 
Senator on his remarks. They are right 
on point. As a matter of fact, the resolution 
as drafted says to the U.S. Congress 
to begin to cure this marital tax 
inequity this year. In essence what we 
are saying is, if we are going to have a 
tax bill, we have no authority to dictate 
its content, but we are saying it is 
the sense of the Senate that we shall 
start down the road of eliminating that 
this year. 

Now, I might add—— 

Mr. SESSIONS. If the Senator will 
yield, I would like to say how much I 
appreciate the Chairman’s support for 
this concept, and for this resolution. I 
think we can begin now to take the 
kind of steps necessary to improve the 
tax laws in this regard. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I say to the Senator, 
I just want to ask a question. You used 
the figure of $1,380 a year or $1,340? 

Mr. SESSIONS. The number I have is 
$1,380. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Is this what you 
mean? If you have two single people 
earning a combined income, that are 
single and filing separate returns, and 
you have a married couple with exactly 
the same amount of income, the married 
couple, everything else being 
equal, will pay $1,380 more in taxes per 
year? 

Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator is exactly 
correct. That is the average for 
those who suffer a penalty. That is the 
average amount of penalty that is suffered, 
according to the Congressional 
Budget Office. 

Mr. DOMENICI. So it could be a very 
large amount of money for people 
above the average? 

Mr. SESSIONS. That is correct. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I assume it could be 
$2,000, $3,000, $5,000, $10,000? 

Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator is correct. 


Mr. DOMENICI. Of course, for those 
under the average it would be less. But 
is it not true that you have heard, as I 
have, that some people do not get married 
who are living together saying 
they are doing better on taxes without 
being married, and that this is frequently 
used in conversation if not in 
reality? 

Mr. SESSIONS. The Senator from 
New Mexico is exactly correct. Certainly 
we have more people, more men 
and women living together without 
being married today than ever before. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I reserve the remainder 
of my time. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Madam President, 
I tell you what, I am going to 
support this amendment. So I ask if I 
can talk as one of the proponents for a 
minute to raise a question. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Sure. How much 
time do I have left? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 10 minutes 16 seconds. 

Mr. DOMENICI. How much of that 
would you like? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. No. I would like 
a short period of time. I think if we can 
agree—and I do not see anybody here 
that wants to talk in opposition—we 
ought to yield back the time. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We do have Senator 
FAIRCLOTH en route. If he is not here 
shortly, then we will be able to do what 
you suggest. But I am trying to hold a 
little bit of time for him. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I see. My only 
question relates, frankly, to the schedule 
that is proposed here. The one 
thing I have to remind my friend and 
colleague, the Senator from New Mexico, 
about is the volume of the sense-


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2945 

of-the-Senate resolutions. We are 
building—we may have a record year 
this year, I say to the chairman. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We might. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. So we just let it 
flow, go with the flow, as they say. 
None of us want to do anything to impose 
a penalty on marriage. The statistics 
are not as good as we would like to 
see in the first place, so we do not want 
to make it any more difficult. But 
when the schedule says ‘‘shall begin to 
phase out the marriage penalty this 
year,’’ I think that is somewhat precipitous. 
But hearing the Senator from 
Alabama confirm I think what we all 
know, all we can do is kind of make 
this abstract recommendation and 
hope that it gets picked up along the 
way. So with that, with that caution, I 
am ready to go to a vote. I hope, I say 
to the chairman, in the interest of 
time, that we might be able to move it 
along. 

Is Senator FAIRCLOTH still on his 
way? 

Mr. DOMENICI. Yes, he is. And Senator 
HUTCHISON is one of the original 
cosponsors. She would like some of the 
time. I yield the Senator 4 minutes. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Four minutes. I 
thank the Senator. I appreciate that. 

This is the Faircloth-Hutchison 
amendment and it is also the Faircloth-
Hutchison bill that would eliminate 
the marriage penalty tax. 

All this amendment says is, it is a 
priority of Congress to eliminate the 
marriage penalty tax. We don’t think 
Americans should have to choose between 
love and money. Yet 21 million 
American couples today have to make 
that exact choice, because they go into 
a higher tax bracket when they get 
married. 

Let me give an example. A rookie policemen 
in Houston, TX, makes $33,500. 
His wife is a schoolteacher in the Pasadena 
independent school district making 
$28,200 a year. When this young 
couple got married, they owed Uncle 
Sam $1,000 more a year. This is at a 
time when they would like to buy their 
first home, when they have to buy a 
second car. They are having to pay 
Uncle Sam $1,000 because they got married. 
That could be two house payments, 
three or four car payments, and 
we are taking it away from them by an 
unfair Tax Code. 

Our Tax Code does not meet the fairness 
test. I think this sense of the Senate 
says it best—that it will be the 
highest priority of Congress to correct 
this inequity in the law. I don’t think 
Congress intended it, but that is the 
way it happened, and Congress does 
have the power to correct it. 

I hope we will take this opportunity 
to speak with a loud, firm, clear voice, 
that Americans should not have to pay 
more money because they get married 
than they would have to pay if they 
stay single. That is the issue, a very 
simple amendment. I hope we will have 
a unanimous vote when this amendment 
comes forward to show that we 
intend to do something about this if we 

possibly can within the constraints of 
the surplus, and that if we are not able 
to do something, it will be the highest 
priority when we do have that budget 
surplus that I have seen spent in so 
many ways already in the last year. We 
haven’t seen that budget surplus, so I 
think spending it is a little premature. 

I do appreciate the fact that this 
committee set aside $10 billion for the 
first year for tax cuts, and I think if we 
can build on that, we can do some good 
for the hard-working American. We 
should continue to give money back to 
the people who earned it. You can always 
tell who cares about the people 
who earn the money, and that is by 
how they refer to tax dollars. We refer 
to tax dollars as belonging to the people 
who worked for them, and we are 
going to try to let people keep more of 
the money they earned. They deserve 
it. That is what setting this priority 
will do for 21 million American couples. 


I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois. 

Mr. DURBIN. I concur with most of 
what has been said here. I read this resolution, 
and it is hard to argue with a 
resolution that is praising marriage 
and the married. I think we are all for 
that. Anything in the law of this land, 
whether tax law or otherwise, which 
detracts from that institution, should 
be examined and seriously considered. 

But I keep wondering—I am not an 
expert on tax law, but there are some 
situations where marriage actually reduces 
the tax burden; where, in fact, if 
you have one of the spouses who has a 
high income and marries someone with 
a much lower income, it could reduce 
the tax rate. I certainly hope there is 
nothing in this sense-of-the-Senate resolution 
which suggests we should 
change that. I think we want to try to 
encourage people, and when the Tax 
Code rewards those who are married, 
we should continue doing that. 

What I am told is there are two sides 
to the story. As there are those who 
are losers and are penalized by the Tax 
Code by marriage, there are those who 
are benefited by the Tax Code. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Will the Senator 
yield? 

Mr. DURBIN. I am happy to yield to 
the Senator. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. I would love to address 
that issue. It is a valid point. 

We will not take away the break that 
a couple has in the one-income-earner 
family; that is, where people are ahead 
if they have one income in the family, 
they get a break on taxes. The people 
who get hit are the low-income people 
with two wage-earners in the family. 
They are the ones that often have to 
work to make ends meet, and yet they 
are penalized because they get married. 
It is a couple that makes $28,000 a year 
and $33,000 a year, and together they 
move into the higher bracket, but separately 
they would not be in the higher 
bracket, they would stay at the 15 percent 
bracket. 

What we are trying to do is create an 
equity for those lower- and middle-income 
two-earner couples that right 
now are paying a hefty penalty. 

Mr. DURBIN. I thank the Senator 
from Texas for that clarification. I 
hope we can do everything in our power 
to make the Tax Code not only friendly 
to those who are married but more progressive 
so that those in the lower- and 
middle-income categories get a helping 
hand from the Federal Government instead 
of the backhand. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. I thank the Senator 
from Illinois for allowing me to 
clarify that. It is certainly important 
for us to keep the advantage for the 
one-income-earner couple, but that we 
give that added advantage to that two-
income-earner couple that really does 
need it. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Madam President, I 
am prepared to yield back the time. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I am prepared to 
yield back. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Will the Senator 
yield? 

If Senator FAIRCLOTH is not going to 
be able to give remarks, I would like to 
be able to say on his behalf what a 
leader he has been. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I will try to arrange 
this right now, if you listen to my consent. 
If it doesn’t work, we will use 
some time here. 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT 

Mr. DOMENICI. I ask unanimous 
consent that after the time is yielded 
back and we proceed to the next 
amendment, that nonetheless, prior to 
the vote at 9 o’clock or thereafter on 
the Faircloth amendment, that he be 
permitted to speak for 3 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. May I reserve 
the right to ask a question? That is, 
this depends on the time, because we 
agreed we were going to control the 
time carefully. I ask how much time is 
left for the proponents of the amendment. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
are 6 minutes 36 seconds. 

Mr. DOMENICI. What I was trying to 
do is give back the 6 minutes. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. And trade for 3. 

Mr. DOMENICI. And trade for 3. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I consent to 
that. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Would this be included 
in this batch of votes? 

Mr. DOMENICI. When we take up 
Senator Moseley-Braun, Senator Hollings, 
this would be the third one in 
that sequence. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. That would be at 

7 o’clock—you said 9 o’clock. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Nine o’clock. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I thought we 
talked about a series of votes at 7 
o’clock. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I think people heard 
9 o’clock or 9ish, so we ought to get on 
with more amendments. 

I thought the 7 o’clock was precluded 
when the Chair went right ahead and 
made us vote on previous amendments. 


S2946 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Is there a unanimous 
consent request at the desk calling 
for a specific time? 

Mr. DOMENICI. Let me correct that. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Let me correct that. 
I believe that only I was thinking that 
that previous vote did that and nobody 
else was, so I must not have told anybody. 
Everybody on the staff agrees. 
They must be right. We can’t do anything 
without them. 

Perhaps what we can do—Senator 
CRAIG, would you be willing to spend 15 
minutes on your amendment? 

Mr. CRAIG. I can. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I would like to get 
one more stacked. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Just to clear the 
air and be sure we are both hearing 
what each other is saying, that is that 
if that is the case, then we are going to 
ask for another unanimous consent 
that would enable Senator CRAIG to 
offer his amendment, give us a chance 
to take a look at it, but Senator CRAIG, 
I thought, debated his amendment last 
night. 

Mr. CRAIG. I did. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Yes, he did. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. So what time 
would be available for Senator CRAIG 
now if the debate was conducted last 
night? What system are we operating 
under? 

Mr. DOMENICI. I assume we are operating 
on the half hour. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. But how much 
time did Senator CRAIG use last night 
to debate his amendment? 

Mr. DOMENICI. That was before we 
had an agreement. I don’t want to 
argue over it. That is what we did with 
anybody who argued an amendment 
two nights ago. If he could have 15 minutes, 
you 15 minutes, we will get 4 
votes in here in 15 or 20 or 30 minutes— 
assuming you won’t use all the time. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. That is all right 
with us. I agree, certainly. 

Mr. DOMENICI. All time is yielded 
back then on the Faircloth amendment, 
and we will proceed to Senator 
CRAIG at this point. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Idaho is recognized. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2211 

Mr. CRAIG. Madam President, last 
night I offered an amendment called 
the Surplus Protection Amendment for 
myself and several other colleagues 
here in the Senate: Senator ALLARD, 
Senator COVERDELL, Senator GRAMS, 
Senator HELMS, Senator HUTCHINSON, 
Senator INHOFE, Senator SESSIONS, and 
Senator THOMAS. My amendment is a 
fundamentally simple amendment 
which sets forth very clearly a new approach 
toward how we handle mandatory 
spending. Pay-as-you-go budget 
enforcement rules were established to 
help put Washington’s fiscal house in 
order. 

Since fiscal year 1994, the Senate has 
had a point of order requiring 60 votes 
to waive against any legislation that 
would increase the deficit. However, 

mandatory spending in Washington is 
Washington’s version of a fiscal autopilot. 
Once enacted, it requires no further 
congressional action to operate. 
Rather than a perpetual motion machine, 
what we have found out with 
mandatory spending, of course, is that 
it is a perpetual spending machine. It 
is, if you will, the Energizer Bunny of 
budgeting and has kept growing and 
growing and growing. 

What all this means—and I think it 
concerns us all greatly—is an increase 
in mandatory spending must be paid 
for with a tax increase. Any tax cut 
must be paid for by a mandatory spending 
cut. As anyone can tell, pay-go, in 
its present form, is very insufficient to 
control mandatory spending. 

Mandatory spending has increased 
dramatically and will continue to increase 
dramatically over the next few 
years. According to the Congressional 
Budget Office, in 1987 mandatory 
spending accounted for 47 percent of 
the Federal budget; in 1997, it accounted 
for approximately 56 percent; 
in the year 2008, it will account for 70 
percent. Many of us have struggled 
mightily, as has the chairman of the 
full committee, to control this. 

What is happening is that mandatory 
spending is crowding out, rapidly 
crowding out, Federal Government 
spending for schools, for roads, for law 
enforcement, and for those infrastructure 
maintenance kinds of programs 
that most citizens in our country feel 
are legitimate spending areas for our 
Government. 

I have sensed, as many of my colleagues 
have, that it is time to make a 
modest adjustment to try to change 
the process by which we deal with this 
issue. Current estimates are that the 
budget will be balanced this year, and 
the chairman of the full committee and 
many colleagues on this floor deserve 
credit for that because it will be, and 
we are pleased about it, excited about 
it, and I think the country is also. It is 
true that we are nearly 4 years ahead 
of schedule in balancing the budget, 
and there is a lot to be credited for 
that—certainly our ability to begin to 
control spending here, but also our 
ability to help free this economy and 
to see it move as successfully as it has, 
has been another major contributing 
factor. 

However, we must look not just to 
the horizon of spending, as this budget 
resolution does, but look well beyond 
it. If we fail to look beyond it, we fail 
to recognize what is out there in the 
very, very near future of additional 
spending as a result of the drive of 
mandatory entitlement-style spending. 
To avoid what will happen in the future, 
I think we have to change the 
way we work now, because if we don’t 
gradually move into controlling these 
kinds of spending areas, the step that 
we would want to take or have to take 
out there or be forced to take would be 
uncontrollable— tax increases, major 
budget cuts of the kind many might 
find intolerable. What I am proposing 

is a modest step. I guess I am a bit like 
a doctor tonight. I am going to suggest 
that we first pledge to do no harm. 
What I am offering tonight does no 
harm to this budget. 

My amendment establishes a point of 
order that requires new mandatory 
spending programs to be paid for by 
mandatory spending savings. In other 
words, it would require 60 votes in the 
Senate to create a new mandatory 
spending program that was not funded 
by an equivalent mandatory spending 
savings. Tough choices? Not necessarily. 
But it forces the Congress to 
do the work that it probably hasn’t 
liked to do over the years, and that is 
to do oversight to see whether these 
programs are working or they ought to 
be adjusted or changed, and if they are 
changed, is there something better 
that we might adjust to? If all of the 
new mandatory spending programs had 
been paid for, as we had claimed, we 
would not be facing a fiscal future of 
exploding spending and exploding deficits. 


I think anybody who might be listening 
to what I am saying tonight would 
be scratching their heads and saying: 
But, Senator, the budget you are proposing 
this night is balanced. The 
budget that the senior Senator from 
New Mexico, chairman of the Budget 
Committee, is offering is at balance, 
and we are talking about the potential 
of surplus revenues. 

My point is—and it is a point that 
nobody disputes—that the current 
budget path that we are on, which is 
the right path, is unsustainable. As 
good as a balanced budget is today, it 
will not remain a balanced budget for 
long. The path that we are traveling is 
no secret that it is unsustainable. It is 
not. We all know because so many have 
told us so, including some of our own 
colleagues here on the floor. Senator 
KERREY of Nebraska, who chaired the 
bipartisan commission on entitlement 
and tax reforms, has said so. The General 
Accounting Office has said so. Interestingly 
enough, the President’s 
budget has said so. And in the most recent 
report, the Congressional Budget 
Office said: 

Currently, more than half of the nearly $1.7 
trillion in Federal spending goes for entitlements 
and other mandatory spending programs. 
As a share of the total outlay, mandatory 
spending has jumped from 32 percent 
in 1962 to 56 percent in 1997. If current policies 
remain unchanged, such spending will 
continue to grow faster than other spending, 
reaching 63 percent of total outlays by the 
year 2002, or twice the size of discretionary 
outlays. 

Under baseline assumptions, continued 
growth in mandatory outlays 
would raise their share of the budget to 
70 percent by the year 2008. Last year, 
the Congressional Budget Office wrote 
that this year’s budgetary news should 
not lull people into complacency and, 
most assuredly, this budget, the budget 
resolution we have before us, should 
not. It is an excellent work and it controls 
spending. It gets us to a balanced 
budget. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2947 

But let me suggest that the retirement 
of a large baby boomer generation 
is just over the horizon. If the 
budgetary pressure from both demographic 
and health care spending is not 
relieved by reducing the growth of expenditures 
or increasing taxes, deficits 
will mount and seriously erode future 
economic growth. That report concluded: 


Current budget policy is unsustainable and 
attempting to preserve it would severely 
damage the economy. 

How serious are the future projections? 
The Congressional Budget Office 
concluded that even if the budget were 
balanced in the year 2002—and that is 
our goal and we are going to get 
there—we would have a deficit equal to 
34 percent of the gross domestic product 
by the year 2050 and the public debt 
would be 283 percent of the gross domestic 
product. Those are the outward 
projections of the current path of expenditure. 


There will be a demographic shift to 
older populations. This Senator standing 
before you tonight is part of that 
group. I am part of that baby boomer 
crowd. I am going to be one who will be 
collecting my Social Security and my 
Medicare. And there is no question 
that, in 1995, there were 34 million 65-
year-old and older citizens. But by the 
year 2030, there will be twice that number, 
or 68 million. There will be more 
elderly. They will live longer and they 
will be using Federal services more intensively. 
There will be relatively 
fewer workers around to put foot all of 
these bills. If we don’t sense that now— 
and several sense-of-the-Senate resolutions 
have talked about it today, but 
my amendment changes the process, 
forces the issue, causes us to work our 
way through these kinds of tough decisions. 


In 1950, there were 7.3 workers for 
every senior. In 1990, there were 4.8 
workers for every one senior. In 2030, 
there will be 2.8. We all know the reality 
of that. What I am talking about 
are the taxpayers paying into the programs 
that will fund that one individual. 
It will take all 2.8 of those 
workers working together at a very 
large chunk—a 60-plus percent tax rate 
on their income to fund that one individual, 
along with all the other Government 
services and necessary programs 
that we think are appropriate. 

So what the demographic shift means 
is that spending rises very rapidly relative 
to revenue. Quoting the Congressional 
Budget Office: 

Revenues will be squeezed as the number of 
people working and the economy grows slower. 
At the same time, outlays for Government 
programs that aid the elderly will burgeon 
as the number of people eligible to receive 
benefits from these programs will 
shoot up. 

What the fiscal squeeze means is 
major new revenues in the form of 
taxes or enormous deficits. The deficit, 
last year, was less than 1 percent of 
GDP. It would be 29.8 percent by the 
year 2030. The Federal debt was 50 per


cent of GDP last year; it would be 250 
percent by the year 2035. Those are not 
my numbers; that is the Congressional 
Budget Office speaking. Those are valid 
numbers, and anybody who studies the 
budget curves understands that. This is 
unprecedented. We have never had a period 
of time in our country’s history 
where these numbers became reality, 
because we never have spent that much 
of the gross domestic product of our 
country. The deficit has been higher 
than 10 percent of GDP only briefly, 
during major wars. And we understand 
those reasons—when our Nation is at 
risk and our freedoms are to be secured. 
The debt exceeded 100 percent 
only once and that was during World 
War II. The result would be based on 
the figures by the year 2035 of economic 
catastrophes. I don’t know of 
any other way to explain it, any other 
way to compare it. Those would be the 
realities. Even to make the burden sustainable, 
the Congressional Budget Office 
terminology allowing debt to rise, 
but keeping constant in relation to the 
gross domestic product, would have 
dire consequences. The tax burden 
would have to increase 20 percent just 
to continue running deficits and adding 
debt. 

Of course, someone will say that the 
budget agreement solves the problem. 
No, the budget agreement doesn’t solve 
the problem. It addresses the immediate, 
it addresses the desire to maintain 
current spending while mandatory 
spending within this continues to grow 
at the rates offered in these projections 
that brings us to the year 2035. It is 
certainly an improvement, and I am 
very laudatory of the chairman of the 
Budget Committee, and others. It 
delays the scenario I have just outlined. 
But according to the CBO, if the 
budget is balanced through the year 
2010—and that is what I believe this 
Congress strives to do—it will take less 
than 15 years to reach the same scenario 
that I have just described—a 
huge deficit and a debt of 230 percent of 
gross domestic product by that time. 
Quoting the Congressional Budget Office: 


Regardless of how the budget is balanced 
in the near term, congressional budget action 
would still be needed to put the budget 
on a sustainable path. 

So what I am proposing is a modest 
first step. The years 2030 to the year 
2050 are not real to us on this floor. We 
cannot even begin to appreciate the 
kinds of budget numbers those years 
will produce. But they are very real to 
our children or any child that might be 
in the galleries tonight, because they 
are the ones who will be paying that 
huge tax rate out there to fund these 
kinds of programs that we have already 
put in progress today. So those are the 
realities of what we are dealing with. 
My amendment is a first step in that 
direction. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
GREGG). The time of the Senator has 
expired. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
how much time remains? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey has 14 minutes 43 
seconds. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I thank the 
Chair. Has the proponent side used all 
of its time at this juncture? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
rise in opposition to Senator CRAIG’s 
amendment. This amendment would 
prohibit using revenues to offset new 
mandatory spending and, instead, require 
all new mandatory spending to be 
offset with other mandatory cuts. The 
amendment would prohibit using revenues 
to offset new mandatory spending. 
Alternatively, instead, it would require 
all new mandatory spending to be offset 
with mandatory cuts. 

The amendment would represent a 
significant departure from current pay-
as-you-go rules. It would give special 
protection to special interest tax loopholes 
at the expense of programs like 
Social Security and Medicare. It would 
further undermine the prospects for 
comprehensive tobacco legislation. 

There is nothing new about using 
revenues to offset mandatory spending. 
The pay-as-you-go rule has been in 
place for many years and it has worked 
well. That rule says that new mandatory 
spending must be fully offset either 
by revenue increases or mandatory 
savings. In other words, new mandatory 
spending must be deficit neutral. 


Under Senator CRAIG’s proposal, however, 
deficit neutrality is not enough. 
Under this amendment, legislation to 
provide a new mandatory benefit, like 
Medicare coverage for a new medical 
procedure, would have to be offset with 
other mandatory spending cuts. No 
new revenue could be used. 

If you think about that for a minute, 
it really doesn’t make sense. If we are 
looking to pay for a new benefit, why 
would we say that cutting Social Security 
is fine, but closing a wasteful tax 
loophole is not? Why would we say that 
cutting Medicare is OK, but eliminating 
a corporate tax subsidy is not? 
Well, Mr. President, maybe some people 
think that the Tax Code is just fine 
the way it is and that it doesn’t contain 
any loopholes or special breaks for 
the special interests. I happen not to be 
one of them. I don’t think many Senators 
on either side of the aisle would 
make that claim. After all, we are now 
hearing calls to scrap the entire Tax 
Code even without a replacement. Can 
these same Senators now also be claiming 
that there is not one special tax 
break or loophole that deserves closing, 
even if the savings could be used to 
provide for new health benefits for people 
stricken with newly discovered 
deadly diseases? I hope that not many 
of my colleagues really believe that. In 
my view, we ought to be intensifying 
our efforts to eliminate wasteful tax 
loopholes. The last thing we should do 
is give any special protections to them 


S2948 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

at the expense of Social Security or 
Medicare. So it is a little out of balance. 


This amendment would compound 
the obstacles already created in this 
budget resolution for comprehensive 
tobacco legislation. Under this amendment, 
tobacco legislation could not use 
tobacco revenues to pay to finance 
antitobacco activities. It doesn’t make 
sense, and it would undercut what 
could be the most important piece of 
legislation in this session of the 105th 
Congress. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
amendment. It would change a fundamental 
rule that has worked well for 
many years. It would give special protection 
to wasteful tax loopholes at the 
expense of programs like Social Security 
and Medicare and could seriously 
impair the ability to get us to a comprehensive 
tobacco program. 

The pending amendment is not germane. 
I, therefore, raise a point of 
order that the amendment violates section 
305(b)(2) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974. 

I don’t see anyone else in opposition. 
I yield the time. 

Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I move to 
waive the Congressional Budget Act. 

I ask for the yeas and nays on the 
motion to waive. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
parliamentary inquiry: Are we 
scheduled to start voting now? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. That is the condition, 
as I understand it. I ask the 
manager of the bill. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We are going to vote 
on four amendments very shortly. Senator 
MOSELEY-BRAUN is going to be 
first with her amendment, then we are 
going to follow that with Senator HOLLINGS’ 
amendment, which is subject to 
a point of order, and then we are going 
to follow that and Senator FAIRCLOTH’s 
marriage penalty, to be followed in 
fourth place by Senator CRAIG. 

I have a parliamentary inquiry with 
reference to Senator MOSELEY-BRAUN’s 
amendment. What is the unanimous 
consent? Does the Senator have some 
time, and do we have some time at this 
point? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois has used all of her 
time. The Senator from New Mexico 
rises in opposition. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
it was my understanding that the 
unanimous consent agreement had 1 
minute before for each side in addition 
to the time budgeted for the amendment. 
There was supposed to be 1 
minute for each side before the vote. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That 
unanimous consent has not been entered 
into relative to this amendment. 
But that is the standard agreement. 
That is the usual practice. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We would like to 
make sure that occurs. So I ask unani


mous consent that be the case with reference 
to this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. It will be the case 
with the subsequent ones, will it not? 

You said it is not a part of the unanimous 
consent already. I thought it was. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is the 
Senator making that request? 

Mr. DOMENICI. I make that request. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I had my entire time 
left on Senator MOSELEY-BRAUN’s. I 
yield that back and will use 1 minute 
before I move to table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is recognized for 1 minute. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
ask the manager whether this now precludes 
second degrees. Are we going to 
go ahead? Are we just going to vote? 

Mr. DOMENICI. My understanding is 
there will be no second degrees. I ask 
unanimous consent that no second-degree 
amendments be in order to the 
four amendments that are pending. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2175 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois is recognized for 1 
minute. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Thank you 
very much. 

Mr. President, our amendment is a 
sense of the Senate that the fiscal year 
1999 budget resolution assumes that we 
will enact legislation creating a partnership 
between the State, local, and 
national governments to rebuild and 
modernize our schools and the classrooms 
for the 21st century. 

Winston Churchill once said, ‘‘We 
shape our buildings, thereafter they 
shape us.’’ Nowhere is that more true 
than with schools. 

The poor condition of America’s 
schools has a direct effect on the ability 
of our students to learn the kinds 
of skills they will need to compete in 
the 21st century global economy. 
America cannot compete if our students 
cannot learn, and our students 
cannot learn if their schools are crumbling 
down around them. 

Our amendment would ensure that 
school districts around the Nation have 
the resources they need to address 
school improvement priorities so we 
can give our children an environment 
suitable for learning. 

I encourage support for this amendment. 
It is, after all, a sense-of-the-
Senate amendment. It will give everyone 
an opportunity to express without 
the particularity of the actual legislation. 
I express the support of doing the 
right thing by our kids. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
have a question I would like to resolve 
that I think is agreed upon. The first 
vote would be the traditional 15, plus 5, 
and thereafter 10-minute votes. All of 
them are strictly controlled so we can 
move the program along. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
unanimous consent? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 
That will be the order. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I would like to ask. I 
thought when we entered into the 
unanimous consent agreement earlier 
in the day about stacking votes that 
we said we were going to have them 15, 
10 and 10. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is correct. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I thank the Chair. 

I have 1 minute on this amendment. 
Let me just say there is a statement 
behind me that was made in the budget 
by the President of the United States. 
It is very simple. It says: 

The construction and renovation of school 
facilities has traditionally been the responsibility 
of State and local government, financed 
primarily by local taxpayers; we are 
opposed to the creation of a new Federal 
grant program for school construction. 

I acknowledge that is a grant program. 
But I believe that we should 
change that word and say, ‘‘We are opposed 
to tax credits for school construction,’’ 
because I don’t believe the 

U.S. Government ought to change its 
tax laws to allow a total tax deduction, 
which is what a credit is for the interest 
that a bond will yield if it is for 
construction of schools in the United 
States. 
There is no formula. We don’t know 
how we will do this. We don’t know 
whether poor districts will get it. I 
think we ought not start down this 
path. I know for some any education 
program is difficult. I understand this 
may be one of those. But I truly don’t 
believe we ought to do this. 

I remind everyone, in any event, this 
is a sense-of-the-Senate resolution. It 
is not binding. That will give you latitude 
to vote differently than I recommend, 
since it is not binding. But I 
don’t believe we ought to tell the Finance 
Committee we want them to 
start down this path in a big way with 
reference to school construction. 

Having said that, I move to table, 
and I ask for the yeas and nays on my 
motion to table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. The 
PRESIDING OFFICER. The question is 
on agreeing to the motion of the Senator 
from New Mexico to lay on the 
table the amendment of the Senator 
from Illinois. On this question, the 
yeas and nays are ordered, and the 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 
the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber 
who desire to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 54, 
nays 46, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 57 Leg.] 

YEAS—54 
Abraham Brownback Coats 
Allard Burns Cochran 
Ashcroft Byrd Collins 
Bennett Campbell Coverdell 
Bond Chafee Craig 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2949 

DeWine Hutchinson Roberts 
Domenici Hutchison Roth 
Enzi Inhofe Santorum 
Faircloth Jeffords Sessions 
Frist Kempthorne Shelby 
Gorton Kyl Smith (NH) 
Gramm Lott Smith (OR) 
Grams Lugar Snowe 
Grassley Mack Stevens 
Gregg McCain Thomas 
Hagel McConnell Thompson 
Hatch Murkowski Thurmond 
Helms Nickles Warner 
NAYS—46 
Akaka Feinstein Lieberman 
Baucus Ford Mikulski 
Biden Glenn Moseley-Braun 
Bingaman 
Boxer 
Breaux 
Graham 
Harkin 
Hollings 
Moynihan 
Murray 
Reed 
Bryan 
Bumpers 
Cleland 
Conrad 
D’Amato 
Daschle 
Dodd 
Inouye 
Johnson 
Kennedy 
Kerrey 
Kerry 
Kohl 
Landrieu 
Reid 
Robb 
Rockefeller 
Sarbanes 
Specter 
Torricelli 
Dorgan 
Durbin 
Lautenberg 
Leahy 
Wellstone 
Wyden 
Feingold Levin 

The motion to lay on the table the 
amendment (No. 2175) was agreed to. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
I move to reconsider the vote by 
which the motion was agreed to. 

Mr. ROCKEFELLER. I move to lay 
that motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. We have 
three votes to go. We can move them 
along promptly if we can have order in 
the Chamber. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I announce 
that when we finish this series 
of votes tonight, there will be no more 
votes tonight, but we will stay and debate 
five additional amendments 
—three from the Democratic side, two 
from the Republican side. Those will be 
stacked in the morning under the previous 
order, a 15-minute vote followed 
by 10-minute votes. 

I will tell everyone, we now have in 
excess of 75 first-degree amendments 
filed. We will take care of five of them 
tonight, and that will probably leave 
us with about 70. Obviously, we could 
not dispose of 70 amendments at 10 or 
15 minutes each in a very short period 
of time. So tomorrow morning, we will 
have, and my friend Senator LAUTENBERG 
says his staff will have some 
charts to show you your amendments 
while we are voting in the morning. 

We would like you to be honest; we 
don’t ask you tonight in the full light 
of everybody which ones you really 
want to vote on and which ones you 
would like for us to consider and which 
ones you might withdraw. We are going 
to work on accepting as many as we 
can, with the idea that there is still a 
conference to go to, during which time 
those accepted amendments will be 
given due consideration. 

Mr. BUMPERS. Will the Senator 
yield for a question? 

Mr. DOMENICI. Yes. 

Mr. BUMPERS. Does the Senator intend 
to stack the votes on these five 
amendments for in the morning? 

Mr. DOMENICI. Yes. 

ADJOURNMENT OF THE TWO 
HOUSES 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of H. Con. 
Res. 257, the adjournment resolution, 
which was received from the House. 

I further ask unanimous consent that 
the resolution be agreed to and the motion 
to reconsider be laid upon the 
table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

The concurrent resolution (H. Con. 
Res. 257) was agreed to, as follows: 

H. CON. RES. 257 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the 
Senate concurring), That when the House adjourns 
on the legislative day of Wednesday, 
April 1, 1998, it stand adjourned until 12:30 

p.m. on Tuesday, April 21, 1998, or until noon 
on the second day after Members are notified 
to reassemble pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs 
first; and that when the Senate recesses or 
adjourns at the close of business on Thursday, 
April 2, 1998, Friday, April 3, 1998, Saturday, 
April 4, 1998, or Sunday, April 5, 1998, 
pursuant to a motion made by the Majority 
Leader, or his designee, in accordance with 
this concurrent resolution, it stand recessed 
or adjourned until noon on Monday, April 20, 
1998, or such time on that day as may be 
specified by the Majority Leader or his designee 
in the motion to recess or adjourn, or 
until noon on the second day after Members 
are notified to reassemble pursuant to section 
2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever 
occurs first. 
SEC. 2. The Speaker of the House and the 
Majority Leader of the Senate, acting jointly 
after consultation with the Minority Leader 
of the House and the Minority Leader of the 
Senate, shall notify the Members of the 
House and the Senate, respectively, to reassemble 
whenever, in their opinion, the public 
interest shall warrant it. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET FOR 
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
FOR FISCAL YEARS 1999, 
2000, 2001, 2002, AND 2003 

The Senate continued with the consideration 
of the concurrent resolution. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2193 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
pending amendment is the Hollings 
amendment No. 2193. A point of order 
has been raised against the amendment 
on the basis that it is not germane. The 
pending question is the motion to 
waive the Budget Act to allow for the 
consideration of the amendment on 
which a rollcall vote has been ordered. 

There is 1 minute on each side for debate. 
The Senator from South Carolina 
is recognized. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, on behalf 
of myself, Senator DASCHLE, Senator 
CONRAD, Senator FEINGOLD, Senator 
DORGAN, and Senator REID of Nevada, 
we put this in to do just exactly 
what was called for by the President. 
We want to save Social Security first. 

As we all know, we have used the euphemism 
of a unified budget, a unified 
deficit, and we have been spending, 
looting, the Social Security trust fund. 

Some say that actuarially there is a 
surplus in there. That is on a sheet of 
paper. Actually, the money is gone. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Will the 
Senator from South Carolina suspend 
until we can get order in the Chamber? 
The Senator from South Carolina has a 
right to be heard. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President, this 
more or less puts into parliamentary 
procedure what we voted for time and 
again, what the distinguished Senator 
from New Mexico has voted for. It is in 
the law, section 13301, that we save Social 
Security and quit looting the fund. 

If you really want to put your money 
where your mouth is, as the expression 
goes, rather than just a sense of the 
Senate, then support this particular 
resolution now under consideration and 
put on some parliamentary controls, 
which is what this amendment does. If 
you want to save Social Security, vote 
for the amendment; waive the Budget 
Act, because that is what the Budget 
Act says to do in section 13301. If you 
don’t want to, vote against the waiver. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico is recognized for 
1 minute. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I say 
to my fellow Senators, if I thought this 
amendment would do anything to save 
or preserve Social Security, I would be 
for it. In my humble opinion, it does 
absolutely nothing to save Social Security. 
What it does is attempt to change 
the process and procedures so that if 
the Budget Committee reports out for 
Senate consideration anything on Social 
Security, it is subject to a 60-vote 
point of order. 

We could get to the point where we 
will take every committee of jurisdiction 
and pass a process rule because 
there was something in their jurisdiction 
we didn’t want them to do business 
on. We could say anything you report 
out has to have 60 votes. Then we 
would take that to the floor, and the 
chairman of the committee of jurisdiction 
would stand up and say, ‘‘What 
have we come to?’’ 

This seems like some kind of exuberance 
that is not calculated to do 
anything except have some words suggesting 
we are trying to save Social Security. 
I raised a point of order. There 
is a motion to waive it. I hope we do 
not waive it. I urge Senators to vote 
‘‘no’’ on the motion to waive. I yield 
the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the motion 
to waive the Budget Act with respect 
to the Hollings amendment No. 2193. 
The yeas and nays have been ordered. 
The clerk will call the roll. This will be 
a 10-minute vote. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. WARNER). 
Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 42, 
nays 58, as follows: 


S2950 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

[Rollcall Vote No. 58 Leg.] 
YEAS—42 

Akaka Feingold Levin 
Biden Feinstein Lieberman 
Boxer Ford Mikulski 
Breaux Glenn Moseley-Braun 
Bryan Graham Moynihan 
Bumpers Harkin Murray 
Byrd Hollings Reed 
Cleland Inouye Reid 
Conrad Johnson Robb 
Daschle Kennedy Rockefeller 
Dodd Kerry Sarbanes 
Dorgan Kohl Torricelli 
Durbin Landrieu Wellstone 
Faircloth Lautenberg Wyden 
NAYS—58 
Abraham Frist McCain 
Allard Gorton McConnell 
Ashcroft Gramm Murkowski 
Baucus Grams Nickles 
Bennett Grassley Roberts 
Bingaman Gregg Roth 
Bond 
Brownback 
Burns 
Campbell 
Chafee 
Coats 
Cochran 
Hagel 
Hatch 
Helms 
Hutchinson 
Hutchison 
Inhofe 
Jeffords 
Santorum 
Sessions 
Shelby 
Smith (NH) 
Smith (OR) 
Snowe 
Collins 
Coverdell 
Craig 
Kempthorne 
Kerrey 
Kyl 
Specter 
Stevens 
Thomas 
D’Amato Leahy Thompson 
DeWine Lott Thurmond 
Domenici Lugar Warner 
Enzi Mack 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote the yeas are 42, the nays are 58. 
Three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen 
and sworn not having voted in the 
affirmative, the motion is rejected. 
The point of order is sustained, and the 
amendment falls. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. I move to lay that 
motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2251 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
pending question is the Faircloth 
amendment, amendment No. 2251. 
There is 1 minute of debate allocated 
to each side. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I believe the RECORD 
will reflect that Senator FAIRCLOTH 
was granted permission to speak for 3 
minutes since we yielded back 6 minutes 
of his time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. If the 
Senator would kindly put that in the 
form of a UC request. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I ask unanimous 
consent that Senator FAIRCLOTH have 3 
minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from North Carolina. 

Mr. FAIRCLOTH. I rise to speak on 
the Hutchison-Faircloth marriage tax 
elimination amendment. It is cosponsored 
by a number of Senators: Senator 
DOMENICI, Senator INHOFE, Senator 
HUTCHINSON of Arkansas, and Senator 
GRAMM of Texas. 

Mr. President, I want to thank Chairman 
DOMENICI for the tremendous help 
on the issue he has given us on the 
elimination of the marriage tax in this 

budget resolution. What this amendment 
says is very simple, that it is the 
sense of the Senate that eliminating 
the marriage penalty tax should be one 
of the highest priorities for tax relief 
this year. 

The Congressional Budget Office has 
reported that in 1996, 21 million American 
couples paid an average of $1,400 
more in income tax simply because 
they were married. The marriage penalty, 
as it is sometimes called, comes 
about as a result of the way the Tax 
Code is written. It needs to be rewritten 
so that couples who chose to marry 
do not get a hefty tax bill for choosing 
to make that decision. 

We should be encouraging couples to 
marry, not handing them a $1,400 tax 
bill. I introduced this legislation along 
with Senator HUTCHISON to correct this 
problem. The majority leader, Senator 
TRENT LOTT, has also been tremendously 
supportive. Senator HUTCHISON, 
Senator LOTT, and I recently pledged 
on Valentine’s Day that we would work 
to remove this burdensome tax known 
as the marriage penalty. I think that it 
is a reasonable goal. We are a step closer 
today with the budget resolution. I 
urge support for the amendment, and I 
yield back any time. 

Mr. THURMOND. Will the Senator 
add me as a cosponsor? 

Mr. FAIRCLOTH. I would be delighted 
to. 

I ask unanimous consent that Senator 
THURMOND be added as a cosponsor 
to my amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Who seeks recognition? Who yields 
time? 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, if 
there is any time left on Senator FAIRCLOTH’s 
amendment, I would like to 
just say I am very pleased to support 
his leadership on the marriage penalty 
tax. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
are 40 seconds left allocated to the Senator 
from North Carolina. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. I ask unanimous 
consent to have that 40 seconds. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the 
Senator from North Carolina yield his 
40 seconds to the distinguished Senator 
from Texas? 

Mr. FAIRCLOTH. Yes. 

Mrs. HUTCHISON. Thank you. 

I urge all my colleagues to vote for 
the sense of the Senate, which basically 
says it will be a priority of Congress 
to eliminate the marriage penalty 
tax. People should not have to 
choose between love and money in this 
country, but 21 million couples are 
doing it. And they are the police and 
schoolteachers, people making $28,000 
and $32,000 that are getting hit the 
worst with taxes up to $1,400 just because 
they got married. That is not 
right. It is a priority of Congress to 
change that. And I urge my colleagues 
to say that the U.S. Senate is going to 
fix this problem very soon. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
have expressed myself before. I am con


cerned about trying to initiate change 
this year, but I think it is fairly clear 
that this amendment has support. We 
do not want to continue a penalty in 
any way, whether it is marriage and 
taxes or marriage and any place. So 
unless there is someone else on my side 
who wants to use a few seconds, I yield 
back my time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
is yielded back. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I ask for the yeas 
and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? There is a sufficient 
second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the amendment. 
The yeas and nays have been ordered. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

Mr. FORD. I announce that the Senator 
from West Virginia (Mr. ROCKEFELLER) 
is necessarily absent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 99, 
nays 0, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 59 Leg.] 

YEAS—99 
Abraham Faircloth Lieberman 
Akaka Feingold Lott 
Allard Feinstein Lugar 
Ashcroft Ford Mack 
Baucus Frist McCain 
Bennett Glenn McConnell 
Biden Gorton Mikulski 
Bingaman Graham Moseley-Braun 
Bond Gramm Moynihan 
Boxer Grams Murkowski 
Breaux Grassley Murray 
Brownback Gregg Nickles 
Bryan Hagel Reed 
Bumpers Harkin Reid 
Burns Hatch Robb 
Byrd Helms Roberts 
Campbell Hollings Roth 
Chafee Hutchinson Santorum 
Cleland Hutchison Sarbanes 
Coats Inhofe Sessions 
Cochran Inouye Shelby 
Collins Jeffords Smith (NH) 
Conrad Johnson Smith (OR) 
Coverdell Kempthorne Snowe 
Craig Kennedy Specter 
D’Amato Kerrey Stevens 
Daschle Kerry Thomas 
DeWine Kohl Thompson 
Dodd Kyl Thurmond 
Domenici Landrieu Torricelli 
Dorgan Lautenberg Warner 
Durbin Leahy Wellstone 
Enzi Levin Wyden 

NOT VOTING—1 

Rockefeller 

The amendment (No. 2251) was agreed 
to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

Mr. LOTT. This is the last vote tonight. 
Senator DASCHLE and I talked 
and we want the Members to know 
there will be a series of votes beginning 
tomorrow morning at 9 o’clock—probably 
two on judges and five amendments 
that the managers are going to 
have ready to vote on in the morning— 
beginning at 9 o’clock, with seven 
votes in a series. 

I yield the floor. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2211 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
pending amendment is the Craig 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2951 

amendment No. 2211. The point of order 
was raised against the amendment on 
the basis that it is not germane. The 
pending question is on the motion to 
waive the Budget Act to allow the consideration 
of the amendment for which 
a rollcall vote has been ordered. One 
minute is allocated to each side. 

The Senator from Idaho is recognized. 


Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I ask my 
colleagues tonight to vote with me to 
waive the Budget Act. It is the first 
step to reigning in the uncontrolled 
costs to mandatory spending programs. 
Your vote tonight merely extends the 
same treatment to mandatory spending 
that already exists to annually appropriated 
discretionary spending; that 
new programs will offset with savings 
in existing programs; that mandatory 
spending is out of control—we all know 
that. 

While this is a balanced budget in the 
outyears of 2020, and 2035, we will be 
looking at spending up to 200 plus percent 
of the gross domestic product. 

The Craig amendment will not affect 
a single current beneficiary of a single 
existing program. The Craig amendment 
will not affect a single person 
who will qualify to become a beneficiary 
under current entitlement programs. 


We need to start with a single, simple, 
first step, toward reigning in mandatory 
spending. An aye vote starts us 
in that direction. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
hope that the Senators will oppose this 
attempt to waive the point of order. 

This is a new scheme for things. It 
says that we ought to depart from 
present pay-as-you-go rules. It would 
give special protection to special interest 
tax loopholes at the expense of programs 
like Social Security and Medicare. 


Mr. President, very simply, I urge my 
colleagues to vote against the waiver. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the motion 
to waive the Budget Act. 

The yeas and nays have been ordered. 
The clerk will call the roll. 
The legislative clerk called the roll. 
Mr. FORD. I announce that the Sen


ator from West Virginia (Mr. ROCKEFELLER) 
is necessarily absent. 
The result was announced—yeas 54, 
nays 45, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 60 Leg.] 

YEAS—54 
Abraham Domenici Kempthorne 
Allard Enzi Kerrey 
Ashcroft Faircloth Kyl 
Bennett Frist Lott 
Bond Gorton Lugar 
Brownback Gramm Mack 
Burns Grams McCain 
Byrd Grassley McConnell 
Coats Gregg Murkowski 
Cochran Hagel Nickles 
Collins Hatch Robb 
Coverdell Helms Roberts 
Craig Hutchinson Roth 
D’Amato Hutchison Santorum 
DeWine Inhofe Sessions 

Shelby Snowe Thompson 
Smith (NH) Stevens Thurmond 
Smith (OR) Thomas Warner 
NAYS—45 

Akaka Durbin Lautenberg 
Baucus Feingold Leahy 
Biden Feinstein Levin 
Bingaman Ford Lieberman 
Boxer Glenn Mikulski 
Breaux Graham Moseley-Braun 
Bryan Harkin Moynihan 
Bumpers Hollings Murray 
Campbell Inouye Reed 
Chafee Jeffords Reid 
Cleland Johnson Sarbanes 
Conrad Kennedy Specter 
Daschle Kerry Torricelli 
Dodd Kohl Wellstone 
Dorgan Landrieu Wyden 

NOT VOTING—1 

Rockefeller 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HUTCHINSON). On this vote the yeas 
are 54, the nays are 45. Three-fifths of 
the Senators duly chosen and sworn 
not having voted in the affirmative, 
the motion is rejected. The point of 
order is sustained, and the amendment 
falls. 

The Senator from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
gather the sequencing would be that 
Senator DORGAN will start and then 
Senator ALLARD will follow, and then 
Senator LAUTENBERG, and then Senator 
BOND, and then Senator BUMPERS. We 
will arrange for Senator BUMPERS by 
unanimous consent. 

Mr. President, before we start the 
order here, might I suggest that Senator 
BUMPERS would be our fifth 
amendment tonight, but we have 
agreed with him that we will come in 
at 8:30 in the morning instead of 9. He 
will offer his amendment, and thus the 
half-hour between 8:30 and 9 will be 
available for the agreed-upon time, 
which is a half-hour, equally divided, 
for the Bumpers amendment. He is 
here. 

I ask unanimous consent that when 
we start up in the morning at 8:30 the 
order of business be the Bumpers 
amendment, and pursuant to the previous 
order there be a half-hour equally 
divided on that and the vote eventually 
be on or in relationship to that and we 
waive no points of order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Senator, I wonder if 
the Senator would accommodate me 
for about 6 or 7 minutes. Senator GORTON 
would like to speak on a matter. I 
ask consent he be permitted to speak 
for 6 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The Senator 
from Washington is recognized. 

MR. GORTON. I thank the Chair. 

(The remarks of Mr. GORTON pertaining 
to the introduction of S. 1904 
are located in today’s RECORD under 
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and 
Joint Resolutions.’’) 

Mr. GORTON. I thank the Senator 

from New Mexico. 

Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from North Dakota. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2218, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the pending 
amendment be set aside and that my 
amendment No. 2218 be called up and 
that my amendment be modified with 
the modification I now send to the 
desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The amendment 
is so modified. 

The amendment, as modified, is as 
follows: 

Strike page 33, line 3, through page 34, line 
3, and insert the following: 
SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE TAX 

TREATMENT OF HOME MORTGAGE 

INTEREST AND CHARITABLE GIVING. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) current Federal income tax laws embrace 
a number of fundamental tax policies 
including longstanding encouragement for 
home ownership and charitable giving, expanded 
health and retirement benefits; 
(2) the mortgage interest deduction is 
among the most important incentives in the 
income tax code and promotes the American 
Dream of home ownership—the single largest 
investment for most families, and preserving 
it is critical for the more than 20,000,000 families 
claiming it now and for millions more 
in the future; 
(3) favorable tax treatment to encourage 
gifts to charities is a longstanding principle 
that helps charities raise funds needed to 
provide services to poor families and others 
when government is simply unable or unwilling 
to do so, and maintaining this tax incentive 
will help charities raise money to meet 
the challenges of their charitable missions in 
the decades ahead; 
(4) legislation has been proposed to repeal 
the entire income tax code at the end of the 
year 2001 without providing a specific replacement; 
and 
(5) recklessly sunsetting the entire income 
tax code threatens our Nation’s future economic 
growth and unwisely eliminates existing 
tax incentives that are crucial for taxpayers 
who are often making the most important 
financial decisions of their lives. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that the levels in this resolution 
assume that Congress supports the continued 
tax deductibility of home mortgage interest 
and charitable contributions. 
Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I ask 
the Chair to notify me when I have 
used 5 minutes. I will then yield 5 minutes 
to the Senator from Arkansas and 
yield back the remainder of the time. 

My amendment is very simple. There 
is in the budget resolution brought to 
the floor of the Senate a sense-of-the-
Senate provision that will sunset the 
Internal Revenue Code on December 31, 
2001. 

My amendment strikes that provision 
and in its place it inserts language 
saying it is the sense of the Congress 
that we support the continued tax deductibility 
of the home mortgage interest 
deduction, charitable contributions, 
and so on. 

My point is this: It is irresponsible, 
in my judgment, to talk about 
sunsetting the Tax Code and a progressive 
income tax without providing any 
means of telling the American people 
what you would put in its place. 

I want to read something from the 
Tax Executives Institute. They represent 
some 5,000 corporations around 
the country. 


S2952 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

They write that it is folly to make 
tax policy by sound bite, and proposals 
to sunset the Tax Code without making 
provisions for its replacement or telling 
the American people what you propose 
for replacement ought to be rejected. 


This is what they say: 

For example, a company that otherwise 
would invest millions of dollars in a multi-
year expansion of its manufacturing facilities 
might well demur if the pending legislation 
were enacted because of uncertainty 
over whether or how, after December 31, 2001, 

it would recover its costs. 

They wouldn’t know: 

To repeal the Internal Revenue Code without 
specifying a replacement system—to 
exalt the exhilaration of ‘‘doing it now’’ over 
the necessity of ‘‘doing it right’’—is to 
threaten major disruptions of the economy 
and the lives of the American people. 

The question I have is this: For those 
who say let’s sunset the entire Tax 
Code, I say, when you say sunset the 
Tax Code in 2001, what are you going to 
replace it with, a national sales tax? A 
Brookings Institution study on that 
says if you want to replace the current 
progressive income tax with a national 
sales tax, you are probably talking 
about at least a 35 percent tax rate. I 
know that the proponents of a national 
sales tax say a 15 percent rate will 
work. But study after study shows that 
you are probably talking a 35 percent 
tax rate, and that is the 35 percent 
sales tax, for example, when you buy a 
home. Think of adding 35 percent to 
the cost of buying a home. 

How about a flat tax or a VAT tax? A 
Treasury Department analysis in 1996 
took a look at one of the major flat tax 
proposals in the Congress. It says the 
flat tax will reduce taxes for families 
with incomes of $200,000 or more, and 
increase taxes for families with incomes 
under $200,000. Is that what the 
American people want? To sunset the 
entire Tax Code and replace it with— 
tax breaks for the highest income folks 
and higher taxes for the rest? 

I ask the question, Is the current Tax 
Code perfect? No. Are there significant 
troubles with it? Yes. I have a proposal 
on what we ought to do about that. I 
think my plan would greatly simplify 
the tax system for most Americans. 
But it does not include flat tax, VAT 
tax, sales tax, all of which would tax 
work and exempt investment, cut only 
upper-income folks’ taxes and increase 
taxes on working folks. That is exactly 
what all the proposals are about ricocheting 
around this Chamber. 

Don’t take it from me, take it from 
the Treasury analysis, take it from the 
Congressional Budget Office analysis, 
take it from any study you like. But 
those who want to abolish the current 
Tax Code rather than fix what is wrong 
with the current Tax Code want to replace 
it, in most cases, with something 
that says, ‘‘Let’s tax work and let’s exempt 
investments. Let’s propose a new 
system that lowers the tax burden on 
upper-income folks and raises the tax 
burden on the rest.’’ 

I will tell those who offer this proposal 
that everyone out there in this 

country who owns a home and understands 
their home mortgage interest is 
deductible from their income tax, if 
this sort of thing ever passes, they will 
be told by this Congress, ‘‘Don’t count 
on deductibility of your home mortgage 
interest, because we may not have 
a tax system that allows that. Don’t 
count on the deductibility of your 
home mortgage interest, because we 
may abolish the tax system. In fact, we 
want to sunset it, abolish it, replace it 
with something else, but we don’t want 
to tell you what that something else 
is.’’ 

It is highly irresponsible, in my judgment, 
to say let us just abolish the Tax 
Code as of December 31, 2001 before 
agreeing on a replacement. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
5 minutes have expired. 

Mr. DORGAN. I ask for 30 additional 
seconds, and then I will yield 5 minutes 
to the Senator from Arkansas, or as 
much time as he needs under the allotment. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I understand 
this proposal to terminate the 
tax code has been ricocheting around 
for some long while. The Tax Executives 
Institute says it best. This is a 
good sound bite, but it is a poor excuse 
for good policy. Don’t take it from me, 
take it from American corporations 
and taxpayers who need certainty. 

Those who want to terminate the entire 
Internal Revenue Code in this 
manner risk creating financial trouble 
for millions of homeowners. Nearly 
thirty million homeowners who would 
ask you: If you want to get rid of the 
current Tax Code, what are your intentions 
with respect to the tax deductibility 
of my home mortgage interest? 
Do you intend to keep that? If not, why 
not? What do you say to folks who have 
invested in a home and whose home 
values will now drop because this proposal 
would abolish the deductibility of 
home mortgage interest? 

If this extreme measure is enacted, 
future home buyers would likely find it 
more difficult to purchase a new home 
and realize the American Dream of 
home ownership. This is because, in addition 
to losing the tax deduction, such 
a move would surely result in great uncertainty 
for our financial markets, 
lead to higher interest rates, and otherwise 
increase the costs of purchasing 
a new home—already the largest single 
financial investment for most families. 

Another one of the many important 
casualties caused by these efforts to 
terminate the Tax Code would be the 
tax incentives that encourage millions 
of taxpayers to make gifts to charities 
that provide services to needy families 
and others. Charities perform an important 
public service by providing 
help to others when the government is 
unwilling or unable to do so. At a time 
when the government is downsizing 
and we are asking charities and other 
groups to do more, we ought not take 
away their key tax tools for attracting 

the funds they need to meet future 
challenges. But that’s exactly what 
would happen should this sunsetting 
proposal become law. 

These are just two examples of the 
serious problems caused by this wrong-
headed proposal. For all of the uncertainties 
this proposal would create, one 
thing seems certain to me: this sunset 
provision will leave most Americans in 
the dark. 

My amendment is simple, it strikes 
the sunset provision and inserts something 
in place of it that I think makes 
sense: support for the continued tax deduction 
for home mortgage interest, 
charitable giving and more. I hope my 
colleagues will support that motion to 
strike. 

I yield as much time as he may consume 
to the Senator from Arkansas, 
Senator BUMPERS. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arkansas. 

Mr. BUMPERS. Mr. President, first I 
express my sincere gratitude to the 
Senator from North Dakota for taking 
on this issue. I decided perhaps nobody 
was going to offer such an amendment. 
But I take this opportunity to say to 
my colleagues and the American people, 
for that matter—we are not supposed 
to call attention to C-SPAN2, 
but I hope a lot of people are watching 
C-SPAN2 because I want to say that 
this is my 24th year in the Senate, and 
this is the most irresponsible, without 
question, the most irresponsible provision 
I have ever seen in a piece of legislation. 
The very idea of saying we are 
going to abolish the Internal Revenue 
Code without a clue as to what we are 
going to replace it with is the height of 
irresponsibility. 

I know the applause lines. As the old 
saying goes, I know how to bring people 
to their feet. The object of any responsible 
legislator is to bring people 
to their senses. Everybody knows that 
when you talk to the Chamber of Commerce, 
if you are looking for that nice 
applause, just get on the Internal Revenue 
Service. Everybody has his own 
favorite horror story. I have my own. I 
daresay every Member of this body has 
his own horror story about their arrogance, 
how overbearing they are, how 
they have cost you money. Those are 
indefensible. I am not defending those. 

But I can tell you, if you think the 
year 2000 computer glitch is bad, if you 
think that may bring this country to 
the brink of disaster, you just eliminate 
the Internal Revenue Code with 
absolutely no thought of what you are 
going to replace it with, just as this 
country is on a sound financial basis, 
and as we are looking forward to a surplus 
this year, what in the name of all 
that is good and holy are we thinking 
about? 

Is it going to be a flat tax? That gets 
a lot of applause in some places. As far 
as I am concerned, the flat tax was created 
by the ‘‘Flat Earth Society,’’ but 
that is beside the point. I know how to 
get applause talking about a flat tax. 
Everybody ‘‘pays the same amount.’’ 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2953 

Is it going to be replaced by some 
kind of a flat tax where your church 
contributions won’t be deductible? Is it 
going to be a flat tax where, as the 
Senator from North Dakota has pointed 
out, your mortgage interest will not 
be deductible? ‘‘Mr. Businessman, before 
you applaud, are you willing to 
give up depreciation? Are you willing 
to give up hundreds of other things 
that are in the code now that you know 
about?’’ 

I will tell you one thing, I will take 
the known, no matter how bad it may 
be, before I will take the unknown. And 
for the Members of the Senate to buy 
into this proposition of saying we are 
going to eliminate—eliminate—the Internal 
Revenue Code with nothing to 
replace it—do you know something, I 
didn’t vote for that extra thousand 
pages in the Internal Revenue Code 
last summer. All the people who were 
so hot for the balanced budget amendment 
and the big tax cuts and what do 
we get? A thousand more pages in the 
Internal Revenue Code so they can go 
out and tell the Chamber of Commerce 
what a horror it is—the same people 
who bring you this piece of trash. 

Mr. President, I, again, thank my 
friend from North Dakota for alerting 
the people of this body and, hopefully, 
across America, that we are not just 
going to take this country to the brink 
of a disaster, we are going to take it 
right over the brink, and if you get to 
the year 2000 after you eliminate the 
Internal Revenue Code and you don’t 
have anything to collect $1.7 trillion 
with, you tell the Social Security recipients 
how that is going to work out. 
Tell everybody—the Medicare people— 
how that is going to work out. 

I plead with my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle, do not buy into an 
applause line. Keep your sanity and do 
the rational thing and strike this from 
this resolution. 

I yield back the remainder of my 

time. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, one of 
the proponents of this provision, although 
I saw to it that it was put in 
the resolution, is Senator BROWNBACK 
who is standing now and wants to be 
recognized. Is the Senator going to lead 
off on his side? 

Mr. BROWNBACK. Yes. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield 5 minutes to 
the Senator, and then I will yield 5 
minutes to the next Senator who is his 
copartner in getting this done. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Kansas. 

Mr. BROWNBACK. Thank you, Mr. 
President. I thank the chairman of the 
Budget Committee for including this 
provision in the budget and for being a 
cosponsor, along with 37 other Members 
of the U.S. Senate, of this provision. 


I have a quiz, if I can, for the Members 
who are still watching. Just a simple 
question; a series of facts and then 
a question. 

Let me ask people to, if they will, go 
through this quiz with me of, what is 10 
million words long, cost over $150 billion 
annually just to comply with, is 
unintelligible by almost every American, 
including those with advanced degrees, 
advanced law degrees, advanced 
tax degrees, and is the lead way Washington 
mismanages and micromanages 
our lives? What one thing is that? 

It is the Tax Code. 

The Tax Code is over 10 million 
words, costs over $150 billion just to 
comply with before anybody pays a 
thin dime on this Tax Code. It is unintelligible 
to people who are tax law experts, 
and is the lead way that Washington 
micromanages individual lives 
across this country. It is no wonder 
this is an applause line. It is because 
people despise this code. It has been 
amended and added to and jiggered 
with over the years and years to where 
it just does not make any sense. 

All the resolution says is that we 
should sunset the code at the end of 
the year 2001. We sunset many Federal 
programs when many Federal programs 
are required for reauthorization. 

I heard the arguments on the other 
side from my colleagues from North 
Dakota and Arkansas—very good men, 
with a great deal of integrity and 
honor. But we disagree on this. I have 
to say their arguments sound very familiar. 
They sound very familiar to the 
time when we had the debate about 
balancing the budget by a date certain. 

The President then was saying, ‘‘If 
we balance the budget by a date certain, 
by 7 years, it’s going to throw the 
economy into a tailspin, it’s going to 
do all these terrible things. You don’t 
know how you’re going to balance the 
budget, do you?’’ We said, ‘‘We know a 
number of ways to balance this budget. 
And if we don’t set a date by which 
we’re going to accomplish it, it’ll never 
get done.’’ 

That is the same theory with this 
bill. There are a number of ways to 
redo the Tax Code. I am glad to hear 
Senator DORGAN has a proposal himself. 
There is a flat tax proposal, there 
is a consumption tax proposal, there is 
a VAT tax proposal. Congressman GEPHARDT 
has proposals. There are a number 
of them. And we will be phasing in 
transitions the same as phasing in on 
different programs we have gone to. 

But the point of it here is, if we do 
not start, we will never get there. If we 
do not start, we are going to enter the 
next century for long periods of time 
with this same Tax Code in place. Let 
me say to the people here who are listening, 
we cannot have another American 
century built on this Tax Code. It 
is so big and so intrusive that people 
live in fear of it. Small businesses live 
in fear of this Tax Code because they 
use so many resources to comply with 
it. And when they comply with it, they 
still do not know what they have actually 
done to comply with the law. 

So all we are saying by this little 
provision that is in the budget accord 
is, let us deal with this Tax Code by 

the end of the year 2001. It leaves alone 
Social Security and Medicare. Those 
are not touched in this. So in case people 
are saying that they are worried 
about Social Security and Medicare, it 
is not touched in the bill. 

We are saying, if we are ever going to 
get rid of this that has haunted us for 
so long, we have to set a date certain 
by which we will do it. I think it is a 
good provision in the budget resolution. 
I urge my colleagues to vote 
against this amendment so we can have 
another American century with a different 
taxation system. 

I yield to my colleague from Arkansas. 


Mr. DOMENICI. I yield to Senator 
HUTCHINSON who has been one of the 
coleaders on this issue. 

Mr. HUTCHINSON. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 

I wish my good friend and colleague 
from Arkansas, Senator BUMPERS, had 
been able to stay because he called this 
the most irresponsible piece of legislation 
that he has heard of during his 
time. This isn’t about applause lines 
and not about flat taxes or flatter. It is 
about whether or not we are going to 
vote to defend the status quo, whether 
we are going to vote to defend an incomprehensible 
monstrosity called the 
IRS Tax Code. 

I want to begin my remarks by just 
quoting the words of James Madison in 
Federalist Paper No. 62 when he said: 

It will be of little avail to the people. . .if 
the laws be so voluminous that they cannot 
be read, or so incoherent that they cannot be 
understood; if they be repealed or revised before 
they are promulgated, or undergo such 
incessant changes that no man, who knows 
what the law is today, can guess what it will 
be tomorrow. 

I think if he were writing today, he 
would be talking about the IRS Tax 
Code being incomprehensible. The biggest 
issue raised against it is that it is 
going to cause uncertainty if we repeal 
it, if we sunset it, and that it is going 
to cause uncertainty. 

Mr. President I can think of no greater 
expert on the economy or the effects 
of public policy on the economy than 
Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. 
All of this ‘‘the sky is falling,’’ 
all of this fearmongering, all of this 
rhetoric that this is going to somehow 
cause economic chaos—Mr. Greenspan 
said, in testifying before the Senate 
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
Committee in 1995: 

Sunsetting is a very important process for 
both regulation and various different types 
of legislation. 

He was asked: 

If we’re talking about sunsetting regulations, 
should we sunset taxes as well. . .? 

He responded: 

I cannot find reasons why all programs 
should not have specific time-certain ends to 
them and be required to be reauthorized. 

He went on: 


S2954 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

After a period of years, I would say yes to 
that. I would say all institutions of a democratic 
society should be reviewed. . .the presumption 
that institutions should not be reviewed 
periodically in a democratic society 
is a mistake. 

Mr. President, we just passed in this 
Chamber a transportation funding bill, 
the ISTEA bill. We would not have 
done it had it not been sunsetted, had 
it not expired, had it not had to be reauthorized. 
We would have never forced 
ourselves to do it. 

Today I spent most of my day in a 
higher education reauthorization 
markup. We did that because the last 
one is expiring, because it was 
sunsetted. We do that on spending bills 
all the time—the IDEA bill. Why 
should we not also do that on bills on 
the Tax Code that has become so incomprehensible 
to the American people? 


Senator BUMPERS, my good friend 
from Arkansas, said it is the height of 
irresponsibility to sunset something 
before you know what you are going to 
replace it with. I am so glad—I am so 
glad—that our Founding Fathers did 
not adopt such a position. To say that 
you cannot pass a law until a new law 
is ready to replace it ignores the rich 
history of this country that was founded 
by a group of freedom lovers who 
signed the Declaration of Independence 
12 years before the Constitution was 
drafted and implemented. Surely we 
can do that with just one title of the 

U.S. Code. 
To say that it is the height of irresponsibility—
can you imagine our 
Founding Fathers saying, ‘‘Well, it’s 
very irresponsible for us to declare 
independence before we know what the 
Constitution is going to look like or 
before we know what the Government 
is going to look like or before we know 
what the Tax Code is going to look 
like.’’ 

We know one thing. We may not 
know, I say to my colleague, whether 
we want a flat tax, sales tax, value 
added tax, or some other hybrid, but 
we, as the American people, know that 
of what we have, we deserve better, 
that this serves no one, and the April 
Fool’s joke is to defend this Tax Code, 
which is the nightmare for the American 
people 2 weeks before they reach 
this deadline. 

I urge my colleagues to vote no on 
this resolution which would delete this 
important sunset provision sense of the 
Senate from our budget resolution. I 
thank the chairman for his leadership 
on this issue. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I think that 3, 4 
years ago, 5 years ago, someone might 
have walked up to me and said, ‘‘Senator 
DOMENICI, why are you on such a 
measure?’’ But for many years, more 
than 5, I have been telling New Mexicans 
and every American that I could 
speak to that we are going to reform 
the tax laws of America. And guess 

what has happened. They now consist 
of 17,000 pages of laws. That is not the 
regulations and all the other things— 
17,000. And every year that passed, 
since that 5 or 6 years ago when we 
started talking about basic reform, the 
tax laws got more complicated, more 
difficult, cost more money, and more 
detrimental to the American economy 
with the passage of each year. 

Frankly, I am on this bill and I decided 
to put it in the budget resolution 
because it seemed to me that we were 
muscle bound. We could not get anything 
done. I believe the right thing to 
do when you are in that condition, and 
the people are suffering from it, and 
the country is suffering from it, is that 
you say there is going to be an ‘‘or 
else’’ to this—‘‘you fix it or else.’’ 

That is what sunsetting is. But nobody 
should think that we are talking 
about sunsetting a code without prescribing 
some basic fundamentals 
about the code we intend to replace, 
that defective, deficient one. And anybody 
who is interested in knowing 
whether we just said, ‘‘Let’s do away 
with the code,’’ or whether we spoke 
intelligently and with great common 
sense, right to what the American people 
are worried about, just turn to page 
33 of S. Con. Res. 86—and if my time 
runs out in the middle of these next 
two or three paragraphs, just stop me. 
But the findings are found in this resolution. 
And it says: 

Findings—Congress finds that a simple and 
fair Federal tax system is one that— 

(1) applies a low rate, through easily understood 
laws, to all Americans; 
(2) provides tax relief for working Americans; 
(3) protects the rights of taxpayers and reduces 
tax collection abuses; 
(4) eliminates bias against savings and investment; 
(5) promotes economic growth and job creation; 
(6) does not penalize marriage or families; 
(7) provides for a taxpayer-friendly collections 
process.... 
And then it goes on to say that the 
reason for this sunset is ‘‘that a new 
Federal tax system’’—not nothing, as 
was suggested, but ‘‘a new Federal tax 
system will be enacted that is both 
simple and fair as described in’’ the 
provisions that I just read 2 minutes 
ago. 

That is what the American people 
want to hear, that we are going to do 
away with this one because we want to 
pass a new one and more like it. And if 
we can pass the law and send it to the 
President with the real sunset, it is a 
message to the committees of the Congress, 
to the reformers who seem to 
never end in terms of, what are we 
going to get in place of this one, that 
the time is running out, the clock is 
ticking. And that is what this is about. 

I believe the American people, although 
they have been fed some shock 
medicine by the President, who talks 
about how irresponsible this is, if they 
heard this read, what we propose, that 
we are saying stop what is currently an 
abomination and substitute it with a 

new one that does the following things, 
would say, ‘‘Hallelujah. Let’s do it.’’ 

So I believe we should turn down the 
proposal that attempts to wipe this out 
of the budget. It is the right place to 
have it. It is the right thing to do. And 
if we want a good future, we are right 
on track. Fix Social Security in the 
way we have been discussing, take care 
of Medicare, and fix it, and reform this 
Tax Code; and we will be giving our 
children and future generations the 
best present that we could give anyone 
as elected adult leaders. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I yield 
to my friend from New Jersey. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Yes. Mr. President, 
I sat and listened here with wonderment. 
We are about ready to say, 
‘‘Let’s get rid of this other thing because 
that will make us behave like responsible 
citizens. That’s the only way 
we can do it.’’ We heard the same 
speeches, with all due respect, about 
whether or not we needed a balanced 
budget amendment because we cannot 
discipline ourselves, and, thank the 
Lord, that failed. And we did not alter 
the Constitution, and we did not get 
into the ridiculous kind of arguments 
that we would have. We just went out 
and did it. 

To my friends on the other side I 
would say, have faith, have faith in 
your own ability that you can make a 
difference. You have a majority. Let us 
change it. But if you want to burn 
down the house so we can be forced to 
move and find another location, I think 
that is a pretty poor way of conducting 
business. I see what the distinguished 
Senator from New Mexico has proposed 
as an alternative, something that promotes 
economic growth, something 
that is a low tax rate. 

This amendment would delete the 
provision in the resolution calling for 
scrapping the tax code without an alternative. 
Instead, the amendment 
calls for the continued tax deductibility 
of home mortgage interest and 
charitable contributions. 

I share the frustration of most Americans 
about the Internal Revenue Service, 
and believe strongly that we must 
pass IRS reform legislation as soon as 
possible. The House approved similar 
legislation last year. It’s long past 
time for the Senate to act. 

At the same time, I have serious concerns 
about the proposal to scrap the 
tax code without an alternative. I 
think, with all due respect, that it is a 
reckless political gimmick that would 
backfire on this Congress. 

The main problem with this proposal 
is that it would create enormous uncertainty 
about the continued availability 
of many important tax code provisions. 
And that could create economic chaos 
and other problems for millions of 
Americans. 

The Finance Committee needs to 
consider these problems before we 
scrap the whole tax code. For example, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2955 

what will this do to the value of 
homes? How will uncertainty affect 
contributions to charities, or savings 
plans for retirement and education purposes? 
How will employers react to 
health and retirement plans; will they 
refuse to set up new plans? Will they 
reduce contributions to existing plans? 

What will be the overall effect of uncertainty 
on economic growth and job 
creation? These are important questions 
that need to be publicly examined. 


The Finance Committee ought to 
consider these types of questions before 
we approve sunsetting legislation. But 
I do think it is important that, in the 
meantime, we reaffirm our support for 
the mortgage interest deduction and 
the deduction for charitable contributions. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, in 
short, I hope that the amendment by 
the Senator from North Dakota will 
prevail, because it makes good sense 
and it tests the mettle of those who are 
voting. Thank you. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I guess 
I have 3 minutes remaining. The other 
side has 2. I will take my 3 minutes. 
They are welcome to finish. 

There is a wonderful legislative 
strategy, I guess, that if you cannot 
change the facts, change the subject. 
The subject here isn’t about the current 
Tax Code; the subject is about 
what do you want to put in place of a 
Tax Code you want to abolish? Something 
new, we are told. Well, it is interesting. 
There is nothing new around 
here that I see about the proposals to 
change the Tax Code. All the proposals 
I have seen are the same tired, old pro-
posals—exempt the rich, tax the rest, 
and call it reform. 

You think that is not the case? The 
plans out here are: Tax work and exempt 
investment; tax people to go to 
work; tax the income from work; say 
to those that clip coupons, you are exempt. 
Nothing new about that. People 
have been trying to do that for a century. 


The question I would ask the opponents 
of this amendment is, do you 
think the American people will be better 
off with a national sales tax plan? 
Is that what you are going to replace it 
with? 

Bill Gale at Brookings, who did this 
piece, says your national sales tax 
rate, by the way, despite all the numbers 
they tell you, will be 35 percent. 
Want to pay a 35 percent sales tax on a 
home you buy? Do you think you are 
better off with that kind of tax program? 
Do you think you are better off 
with a program that has also been introduced 
here in the Congress that the 
Treasury Department analyzes that everybody 
over $200,000 gets a big tax 
cut? Everybody under $200,000 a year in 
income gets a big tax increase? Do you 
think you will be better off with that 

kind of Tax Code? I don’t think so. Is a 
business going to be better off when 
they find they can’t get their existing 
depreciation deductions ? Or tens of 
millions of homeowners will be better 
off when they discover they can’t deduct 
their home mortgage interest? 

No, this isn’t about change. And with 
respect to Mr. Greenspan, who we are 
told about here—Mr. Greenspan, of 
course, is the fellow who said if we ever 
go below 6 percent unemployment we 
have calamity in this country. It has 
been about 45 months that we have 
been below 6 percent unemployment 
and the economy is doing well and inflation 
is in check. He was wrong about 
that. He said we will have a new wave 
of inflation, every month. He has been 
wrong about that for 4 years. Inflation 
is way down. I was about ready to 
think maybe the Senator had merit 
until he started talking about Greenspan 
supporting his case. 

Sunset the Tax Code—what will you 
replace it with? Will the American people 
be better off with a flat tax? A VAT 
tax? A national sales tax? 

This is the only town in America 
where people think it is a bold new 
stroke, having a billionaire proposing a 
tax plan that would cut his taxes by 
hundreds of millions of dollars. That is 
not bold or new. It is the same tired old 
argument the American people have 
heard for years and years and years. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Will the Senator 
yield? 

Mr. DORGAN. I am happy to yield to 
the Senator. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Does the Senator 
know that Chairman ROTH in a March 
13, 1998, letter— 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
of the Senator has expired. 

The Senator from New Mexico has 1 
minute 45 seconds. 

Mr. BROWNBACK. Will the Senator 
yield 1 minute? 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield 1 minute. 

Mr. BROWNBACK. I guess the rationale 
of the Senator from North Dakota 
is we are stuck with this Tax Code forever 
and that is the way it will be. 

Frankly, there are a lot of different 
ideas floating around. I heard the Senator 
from North Dakota has a tax proposal, 
as well. 

I simply ask people looking at this, 
could we do any worse than this current 
Tax Code? If I had a stack of 
books here now, it would be this tall. I 
am a lawyer. I confess that sin. I 
looked at this Tax Code and it is unintelligible. 
We couldn’t do any worse 
with something different. 

Mr. HUTCHINSON. Will the Senator 

yield some time to me? 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield 40 seconds. 

Mr. HUTCHINSON. The language 
contained in our budget resolution 
mimics the language of the Tax Code 
Termination Act. Thirty-eight Members 
of the Senate are cosponsoring it; 
154 Members of the House. It is responsible 
language that will force this Congress 
to act. It will force the national 
debate, it will force a consensus, and it 
will force us to make a decision. 

We can do better and the American 
people deserve better. We need to set a 
sunset for this Tax Code. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. If the discussion 
on the amendment is done, I yield myself 
2 minutes off the bill. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I thought we weren’t 
going to do that. We entered a unanimous 
consent agreement that we 
couldn’t do that. Or did we say we 
would only do it for ourselves? 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I guess that is 
what I thought we said, but it is like 
the Senator made a mistake and 
thought 7 o’clock was 9 o’clock. 

Fair enough. 

Mr. DOMENICI. How many seconds 
do I have? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
of the Senator has expired. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I gave him 40 seconds 
and you said I had 57 seconds. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Time 
was counting as the Senator was asking 
the question. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Thirty seconds 
apiece. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Thirty seconds 
apiece. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. In my 30 seconds, 
by unanimous consent, Mr. President, 
I say that it is important to note 
that in a March 13, 1998, letter to the 
Budget Committee, Chairman ROTH 
wrote, ‘‘I believe a comprehensive overhaul 
of the Tax Code should be in place 
before any action is taken to sunset 
the existing Tax Code.’’ 

I rest my case. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Senator DORGAN proposed 
to us, and I think to the American 
people, that he is not for reform 
and he likes the current tax system. 
Unless that is the case, then it seems 
to me he would at least permit those 
who write the tax laws to try to write 
a new one that is better than this one. 

My question is, do you like the Tax 
Code the way it is? Do you like tax reform, 
which has never been passed yet? 
We don’t know what it will be, except 
it will be better than this one. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
has expired. 

Mr. DORGAN. I ask for the yeas and 
nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2170 

Mr. ALLARD. I ask the pending 
amendment be laid aside and I ask to 
call up amendment No. 2170. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

Amendment numbered 2170, previously proposed 
by the Senator from Colorado [Mr. 
ALLARD]. 

Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, the purpose 
of the Allard amendment, which 
we did debate last night—I brought it 
back to continue the debate this 
evening—is to explain just how easy it 


S2956 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

is for us to make a commitment to pay 
down the debt by making some commitment 
of revenue flow for that sole 
purpose. 

I have a chart with a provision called 
the ‘‘American Debt Repayment Act.’’ 
Basically, what it does is take the 
budget bill, the 5-year plan we have before 
us, take the revenues, and say we 
don’t spend it, we save it to pay down 
the debt, and after 5 years we will take 
$11.7 billion, less than 1 percent of the 
total budget allocated over 30 years, 
and we will eliminate the debt by doing 
that. 

The American family today, when 
they take out their largest loan—usually 
to buy a new home—has a 30-year 
mortgage. I am just saying that we can 
make a minimal commitment from the 
budget and we can pay off this debt 
within 30 years. That is the reason I 
propose my amendment, because I 
want this body to make a minimal 
commitment to paying down the debt. 

When you do this, several things happen. 
First of all, there is tremendous 
savings on interest, some $3.7 trillion 
in interest over that 30 years that is 
saved that can be used for other programs, 
whether it is tax cuts or whether 
it is additional spending. I am not in 
favor of additional spending. I think 
tax cuts is the way to go, but the 
money is there to do it. We do this 
with this commitment, and yet when 
we do that we still let our budget grow 
traditionally at the rate it has been 
growing in the past. 

We are really not making a sacrifice 
but we are making a commitment, if 
we pass this Allard amendment, to help 
pay off the debt. If we pay off the debt 
in 30 years, that gets us out to year 
2027, 2028. If that has a familiar ring, 
let me remind Members that is the 
same date that many economists predict 
Social Security will be bankrupt. 
So this is a key first step in us being 
able to address some very serious problems 
that we are faced with today, and 
that is a Social Security that is getting 
ready to go bankrupt, a Medicare 
system that is even in worse shape 
than the Social Security system. This 
frees up revenue to address those kinds 
of problems. 

I asked the chairman of the Federal 
Reserve when he testified before the 
Banking Committee, Alan Greenspan, 
if he would comment about paying 
down the debt. He said he agrees that 
paying down the debt or eliminating 
the Federal debt would have several 
positive impacts on Social Security reform. 
I will quote his testimony before 
the Senate Banking Committee on the 
25th of February: 

The notion to pay down the debt creates a 
very large amount of savings in the system, 
a very big window to do a lot in the area of 
Social Security, if you go that direction. 

In a letter that I received from Alan 
Greenspan on March 26, 1998, he said: 
‘‘Budget surpluses will not by themselves 
make the current structure of 
Social Security taxes and benefits viable 
over the long run. Assuring pay


ment of intended benefits beyond that 
date will require some statutory adjustments 
to Social Security receipts 
and or benefits.’’ So he does recognize 
that there is definitely a correlation 
between Social Security reform and 
making a commitment to pay down 
that debt. 

I will comment about the impact of 
paying off the debt on the total economy. 
Again, I will quote the Chairman 
of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, 
when he testified before the Senate 
Banking Committee, again on the 
25th of February. In regard to the economy 
he says: ‘‘The means by which you 
pay off the debt is to run very substantial 
unified budget surpluses. What 
happens when you do that is you shift 
the issue of debt from the public to the 
private sector. I think there are very 
major benefits from that occurring.’’ 

So I think there is a lot of support 
from people who really know about the 
budget, know about the economy, 
know about Social Security, about 
this, and there are a lot of Americans 
who support the idea we ought to be 
paying down the debt. I think the Senate 
ought to show a similar commitment 
to pay down this huge debt, 
which is somewhere around $5.6 trillion. 


I have on the floor with me a colleague, 
and I yield 8 minutes to the 
Senator from Wyoming to talk about 
paying down the debt. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Wyoming. 

Mr. ENZI. I rise to express my support 
for the common sense amendment, 
No. 2170, which would pay down the national 
debt. 

When Congress was in session, and on 
most weekends, I traveled thousands of 
miles throughout the vast State of Wyoming. 
I polled people on what they 
think is the most important thing we 
can be doing with their money. I consistently 
heard many people say, ‘‘If 
there’s a surplus, pay down the debt.’’ 
I have to tell you, they don’t quite believe 
in the surplus we keep talking 
about back here because they understand 
Social Security. But they don’t 
want us squandering it on new spending 
and new ideas. 

If recent CBO statistics hold true, we 
should see a budget surplus of $8 billion 
in fiscal year 1999—not counting Social 
Security. However, we did not get to 
this point by exercising fiscal constraint. 
We still spend too much. We 
spend about $1.7 trillion every year. I 
voted against the spending portion of 
the balanced budget amendment of 1997 
because it seemed clear to me that 
more could have been done to cut down 
the size and scope of the Federal Government. 
We could have enacted more 
meaningful entitlement reform. We 
could have gotten the fiscal house in 
order faster. If not for the unexpected 
revenues that came as a result of 7 
years of economic expansion, we would 
not be close to eliminating that deficit 
today. 

Just the interest that we are now 
paying on the Federal debt has reached 

about 15 percent of the total budget 
outlays. That amounts to about $250 
billion that cannot be used for education 
or military readiness or national 
defense. The only way we can 
cut down on the amount and percentage 
of interest paid is to reduce the 
Federal debt. 

This amendment will accomplish just 
that. It will set Congress on a path of 
fiscal responsibility and will require a 
30-year pay down of the Federal debt. 
In the past few months, I have seen a 
unique attitude transformation take 
place in this city. Even though a budget 
surplus or zero deficit, only estimated, 
has not yet occurred, the administration 
did not hesitate to offer 
around $100 billion worth of new or expanded 
programs that would easily create 
a larger deficit in the proposed balanced 
budget. It seems their eye for 
spending is still bigger than the taxpayers’ 
wallet. 

Even though the economy is strong, I 
am surprised that so few in Congress 
are concerned about what we, as a nation, 
are in danger of passing on to our 
children and our grandchildren. It 
seems we are tied to the immediate 
gratification we receive from spending 
more money that we don’t have, that 
we don’t see the danger that looms in 
the not-too-distant future if we don’t 
stop spending on credit with reckless 
abandon. That danger is a massive Federal 
debt and the changing demographics 
that will place a tremendous 
amount of pressure on young taxpayers 
who, if no change is made with the entitlement 
programs, will see a bankrupt 
Social Security and Medicare system 
and a mountain of high debt and 
an economy so weak that there will be 
no hope of passing it off—paying it off; 
we are trying to pass us off. 

Somehow we have convinced ourselves 
that we deserve these benefits 
and we will it to our children to figure 
out a way to pay for them. Throughout 
the debate in the budget resolution it 
becomes even more evident that it does 
not matter whether the economy is 
performing at record highs or lows, 
some Members of Congress will always 
propose more spending and more programs. 
I have heard numerous excuses 
this week of why we should spend more 
of our Federal dollars. 

There seems to be a belief that no 
matter how much we spend, we are not 
spending enough for the American people. 
Before I came to Washington as a 
Senator, I knew we had a plethora of 
Federal programs. Now that I am here, 
however, I am even more astounded at 
the number of programs available for 
nearly everything and everyone under 
the sun. But some still believe the Federal 
Government is not doing nearly 
enough to help those in want or need, 
or more. 

It is very short-sighted to believe 
that our children or grandchildren will 
not be left with the bill that is accruing. 
Do we ever stop to think what the 
possible consequences are before we 
propose a program expansion or creation? 
The Allard amendment would 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2957 

require us to focus on our priorities. It 
would help us focus on a limited, less-
expansive Federal Government. A limited, 
responsive Federal Government is 
what the people of Wyoming expect 
from any government, whether at the 
State, local or Federal level. They and 
the other American people deserve a 
disciplined Federal Government. This 
amendment will help Congress focus on 
limiting the scope of Government. 

With a Federal debt of over $5.5 trillion, 
we must run budget surpluses not 
just for 1 or 2 years, but for 30 or more 
years to pay off the debt. I believe the 
administration and Congress should 
heed the words of Federal Reserve 
Board Chairman Alan Greenspan. He 
noted in his testimony in the Senate 
Budget Committee on January 29, 1998, 
that we should be cautious in our 
spending because Federal revenues are 
not guaranteed and may fall short of 
expectations. He, again, advised that 
we should be aiming for budgetary surpluses 
and using the proceeds to retire 
the outstanding Federal debt. He mentions 
how that will help the economy 
and save Social Security. 

The Allard amendment follows the 
advice of Chairman Greenspan. It requires 
budgetary surpluses every year, 
with these surpluses going toward payment 
of the Federal debt. These payments 
would amortize the debt over 
the next 30 years, similar to mortgage 
payments on a $5.5 trillion mansion. 
Anybody who purchases a house must 
pay the mortgage that accompanies it. 
Why should the Federal Government be 
exempt from a similar requirement? It 
is the ethical thing to do and it just 
makes sound economic sense. Yes, we 
bought a house for ourselves and our 
kids and our grandkids, and we will 
pass on the house and we will pass on 
the debt. But let’s be sure that we are 
current on the payments. 

The Allard amendment will not take 
money from the Social Security system. 
To the contrary, it will extend the 
life and solvency of the Social Security 
system and other entitlement programs. 
The best way to shore up Social 
Security is to pay down the national 
debt while we work on reforms to the 
system. 

Now is the time to start making 
those mortgage payments and to begin 
to chip away at the mountain of debt. 
It is irresponsible, reckless, and selfish 
to wait any longer. Any delay will further 
jeopardize the national security 
and economic freedom of our Nation 
and our children. Some may ask if we 
can afford to do this now. In response, 
I will borrow the words of President 
Ronald Reagan: ‘‘If not now, when? If 
not us, who?’’ 

I urge my colleagues to support the 
Allard-Enzi amendment. 

Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, how 
much time do I have remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 2 minutes 15 seconds remaining. 


Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I reserve 
the remainder of my time and 
yield the floor. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG addressed the 
Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey is recognized. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
watched with interest the development 
of this amendment and the others that 
we heard over the last couple days. It 
seems like there is a testimonial here 
to Alan Greenspan. He is a very smart 
guy, and I will tell you how I know how 
smart he is. He used to be on the board 
of my company, and when I left to 
come to the Senate, he was still on the 
board of my company. He didn’t leave 
there until he was chosen to be chairman 
of the Fed. At that point, he could 
not stay and continue enjoying the private 
side of things. It was very nice. 

He is a very bright guy. At our board 
meetings, everybody used to listen so 
attentively to what Alan said. Fortunately, 
in this country of ours, there 
are lots of smart people. It doesn’t 
mean that he is wrong, but it means 
that others can have a differing view. I 
think that this amendment—and I am 
not putting myself in his league, I 
must tell you; but we talked to economists, 
too, and we see a problem with 
this. 

This amendment would establish a 
point of order against any budget resolution 
in which revenues do not exceed 
outlays for any given year. We are considering 
a budget resolution today. 
There would be a point of order against 
any budget resolution in which revenues 
do not exceed outlays for any 
given year. Well, this amendment 
would lock us into a rigid formula for 
fiscal policy, threaten to make future 
recessions more severe, jeopardize our 
national security—I don’t use these 
words casually—and deprive the Nation 
of needed investments in our future 
well-being. 

We all know that reducing the Federal 
debt is an important goal of fiscal 
policy. I don’t think it is unknown that 
our President, President Clinton, is a 
very strong advocate of doing that. He 
proposed using any surpluses to pay 
down debt and, yes, to shore up Social 
Security, which it does at the same 
time—pay down that. That is what the 
President said, ‘‘I am not going to let 
you tinker with that. If I have anything 
to do about it, I don’t want you 
to use that money for anything but 
paying down the debt.’’ So we have a 
common goal here, but it should not be 
pursued to the exclusion of all other 
worthy goals. 

If this amendment were to pass, it 
would make future recessions deeper 
by eliminating the budget’s ability to 
stabilize the economy automatically. 
We use it that way—perhaps to the surprise 
of some—and when an economic 
downturn hits, tax revenues go down 
automatically and spending for unemployment 
benefits increases automatically. 
That is the way, frankly, I think 
it should be. The budget’s automatic 
response helps to offset some of the 
economic pain and to shorten the recession’s 
duration. 

Handcuffing our fiscal policy in 
times of economic crisis, as this 
amendment would do, risks turning recessions 
into depressions. As one who 
lived through the Great Depression 
myself, I know very well what that 
would mean to our Nation. I know 
what it did to help my family, the only 
time—other than the GI bill—that we 
had to reach out. My father was humiliated 
when his job was finally lost 
in the Depression and he had to go to 
work for the WPA, a Government program. 
It was embarrassing to him, but 
that was the only way he could see to 
try to support his family. That is the 
way it happens in times of stress like 
that. 

So when I look at what is being proposed 
here, I say thank goodness we 
have the capacity in times of need to 
make changes. For instance, the Allard 
amendment doesn’t just pose a threat 
to our economic security; it also jeopardizes 
our national security. The cold 
war may be over, but that doesn’t 
mean we won’t face serious new military 
threats in the future. What would 
happen if America confronted an 
enemy that was building up its military 
in preparation for conflict? We 
would not be able to arm ourselves to 
meet the challenge because of this fiscal 
straitjacket. 

I know that the Senator from Colorado 
wants to do the right thing and, 
again, we share a goal, but the approach 
is radically different. The 
Allard amendment does include an exception 
in matters of Defense, when a 
declaration of war is in effect. There is 
very significant meaning to those few 
words. We faced a variety of major 
military challenges since war was last 
officially declared, and the year was 
1941. This amendment, in those several 
times, would have tied our hands behind 
our backs. I also say to Senators 
who care about public investment that 
this amendment could prevent us from 
providing prudently for our future. 

Here is an example: If Congress were 
to decide that it’s important to make 
significant new investments in our 
telecommunications infrastructure or 
our transportation infrastructure and 
we wanted to amortize the cost over 
several years, even though we don’t 
have amortization formally in our financial 
statement, the Allard amendment 
would create a new roadblock. I 
want to say especially to our friends on 
the other side of the aisle who believe 
that tax cuts underwrite our future 
prosperity, this amendment would also 
make it more difficult to enact tax 
cuts. 

My point is not at all to advocate 
huge, new tax breaks. But I want to 
highlight the fact that this amendment 
will tie everybody’s hands behind our 
backs and limit flexibility for Senators 
on all sides of the ideological spectrum. 
We have eliminated the deficit, 
restored fiscal discipline, and helped 
create the strongest economy in decades—
maybe retroactively we are 
going to say it has been the strongest 


S2958 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

decade ever. We have done it all without 
procedural gimmicks that limited 
our flexibility. We did it the old-fashioned 
way, with hard work and hard 
choices. That is the way I think we 
ought to do it now and in the future. 
There is just no need for this kind of 
rigid rule. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
amendment. I think it would be a huge 
mistake. It could wreak havoc on our 
economy, could weaken our national 
security to a dangerous point. It could 
impede our ability to make needed investments 
either directly or through 
the Tax Code. 

Mr. President, at the appropriate 
time, I intend to raise a point of order 
against this amendment. It is not germane. 
If the proponents of the amendment 
move to waive my point of order, 
I hope my colleagues will vote no on 
the motion to waive. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

Mr. ALLARD addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Colorado. 

Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I would 
like to summarize and make sure that 
any opposition to my amendment has 
had an opportunity to speak. When 
they are finished, I would like to make 
concluding comments, if I might. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
can’t promise that. If we have time 
left, we will use it. It is there now for 
the proponents to make their case. 

Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, it is my 
understanding that we have 2 minutes 
remaining on our time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is correct. The Senator has 1 
minute 31 seconds. The opponents have 
7 minutes 38 seconds. 

Who yields time? 

If neither side yields time, time runs 
equally. 

Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I would 
like to have an opportunity to summarize 
my remarks. I ask that my opposition 
yield back the remainder of their 
time so I can summarize my comments. 


Apparently, they don’t want to do 
that. I will briefly make comments so 
that we can move along. 

First of all, we heard many arguments 
about voting against the balanced 
budget amendment. Those who 
voted against the balanced budget 
amendment said that we should not tie 
down the hands of the Senate, the Senate 
should have the discipline in order 
not to go into deficit spending. My argument 
has been that the Senate—I 
have always supported it because I 
never felt the Senate, although well-intentioned, 
would ever allow that to 
happen. We are asking for a simple 
amendment to pay down the debt, and 
one of the arguments made against this 
is that it may raise a point of order if 
the Senate goes into deficit spending. 
Most of us, I think, in this Chamber 
agree that we should not have deficit 
spending. So it points out again how 
very important it is to have these 
types of plans before us if we really are 

serious about eliminating deficit 
spending and pay down the debt. If we 
want a secure economy and we want to 
make sure that our children and grandchildren 
have a secure future and we 
want to continue to see economic 
growth, the way we do that is to make 
a commitment to pay down the debt. 
So I am here to ask for an aye vote on 
the Allard amendment. 

I ask for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
the pending amendment is not germane 
and I, therefore, raise a point of order 
that the amendment violates section 
305(b)(2) of the Congressional Budget 
Act. 

Is the time available all on our side? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Having 
made the point of order, all time has 
elapsed. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, if the 
Senator from Colorado is not going to 
move to waive, I will. 

Mr. ALLARD. I was going to do that, 
but the chairman can do it. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
move to waive the Budget Act, and I 
ask for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 

sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2195 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
call up amendment No. 2195. 

Mr. President, I want to point out 
that we have the following cosponsors 
on our amendment. They include Senators 
DASCHLE, KERRY, BAUCUS, BINGAMAN, 
BOXER, GRAHAM, MOYNIHAN, 
LEAHY, REID, WYDEN, LIEBERMAN, AND 
MURRAY. 

Mr. President, this amendment would 
establish a reserve fund that would allocate 
funding from a reinstated Super-
fund tax on polluters for several important 
environmental initiatives. 

Mr. President, President Clinton has 
made environmental protection a top 
priority. And the American people 
agree with that. Americans feel strongly 
about the need to keep our water 
and air clean, and our national parks 
well maintained. And, in my view, 
they’re right. 

The President has urged that several 
related environmental initiatives be 
funded by reinstating the Superfund 
tax on polluters. But the resolution before 
us largely rejects this approach. It 
does allow for spending up to $200 million 
next year from this tax, if it is reinstated, 
and if the reinstatement is 
part of broader Superfund reauthorization 
legislation. 

However, the Superfund tax raises 
$1.7 billion per year. And the Resolution 
would allow the extra $1.5 billion 
per year to be used for purposes that 
have nothing to do with environmental 
protection. 

By contrast, my amendment would 
use these environmental taxes for environmental 
objectives. 

My proposal largely incorporates the 
President’s Environmental Resources 
Fund for America, as proposed in his 
budget. 

Under the proposal, revenue from a 
reinstated Superfund tax could be used 
for a variety of environmental priorities. 
These include, but are not limited 
to the following: cleanup of hazardous 
waste sites; clean water initiatives 
to assist states in protecting waterways 
from polluted runoff; construction 
and maintenance for our deteriorating 
national parks, forests, refuges, 
public lands and tribal schools; and 
purchases of valuable natural resources 
through the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund. 

The funding for hazardous waste 
cleanup would increase the Superfund 
budget by 40%. This would double the 
pace of cleanups, bringing the total 
number of cleanups to 900 by the end of 
2001. 

Let me be clear, also, that this 
amendment does not raid the Super-
fund program to pay for other initiatives. 
Under the amendment, we would 
still appropriate more money for hazardous 
waste cleanup than is collected 
from the Superfund tax, as has been 
our practice in the past. 

Mr. President, let me take a moment 
to highlight the Clean Water and Watershed 
Restoration Initiative. Today, 
the major source of pollution of our 
rivers, lakes and other sources of 
drinking water is not industry, and it’s 
not municipal sewage treatment 
plants. It’s polluted runoff from our 
cities and farms. 

This program would provide funds— 
not to increase the federal bureaucracy—
but to aid states and localities in 
their efforts to address this problem. 

Mr. President, I want to emphasize 
that this amendment would not increase 
the deficit or reduce a surplus 
by one penny. It’s entirely deficit neutral. 


I would also note that the amendment 
is broad enough to allow the appropriate 
committees to make the specific 
decisions about where this additional 
$1.5 billion per year would be 
spent. The amendment does not limit 
the committees to the particular proposals 
in the President’s budget. Rather, 
it allows them flexibility to shape 
programs based on their needs and priorities 
when the Superfund tax is 
passed. 

I would note that the amendment is 
supported by the League of Conservation 
Voters, the Natural Resources Defense 
Council and the American Planning 
Association. 

In conclusion, Mr. President, the 
American people want us to protect the 
environment and to protect our investments 
in our national parks, refuges 
and forests. This amendment could go 
a long way toward meeting these goals 
in a deficit-neutral manner. I hope my 
colleagues will support it. 

We have a letter from the Council on 
Environmental Quality responding to 
our request for administration views 
on the proposed amendment. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2959 

Please be assured that the Administration 
strongly supports your efforts to secure adequate 
funding for pressing environmental 
challenges facing this country. 

I submit that and the letter from the 
League of Conservation Voters, as well 
as a letter signed by 44 environmental 
groups. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
they be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT, 
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL 
QUALITY, 

Washington, DC, April 1, 1998. 

Hon. FRANK LAUTENBERG, 

Ranking Member, Senate Committee on Budget, 

U.S. Senate, Dirksen Senate Office Building, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR LAUTENBERG: I am writing 
in response to your request for the Administration’s 
views on your proposed amendment 
to the Senate budget resolution. Please be 
assured that the Administration strongly 
supports your efforts to secure adequate 
funding for pressing environmental challenges 
facing this country. 

As you are well aware, the President’s Fiscal 
Year 1999 budget proposes significant investments 
to protect our environment and 
public health. It would accelerate Superfund 
cleanups, provide new resources for the 
President’s Clean Water Action Plan, and 
continue our efforts to restore and protect 
our national parks and other public lands. 

Despite your efforts in the Budget Committee, 
however, the resolution now before 
the Senate fails to provide adequate funds 
for each of these priorities. The effect of the 
resolution would be quite serious. It would 
jeopardize public health by delaying cleanup 
of Superfund sites in communities across the 
country. It would significantly limit nationwide 
efforts to curb polluted runoff, the largest 
remaining threat to the health of our 
lakes, rivers and coastal waters. And it 
would hamper our ability to repair deteriorating 
infrastructure at national parks and 
other facilities, posing a threat to the health 
and safety of visitors and workers. 

Your proposed amendment to correct these 
deficiencies by securing $1.7 billion in Fiscal 
Year 1999 and a total of $7.4 billion over five 
years is consistent with the Administration’s 
budget request. Furthermore, it is important 
to note that your amendment is 
budget-neutral because it would ensure that 
reinstatement of the Superfund tax is committed 
to these environmental priorities. 

The Office of Management and Budget advises 
me that this letter is consistent with 
the President’s program. 

I greatly appreciate your effort to ensure 
that these vital environmental priorities are 
met. 

Sincerely, 

KATHLEEN A. MCGINTY, 

Chairman. 

LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS, 

Washington, DC, March 30, 1998. 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
Re Senate Concurrent Resolution 86, Sup


porting the Lautenberg amendment to fund 

environment and national resource protec


tion. 

DEAR SENATOR: The League of Conservation 
Voters is the bipartisan, political arm of 
the national environmental movement. Each 
year, LCV publishes the National Environmental 
Scorecard, which details the voting 
records of Members of Congress on environmental 
legislation. The Scorecard is distributed 
to LCV members, concerned voters nationwide 
and the press. 

Last year’s balanced budget agreement 
contemplated decreasing spending every 
year until at least 2003 for natural resources 
and environmental programs. The American 
public has made clear that clean water, our 
public lands, fisheries and wildlife management, 
and other environmental programs require 
a higher priority than was reflected in 
this agreement.

During consideration of the Budget Resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, LCV urges you to support 
an amendment by Senator Lautenberg 
(D-NJ) that would restore funding for critical 
environment and natural resource programs 
that were proposed in the President’s 
budget but omitted from the Resolution. 
This amendment would address the following 
crucial environmental initiatives. 

The Clear Water Action Plan, which will 
provide increased resources to states, tribes 
and individuals in order to address polluted 
runoff from urban areas, agriculture, mining 
and other sources. 

A continuation of funding for the Drinking 
Water and Clean Water State Revolving 
Loan Funds which will help to ensure that 
our drinking water and wastewater treatment 
infrastructure can meet water quality 
and public health needs for the next century.

The Land, Water and Facility Restoration 
Initiative, which provide increased funding 
for ‘‘Safe Visits to Public Lands’’ and ‘‘Supporting 
the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Vision’’. 

An increase in funding to continue 
progress in cleanups at Superfund sites 
around the nation, where many communities 
have been waiting for over a decade to have 
toxic and hazardous sites restored to safety. 

In addition, LCV urges you to support any 
amendments to address the following:

We understand that an amendment may be 
offered to reduce or eliminate the existing 
tax subsidy for mining on public and patented 
lands—known as the percentage depletion 
allowance. 

The Budget Resolution assumes that landowner 
incentives programs for endangered 
species would be funded from the proceeds of 
the sale of public lands under the Interior 
Department’s Bureau of Land Management. 
This proposal would set an unacceptable 
precedent regarding the sale of public lands 
and would fail to provide a sustainable, long-
term revenue mechanism for endangered species 
protection. 

America’s land, water, fish, wildlife and 
plants are irreplaceable natural assets that 
belong to, and benefit, our entire nation; 
their protection and stewardship warrant the 
modest increase in funding that Senator 
Lautenberg’s amendment would allow. LCV’s 
Political Advisory Committee will consider 
including votes on S. Con. Res. 86 in compiling 
LCV’s 1998 Scorecard. Thank you for 
your consideration of this issue. If you need 
more information please call Paul 
Brotherton in my office at 202/785–8683. 

Sincerely, 

DEB CALLAHAN, 

President. 

March 27, 1998. 

SUPPORT THE LAUTENBERG AMENDMENT TO 
FUND ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES 

Attention: ENVIRONMENTAL LA. 

DEAR SENATOR: On behalf of the undersigned 
organizations, we strongly urge your 
support for the amendment to the Budget 
Resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, that will be offered 
by Senator Lautenberg during Floor 
consideration. Senator Lautenberg’s amendment 
would provide funding for critical environment 
and natural resource programs proposed 
in the President’s budget. America’s 
land, water, fish, wildlife, and plants are irreplaceable 
natural assets that belong to, 
and benefit, our entire nation; their protection 
and stewardship warrant the modest investment 
of funds that will be provided by 
Senator Lautenberg’s amendment. 

Some of these crucial environmental initiatives 
fall under the President’s proposed 
Environmental Resources Fund for America 
and include: 

The ‘‘Clean Water Action Plan’’, which will 
provide increased resources (a total of $568 
Million for this multi-agency initiative) to 
States, tribes and individuals in order to address 
polluted runoff from urban areas, agriculture, 
mining and other sources. Polluted 
runoff is the single biggest cause of water 
quality impairment in the nation today. The 
‘‘Clean Water Action Plan’’ will help to reduce 
its impacts through improved coordination 
among different levels of government 
and through increased spending to help farmers 
and other individuals improve their 
water quality management practices. 

A continuation of funding for the Drinking 
Water and Clean Water State Revolving 
Loan Funds (a total of $1.875 Billion for both) 
which will help to ensure that our drinking 
water and wastewater treatment infrastructure 
can meet water quality and public 
health needs for the next century. 

The ‘‘Land, Water and Facility Restoration 
Initiative’’, which provides increased 
funding for ‘‘Safe Visits to Public Lands’’ 
and supports the ‘‘Land and Water Conservation 
Fund (LWCF) Vision’’. ‘‘Safe Visits to 
Public Lands’’ would begin to address the 
critical multi-billion dollar maintenance 
backlog on our public lands by providing a 
$92 Million (eight percent) increase in funding 
to repair and refurbish the aging infrastructure 
in our national parks, forests, 
wildlife refuges and other public lands. Supporting 
the ‘‘LWCF Vision’’ would provide a 
43% increase in LWCF spending over the 
next five years to continue acquisition and 
permanent protection of key land, water, 
and open space resources for future generations. 
Even this modest increase still falls 
far below the level of $900 Million authorized 
yearly for LWCF. 

An increase in funding to continue 
progress in cleanups at Superfund sites 
around the nation, where many communities 
have been waiting for over a decade to have 
toxic and hazardous sites restored to safety. 
The Environmental Resources Fund for 
America proposes $2.1 Billion in spending, 
which would be a forty percent increase over 
1998. 

In addition, the Senate Budget Resolution 
does not include crucial FY99 increases requested 
for the Fish and Wildlife Service 
(FWS). The Lautenberg amendment would 
provide funding for these increases including: 


An increase in funding for Enhancing Endangered 
Species Act (ESA) Efforts. In the 
last five years, the number of listed U.S. species 
has doubled and a growing number of 
species require management to survive. The 
requested increase will allow the FWS to 
carry out necessary activities to conserve 
species, to provide more efficient implementation 
for regulated interests, and to offer 
new incentives for private landowners. The 
FY99 increase for FWS is $38.8 million. 

An increase in funding for FWS National 
Wildlife Refuge System Operations. The 
nearly 93 million acre National Wildlife Refuge 
System is the only federal public lands 
system dedicated primarily to the conservation 
of fish and wildlife; yet chronic and severe 
funding shortfalls threaten its mission. 
The requested $15 Million increase for FY99 
would take a small step in addressing the 
current $410 Million shortfall in operating 
needs. 

Last year’s balanced budget agreement 
contemplated decreasing spending every 
year until at least 2003 for natural resources 


S2960 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

and environmental programs. The American 

public has made clear that clean water, stew


ardship of our public lands, fisheries and 

wildlife management, and other environ


mental programs require a higher priority 

than was reflected in this agreement. At the 

same time, we would be happy to work with 

the Senate to weed out environmentally de


structive spending that would more than pay 

for the funding increases reflected in the 

Lautenberg amendment to fund environment 

and natural resources. 
A ‘yes’ vote on the Lautenberg Amend


ment will send a clear signal of your support 

for protection of the environment and public 

health, and in particular for clean water, vi


brant public lands, and protection of species 

and habitat. Thank you in advance for your 

support. 
Sincerely, 
David Younkman, Executive Director, 
American Oceans Campaign, Washington, 
DC; Rebecca R. Wodder, President, 
American Rivers, Washington, 
DC; Roger E. McManus, President, Center 
for Marine Conservation, Washington, 
DC; Roger Schlickeisen, President, 
Defenders of Wildlife, Washington, 
DC; Fred D. Krupp, Executive 
Director, Environmental Defense Fund, 
New York, NY; Brent Blackwelder, 
President, Friends of the Earth, Washington, 
DC; Paul Hansen, Executive Director, 
Izaak Walton League of America, 
Gaithersburg, MD; John Flicker, 
President, National Audubon Society, 
New York, NY; Thomas C. Kiernan, 
President, National Parks & Conservation, 
Association, Washington, DC; 
Mark Van Putten, President & CEO, 
National Wildlife Federation, Washington, 
DC; John H. Adams, Executive 
Director, Natural Resources Defense 
Council, New York, NY; Robert K. 
Musil, Executive Director, Physicians 
for Social Responsibility, Washington, 
DC; David Burwell, President, Rails to 
Trails Conservancy, Washington, DC; 
Carl Pope, Sierra Club, Executive Director, 
San Francisco, CA; Will Rogers, 
President, The Trust for Public Land, 
San Francisco, CA; Gene Karpinski, 
Executive Director, U.S. Public Interest 
Research Group, Washington, DC; 
William H. Meadows, President, The 
Wilderness Society, Washington, DC; 
William M. Eichbaum, Vice President, 
US Conservation and Global Threats 
World Wildlife Fund, Washington, DC; 
Becky Cain, President, League of 
Women Voters, Washington, DC; Jackie 
Savitz, Executive Director, Coast Alliance, 
Washington, DC; Jason E. 
Klein, President, The Outdoor Company, 
Field & Stream and Outdoor 
Life, New York, NY; Steve Moyer, Vice 
President, Conservation Programs, 
Trout Unlimited, Arlington, VA; Liz 
Raisbeck, Watershed Program Manager, 
River Network, Washington, DC; 
Michael F. Hirshfield, Ph.D., Vice 
President, Resource Protection, Chesapeake 
Bay Foundation, Annapolis, MD; 
Jim Jontz, Executive Director, Western 
Ancient Forest Campaign, Washington, 
DC; Frank So, Executive Director, 
American Planning Association, 
Washington, DC; William R. Neil, Director 
of Conservation, New Jersey Audubon, 
Bernardsville, NJ; Robin 
Cunningham, Executive Director, Montana 
River Action Network, Bozeman, 
MT; Judith D. Petersen, Director, Kentucky 
Waterways Alliance, 
Munfordville, KY; Ralph H. Goodno, 
President, Merrimack River Watershed 
Council, Lawrence, MA; Barry Nelson, 
Senior Fellow, Save the San Francisco 

Bay Association, San Francisco, CA; 
Mark Davis, Executive Director, Coalition 
to Restore Coastal Louisiana, 
Baton Rouge, LA; Peter Shelly, Vice 
President, Conservation Law Foundation, 
Boston, MA; John Atkin, Executive 
Director, Save the Sound, Inc., 
Stamford, CT; Lisa Carey, Coordinator, 
Long Island Sound Watershed Alliance, 
Stamford, CT; Todd Miller, Executive 
Director, North Carolina Coastal Federation, 
Newport, NC; Peter Clark, Executive 
Director, Tampa Bay Watch, 
Tampa, FL; Kathy Fletcher, Executive 
Director, People for Puget Sound, Seattle, 
WA; David W. Bott, Executive 
Director, West Virginia Rivers Coalition, 
Elkins, WV; Cynthia Chapman, 
Executive Director, Frontera Audubon 
Society; George Lea, President, Public 
Lands Foundation; Norene Chase, 
Local Conservation Chair, Big Bend Sierra 
Club, Tallahassee, FL; Nancy 
Backstrand, Friends of the Santa Margarita 
River, San Diego County, CA; 
and Marion Sizemone, Environmental 
Programs, Wyandotte Tribe of OK, Wyandotte, 
OK. 

[From the New York Times, March 1, 1998] 
A PROMISING CLEAN WATER STRATEGY 
The 1972 Clean Water Act has been the 
most effective of all the landmark environmental 
measures enacted in the early 1970’s. 
But while it has done a good job of controlling 
pollution from so-called ‘‘point sources’’ 
like factories and waste treatment plants, 
the act has failed to stem poisonous runoff 
from ‘‘non-point’’ sources like farms and city 
streets. This runoff is the main reason why 
nearly 40 percent of the nation’s lakes and 
streams remain unfishable and 
unswimmable. 
The Clinton Administration has now offered 
a strategy to remedy this flaw. Given 
the hostility of this Congress to new environmental 
legislation, the President has chosen 
to attack the problem with a series of 
administrative actions by the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Interior Department 
and other agencies. But Congress 
will be asked to provide about $2.4 billion in 
new money over five years to make the plan 
work. We urge it to do so. This is a modest, 
common-sense strategy that merits bipartisan 
support. 
For the first time, the plan would establish 
enforceable limits on runoffs of nitrogen and 
phosphorus—two destructive nutrients found 
in fertilizers, sewage and animal wastes. At 
the same time, Washington would make 
available hundreds of millions of dollars to 
states and individual landowners to pay for 
setting aside land for stream buffers that 
prevent the nutrients from entering the 
water in the first place. These nutrients have 
been linked not only to outbreaks of 
Pfiesteria piscicida, a fish-killing microbe, 
in Maryland and North Carolina, but also to 
the 6,000-square-mile ‘‘dead zone’’ of oxygen-
depleted water in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The plan would also impose new restrictions 
on huge corporate farming operations 
that generate mountains of waste that are 
typically stored in ‘‘lagoons’’ the size of several 
football fields. These gigantic pits, 
which sometimes overflow during rainstorms, 
would be regarded as ‘‘point sources’’ 
subject to regular inspections and, when violations 
occur, heavy fines. 
Another ambitious element of the plan 
seeks to add 100,000 acres a year to the nation’s 
declining inventory of valuable wetlands. 
To do so, however, the Administration 
must win the cooperation of the Army Corps 
of Engineers, which oversees wetlands policy 
and has been parceling out the land bit by 

bit to developers. One of the more attractive 
features of the Clinton strategy is that it 
promises to involve every Federal agency in 
the fight for cleaner water. Without the 
corps, the strategy will be incomplete. 

[The Washington Post, March 3, 1998] 
THE PRESIDENT ON CLEAN WATER 
The Country’s leading water pollution 
problem is no longer the industrial and municipal 
waste that flows from particular 
pipes but the elusive agricultural and urban 
runoff that accumulates across entire watersheds. 
The Clean Water Act provides only indirect 
authority to deal with it, and the current 
Congress is hardly likely to strengthen 
the relevant provisions. In the last Congress, 
House Republicans tried instead to weaken 
them. The clean-water initiative the president 
announced the other day is thus an effort 
to make the most of a limited arsenal. 
Within those limits, it does a reasonable job. 
The government will use existing authority 
to set new standards for nutrients in 
lakes, streams and estuaries—the nitrogen 
and phosphorus that are byproducts of agricultural 
operations especially. Excessive 
amounts do harm. The states are then meant 
to apply the standards to water within their 
jurisdiction, and to draw up plans to reduce 
them where required. If the plans are too 
weak, the Environmental Protection Agency 
can disapprove them, but it lacks the power 
to enforce them except indirectly if the 
states default. The administration seeks to 
fill the enforcement hole with financial inducements 
both to the states and to farmers 
to reduce the spread of the pollutants. It has 
assembled a fairly impressive package of 
money, much of it from existing programs. 
Some of the largest are in the Agriculture 
Department, including the mighty Conservation 
Reserve Program which each year pays 
farmers to idle vast amounts of vulnerable 
land across the country and now supports 
such things as water quality projects as well. 
Watersheds extend across state boundaries, 
and the president’s initiative includes some 
fuzzy talk about the need for interstate cooperation. 
Among much else, a program embracing 
an entire watershed can liberate 
states from the fear that if they take strong 
action, neighboring states may use weaker 
environmental standards to lure away industry. 
That’s part of the argument that 
Congess has ignored for a stronger federal 
law. The administration uses what it has— 
mostly words and a little money—to push in 
this useful direction. 
The initiative also promises, again a bit 
fuzzily, to convert the current annual loss of 
wetlands across the country into a net gain 
within a few years. Exactly how is left unclear. 
The last time anyone looked, the 
Corps of Engineers was proposing to ease the 
rules under which developers and others are 
allowed to invade wetlands. This would mark 
a more aggressive policy, if it occurs. Likewise, 
there is a promise to do a better job of 
managing the government’s own lands. Because 
the government is such a large landowner, 
this would be important. 
This administration generally has pushed 
in the right directions on environmental 
issues. But its penchant for show over substance—
this report trumpets ‘‘more than 100 
major new actions’’—often gets the best of 
it. Many of these are neither major steps nor 
new. We hope they take them anyway. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, in 
conclusion, the American people want 
to protect the environment and to protect 
our investments in our national 
parks and refuges and forests. This 
amendment could go a long way toward 
meeting these goals in a deficit-neutral 
manner. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2961 

I urge my colleagues to support it. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. DOMENICI addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BROWNBACK). The Senator from New 
Mexico is recognized. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise 
in opposition to the proposal by the 
distinguished Senator from New Jersey. 


At the appropriate time I will raise a 
point of order. 

First, let me say that this proposal 
exceeds the spending caps set in the 
balanced budget amendment by $600 
million in budget authority, and $900 
million in outlays. 

The budget before us assumes $1 billion 
in additional spending over 5 years 
of the Superfund as originally agreed 
upon in the balanced budget amendment. 


The budget resolution provides $1.4 
billion in budget authority, and $1.3 
billion in outlays to fund critical construction 
programs within the Corps of 
Engineers rejecting the proposal of the 
President to cut it 47.4 percent. 

It fully funds the President’s request 
for National Park Service operations 
at $1.3 billion; $1.2 billion in outlays. It 
fully funds the President’s request for 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, NOAA, with $2.3 billion 
in budget authority; $2.19 billion 
in expected expenditures. 

It assumes funding for the Landowner 
Incentives Program of the pending 
Endangered Species Recovery Act, 
a step forward for both the environmental 
community and private owners 
and protecting the Nation’s endangered 
species. 

It rejects the President’s proposed reductions 
in the Environmental Protection 
Agency and tribal assistance grant 
funds; $2.7 billion above the President’s 
budget over 5 years for clean water, 
drinking water, and targeted wastewater 
funds. 

It provides $1.1 billion more in budget 
authority over 5 years than the alternative 
that was provided in the committee 
by the minority. 

Frankly, when all of that is said and 
done, this is another one of these funds 
that is set up. The money that is going 
to be needed to do all the things that 
Senator LAUTENBERG contends should 
be done is not provided for, nor are 
cuts in programs provided for that 
would go into the fund. 

I guess while it sounds good, I firmly 
believe that it will never really happen. 


But, in all events, it is not germane. 
I will make that point of order as soon 
as time is available. 

I yield any additional time that I 
may have. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG addressed the 
Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
there is no additional spending that is 
provided for by virtue of the Superfund 
tax. These are not entitlements. We are 

talking now about direct appropriations. 
If the funds aren’t there obviously 
out of this fund, out of this reserve 
fund, if money doesn’t come in, it 
can’t be spent. There were programs 
developed by the Environment and 
Public Works Committee. I assume the 
Senator is aware that we have finished 
a Superfund reauthorization bill out of 
the committee. I didn’t support it. But 
it is due to come to the floor sometime 
after our recess. The committee has 
mandatory spending authority for minimum 
allocation for ISTEA, the orphans’ 
share funding for Superfund, 
and funding for landowner incentives 
under the proposed Endangered Species 
Act. Under current law the committee 
has mandatory spending authority for 
the Wallop-Breaux Sports Fishery Act 
and other legislation. 

So this isn’t a casual proposal. It is 
going to be paid for by taxes that accrue 
to the Superfund reserve fund. It 
will be used for environmental purposes. 
That is what we are talking 
about. It is fairly simple. We offer the 
amendment, and we are ready to have 
it processed and hope that our colleagues 
will vote for it. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
make a point of order that the pending 
amendment violates the Budget Act 
and is not germane. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Until the 
time has been used or yielded, a point 
of order is not in order. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I yield back my 

time. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I yield all time back. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from New Mexico. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I make a point of 
order, as I previously indicated, that it 
violates the Budget Act and is not germane. 


Mr. LAUTENBERG. I move to waive 
the point of order, and I ask for the 
yeas and nays on my motion. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 

sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2213, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I call 
up the Bond-Mikulski amendment, as 
modified. 

Mr. President, Senator BOND has argued 
this at length here on the floor of 
the Senate during the pendency of this 
budget resolution, and does not desire 
any time tonight. 

I would merely indicate that amendment 
No. 2213, as modified, opposes the 
President’s proposed reduction in elderly 
housing by expressing the sense 
of the Senate that the budget resolution 
levels for elderly housing programs 
shall be funded between 1999 and 
2003 at no less than the 1998 level of 
$645 million dollars. 

I yield any time that Senator BOND 
might have with reference to his 
amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. We have no comment. 
We yield any time that we have 
in response. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I ask for the yeas 
and nays on the Bond amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2205 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I call 
up the Durbin amendment, No. 2205. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 
The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 
Amendment numbered 2205, previously proposed 
by the Senator from New Jersey, Mr. 
LAUTENBERG, for Mr. DURBIN. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2205, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I send a 
modification of the amendment to the 
desk and ask for its immediate consideration. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. DOMENICI], 
for Mr. DURBIN and Mr. KYL, proposes an 

amendment numbered 2205, as modified. 

The amendment follows: 

At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. ll. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS 
REGARDING AFFORDABLE, HIGH-
QUALITY HEALTH CARE FOR SENIORS. 


(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following: 
(1) Seniors deserve affordable, high quality 
health care. 
(2) The medicare program under title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et 
seq.) has made health care affordable for millions 
of seniors. 
(3) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
deserve to know that such program 
will cover the benefits that they are currently 
entitled to. 
(4) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
can pay out-of-pocket for health care 
services whenever they— 
(A) do not want a claim for reimbursement 
for such services submitted to such program; 
or 
(B) want or need to obtain health care 
services that such program does not cover. 
(5) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
can use doctors who do not receive any 
reimbursement under such program. 
(6) Close to 75 percent of seniors have annual 
incomes below $25,000, including 4 percent 
who have annual incomes below $5,000, 
making any additional out-of-pocket costs 
for health care services extremely burdensome. 
(7) Very few beneficiaries under the medicare 
program report having difficulty obtaining 
access to a physician who accepts reimbursement 
under such program. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this resolution assume 
that seniors have the right to affordable, 
high-quality health care, that they 
have the right to choose their physicians, 
and that no change should be made to the 
medicare program that could— 
(1) impose unreasonable and unpredictable 
out-of-pocket costs for seniors or erode the 
benefits that the 38,000,000 beneficiaries 
under the medicare program are entitled to; 
(2) compromise the efforts of the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to screen inappropriate 
or fraudulent claims for reimbursement 
under such program; and 
(3) allow unscrupulous providers under 
such program to bill twice for the same services. 

S2962 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Mr. DOMENICI. Senator KYL of Arizona 
is an original cosponsor. The 
amendment should be known as Dur-
bin-Kyl. 

Mr. President, Senator KYL and Senator 
DURBIN have cooperated on this 
amendment. There is no objection to 
it. We don’t have to have a vote. I yield 
back any time there might be on the 
amendment. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. We yield back 
all time as well. 

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. If there 
be no further debate, the question is on 
agreeing to the amendment. 

The amendment (No. 2205), as modified, 
was agreed to. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I move to lay 
that motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2275 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Con


gress regarding a permanent extension of 

income averaging for farmers) 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, Senators 
BURNS and BAUCUS have a new 
amendment. I send it to the desk and 
ask for its immediate consideration. I 
ask it be in order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. DOMENICI], 
for Mr. BURNS, for himself and Mr. BAUCUS, 
proposes an amendment numbered 2275. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 
SEC. . SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING PER


MANENT EXTENSION OF INCOME 

AVERAGING FOR FARMERS. 

It is the sense of Congress that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that if the 
revenue levels are reduced pursuant to section 
201 of this resolution for tax legislation, 
such amount as is necessary shall be used to 
permanently extend income averaging for 
farmers for purposes of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986. 

Mr. DOMENICI. We have no objection 
to the amendment. We yield back any 
time we might have on the amendment. 


Mr. LAUTENBERG. We yield back 
time. We have no objection. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there 
be no further debate, the question is on 
agreeing to the amendment. 

The amendment (No. 2275) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. I move to lay 
that motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2203 

Mr. WYDEN. I appreciate the cooperation 
of the Chairman of the Budget 
Committee, Mr. DOMENICI, in working 
with me on this matter. My purpose 
in offering the original amendment 
in Committee was truth in budgeting. 
The truth I am seeking has been 
masked by inflation. With inflation 
being lower than anticipated, the CBO 
and GAO estimate there is as much as 
a $3 billion inflationary windfall surplus 
in the budget for 1999, and as much 
as a $26 billion surplus over the next 
five years. My concern is the American 
taxpayer never sees this inflationary 
windfall and probably doesn’t even 
know it exists. The money is not accounted 
for by the agencies and is not 
returned to the taxpayer. Unfortunately, 
the windfall appears to end up 
as walk-around money in the pockets 
of bureaucrats. That is why I am 
pleased that together with the Chairman 
of the Budget Committee we will 
request the General Accounting Office 
to tell Congress by May 15 the exact 
amount of the inflationary windfall for 
FY99, how the agencies intend to use 
the inflationary windfall and how CBO 
can go about making this calculation 
for future years. Our request will also 
direct the GAO by August 15 to develop 
for us a methodology for correctly calculating 
inflationary estimates that is 
applicable to both defense and non-defense 
spending and how the agencies 
expect to use the additional funds. I 
ask unanimous consent to have printed 
in the RECORD the GAO’s chart for FY99 
Economic Adjustments as well as the 
CBO’s March 24, 1998 letter to me on 
the inflationary windfall. 

There being no objection, the material 
is ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

U.S. CONGRESS, 
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, 
Washington, DC, March 24, 1998. 

Hon. RON WYDEN, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR: At your request, the Congressional 
Budget Office (CBO) has estimated 

adjustments to budget authority for defense 
programs, as allocated under last year’s 
budget resolution for the 1999–2002 period, 
that would preserve its implied purchasing 
power for nonsalary expenses given the 
changes in CBO’s estimates of inflation. Specifically, 
you asked us to adjust the year-by-
year amounts in the budget resolution using 
actual inflation during 1997 and new estimates 
of inflation for the 1998–2002 period. 

Last year’s budget resolution called for defense 
budget authority of $271.5 billion for 
1999 and $289.6 billion for 2002. A year ago, 
CBO projected that the chain-type price 
index for the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
would grow by an average of 2.5 percent a 
year during the 1997–2002 period. CBO currently 
projects that annual inflation, as 
measured by the GDP index, will grow by an 
average of 2.2 percent over that six-year period. 
Thus, the budget authority in last 
year’s budget resolution could be reduced 
and still maintain the same inflation-adjusted 
levels. 

Under its current inflation projection, CBO 
estimates that lowering last year’s budget 
resolution for defense appropriations by $1.7 
billion in 1999 and $9.8 billion over the 1999– 
2002 period would provide about the same 
level of real resources for nonsalary purchases 
as assumed a year ago for that period. 
Similarly, we also calculated adjustments 
for 2003 given the assumptions specified in 
your request. If last year’s defense budget 
authority for 2003 was pegged at $297.8 billion, 
reducing that figure by $3.5 billion 
would maintain the purchasing power for 
nonsalary expenses. The enclosed table 
shows the adjustments to budget authority 
and the corresponding changes in outlays for 
the five-year period. 

CBO does not attempt to forecast the 
prices of defense-related goods and services. 
Instead, we follow the common practice of 
using a general measure of inflation—The 
GDP price index—to adjust purchasing 
power. The lower growth in our inflation 
forecast stems from an unexpectedly rapid 
decline in import and computer prices and 
slower growth in medical care prices. Although 
these factors could affect defense-related 
purchasing power, the changes in assumptions 
for the growth in the GDP price 
index do not necessarily indicate a commensurate 
change in purchasing power for the 
defense budget. 

If you have further questions, we will be 
pleased to answer them. The CBO staff contacts 
are John Peterson, who can be reached 
at 226–2753 for questions on price indexes, 
and Kent Christensen, who can be reached at 
226–2840 for questions pertaining to their impact 
on the defense budget. 

Sincerely, 

JUNE E. O’NEILL, 

Director. 

INFLATION ADJUSTMENTS FOR BUDGET FUNCTION 050, NATIONAL DEFENSE 

[By fiscal year, in billions of dollars] 

1999 2000 2001 2002 2 2003 Total 
1998 Budget Resolution: 
Budget Authority 1 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 271.5 275.4 281.8 289.6 297.8 1,416.1 
Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 266.5 269.0 270.7 273.1 280.8 1,360.1 
Adjustments to Reflect Current Inflation Projections:3 
Budget Authority .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥1.7 ¥2.3 ¥2.7 ¥3.1 ¥3.5 ¥13.4 
Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥0.8 ¥1.6 ¥2.2 ¥2.7 ¥2.9 ¥10.2 
Adjusted Levels: 
Budget Authority 1 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 269.8 273.1 279.1 286.5 294.3 1,402.7 
Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 265.7 267.4 268.5 270.4 277.9 1,349.9 

1 These figures represent funding for discretionary defense programs. 
2 The 1998 budget resolution contained budget authority and outlay levels through 2002. The amounts shown for 2003 correspond to the assumptions requested by Senator Wyden. 
3 These changes would keep inflation-adjusted funding for nonsalary expenses at the same levels assumed in the 1998 budget resolution. They use actual inflation in 1997 and CBO’s current projection of the 1998–2003 period. 
Note: Details may add to totals due to rounding. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2963 
FYDP 99—ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS 
[Dollars in millions] 
FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FYDP 
total 
DOD Savings: 1 
Nonpay Purchases Inflation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Fuel Inflation .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
2,785 
159 
3,537 
173 
4,373194 
4,945 
216 
5,698 
238 
21,338 
979 
Foreign Currency Fluctuations ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 367 347 354 361 369 1,798 
Total Savings ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
Allocation of Nonpay Purchases Inflation: 2 
Civilian/Military Pay Raise ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Defense Health Program ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
Nuclear Stockpile Stewardship .............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
Chemical Demilitarization Program ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
Additional Procurement .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
3,311 
377 
................ 
................ 
................ 
2,000 
4,056 
810 
500 
600121 
1,200 
4,9211,216 
500 
500 
320 
900 
5,522 
1,633 
300 
700 
469 
1,600 
6,305 
2,073 
300 
600 
11 
2,700 
24,115 
6,109 
1,600 
2,400 
921 
8,400 
All Other ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 400 300 900 200 ................ 1,800 
Total Allocated .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2,777 3,531 4,336 4,902 5,684 21,230 

1 DOD savings for Nonpay Purchases Inflation in FY1998 is $846 million. 
2 Allocation of the remaining $2,885 million in savings over FY1999–2003 is unknown. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
share the Senator’s concern about this 
issue. It is correct that when inflation 
increases less than projected, the buying 
power of a dollar increases. According 
to CBO, inflation projections for 
the National Defense Budget Function 
for 1999 through 2003 have decreased 
from the 2.6 percent of the GDP Price 
Index projected last year to rates varying 
from 2.2 percent to 2.4 percent. This 
translates into a 1999 inflation ‘‘dividend’’ 
for National Defense of $1.7 billion 
in budget authority and $0.8 billion 
in outlays. For 1999–2003, the 
amounts are $13.2 billion in budget authority 
and $10.3 billion in outlays. 

The Department of Defense reports 
to us that it has already reinvested 
this dividend in other defense programs. 
Therefore, taking this money 
out of the 050 budget this year will 
cause real program reductions, and I 
would strongly oppose that. However, 
DoD does not routinely report these 
budgetary data to Congress, and I 
agree that it is important for us to 
have the data for oversight purposes. I 
also agree it would be useful to have 
similar data for both defense and non-
defense purchases. 

I am concerned, however, that an appropriate 
methodology needs to be developed 
that is applicable to both defense 
and nondefense agencies. I am 
also concerned that we collect information 
from each major agency and analyze 
what they do with the additional 
funds, when such ‘‘dividends’’ are generated. 
Also, I would argue that when 
inflation is increasing faster than projected, 
we need to know from the Department 
of Defense and others what 
constraints this imposes on purchases. 

I believe the appropriate agency to 
develop the methodology and to perform 
the agency-by-agency research is 
the General Accounting Office. Once 
appropriate methodologies have been 
developed for making estimates of economic 
changes, we could ask CBO and 
GAO to perform further research. 

I am happy to work with the Senator 
from Oregon on this issue, and I will 
gladly join with him to request the 
GAO to perform the needed work. I 
look forward to starting this research 
in a timely fashion and making it a 
part of the information we use to exercise 
our oversight. 

Mr. President, I ask that Senator 
WYDEN’S amendment, No. 2203, be withdrawn. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 2203) was withdrawn. 


AMENDMENT NO. 2226 

Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I 
want to go on record today in support 
of the amendment to the Fiscal Year 
1999 Budget Resolution offered by the 
Ranking Member of the Veterans Affairs 
Committee, Senator ROCKEFELLER. 


Mr. President, since the VA was 
founded, we have fought a World War, a 
Cold War and a Gulf War. From the 
World Wars to Korea, Vietnam to the 
Persian Gulf, each conflict produced a 
new generation of veterans with unique 
needs. 

The particular needs may vary somewhat 
for veterans of different eras, but 
one thing should never change - the 
commitment that we make to our veterans. 


Our veterans entered into a covenant 
with this nation when they agreed to 
risk their lives for our freedom. 

We must ensure that promises made 
must be promises kept. Our veterans 
must receive quality medical care, effective 
services and timely processing 
of benefits. 

I have fought for many years, and 
continue to fight, to ensure that our 
veterans receive the medical care and 
benefits that they have earned. 

Mr. President, our veterans didn’t 
waiver when they put their lives on the 
line. When they were fighting to defend 
our liberty, risking death to ensure 
that we could sleep easy at night, they 
didn’t waiver. 

Mr. President, we should not waiver 
on our veterans. The VA General Counsel 
issued a ruling in 1997 that veterans 
who develop illnesses linked to nicotine 
dependence developed while in 
service were entitled to compensation 
benefits. 

The Department of Veterans Affairs, 
beginning in Fiscal Year 1998, is due to 
begin paying those benefits. There is 
now a proposal before us to eliminate 
the VA’s obligation to pay those benefits. 


The Congressional Budget Office estimates 
that by eliminating the benefits, 
the government would save $10 billion. 

Well, apparently that money was too 
attractive to resist, and is included in 
the Budget Resolution to offset ISTEA 
spending. 

Mr. President, let me be clear. I support 
the much needed money that is 
going to provide critical infrastructure 
work throughout the country. And like 
many Senators, I am pleased to see federal 
support of transportation spending 
in my home state of Maryland. 

But Mr. President, our benefits for 
our veterans should not be traded and 
bartered. The funds that are due for 
our veterans must be protected. 

It is wrong to take money that is targeted 
for the benefits that our veterans 
have earned and use it for anything 
else - no matter how noble it may be. 

Mr. President, I urge my colleagues 
to support the Rockefeller amendment 
and prevent the raiding of these veterans 
benefits. 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I want to 
commend the Senator from New Mexico, 
the Chairman of the Budget Committee, 
Senator DOMENICI, for the 
budget resolution that he has brought 
to the Senate floor. It is not exactly as 
I would have written it—and my hope 
is that we will be able to make some 
improvements during the course of debate 
over the next few days—but I believe 
it is generally on the right track 
and compares favorably to the alternative 
budget submitted by President 
Clinton. 

First and foremost, the Senate budget 
resolution would balance the unified 
budget and keep it in balance during 
each of the next five years. We will 
even run a small surplus. 

By comparison, President Clinton’s 
budget appears to throw fiscal discipline 
out the window with proposals 
to spend billions of dollars on new government 
programs. According to the 
Congressional Budget Office, the Clinton 
budget would take us back into 
deficit as early as the year 2000. 

Second, the Senate budget would adhere 
to the spending limits that both 
Congress and the President agreed to 
just last year. The Clinton plan, by 
contrast, would bust the spending caps 
outright—by $12 billion in FY99, and a 
total of $68 billion over the next four 
years. I think we ought to keep our 
word and stick to the spending limits, 
and we do. 


S2964 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Third, the Senate budget would reserve 
the anticipated surplus for Social 
Security. The President said that is 
what he wanted, too, but he then submitted 
a budget that would spend down 
the unified budget surplus on myriad 
new government programs. And of 
course, he is asking us to spend every 
dime of the Social Security surplus on 
general operating expenses of the government. 


Fourth, our budget would set aside 
any proceeds from a tobacco settlement 
to shore up the Medicare trust 
fund for our nation’s senior citizens. 
The Clinton budget would spend all of 
the tobacco money on other programs. 

And fifth, the Senate budget would 
accommodate another, albeit small, installment 
of tax relief for hard-working 
Americans. By comparison, President 
Clinton’s budget would raise taxes 
yet again. 

Mr. President, let me turn for a moment 
to the portion of the Senate 
budget resolution that deals with education, 
training, and employment programs, 
since that seems to be what we 
are hearing about most from the other 
side. Last year’s budget agreement 
made education, training, and employment 
a protected category and called 
for spending—outlays—of $61 billion 
next year. It called for a total of $318.3 
billion over five years. 

Here is what President Clinton said 
about the level of education spending 
in the budget agreement when he 
signed off on it last year. These are 
comments the President made on the 
South Lawn of the White House on 
July 29, 1997: 

. . . at the heart of this balanced budget 
[agreement] is the historic investment in 
education—the most significant increase in 
education funding in more than 30 years. 

He went on to call it ‘‘the best education 
budget in a generation and the 
best for future generations.’’ The level 
of spending the President was referring 
to then is exactly what is included in 
the Senate budget resolution that is 
before us today. It is the exact level. 

What about health research? Over 
the next five years, spending at the National 
Institutes of Health would increase 
substantially under the Senate 
budget. We are talking about an 11 percent 
increase in 1999, on top of the 
seven percent increase provided in 1998. 
And we would provide these additional 
funds within the overall spending limits, 
and regardless of whether a tobacco 
settlement is passed later this year. 

By contrast, President Clinton would 
link increased NIH spending to the fate 
of the tobacco settlement. That means 
that if there is no settlement, there is 
no increase for the NIH either. I do not 
think that is good enough. We should 
devote more to health research whether 
or not we are able to achieve a tobacco 
settlement, and we do that in 
our budget. 

If there is any revenue derived from 
the tobacco settlement, we say that it 
ought to go into the Medicare trust 
fund. And that is what this budget res


olution would do. We all know that 
Medicare’s long-term solvency is still 
tenuous at best. We ought to shore up 
the system before tapping new sources 
of revenue for a multitude of new government 
programs. 

So these are some of the things I 
think the Senate does better than the 
alternatives. But, in my opinion, it 
still does not do enough to limit the 
growth of federal spending. It is true 
that the committee-reported budget is 
within the spending caps that were set 
last year, but those caps are still too 
high. The caps allow total spending to 
grow from $1.73 trillion next year to 
$1.95 trillion in 2003. That will amount 
to a nearly 13 percent increase at the 
end of the five-year period. 

And it comes on top of the 25 percent 
increase in spending that has occurred 
in just the last five years. What does 
that mean for taxpayers? 

The Tax Foundation estimates that 
the median income family in America 
saw its combined federal, state, and 
local tax bill climb to 38.2 percent of 
income last year—up from 37.3 percent 
the year before. That is more than the 
average family spends on food, clothing, 
and shelter combined. Put another 
way, in too many families, one parent 
is working to put food on the table, 
while the other is working almost full 
time just to pay the bill for the government 
bureaucracy. 

Here is a different way to measure 
how heavy the federal tax burden is. 
Consider that federal revenues this 
year will claim about 19.9 percent of 
the nation’s income, the Gross Domestic 
Product. Next year, that portion 
would climb to 20.1 percent, according 
to the administration’s projections. 
That would be higher than any year 
since 1945. It would be only the third 
year in our nation’s entire history that 
revenues have exceeded 20 percent of 
national income—and the first two 
times, our economy tipped into recession. 


So the question we need to ask is 
whether a balanced budget is the only 
goal, even if it means we achieve balance 
at a level where taxes and spending 
are too high? Or is the real goal of 
a balanced budget to limit government’s 
size and give people more 
choices and more control over their 
lives? 

For me, there is not great achievement 
in balancing the budget if it 
means that hard-working families continue 
to be overtaxed. There is no great 
achievement in a balanced budget if 
the government continues to grow, 
even as it balances its books. If it is 
doing that, it is continuing to take 
choice and freedom away from its citizens. 
A balanced budget is really the 
means of right-sizing the government 
so that it is more respectful of hard-
working taxpayers’ earnings and their 
desire to support their own families. 

With that in mind, I believe we have 
got to do much better in providing tax 
relief. Currently, this budget calls for 
tax relief amounting to $30 billion over 

the next five years. Although that may 
initially sound like a lot, let me put it 
into perspective. 

The federal government expects to 
collect nearly $9.3 trillion—that is, $9.3 
trillion—over the next five years. So a 
tax cut of $30 billion really amounts to 
just about 0.3 percent. It is too little. 
We must find a way to do more. And 
the way to do more within the confines 
of a balanced budget is to reduce non-
priority spending and limit spending 
growth. 

At the very least, if we cannot provide 
more tax relief, we should at least 
be able to agree that taxes are high 
enough and should go no higher. I intend 
to offer an amendment to express 
the sense of the Senate that it should 
be harder to raise taxes—at least as 
hard to raise taxes as it is to cut them. 

Recall that President Clinton’s 
record-setting tax increase in 1993 
failed to win support from even a simple 
majority of elected Senators—Vice 
President GORE’s vote in favor broke a 
50 to 50 tie. By contrast, it would have 
taken a supermajority vote to provide 
tax relief two years later; President 
Clinton vetoed our tax-relief bill, and 
it would have required a two-thirds 
vote—67 votes in the Senate—to overcome 
the President’s resistance and 
provide tax relief. That is wrong. A 
supermajority vote to raise taxes 
would ensure that future tax increases, 
if they are needed, are approved with 
broad bipartisan support in Congress 
and around the country. 

Mr. President, I again want to commend 
the chairman of the Budget Committee 
for his work on this measure. It 
is a good proposal, and I think we have 
an opportunity during the next few 
days to make it even better. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, how 
much time remains on the budget resolution 
with the completion of work? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico has 4 hours 58 
minutes, and the Senator from New 
Jersey has 4 hours 58 minutes. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
while we have a minute, I must once 
again apologize to the pages, who work 
so hard, for keeping them out of school 
tomorrow by working them past 10 
o’clock. I am sorry, really. 

Mr. DOMENICI. They seem very 
happy to be excused today. 

We will keep you slightly later tonight. 


Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent there now be a period 
for the transaction of morning 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2965 

business, with Senators permitted to 
speak for up to 5 minutes each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO FIRST SERGEANT 
CHARLES W. PARKER 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I wish to 
rise and take this opportunity to say 
farewell to an outstanding Non-Commissioned 
Officer of the Mississippi 
Army National Guard, First Sergeant 
Charles W. Parker, upon his retirement. 
Throughout his military career, 
First Sergeant Parker served the people 
of Mississippi with valor and distinction. 
It is my privilege to recognize 
his many accomplishments and to commend 
him for the superb service he has 
provided the Mississippi Army National 
Guard and the Nation for the 
past 32 years. 

First Sergeant Parker enlisted in the 
Mississippi Army National Guard in 
August 1965, and served as a federal 
technician from October 1971, until 
February 1981. He then began an active 
duty career in the Guard as a Training 
Non-Commissioned Officer from February 
1981, until his retirement in 
April 1998. He served the majority of 
his military career with Company B, 
223rd Engineer Combat Battalion, in 
Calhoun City, Mississippi. During his 
32 years of service, First Sergeant 
Parker was activated three times to 
provide relief due to flooding, ice 
storms and tornadoes. 

First Sergeant Parker served the 
Great State of Mississippi with honor. 
He received the Army Meritorious 
Service Medal, Army Commendation 
Medal, Army Achievement Medal, 
Army Good Conduct Medal (4), Reserve 
Components Achievement Medal (5), 
Armed Forces Reserve Medal (3), National 
Defense Medal (2), Army Physical 
Fitness Award (14) and achieved 
the highest score in his company, battalion, 
group and brigade on more than 
one occasion. 

During his 32 years of military service, 
First Sergeant Parker led his men 
selflessly by continuously putting his 
subordinate soldiers before himself. He 
is known by all throughout the State 
of Mississippi in National Guard circles 
for helping young people get into the 
Guard and continue their education. 

Most importantly, First Sergeant 
Parker is also a loving husband and father 
to his wife Sandra, sons Brent and 
Kent, daughter Vanessa. While he 
missed valuable time away from his 
family during his military career, he 
must look forward to spending many 
wonderful years with them in retirement. 


I know his family and the Mississippi 
Army National Guard are proud of his 
many accomplishments. My colleagues 
in the Senate join me in wishing First 
Sergeant Parker well upon his retirement. 
The Great State of Mississippi 
and the Nation are indebted to him for 
his many years of distinguished service. 


BELLA ABZUG 

Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, I 
wanted to rise very briefly and share 
with my colleagues the fact that a colleague 
who served in the House has 
passed on to God’s glory. I knew her as 
a very dear friend. Congresswoman 
Bella Abzug died yesterday of complications 
of heart disease. I knew Mrs. 
Abzug as friend. I knew her as a wonderful 
Congresswoman. I want to state 
on the Senate floor how much she will 
be missed. 

Congresswoman Abzug fought for the 
rights of women. She fought for civil 
rights. She fought for human rights. 
She was known as ‘‘Battling Bella.’’ 
She had a very big heart and a very 
large agenda. 

I cannot believe that she died of 
heart disease, because if there was one 
fault that Bella did not have, it was 
heart problems. In fact, it was her very 
big heart that wanted to be sure that 
women were fully included in our society 
and enjoyed equal protection under 
the law in the Constitution. She wanted 
to be sure that she spoke out for the 
women of this country and that we also 
included everyone else who was left out 
and left behind. 

Also, when she left the Congress, she 
spoke very eloquently and added to her 
agenda the human rights of women and 
children all around the world. 

She will be deeply missed. Her hat 
stood there. You could always find 
Bella in a crowd. But when the history 
books are searched, we will find that 
Congresswoman Abzug is the indelible 
mark on the history of the United 
States of America for those who 
worked with her. She will be greatly 
missed. But, most of all, she will be 
missed by the people she fought for and 
championed all of her life. 

f 

DOUBLE CHARGING FOR ATM USE 

Mr. D’AMATO. Two years ago today, 
the Nation’s two largest electronic 
banking networks, Plus and Cirrus, 
better known as MasterCard and VISA, 
lifted their longstanding ban on the 
practice of double charging ATM users. 
They had a ban; it was not permitted. 

Now, since that fateful April Fool’s 
Day in 1996, the joke has been on the 
consumers, and it has been a costly 
joke. They have had to shell out billions 
of dollars just to take their own 
money out of the bank. 

Today, I hold up a report ‘‘Big Banks, 
Bigger ATM Fees’’ from the U.S. Public 
Interest Research Group. In that report 
they indicate that double chargers 
in 28 States and the District of Columbia 
have shown that 71 percent of all 
banks today are double charging consumers 
for the privilege of getting 
their own money out. That percentage 
is more than twice the number reported 
by the General Accounting Office 
in May of 1997. So, more and more 
people have less and less opportunity 
to be able to withdraw their money 
without that double charge. 

Going further, it says the price of the 
average double charging has also risen 
to $1.23. Keep in mind this charge is on 
top of a fee that the consumer already 
pays to his or her own bank. The survey 
found that 83 percent of the banks 
charged their own customer an average 
of $1.18 per transaction whenever they 
use another ATM. So that means a consumer 
pays $2.41, on average, every 
time they use an ATM that does not 
belong to their own bank. 

So what we have, if a person uses an 
ATM six times a month —a relatively 
small utilization—they can be paying 
an average of $173 a year more. What 
an April Fool’s joke on the people of 
America. 

This situation is not going to get better; 
it is going to get worse. What a 
windfall for the large banks who are 
now making profits of over $3 billion a 
year by charging people twice to get 
their own money. 

I am not going to say more about 
this except to say we will be voting on 
this issue. Make no mistake about it, 
we will be voting. When that amendment 
comes to the floor—and I will 
pick what I consider to be legislation 
that must be acted on—there will be 
hoots and hollers, why on this bill? But 
make no mistake about it, the people 
are entitled to know where their representatives 
stand with respect to this 
issue. 

To date we have 10 cosponsors, evenly 
divided between Democrats and Republicans. 
I know the power and the 
pressure of those who oppose this, but 
I think it is about time we began to 
look at the little guy, and I’m talking 
about the American taxpayer. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT 
COLONEL CHARLES WILSON, III 

Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I wanted to 
let my Senate colleagues know of the 
retirement of Lieutenant Colonel 
Charles Wilson, III, a truly outstanding 
soldier in the United States Army. 
Colonel Wilson is most deserving of our 
attention. His career accomplishments 
reflect the type of military leader this 
nation was depended upon for two hundred 
years during peace and war. 

Colonel Wilson has distinguished 
himself throughout his 23-year career 
as a soldier and officer in the United 
States Army. A native of Bowling 
Green, Kentucky, Charles began his 
service as a Military Police enlisted 
soldier in October 1969. As a young soldier, 
Charles’s Battalion Commander 
recognized his special skills in leading 
and working with fellow soldiers. He 
received responsibility for key positions 
in his company, earning promotion 
quickly. 

Within his first year he was already 
selected for leadership responsibility 
within his military police platoon. 
Colonel Wilson only served as a military 
policeman for two years before he 
was honorably discharged in September 
1971, to pursue his college degree, 
which included studies as a Reserve Officer 
Training Corps cadet. During this 


S2966 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

short period of duty, Charles had 
earned the rank of sergeant. He graduated 
from the University of Tennessee-
Chattanooga and the ROTC program 
as a distinguished military graduate, 
and he was commissioned a Second 
Lieutenant in the Infantry in May 
1977. After graduation as an Infantry 
Lieutenant, he was assigned to Fort 
Leonard Wood, Missouri. Again, 
Charles’ inherent leadership skills were 
soon recognized. As a junior Second 
Lieutenant, his Brigade Commander selected 
him to command Bravo Company, 
5th Battalion, 3rd Basic Training 
Brigade. 

Because of his mature and talented 
leadership and his competence, the 
Commanding General later designated 
Charles’ company as the first at Fort 
Leonard Wood to integrate women 
trainees into the basic training program. 
His hard work and enthusiasm as 
a company commander ensured that 
his unit successfully accomplished the 
challenging task. 

Subsequent assignments found Lieutenant 
Colonel Wilson with increasing 
amounts of responsibility to include 
duties as a Company Commander with 
197th Separate Infantry Brigade, Fort 
Benning, Georgia; G3 for Operations 
and Plans, Schweinfurt Military Community, 
3d Infantry Division, Germany; 
and Deputy Division Comptroller 
for the 101st Airborne Division 
(Air Assault), at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. 


In September 1990, Charles deployed 
with the ‘‘Screaming Eagles’’ to Desert 
Shield and Desert Storm. He was one of 
only five Combat Comptrollers in the 
desert. His expertise in resource management 
and contracting was invaluable. 
The Division’s units and soldiers 
had the items they needed to go to war 
and the items they needed to maintain 
quality of life at Camp Eagle, Saudi 
Arabia. 

The Army reassigned Colonel Wilson 
in 1993 to the Pentagon to work in the 
Inspections Division of the Office of 
the Inspector General and later with 
the Army Budget Office as the ‘‘point 
man’’ for developing and validating the 
Army’s cost of conducting contingency 
operations. His current and final assignment 
has been as the Deputy Chief 
of the Congressional Budget Liaison 
Office, Army Budget Office. Through 
his tireless effort and positive ‘‘can do’’ 
personality, Wilson ensured that soldiers 
were well represented on Capitol 
Hill. 

Speaking for Kentucky and the nation, 
I wish to thank this distinguished 
soldier, his wife Melissa, sons Jason, 
Andy and daughter Kathryne, and to 
wish him continued success in future 
endeavors. 

f 

DEATH OF COLLEEN CLEARY-
MYERS 

Mr. SANTORUM. Mr. President, I 
rise today to offer tribute to the late 
Ms. Colleen Cleary-Myers and to offer 
condolences to her family on their loss. 

Mrs. Cleary-Myers was a beloved 
wife, daughter and mother. I describe 

her this way not only because it is 
true, but because, in a very literal way, 
it was these ties to these people that 
helped to define her life. It is these ties 
which are her legacy. 

Mrs. Cleary-Myers, only 30 years old, 
died of complications associated with a 
rare form of leukemia called chronic 
myleogensis. When she learned she was 
suffering from this illness, she was joyfully 
pregnant with her first child. Her 
husband, Michael, shared in this joy 
and grateful anticipation. In this way, 
she resembled most other young mothers. 
But unlike them, she was faced 
with a cruel choice: she could be treated 
immediately and risk the life of her 
baby or she could delay chemotherapy 
and a bone marrow transplant, be 
treated after the child’s birth and be 
unable to have more children. When 
faced with this dilemma, she did a 
noble thing. She chose to postpone 
treatment and looked forward to the 
birth of her son, Derek Vincent. 

Upon learning the news, Mrs. Cleary-
Myers’ family resolved to support her 
in any way that they could. Two of her 
sisters were compatible matches for 
the required bone marrow transplant 
and both were eager to assist her. 

Tragically, Mrs. Cleary-Myers died 
on March 15th. While I join her family 
in mourning her untimely death, I also 
am uplifted by the example and the 
standard she sets for all of us. Her example 
is the example of unselfish love 
and the standard she sets of willing and 
uncomplaining sacrifice for the sake of 
another life is one to which we can all 
aspire. Because this young woman 
knew, in an intimate way, a simple 
truth: Every life is infinitely precious 
and valuable. 

Too often, when confronted with an 
example of courage and sacrifice, we 
tell ourselves that others are capable 
of , and perhaps called to, such behavior, 
but we, most surely, are not. I believe 
this conclusion is a mistake. The 
example of Mrs. Cleary-Myers, a young 
woman living happily and without notoriety, 
reminds us that we are all capable 
of such gallantry and, in different 
ways, are called to it. Her son, 
Derek Vincent, provides us with eloquent 
testimony that such gallantry 
can sometimes mean nothing less than 
the protection of life itself. May God 
bless her, her husband and little Derek 
Vincent. 

f 

FOOD STAMPS TO LEGAL 
IMMIGRANTS 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, the 
1996 welfare law unfairly reduced SSI, 
Medicaid and food stamp benefits for 
legal immigrants. Food stamps alone 
were cut by $25 billion. No other program 
has been cut as deeply. 

Last year, recognizing that these 
cuts were too extreme, Congress restored 
SSI and Medicaid to many elderly 
and disabled immigrants. It’s time 
to finish the job and ensure that those 
whose Medicaid and SSI were restored, 
do not go hungry. And we should do the 
same for children of legal immigrants. 

Last week, the conferees on the Agricultural 
Research bill made a down 

payment toward restoring food stamps 
for the needy legal immigrants. The 
conference report on the bill includes 
$818 million for this program. It is far 
less than the $2 billion proposed in the 
President’s budget, and it covers a 
much smaller group of immigrants. 

The conferees’ proposal is a bipartisan 
effort. Both Republicans and 
Democrats urged them to take this 
step as soon as possible. 

Yet, the Republican leadership in the 
Senate is ignoring the urgent need. The 
Republican budget does not include a 
single penny to restore food stamps to 
immigrant children, refugees, Hmong 
veterans, or elderly and disabled legal 
immigrants, and the Republican leadership 
has declined to allow the Senate 
to pass on the Agricultural Research 
bill. 

According to Department of Agriculture 
estimates, at least 935,000 low-
income legal immigrants lost their federal 
food stamps in 1997 as a result of 
the 1996 welfare law. Nearly two-thirds 
are immigrant families with children. 

Many legal immigrants live in poverty 
and have great difficulty feeding 
their families. In fact, according to the 
Department of Agriculture, the average 
legal immigrant denied food 
stamps has an income equal to just 62 
percent of the poverty line, or about 
$8,000 for a family of three. 

In addition, thousands of refugees 
who have applied for citizenship could 
lose food stamps as they wait in the 
naturalization backlog for their applications 
to be processed if the 5 year 
limit on food stamps for this group is 
not extended to 7 years. 

The effects of these food stamps terminations 
is not limited to legal immigrants. 
Their children born here are 
American citizens but they too are facing 
sharp reductions in their food 
stamps. Their children remain eligible 
for food stamps themselves, but the removal 
of their parents from the program 
has meant that the food stamp 
benefits for their families have been 
cut by 50 to 70 percent in many cases. 
600,000 poor children who are American 
citizens live in families where food 
stamp benefits have been reduced for 
this reason, resulting in less food for 
all family members, including the children. 


The food stamp cut-off has hurt immigrant 
families, and it has also hurt 
state and local governments, who must 
fill the gap. As a result, governors and 
state legislatures have joined Congress 
to restore these food stamp benefits. As 
Governor Bush of Texas said, ‘‘Food 
stamps are a federal program and the 
federal responsibility, but the federal 
government is shirking its responsibility. 
The rules have changed unfairly 
and retroactively for those least able 
to help themselves.’’ 

It is time for the Senate to act on the 
bill. It is unconscionable that these 
benefits can continue to be denied. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2967 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 
Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Williams, one of his 
secretaries. 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 

As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 
from the President of the United 
States submitting a treaty and sundry 
nominations which were referred to the 
appropriate committees. 

(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 
At 2:27 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Hays, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has agreed to 
the following concurrent resolution, in 
which it requests the concurrence of 
the Senate. 
H.Con.Res. 257. Concurrent resolution providing 
for an Adjournment of both Houses. 
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

At 10:09 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Hays, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the Speaker has signed 
the following enrolled bill: 

S. 750. An act to consolidate certain mineral 
interests in the National Grasslands in 
Billings County, North Dakota, through the 
exchange of Federal and private minerals interests 
to enhance land management capabilities 
and environmental and wildlife protection, 
and for other purposes. 
f 

MEASURE PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR 
The following bill was read the second 
time and placed on the calendar: 

S. 1889. A bill to reduce tobacco use by 
children and others through an increase in 
the cost of tobacco products, the imposition 
of advertising and marketing limitations, assuring 
appropriate tobacco industry oversight, 
expanding the availability of tobacco 
use cessation programs, and implementing a 
strong public health prevention and education 
strategy that involves the private sector, 
schools, States, and local communities. 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
which were referred as indicated: 


EC–4498. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of the consolidated financial 
statements of the U.S. government 
for fiscal year 1997; to the Committee on 
Government Affairs. 

EC–4499. A communication from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report on govern-
ment-wide spending to combat terrorism; to 
the Committee on Armed Services. 

f 

PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS 
The following petitions and memorials 
were laid before the Senate and 

were referred or ordered to lie on the 
table as indicated: 
POM–375. A resolution adopted by the 
House of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania; to the Committee 
on Appropriations. 
HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 330 
Whereas, Since 1989 the Pennsylvania National 
Guard Counterdrug Program has supported 
2,965 counterdrug missions at Federal, 
State and local law enforcement levels in 
this Commonwealth; and 
Whereas, Pennsylvania National Guard 
counterdrug efforts have supported drug law 
enforcement missions that have taken 10,221 
pounds of cocaine, 402 pounds of heroin and 
21,689 pounds of marijuana off Pennsylvania 
streets; and 
Whereas, Since 1994 Pennsylvania National 
Guard counterdrug personnel have cleaned 
and sealed or razed over 2,270 units of houses 
in seven different municipalities within this 
Commonwealth; and 
Whereas, The Pennsylvania National 
Guard Counterdrug Program has provided 
construction support in the rehabilitation of 
three victims’ centers in Philadelphia and 
five pocket parks in Chester; and 
Whereas, Since 1993 the Pennsylvania National 
Guard Counterdrug Program has assisted 
in drug seizures of over $1,600,000,000 in 
Pennsylvania; and 
Whereas, The President of the United 
States and Congress have proposed a reduction 
in the amount of the Federal appropriation 
to the Pennsylvania National Guard 
Counterdrug Program; and 
Whereas, The antidrug efforts being performed 
by the Pennsylvania National Guard 
have been very valuable to the citizens of 
this Commonwealth; therefore be it 
Resolved, That the House of Representatives 
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
memorialize the President of the United 
States and Congress to maintain and increase 
funding for the Pennsylvania National 
Guard Counterdrug Program. 

f 

EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF 
COMMITTEES 

The following executive reports of 
committees were submitted: 

By Mr. CAMPBELL, from the Committee 
on Indian Affairs: 

Katherine L. Archuleta, of Colorado, to be 
a Member of the Institute of American Indian 
and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development 
for the remainder of the term expiring 
May 19, 2000. 

(The above nomination was reported 
with the recommendation that she be 
confirmed, subject to the nominee’s 
commitment to respond to requests to 
appear and testify before any duly constituted 
committee of the Senate.) 

By Mr. THURMOND, from the Committee 
on Armed Services: 

Paul J. Hoeper, of California, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of the Army. 

Sue Bailey, of Maryland, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of Defense. 

David R. Oliver, of Idaho, to be Deputy 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
and Technology. 

(The above nominations were reported 
with the recommendation that 
they be confirmed.) 

By Mr. THOMPSON, from the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs: 

Elaine D. Kaplan, of the District of Columbia, 
to be Special Counsel, Office of Special 
Counsel, for the term of five years. 

Melvin R. Wright, of the District of Columbia, 
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior 
Court of the District of Columbia for the 
term of fifteen years. 

Ruth Y. Goldway, of California, to be a 
Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission 
for a term expiring November 22, 2002. 

(The above nominations were reported 
with the recommendation that 
they be confirmed, subject to the nominees’ 
commitment to respond to requests 
to appear and testify before any 
duly constituted committee of the Senate.) 


By Mr. JEFFORDS, from the Committee 
on Labor and Human Resources: 

Rebecca T. Bingham, of Kentucky, to be a 
Member of the National Commission on Libraries 
and Information Science for a term 
expiring July 19, 2001. 

Scott Snyder Fleming, of Virginia, to be 
Assistant Secretary for Legislation and Congressional 
Affairs, Department of Education. 

Martha B. Gould, of Nevada, to be a Member 
of the National Commission on Libraries 
and Information Science for a term expiring 
July 19, 2002. (Reappointment) 

Cherryl T. Thomas, of Illinois, to be a 
Member of the Railroad Retirement Board 
for a term expiring August 28, 2002. 

(The above nominations were reported 
with the recommendation that 
they be confirmed, subject to the nominees’ 
commitment to requests to appear 
and testify before any duly constituted 
committee of the Senate.) 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second time by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. THURMOND: 

S. 1894. A bill to amend the Alcoholic Beverage 
Labeling Act of 1988 to improve a 
warning label requirement; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
By Mr. HELMS: 

S. 1895. A bill for the relief of Augusto 
Segovia and Maria Segovia, husband and 
wife, and their children; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. MCCONNELL: 

S. 1896. A bill to transfer administrative 
jurisdiction over Land Between the Lakes 
National Recreation Area to the Secretary of 
Agriculture; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 
By Mr. ROCKEFELLER (for himself, 
Ms. SNOWE, and Mr. KERREY): 

S. 1897. A bill to require accurate billing by 
telecommunications carriers with respect to 
the costs and fees resulting from the enactment 
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
By Mrs. BOXER (for herself and Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN): 

S. 1898. A bill to designate the Federal 
building located at 1301 Clay Street in Oakland, 
California, as the ‘‘Ronald V. Dellums 
Federal Building’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 
By Mr. BAUCUS (for himself and Mr. 
BURNS): 

S. 1899. A bill entitled ‘‘Chippewa Cree 
Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation Indian 
Reserved Water Rights Settlement Act of 
1998’’; to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 
By Mr. D’AMATO (for himself, Ms. 
MOSELEY-BRAUN, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. 


S2968 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

FAIRCLOTH, Mr. BENNETT, Mr. HAGEL, 
Mr. SARBANES, Mr. DODD, Mr. KERRY, 
Mr. BRYAN, Mrs. BOXER, Mr. REED, 
and Mr. DEWINE): 

S. 1900. A bill to establish a commission to 
examine issues pertaining to the disposition 
of Holocaust-era assets in the United States 
before, during, and after World War II, and to 
make recommendations to the President on 
further action, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Mr. 
ASHCROFT, Mr. REID, and Mr. WYDEN): 

S. 1901. A bill to amend the Freedom of Information 
Act to provide electronic access to 
certain Internal Revenue Service information 
on the Internet, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mrs. BOXER: 

S. 1902. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow the first $2,000 of 
health insurance premiums to be fully deductible; 
to the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. THOMAS (for himself, Mr. ENZI, 
Mr. THURMOND, Mr. HELMS, Mr. 
HAGEL, and Mr. SMITH of Oregon): 

S. 1903. A bill to prohibit the return of veterans 
memorial objects to foreign nations 
without specific authorization in law; to the 
Committee on Veterans Affairs. 
By Mr. GORTON: 

S. 1904. A bill to amend the Elwha River 
Ecosystem and Fisheries Restoration Act to 
provide further for the acquisition and removal 
of the Elwha dam and acquisition of 
Glines Canyon dam and the restoration of 
the Elwha River ecosystem and native anadromous 
fisheries, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 
By Mr. KYL (for himself, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, 
Mr. BIDEN, Mr. LOTT, Mr. 
THURMOND, Mr. TORRICELLI, Mr. 
BREAUX, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. DEWINE, 
Mr. FORD, Mr. REID, Mr. GRAMM, Mr. 
MACK, Ms. LANDRIEU, Mr. CLELAND, 
Mr. COVERDELL, Mr. CRAIG, Mr. 
INOUYE, Mr. BRYAN, Ms. SNOWE, Mr. 
THOMAS, Mr. WARNER, Mr. LIEBERMAN, 
Mr. ALLARD, Mrs. HUTCHISON, 
Mr. D’AMATO, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. CAMPBELL, 
Mr. COATS, Mr. FAIRCLOTH, Mr. 
FRIST, Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire, 
Mr. GREGG, Mr. HAGEL, Mr. HELMS, 
Mr. SMITH of Oregon, Mr. HUTCHINSON, 
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. MURKOWSKI, 
Mr. BOND, and Mr. GRAMS): 

S.J. Res. 44. A Joint Resolution proposing 
an amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States to protect the rights of crime 
victims; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. THURMOND: 

S. 1894. A bill to amend the Alcoholic 
Beverage Labeling Act of 1988 to improve 
a warning label requirement; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LABELING ACT 
AMENDMENTS 

Mr. THURMOND. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to rise today to introduce a bill 
to amend the Alcoholic Beverage Labeling 
Act of 1988. Current law requires 
all containers of alcoholic beverages to 
display the following warning on the 
label: 

GOVERNMENT WARNING: (1) According 
to the Surgeon General, women should not 
drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy 
because of the risk of birth defects. (2) Con


sumption of alcoholic beverages impairs 
your ability to drive a car or operate machinery, 
and may cause health problems. 

For nine years this warning has made 
consumers aware of some of the potential 
dangers associated with the consumption 
of alcohol. While I am confident 
that this warning appropriately 
illustrates the hazards of drinking during 
pregnancy and drinking and driving, 
I am concerned that it does not 
adequately describe the negative 
health effects associated with drinking 
alcohol. There is no shortage of well-
substantiated information about the 
detrimental health effects of drinking. 
Excessive consumption of alcohol can 
raise the risk of stroke, heart disease, 
high blood pressure, certain cancers, 
malnutrition, cirrhosis of the liver, inflammation 
of the pancreas, and damage 
to the brain and heart. Obviously, 
there are so many adverse consequences 
of excessive alcohol consumption 
that it would be impossible 
to include them all on the face of a 
label. The bill I am introducing today, 
however, will warn consumers of the 
dangers associated with moderate consumption 
of alcohol. I am concerned 
that citizens may not realize that even 
moderate consumption of alcohol can 
put their health at risk. A recent study 
conducted by the National Institute on 
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism 
(NIAAA) indicates that there is an increased 
risk of breast cancer associated 
with moderate drinking. Specifically, 
there is a 40 percent increase in the 
risk of breast cancer associated with 
an average intake of one drink per day, 
and a doubling of the risk of breast 
cancer with an average consumption of 
three drinks per day. The NIAAA study 
also revealed that a moderate alcohol 
intake of about two drinks per day can 
lead to an increase in blood pressure. 

Mr. President, the use of alcoholic 
beverages, even in moderate amounts, 
can have very serious health consequences 
that might ultimately be 
fatal. The government has a legitimate 
and important role to play in helping 
to assure that Americans understand 
these dangers. The legislation I am introducing 
today will supplement the 
current warning on labels to inform 
consumers of the dangers of moderate 
alcohol consumption. Further, this legislation 
will require that the warning 
label indicate that consumption of alcohol 
may lead to alcoholism. Alcohol 
has an addictive effect much like illegal 
drugs, and it is important that consumers 
are aware of this fact. 

I urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring 
this critical legislation and 
look forward to its speedy passage. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of this bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1894 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. LABELING REQUIREMENT. 

Section 204(a) of the Alcoholic Beverage 
Labeling Act of 1988 (27 U.S.C. 215(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘may cause health 
problems’’ and inserting ‘‘may lead to alcoholism. 
(3) Moderate consumption of alcoholic 
beverages may cause health problems 
such as hypertension and breast cancer’’. 

By Mr. MCCONNELL: 

S. 1896. A bill to transfer administrative 
jurisdiction over Land Between 
the Lakes National Recreation Area to 
the Secretary of Agriculture; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 
THE LAND BETWEEN THE LAKES PROTECTION 
ACT OF 1998 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President I 
have come to the floor today to introduce 
a bill known as the Land Between 
the Lakes Protection Act. Land Between 
the Lakes is a national treasure 
that must be protected. It is visited by 
more than 2 million tourists a year 
who enjoy its natural beauty, whether 
by camping, fishing, hunting, or just 
taking a long hike with the family. 

That’s why, after studying this issue 
for over a year, we have drafted a bill 
to ensure that the LBL, which so many 
Kentuckians enjoy today, will be there 
for them—unchanged—tomorrow. 

As a member of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, my top priority 
has been to provide LBL the money it 
needs to operate—including $6.9 million 
last year. I remain committed to providing 
that funding to ensure that LBL 
remains a national treasure just like 
Mammoth Cave or Daniel Boone National 
Forest. 

But because of TVA Chairman Craven 
Crowell’s harmful and ill-considered 
request last year to zero-out 
LBL’s funding, it may be that Congress 
will deny funding to TVA’s non-power 
budget this year. Because of this reality, 
LBL needs a safety net. That’s 
what this bill is—a safety net. 

If Congress decides to fund TVA then 
TVA will remain LBL’s steward. If 
TVA is denied funding, my bill will 
safely and seamlessly transition LBL 
to a less controversial steward without 
interrupting the myriad of recreational 
activities that millions of visitors have 
come to enjoy every year. 

There may be some who want to 
gamble everything on TVA receiving 
its appropriation. But I believe LBL is 
far too precious for such an all or nothing 
gambit. That’s why our bill provides 
for both contingencies. 

Mr. President, let me take a moment 
to explain some of the provisions I 
have included in this legislation based 
on the input I have received from area 
residents, and those who enjoy LBL. 
The goal of this bill is to ensure that 
the day to day operations of LBL remain 
the same for its visitors. Therefore, 
this bill codifies LBL’s 1972 mission 
statement and ensures that the 
Forest Service continues to manage 
LBL for multiple use with a focus on 
recreation, conservation and environmental 
education. 

This legislation also gives the U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service the authority 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2969 

to assist the Forest Service in managing 
the wildlife populations and educating 
visitors on the unique species at 
LBL, with an emphasis on endangered 
species, like the American bald eagle. 
LBL is home to over 100 eagles. 

One of the most important aspects of 
this bill is the creation of a 17-member 
citizen advisory board that will assist 
the Forest Service in establishing a 
management plan at LBL. I believe 
this will ensure that LBL managers are 
more responsive to the local concerns 
about development at LBL. This will 
ensure that proposals like the ‘‘Five 
Concepts’’ proposed by TVA in 1995 will 
never be considered again. 

We have given the authority to Federal, 
State and local officials to appoint 
the members to the board. While 
the board will represent a variety of interests, 
I am confident that each will 
have the best intentions for LBL foremost 
in mind. 

The Secretary will appoint 4 individuals, 
two from each state. The Governors 
from Kentucky and Tennessee 
will each nominate two individuals 
from their state. The Kentucky and 
Tennessee Fish and Wildlife Commissioners 
will each nominate 1 person. 
The Land Between the Lakes Association, 
which is a non-profit organization 
that operates the gift shops, planetarium 
and welcome stations at LBL, 
will nominate one individual. The 
County Judge Executives from each of 
the three counties, which make up LBL 
will each nominate two individuals. 

This bill also protects existing TVA 
payments to counties, and increases 
federal payments in lieu of taxes. This 
will ensure that county schools and 
county services are not negatively impacted. 


This bill creates a $5 million trust 
fund to be used for internships, education 
grants, and regional economic 
and tourism promotion. 

Finally, the bill also seeks to minimize 
any disruption to the employees 
working at LBL. We have sought to ensure 
that all eligible benefits provided 
to an employee will not be diminished 
or lost as a result of transferring this 
facility. This bill also provides a generous 
severance package based on a 
previous downsizing package offered by 
TVA. 

Mr. President, we are rapidly nearing 
the end of the fiscal year and we need 
to ensure that this safety net is available 
if TVA doesn’t receive sufficient 
funding. I look forward to working 
with my colleagues in the House and 
Senate, Republican and Democrat 
alike, putting aside politics and doing 
right by all those who treasure LBL. 

Finally, I want to thank the hundreds 
of Kentuckians who have worked 
so closely with us in drafting this bill. 
I believe the plan we have arrived at 
together will help secure LBL’s future 
for a long, long time. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that a copy of the legislation be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1896 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be referred 
to as ‘‘The Land Between the Lakes Protection 
Act of 1998’’. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
of this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 
Sec. 2. Definitions. 
Sec. 3. Purposes. 

TITLE I—ESTABLISHMENT, 

ADMINISTRATION, AND JURISDICTION 
Sec. 101. Establishment. 
Sec. 102. Civil and criminal jurisdiction. 
Sec. 103. Payments to States and counties. 
Sec. 104. Forest highways. 

TITLE II—MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS 
Sec. 201. Land and resource management 
plan. 
Sec. 202. Advisory Board. 
Sec. 203. Fees. 
Sec. 204. Disposition of receipts. 
Sec. 205. Special use authorizations. 
Sec. 206. Cooperative authorities and gifts. 
Sec. 207. Designation of national recreation 
trail. 
Sec. 208. Cemeteries. 
Sec. 209. Resource management. 
Sec. 210. Dams and impoundments. 
Sec. 211. Trust Fund. 
Sec. 212. Electricity. 
TITLE III—TRANSFER PROVISIONS 
Sec. 301. Effective date of transfer. 
Sec. 302. Statement of policy. 
Sec. 303. Memorandum of agreement. 
Sec. 304. Records. 
Sec. 305. Transfer of personal property. 
Sec. 306. Compliance with environmental 
laws. 
Sec. 307. Personnel. 
TITLE IV—FUNDING 
Sec. 401. Tennessee Valley Authority transitional 
funding. 
Sec. 402. Authorization of appropriations. 

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. 

In this Act: 

(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Administrator’’ 
means the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency. 
(2) ADVISORY BOARD.—The term ‘‘Advisory 
Board’’ means the Land Between the Lakes 
Advisory Board established under section 
202. 
(3) CHAIRMAN.—The term ‘‘Chairman’’ 
means the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority. 
(4) ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘‘eligible 
employee’’ means a person that was, on 
the date of enactment of this Act, a full-time 
employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
at the Recreation Area. 
(5) ENVIRONMENTAL LAW.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘environmental 
law’’ means all applicable Federal, State, 
and local laws (including regulations) and requirements 
related to protection of human 
health, natural and cultural resources, or 
the environment. 
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘environmental 
law’’ includes— 
(i) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); 
(ii) the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
6901 et seq.); 
(iii) the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); 
(iv) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
seq.); 
(v) the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and 
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.); 
(vi) the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
U.S.C. 2601 et seq.); and 
(vii) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 
U.S.C. 300f et seq.). 
(6) FOREST HIGHWAY.—The term ‘‘forest 
highway’’ has the meaning given the term in 
section 101(a) of title 23, United States Code. 
(7) GOVERNMENTAL UNIT.—The term ‘‘governmental 
unit’’ means an agency of the 
Federal Government or a State or local government, 
local governmental unit, public or 
municipal corporation, or unit of a State 
university system. 
(8) HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.—The term ‘‘hazardous 
substance’’ has the meaning given the 
term in section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601). 
(9) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ has the 
meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9601). 
(10) POLLUTANT OR CONTAMINANT.—The 
term ‘‘pollutant or contaminant’’ has the 
meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9601). 
(11) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recreation 
Area’’ means the Land Between the 
Lakes National Recreation Area. 
(12) RELEASE.—The term ‘‘release’’ has the 
meaning given the term in section 101 of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9601). 
(13) RESPONSE ACTION.—The term ‘‘response 
action’’ has the meaning given the term in 
section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability 
Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601). 
(14) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ 
means the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(15) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the 
State of Kentucky and the State of Tennessee. 
SEC. 3. PURPOSES. 

The purposes of this Act are— 

(1) to transfer without consideration administrative 
jurisdiction over the Recreation 
Area from the Tennessee Valley Authority 
to the Secretary so that the Recreation 
Area may be managed as a unit of the 
National Forest System; 
(2) to protect and manage the resources of 
the Recreation Area for optimum yield of 
outdoor recreation and environmental education 
through multiple use management by 
the Forest Service; 
(3) to authorize, research, test, and demonstrate 
innovative programs and cost-effective 
management of the Recreation Area; 
(4) to authorize the Secretary to cooperate 
between and among the States, Federal 
agencies, private organizations, and corporations, 
and individuals, as appropriate, in the 
management of the Recreation Area and to 
help stimulate the development of the surrounding 
region and extend the beneficial results 
as widely as practicable; and 
(5) to provide for the smooth and equitable 
transfer of jurisdiction from the Tennessee 
Valley Authority to the Secretary. 
TITLE I—ESTABLISHMENT, 
ADMINISTRATION, AND JURISDICTION 

SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—On the transfer of administrative 
jurisdiction under section 301, the 
Land Between the Lakes National Recreation 
Area in the States of Kentucky and 
Tennessee is established as a unit of the National 
Forest System. 
(b) MANAGEMENT.— 

S2970 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall manage 
the Recreation Area for multiple use as 
a unit of the National Forest System. 
(2) EMPHASES.—The emphases in the management 
of the Recreation Area shall be— 
(A) to provide public recreational opportunities; 
(B) to conserve fish and wildlife and their 
habitat; and 
(C) to provide for diversity of native and 
desirable non-native plants, animals, opportunities 
for hunting and fishing, and environmental 
education. 
(3) STATUS OF UNIT.—The Secretary may 
administer the Recreation Area as a separate 
unit of the National Forest System or in 
conjunction with an existing national forest. 
(c) AREA INCLUDED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Recreation Area shall 
comprise the federally owned land, water, 
and interests in the land and water lying between 
Kentucky Lake and Lake Barkley in 
the States of Kentucky and Tennessee, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled 
‘‘Land Between the Lakes National Recreation 
Area—January, 1998’’. 
(2) MAP.—The map described in paragraph 
(1) shall be available for public inspection in 
the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service, 
Washington, D.C. 
(d) WATERS.— 
(1) WATER LEVELS AND NAVIGATION.—Nothing 
in this Act affects the jurisdiction of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority or the Army 
Corps of Engineers to manage and regulate 
water levels and navigation of Kentucky 
Lake and Lake Barkley and areas subject to 
flood easements. 
(2) OCCUPANCY AND USE.—Subject to the jurisdiction 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
and the Army Corps of Engineers, the Secretary 
shall have jurisdiction to regulate the 
occupancy and use of the surface waters of 
the lakes for recreational purposes. 
SEC. 102. CIVIL AND CRIMINAL JURISDICTION. 

(a) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary, acting 
through the Chief of the Forest Service, 
shall administer the Recreation Area in accordance 
with this Act and the laws, rules, 
and regulations pertaining to the National 
Forest System. 
(b) STATUS.—Land within the Recreation 
Area shall have the status of land acquired 
under the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly 
known as the ‘‘Weeks Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 515 et 
seq.). 
SEC. 103. PAYMENTS TO STATES AND COUNTIES. 

(a) PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES.—Land 
within the Recreation Area shall be subject 
to the provisions for payments in lieu of 
taxes under chapter 69 of title 31, United 
States Code. 
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—All amounts received 
from charges, use fees, and natural resource 
utilization, including timber and agricultural 
receipts, shall not be subject to distribution 
to States under the Act of May 23, 
1908 (16 U.S.C. 500). 
(c) PAYMENTS BY THE TENNESSEE VALLEY 
AUTHORITY.—After the transfer of administrative 
jurisdiction is made under section 
301— 
(1) the Tennessee Valley Authority shall 
continue to calculate the amount of payments 
to be made to States and counties 
under section 13 of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
Act of 1933 (16 U.S.C. 831l); and 
(2) each State (including, for the purposes 
of this subsection, the State of Kentucky, 
the State of Tennessee, and any other State) 
that receives a payment under that section 
shall continue to calculate the amounts to 
be distributed to the State and local governments, 
as though the transfer had not been 
made. 
SEC. 104. FOREST HIGHWAYS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 
204 of title 23, United States Code, the road 
known as ‘‘The Trace’’ and every other paved 
road within the Recreation Area (including 
any road constructed to secondary standards) 
shall be considered to be a forest highway. 


(b) STATE RESPONSIBILITY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The States shall be responsible 
for the maintenance of forest highways 
within the Recreation Area. 
(2) REIMBURSEMENT.—To the maximum extent 
provided by law, from funds appropriated 
to the Department of Transportation 
and available for purposes of highway construction 
and maintenance, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall reimburse the States 
for all or a portion of the costs of maintenance 
of forest highways in the Recreation 
Area. 
TITLE II—MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS 
SEC. 201. LAND AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 
PLAN. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable 
after the effective date of the transfer of jurisdiction 
under section 301, the Secretary 
shall prepare a land and resource management 
plan for the Recreation Area in conformity 
with the National Forest Management 
Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a et seq.) and 
other applicable law. 
(b) INTERIM PROVISION.—Until adoption of 
the land and resource management plan, the 
Secretary may use, as appropriate, the existing 
Tennessee Valley Authority management 
plan to provide interim management direction. 
Use of all or a portion of the management 
plan by the Secretary shall not be considered 
to be a major Federal action significantly 
affecting the quality of the human environment. 
SEC. 202. ADVISORY BOARD. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall establish the Land Between 
the Lakes Advisory Board. 
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Advisory Board 
shall be composed of 17 members appointed 
as follows: 
(1) 4 individuals appointed by the Secretary, 
including— 
(A) 2 residents of the State of Kentucky; 
and 
(B) 2 residents of the State of Tennessee. 
(2) 2 individuals, including— 
(A) 1 individual appointed by the Kentucky 
Fish and Wildlife Commissioner or designee; 
and 
(B) 1 individual appointed by the Tennessee 
Fish and Wildlife Commission or designee. 
(3) 1 individual appointed by the Land Between 
the Lakes Association. 
(4) 4 individuals, including— 
(A) 2 individuals appointed by the Governor 
of the State of Tennessee; and 
(B) 2 individuals appointed by the Governor 
of the State of Kentucky. 
(5) 6 individuals, including 2 individuals appointed 
by each of the counties containing 
the Recreation Area. 
(c) TERM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The term of a member of 
the Advisory Board shall be 5 years. 
(2) SUCCESSION.—Members of the Advisory 
Board may not succeed themselves. 
(d) CHAIRPERSON.—The Regional Forester 
shall serve as chairperson of the Advisory 
Board. 
(e) RULES OF PROCEDURE.—The Secretary 
shall prescribe the rules of procedure for the 
Advisory Board. 
(f) FUNCTIONS.—The Advisory Board may 
advise the Secretary on— 
(1) means of promoting public participation 
for the land and resource management 
plan for the Recreation Area; and 
(2) environmental education. 
(g) MEETINGS.— 
(1) FREQUENCY.—The Advisory Board shall 
meet at least biannually. 
(2) PUBLIC MEETING.—A meeting of the Advisory 
Board shall be open to the general 
public. 
(3) NOTICE OF MEETINGS.—The chairperson, 
through the placement of notices in local 
news media and by other appropriate means 
shall give 2 weeks’ public notice of each 
meeting of the Advisory Board. 
(h) TERMINATION.—The Secretary may terminate 
the Advisory Board on or after the 
date as of which the Secretary determines 
that implementation of the initial land and 
resource management plan for the Recreation 
Area under section 201 has begun. 
SEC. 203. FEES. 

(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may charge 
reasonable fees for admission to and the use 
of the designated sites, or for activities, 
within the Recreation Area. 
(b) FACTORS.—In determining whether to 
charge fees, the Secretary may consider the 
costs of collection weighed against potential 
income. 
(c) LIMITATION.—No general entrance fees 
shall be charged within the Recreation Area. 
SEC. 204. DISPOSITION OF RECEIPTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—All amounts received 
from charges, use fees, and natural resource 
utilization, including timber and agricultural 
receipts, shall be deposited in a special 
fund in the Treasury of the United States to 
be known as the ‘‘Land Between the Lakes 
Management Fund’’. 
(b) USE.—Amounts in the Fund shall be 
available to the Secretary until expended, 
without further Act of appropriation, for the 
management of the Recreation Area, including 
payment of salaries and expenses. 
SEC. 205. SPECIAL USE AUTHORIZATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In addition to other authorities 
for the authorization of special uses 
within the National Forest System, within 
the Recreation Area, the Secretary may, on 
such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
may prescribe— 
(1) convey for no consideration perpetual 
easements to governmental units for public 
roads over U.S. Route 68 and the Trace, and 
such other rights-of-way as the Secretary 
and a governmental unit may agree; 
(2) transfer or lease to governmental units 
developed recreation sites or other facilities 
to be managed for public purposes; and 
(3) lease or authorize developed recreational 
sites or other facilities, consistent 
with sections 3(2) and 101(b)(2), to for-profit 
and not-for-profit corporations and organizations 
for renewable periods not to exceed 30 
years. 
(b) CONSIDERATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Consideration for a lease 
or other special use authorization within the 
Recreation Area shall be based on fair market 
value. 
(2) REDUCTION OR WAIVER.—The Secretary 
may reduce or waive a fee to a governmental 
unit or nonprofit organization commensurate 
with other consideration provided to the 
United States, as determined by the Secretary. 
(c) PROCEDURE.—The Secretary may use 
any fair and equitable method for authorizing 
special uses within the Recreation 
Area, including public solicitation of proposals. 
(d) EXISTING AUTHORIZATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A permit or other authorization 
granted by the Tennessee Valley Authority 
that is in effect on the date of enactment 
of this Act may continue on transfer of 
administration of the Recreation Area to the 
Secretary. 
(2) REISSUANCE.—A permit or authorization 
described in paragraph (1) may be reissued on 
termination under terms and conditions prescribed 
by the Secretary. 
(3) EXERCISE OF RIGHTS.—The Secretary 
may exercise any of the rights of the Tennessee 
Valley Authority contained in any 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2971 

permit or other authorization, including any 
right to amend, modify, and revoke the permit 
or authorization. 

SEC. 206. COOPERATIVE AUTHORITIES AND 
GIFTS. 

(a) FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE.— 
(1) MANAGEMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, 
the Secretary may issue a special use 
authorization to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service for the management by the 
Service of facilities and land agreed on by 
the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior. 
(B) FEES.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—Reasonable admission and 
use fees may be charged for all areas administered 
by the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service. 
(ii) DEPOSIT.—The fees shall be deposited in 
accordance with section 204. 
(2) COOPERATION.—The Secretary and the 
Secretary of the Interior may cooperate or 
act jointly on activities such as population 
monitoring and inventory of fish and wildlife 
with emphasis on migratory birds and endangered 
and threatened species, environmental 
education, visitor services, conservation 
demonstration projects and scientific research. 
(3) SUBORDINATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE 
ACTIVITIES TO OVERALL MANAGEMENT.—The 
management and use of areas and facilities 
under permit to the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service as authorized pursuant to 
this section shall be subordinate to the overall 
management of the Recreation Area as 
directed by the Secretary. 
(b) AUTHORITIES.—For the management, 
maintenance, operation, and interpretation 
of the Recreation Area and its facilities, the 
Secretary may— 
(1) make grants and enter into contracts 
and cooperative agreements with Federal 
agencies, governmental units, nonprofit organizations, 
corporations, and individuals; 
and 
(2) accept gifts under Public Law 95–442 (7 
U.S.C. 2269) notwithstanding that the donor 
conducts business with any agency of the Department 
of Agriculture or is regulated by 
the Secretary of Agriculture. 
SEC. 207. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL RECREATION 
TRAIL. 

Effective on the date of enactment of this 
Act, the North-South Trail is designated as a 
national recreation trail under section 4 of 
the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
1243). 

SEC. 208. CEMETERIES. 

The Secretary shall conduct an inventory 
of and ensure access to all cemeteries within 
the Recreation Area for purposes of visitation 
and maintenance. 

SEC. 209. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. 

(a) MINERALS.— 
(1) WITHDRAWAL.—The land within the 
Recreation Area is withdrawn from the operation 
of the mining and mineral leasing laws 
of the United States. 
(2) USE OF MINERAL MATERIALS.—The Secretary 
may permit the use of common varieties 
of mineral materials for the development 
and maintenance of the Recreation 
Area. 
(b) HUNTING AND FISHING.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall permit 
hunting and fishing on land and water 
under the jurisdiction of the Secretary within 
the boundaries of the Recreation Area in 
accordance with applicable laws of the 
United States and of each State, respectively. 
(2) PROHIBITION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may designate 
areas where, and establish periods 
when, hunting or fishing is prohibited for 
reasons of public safety, administration, or 
public use and enjoyment. 

(B) CONSULTATION.—Except in emergencies, 
a prohibition under subparagraph (A) shall 
become effective only after consultation 
with the appropriate fish and game departments 
of the States. 
(3) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this Act 
affects the jurisdiction or responsibilities of 
the States with respect to wildlife and fish 
on national forests. 
SEC. 210. DAMS AND IMPOUNDMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Tennessee Valley Authority 
and the Army Corps of Engineers, as 
appropriate, shall be responsible for the 
maintenance of all dams, dikes, causeways, 
impoundments, subimpoundments, and other 
water resources facilities, including appurtenant 
roads and boat ramps, existing within 
the Recreation Area on the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
(b) REMOVAL.—A facility described in subsection 
(a) may be removed and the associated 
land and water area restored to a natural 
condition only with the approval of the 
Secretary. 
SEC. 211. TRUST FUND. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established 
in the Treasury of the United States a special 
interest-bearing fund known as the 
‘‘Land Between the Lakes Trust Fund’’. 
(b) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts in the Fund 
shall be available to the Secretary, until expended, 
for— 
(1) public education, grants, and internships 
related to recreation, conservation, 
and multiple use land management in the 
Recreation Area; and 
(2) regional promotion in the Recreation 
Area, in cooperation with development districts, 
chambers of commerce, and State and 
local governments. 
(c) DEPOSITS.—From revenues available to 
the Tennessee Valley Authority from any 
source, the Tennessee Valley Authority shall 
deposit into the Fund $1,000,000 annually for 
each of 5 fiscal years that begin after the 
date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 212. ELECTRICITY. 

The Tennessee Valley Authority shall compensate 
distributors in providing the Secretary, 
at no charge, continued electrical 
service, including maintenance of all lines, 
poles, and other facilities necessary for the 
distribution and use of electric power. 

TITLE III—TRANSFER PROVISIONS 
SEC. 301. EFFECTIVE DATE OF TRANSFER. 

Effective on October 1 of the first fiscal 
year for which Congress does not appropriate 
to the Tennessee Valley Authority at least 
$6,000,000 for the Recreation Area, administrative 
jurisdiction over the Recreation Area 
is transferred from the Tennessee Valley Authority 
to the Secretary. 

SEC. 302. STATEMENT OF POLICY. 

It is the policy of the United States that, 
to the maximum extent practicable— 

(1) the transfer of jurisdiction over the 
Recreation Area from the Tennessee Valley 
Authority to the Secretary should be effected 
in an efficient and cost-effective manner; 
and 
(2) due consideration should be given to 
minimizing— 
(A) disruption of the personal lives of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority and Forest Service 
employees; and 
(B) adverse impacts on permittees, 
contractees, and others owning or operating 
businesses affected by the transfer. 
SEC. 303. MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary and the Tennessee Valley Authority 
shall enter into a memorandum of agreement 
concerning implementation of this 
Act. 

(b) PROVISIONS.—The memorandum of understanding 
shall provide procedures for— 
(1) the orderly withdrawal of officers and 
employees of the Tennessee Valley Authority; 
(2) the transfer of property, fixtures, and 
facilities; 
(3) the interagency transfer of officers and 
employees; 
(4) the transfer of records; and 
(5) other transfer issues. 
(c) TRANSITION TEAM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The memorandum of understanding 
may provide for a transition 
team consisting of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
and Forest Service employees. 
(2) DURATION.—The team may continue in 
existence after the date of transfer. 
(3) PERSONNEL COSTS.—The Tennessee Valley 
Authority and the Forest Service shall 
pay personnel costs of their respective team 
members. 
SEC. 304. RECORDS. 

(a) RECREATION AREA RECORDS.—The Secretary 
shall have access to all records of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority pertaining to 
the management of the Recreation Area. 
(b) PERSONNEL RECORDS.—The Tennessee 
Valley Authority personnel records shall be 
made available to the Secretary, on request, 
to the extent the records are relevant to Forest 
Service administration. 
(c) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The Tennessee Valley 
Authority may prescribe terms and conditions 
on the availability of records to protect 
the confidentiality of private or proprietary 
information. 
(d) LAND TITLE RECORDS.—The Tennessee 
Valley Authority shall provide to the Secretary 
original records pertaining to land titles, 
surveys, and other records pertaining to 
transferred personal property and facilities. 
SEC. 305. TRANSFER OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 

(a) SUBJECT PROPERTY.— 
(1) INVENTORY.—Not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Tennessee Valley Authority shall provide 
the Secretary with an inventory of all property 
and facilities at the Recreation Area. 
(2) AVAILABILITY FOR TRANSFER.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—All Tennessee Valley Authority 
property associated with the administration 
of the Recreation Area as of January 
1, 1998, including any property purchased 
with Federal funds appropriated for the management 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
land, shall be available for transfer to the 
Secretary. 
(B) PROPERTY INCLUDED.—Property under 
subparagraph (A) includes buildings, office 
furniture and supplies, computers, office 
equipment, buildings, vehicles, tools, equipment, 
maintenance supplies, boats, engines, 
and publications. 
(3) EXCLUSION OF PROPERTY.—At the request 
of the authorized representative of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority, the Secretary 
may exclude movable property from transfer 
based on a showing by the Tennessee Valley 
Authority that the property is vital to the 
mission of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
and cannot be replaced in a cost-effective 
manner, if the Secretary determines that the 
property is not needed for management of 
the Recreation Area. 
(b) DESIGNATION.—Pursuant to such procedures 
as may be prescribed in the memorandum 
of agreement entered into under section 
303, the Secretary shall identify and designate, 
in writing, all Tennessee Valley Authority 
property to be transferred to the 
Secretary. 
(c) FACILITATION OF TRANSFER.—The Tennessee 
Valley Authority shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, use existing appropriated 
and unappropriated funds and current 
personnel to facilitate the transfer of 

S2972 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

necessary property and facilities to the Secretary, 
including replacement of signs and 
insignia, repainting of vehicles, printing of 
public information, and training of new personnel. 


(d) SURPLUS PROPERTY.— 
(1) DISPOSITION.—Any personal property, 
including structures and facilities, that the 
Secretary determines cannot be efficiently 
managed and maintained either by the Forest 
Service or by lease or permit to other 
persons may be declared excess by the Secretary 
and— 
(A) sold by the Secretary on such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe 
to achieve the maximum benefit to 
the Federal Government; or 
(B) disposed of under the Federal Property 
and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 
U.S.C. 471 et seq.). 
(2) DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.—All net proceeds 
from the disposal of any property shall be deposited 
into the Fund established by section 
211. 
SEC. 306. COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL 
LAWS. 

(a) DOCUMENTATION OF EXISTING CONDITIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Chairman and the Administrator shall provide 
the Secretary all documentation and information 
that exists on the environmental 
condition of the land and waters comprising 
the Recreation Area property. 
(2) ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION.—The 
Chairman and the Administrator shall provide 
the Secretary with any additional documentation 
and information regarding the environmental 
condition of the Recreation 
Area property as such documentation and information 
becomes available. 
(b) ACTION REQUIRED.— 
(1) ASSESSMENT.—Not later than 120 days 
from the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Chairman shall provide to the Secretary an 
assessment indicating what action, if any, is 
required under any environmental law on 
Recreation Area property. 
(2) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—If 
the assessment concludes action is required 
under any environmental law with respect to 
any portion of the Recreation Area property, 
the Secretary and the Chairman shall enter 
into a memorandum of understanding that— 
(A) provides for the performance by the 
Chairman of the required actions identified 
in the assessment; and 
(B) includes a schedule providing for the 
prompt completion of the required actions to 
the satisfaction of the Secretary. 
(c) DOCUMENTATION DEMONSTRATING ACTION.—
On the transfer of jurisdiction over 
the Recreation Area from the Tennessee Valley 
Authority to the Secretary, the Chairman 
shall provide the Secretary with documentation 
demonstrating that all actions required 
under any environmental law have 
been taken, including all response actions 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) that are necessary 
to protect human health and the environment 
with respect to any hazardous substance, 
pollutant, contaminant, hazardous 
waste, hazardous material, or petroleum 
product or derivative of a petroleum product 
on Recreation Area property. 
(d) CONTINUATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES AND 
LIABILITIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The transfer of the Recreation 
Area property under this Act, and the 
requirements of this section, shall not in any 
way affect the responsibilities and liabilities 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority at the 
Recreation Area under the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) or 
any other environmental law. 
(2) ACCESS.—After transfer of the Recreation 
Area property, the Chairman shall be 
accorded any access to the property that 
may be reasonably required to carry out the 
responsibility or satisfy the liability referred 
to in paragraph (1). 
(3) NO LIABILITY.—The Secretary shall not 
be liable under any environmental law for 
matters that are related directly or indirectly 
to present or past activities of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority on the Recreation 
Area property, including liability for— 
(A) costs or performance of response actions 
required under the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) at 
or related to the Recreation Area; or 
(B) costs, penalties, fines, or performance 
of actions related to noncompliance with any 
environmental law at or related to the 
Recreation Area or related to the presence, 
release, or threat of release of any hazardous 
substance, pollutant, or contaminant, hazardous 
waste, hazardous material, or petroleum 
product or derivative of a petroleum 
product of any kind at or related to the 
Recreation Area, including contamination 
resulting from migration. 
(4) NO EFFECT ON RESPONSIBILITIES OR LI-
ABILITIES.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(3), nothing in this Act affects, modifies, 
amends, repeals, alters, limits or otherwise 
changes, directly or indirectly, the responsibilities 
or liabilities under any environmental 
law of any person with respect to the 
Secretary. 
(e) OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Subject to 
the other provisions of this section, a Federal 
agency that carried or carries out operations 
at the Recreation Area resulting in 
the release or threatened release of a hazardous 
substance, pollutant, or contaminant, 
hazardous waste, hazardous material, or petroleum 
product or derivative of a petroleum 
product for which that agency would be liable 
under any environmental law shall pay 
the costs of related response actions and 
shall pay the costs of related actions to re-
mediate petroleum products or their derivatives. 
SEC. 307. PERSONNEL. 

(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) HIRING.—Notwithstanding section 3503 
of title 5, United States Code, and subject to 
paragraph (2), the Secretary may— 
(A) appoint, hire, and discharge officers 
and employees to administer the Recreation 
Area; and 
(B) pay the officers and employees at levels 
that are commensurate with levels at other 
units of the National Forest System. 
(2) INTERIM RETENTION OF ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—For a period of not less 
than 5 months after the effective date of 
transfer to the Forest Service— 
(i) all eligible employees shall be retained 
in the employment of the Tennessee Valley 
Authority; 
(ii) those eligible employees shall be considered 
to be placed on detail to the Secretary 
and shall be subject to the direction 
of the Secretary; and 
(iii) the Secretary shall reimburse the Tennessee 
Valley Authority for the amount of 
the basic pay of those eligible employees, 
and the Tennessee Valley Authority shall remain 
responsible for all other compensation 
of those employees. 
(B) NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES.—The Secretary 
shall provide eligible employees a written 
notice of not less than 30 days before termination. 
(C) TERMINATION FOR CAUSE.—Subparagraph 
(A) does not preclude a termination 
for cause during the 5-month period. 
(b) APPLICATIONS FOR TRANSFER AND AP-
POINTMENT.—An eligible employee shall have 
the right to apply for employment by the 
Secretary under procedures for transfer and 
appointment of Federal employees outside 
the Department of Agriculture. 

(c) HIRING BY THE SECRETARY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b), 
in filling personnel positions within the 
Recreation Area, the Secretary shall follow 
all laws (including regulations) and policies 
applicable to the Department of Agriculture. 
(2) NOTIFICATION AND HIRING.—Notwithstanding 
paragraph (1), the Secretary— 
(A) shall notify all eligible employees of all 
openings for positions with the Forest Service 
at the Recreation Area before notifying 
other individuals or considering applications 
by other individuals for the positions; and 
(B) after applications by eligible employees 
have received consideration, if any positions 
remain unfilled, shall notify other individuals 
of the openings. 
(3) NONCOMPETITIVE APPOINTMENTS.—Notwithstanding 
any other placement of career 
transition programs authorized by the Office 
of Personnel Management of the United 
States Department of Agriculture, the Secretary 
may noncompetitively appoint eligible 
employees to positions in the Recreation 
Area. 
(4) PERIOD OF SERVICE.—Except to the extent 
that an eligible employee that is appointed 
by the Secretary may be otherwise 
compensated for the period of service as an 
employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority, 
that period of service shall be treated as a 
period of service as an employee of the Secretary 
for the purposes of probation, career 
tenure, time-in-grade, and leave. 
(d) TRANSFER TO POSITIONS IN OTHER UNITS 
OF THE TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY.—The 
Tennessee Valley Authority— 
(1) shall notify all eligible employees of all 
openings for positions in other units of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority before notifying 
other individuals or considering applications 
by other individuals for the positions; and 
(2) after applications by eligible employees 
have received consideration, if any positions 
remain unfilled, shall notify other individuals 
of the openings. 
(e) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRANSITION.— 
(1) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary and the 
heads of the Office of Personnel Management 
and the Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement 
System shall enter into a memorandum 
of understanding providing for the 
transition for all eligible employees of compensation 
made available through the Tennessee 
Valley Authority Retirement System. 
(B) EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION.—In deciding 
on the terms of the memorandum of understanding, 
the Secretary and the heads of the 
Office of Personnel Management and the 
Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement System 
shall meet and consult with and give 
full consideration to the views of employees 
and representatives of the employees of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority. 
(2) ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES THAT ARE TRANSFERRED 
TO OTHER UNITS OF TVA.—An eligible 
employee that is transferred to another unit 
of the Tennessee Valley Authority shall experience 
no interruption in coverage for or 
reduction of any retirement, health, leave, 
or other employee benefit. 
(3) ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES THAT ARE HIRED BY 
THE SECRETARY.— 
(A) LEVEL OF BENEFITS.—The Secretary 
shall provide to an eligible employee that is 
hired by the Forest Service a level of retirement 
and health benefits that is equivalent 
to the level to which the eligible employee 
would have been entitled if the eligible employee 
had remained an employee of the Tennessee 
Valley Authority. 
(B) TRANSFER OF RETIREMENT BENEFITS.— 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2973 

(i) IN GENERAL.—All retirement benefits accrued 
by an eligible employee that is hired 
by the Forest Service shall be transferred 
into the Federal Retirement System of the 
Forest Service. 
(ii) FUNDING SHORTFALL.— 
(I) IN GENERAL.—For all eligible employees 
that are not part of the Civil Service Retirement 
System, the Tennessee Valley Authority 
shall meet any funding shortfall resulting 
from the transfer of retirement benefits. 
(II) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary shall notify 
the Tennessee Valley Authority Board of 
the cost associated with the transfer of retirement 
benefits. 
(III) PAYMENT.—Not later than 60 days 
after notification under subclause (II), the 
Tennessee Valley Authority, using non-
appropriated funds, shall fully compensate 
the Secretary for the costs associated with 
the transfer of retirement benefits. 
(IV) NO INTERRUPTION.—An eligible employee 
that is hired by the Forest Service 
and is eligible for Civil Service Retirement 
shall not experience any interruption in retirement 
benefits. 
(B) NO INTERRUPTION.—An eligible employee 
that is hired by the Secretary— 
(i) shall experience no interruption in coverage 
for any health, leave, or other employee 
benefit; and 
(ii) shall be entitled to carry over any 
leave time accumulated during employment 
by the Tennessee Valley Authority. 
(C) PERIOD OF SERVICE.—Notwithstanding 
section 8411(b)(3) of title 5, United States 
Code, except to the extent that an eligible 
employee may be otherwise compensated (including 
the provision of retirement benefits 
in accordance with the memorandum of understanding) 
for the period of service as an 
employee of the Tennessee Valley Authority, 
that period of service shall be treated as a 
period of service as an employee of the Secretary 
for all purposes relating to the Federal 
employment of the eligible employee. 
(4) ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES THAT ARE DISCHARGED 
NOT FOR CAUSE.— 
(A) LEVEL OF BENEFITS.—The parties to the 
memorandum of understanding shall have 
authority to deem any applicable requirement 
to be met, to make payments to an employee, 
or take any other action necessary to 
provide to an eligible employee that is discharged 
as being excess to the needs of the 
Tennessee Valley Authority or the Secretary 
and not for cause and that does not accept an 
offer of employment from the Secretary, an 
optimum level of retirement and health benefits 
that is equivalent to the level that has 
been afforded employees discharged in previous 
reductions in force by the Tennessee 
Valley Authority. 
(B) MINIMUM BENEFITS.—An eligible employee 
that is discharged as being excess to 
the needs of the Tennessee Valley Authority 
or the Secretary and not for cause shall, at 
a minimum, be entitled to— 
(i) at the option of the eligible employee— 
(I) a lump-sum equal to $1,000, multiplied 
by the number of years of service of the eligible 
employee (but not less than $15,000 nor 
more than $25,000); 
(II) a lump-sum payment equal to the 
amount of pay earned by the eligible employee 
for the last 26 weeks of the eligible 
employee’s service; or 
(III) the deemed addition of 5 years to the 
age and years of service of an eligible employee; 
(ii) 15 months of health benefits for employees 
and dependents at the same level 
provided as of September 30, 1998; 
(iii) 1 week of pay per year of service as 
provided by the Tennessee Valley Authority 
Retirement System; 
(iv) a lump-sum payment of all accumulated 
annual leave; 
(v) unemployment compensation in accordance 
with State law; 
(vi) eligible pension benefits as provided by 
the Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement 
System; and 
(vii) retraining assistance provided by the 
Tennessee Valley Authority. 
(C) SHORTFALL.—If the board of directors of 
the Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement 
System determines that the cost of providing 
the benefits described in subparagraph 
(B) would have a negative impact on 
the overall retirement system, the Tennessee 
Valley Authority shall be required to meet 
any funding shortfalls using nonappropriated 
funds. 
TITLE IV—FUNDING 

SEC. 401. TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY TRANSITIONAL 
FUNDING. 

(a) AVAILABILITY TO THE SECRETARY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—After the effective date of 
transfer of jurisdiction of the Recreation 
Area from the Tennessee Valley Authority 
to the Secretary, all of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated to the Tennessee Valley 
Authority for the administration of the 
Recreation Area shall be available to the 
Secretary to carry out this Act. 
(2) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT.—Funds made 
available to the Tennessee Valley Authority 
for the transition shall be made available to 
the Secretary pursuant to an interagency 
agreement. 
(b) AVAILABILITY TO THE UNITED STATES 
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE.—Funds appropriated 
to the Secretary of the Interior for 
purposes of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service shall be available to administer 
any portions of the Recreation Area that are 
authorized for administration by the Service 
under section 206(a). 
SEC. 402. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) AGRICULTURE.—There are authorized to 
be appropriated to the Secretary of Agriculture 
such sums as are necessary to— 
(1) permit the Secretary to exercise administrative 
jurisdiction over the Recreation 
Area under this Act; and 
(2) administer the Recreation Area area as 
a unit of the National Forest System. 
(b) INTERIOR.—There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior 
such sums as are necessary to carry out activities 
within the Recreation Area. 
By Mr. ROCKEFELLER (for him


self, Ms. SNOWE, and Mr. 

KERREY): 

S. 1897. A bill to require accurate 
billing by telecommunications carriers 
with respect to the costs and fees resulting 
from the enactment of the 
Telecommunications Act of 1996, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
THE CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT 

Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, 
it took Congress a decade to forge consensus 
necessary to pass the 1996 Telecommunication 
Act. This bold law was 
designed to promote competition in the 
dynamic telecommunications industry, 
but such competition is to be balanced 
by maintaining the commitment to 
universal service, a fundamental principle 
which has ensured affordable access 
to communications for every 
American, especially those in rural 
areas. 

I voted for this historic legislation 
because in my view it struck the right 
balance. 

I support competition, but I will insist 
on universal service. 

And I will insist on time to fully implement 
the Act. This bold law seeks to 
move the $200 billion telecommunications 
industry to a more competitive 
market, but it will not happen overnight. 
President Clinton signed this 
major legislation into law in February 
1998, just two years ago. This started 
the telecommunications industry on 
the path toward competition, but there 
have been some road blocks along the 
way with implementation snags, mergers 
instead of competition, and excessive 
litigation. 

The current result, unfortunately, is 
confusion. 

I do not want to reopen the Telecommunications 
Act, but I do want to 
relieve the confusion among consumers 
who seem to be bearing the brunt of 
this transition. Today, I am introducing 
bipartisan legislation called the 
Consumer Protection Act to ensure 
‘‘truth in billing.’’ I believe that consumers 
deserve to have the truth, the 
whole truth about changes in billings. 

As the telecommunications industry 
moves from a regulated, monopolistic 
model into a more competitive model, 
we need to ensure that consumers get 
the information they need to make 
wise decisions in selecting their telecommunications 
carriers. In a regulated 
market, the regulations are intended 
to protect consumers’ interests. 
Under a more competitive model, we 
need to ensure that accurate information 
is provided to consumers so they 
can protect themselves and use their 
ability to choose in the market place. 

This legislation is very simple. It directs 
the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) and the Federal 
Trade Commission (FTC) to investigate 
billing practices, and report on the 
findings to Congress. If this investigation 
exposes misleading practices, we 
need to have disciplinary action to protect 
consumers. 

If telecommunications companies 
choose to use line-items on phones 
bills, those companies must accurately 
report all regulatory actions, including 
how federal actions reduce costs, such 
as the $1.5 billion in access reductions 
provided in July 1997. 

This legislation ensures that telecommunications 
companies cannot selectively 
disclose only those pieces of 
information that are in the companies’ 
interest. When federal actions bring 
rates down, consumers have the right 
to know. As the industry makes the 
transition to a more competitive market, 
consumers deserve a full accounting 
so they can make informed decisions 
when they choose their telecommunications 
provider. 

The Consumer Protection Act will 
ensure that consumers will see on their 
own bill how companies allocate savings 
resulting from deregulation of the 
industry, as companies are required to 
disclose how savings are passed along 
to residential rates, small business 
rates and other customer payment 


S2974 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

plans. This is not re-regulation. Nothing 
in this dictates how much companies 
can charge for their services. And 
nothing prevents companies from putting 
line items on bills. Those choices 
are still entirely at the companies’ discretion. 
This legislation simply requires 
them to tell the whole truth if 
they choose to put a line item on customers 
bills. 

The legislation has a third provision 
that requires companies using a line-
item on customer bills to file with the 
FCC all the revenue and company reports 
they now file with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

The idea behind this requirement is 
simple. Since we require companies to 
report their revenues to the SEC in 
order to protect stockholders, 
shouldn’t we provide the same information 
to the FCC in order to protect consumers? 


During this period of transition from 
a monopoly-based system to a market-
based system, there will be some ups 
and downs. But we should act to minimize 
confusion and protect consumers 
as the new market evolves. 

At the state level, public service 
commissions are beginning to take 
steps to provide fuller, more accurate 
information to consumers. In January 
of this year, New York Administrative 
Law Judge Eleanor Stein recommended 
that telecommunications carriers be 
required to disclose fully, in bills of all 
classes of customers, the fee increases 
and fee reductions resulting from the 
enactment of the 1996 Telecommunications 
Act. 

In February the National Association 
of Regulatory Utility Commissioners 
(NARUC) passed a resolution that 
clearly noted that line-items are a 
business choice made by companies not 
a mandate from the federal government. 
The NARUC resolution called on 
the FCC to take action to require 
interstate carriers to provide accurate 
customer notice and the purpose of 
line-items. 

Some state officials are taking action. 
NARUC is calling on the FCC to 
lead. Now Congress needs to end the 
confusion, and tell consumers the 
truth. 

I am proud that the Consumers Union 
supports this bipartisan legislation. I 
welcome the support of my colleagues, 
Senator SNOWE of Maine and Senator 
KERREY of Nebraska. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the full text of the bill be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1897 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. FINDINGS; PURPOSE. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Billing practices by telecommunications 
carriers may not reflect accurately 
the cost or basis of the additional telecommunications 
services and benefits that 
consumers receive as a result of the enactment 
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 
(Public Law 104–104) and other Federal regulatory 
actions taken since the enactment of 
that Act. 

(2) Congress has never enacted a law with 
the intent of permitting providers of telecommunications 
services to misrepresent to 
customers the costs of providing services or 
the services provided. 
(3) Certain providers of telecommunications 
services have established new, specific 
charges on customer bills commonly 
known as ‘‘line-item charges’’. 
(4) Certain providers of telecommunications 
services have described such charges 
as ‘‘Federal Universal Service Fees’’ or similar 
fees. 
(5) Such charges have generated significant 
confusion among customers regarding the 
nature of and scope of universal service and 
of the fees associated with universal service. 
(6) The State of New York is considering 
action to protect consumers by requiring 
telecommunications carriers to disclose 
fully in the bills of all classes of customers 
the fee increases and fee reductions resulting 
from the enactment of the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 and other regulatory actions 
taken since the enactment of that Act. 
(7) The National Association of Regulatory 
Utility Commissioners adopted a resolution 
in February 1998 supporting action by the 
Federal Communications Commission to require 
interstate carriers to provide accurate 
customer notice regarding the implementation 
and purpose of end user charges. 
(b) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this Act 
to require the Federal Communications 
Commission and the Federal Trade Commission 
to protect consumers of telecommunications 
services by assuring accurate cost reporting 
and billing practices by telecommunications 
carriers nationwide. 
SEC. 2. INVESTIGATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
CARRIERS BILLING PRACTICES. 


(a) INVESTIGATION.— 
(1) REQUIREMENT.—The Federal Communications 
Commission and the Federal Trade 
Commission shall jointly conduct an investigation 
of the billing practices of telecommunications 
carriers. 
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the investigation 
is to determine whether the bills sent 
by carriers to their customers accurately assess 
and correctly characterize any additional 
fees paid by such customers for telecommunications 
services as a result of the 
enactment of the Telecommunications Act 
of 1996 (Public Law 104–104) and other Federal 
regulatory actions taken since the enactment 
of that Act. 
(b) DETERMINATIONS.—In carrying out the 
investigation under subsection (a), the Federal 
Communications Commission and the 
Federal Trade Commission shall determine 
the following: 
(1) The amount, if any, of additional fees 
imposed by telecommunications carriers on 
their customers as a result of the requirements 
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 
(including the amendments made by that 
Act) and other Federal regulatory actions 
taken since the enactment of that Act during 
the period beginning on June 30, 1997, and 
ending on the date of enactment of that Act. 
(2) In the event that additional fees described 
in paragraph (1) are being imposed, 
the following: 
(A) Whether the amount of such fees accurately 
reflect— 
(i) the additional costs to carriers as a result 
of the enactment of that Act (including 
the amendments made by that Act) and 
other Federal regulatory actions taken since 
the enactment of that Act; and 
(ii) any reductions in costs, or other financial 
benefits, to carriers as a result of the enactment 
of that Act (including such amendments) 
and other Federal regulatory actions 
taken since the enactment of that Act. 
(B) Whether the bills that impose such fees 
characterize correctly the nature and basis 
of such fees. 
(c) REVIEW OF RECORDS.— 
(1) AUTHORITY.—For purposes of the investigation 
under subsection (a), the Federal 
Communications Commission and the Federal 
Trade Commission may obtain from any 
telecommunications carrier any record of 
the carrier that is relevant to the investigation. 
(2) USE.—The Federal Communications 
Commission and the Federal Trade Commission 
may use records obtained under this 
subsection only for purposes of the investigation. 
(d) DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In the event that the Federal 
Communications Commission or the 
Federal Trade Commission determine as a 
result of the investigation under subsection 
(a) that the bills sent by a telecommunications 
carrier to its customers does not accurately 
assess or correctly characterize any 
fee addressed in the investigation, the Federal 
Communications Commission or the 
Federal Trade Commission, as the case may 
be, shall take such actions against the carrier 
as such Commission is authorized to 
take under law. 
(2) ADDITIONAL ACTIONS.—If the Federal 
Communications Commission or the Federal 
Trade Commission determines that such 
Commission does not have adequate authority 
under law to take appropriate actions 
under paragraph (1), the Federal Communications 
Commission and the Federal Trade 
Commission shall notify Congress of that determination 
in the report under subsection 
(e). 
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 45 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal 
Communications Commission and the 
Federal Trade Commission shall jointly submit 
to Congress a report on the results of the 
investigation under subsection (a). The report 
shall include the determination, if any, 
of either Commission under subsection (d)(2) 
and any recommendations for further legislative 
action that the Commissions consider 
appropriate. 
SEC. 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
CARRIERS IMPOSING CERTAIN 
FEES FOR SERVICES. 

(a) REQUIREMENTS.—Any telecommunications 
carrier that includes on any of the 
bills sent to its customers a charge described 
in subsection (b) shall— 
(1) specify in the bill imposing such charge 
any reduction in charges or fees allocable to 
all classes of customers (including customers 
of residential basic service, customers of 
other residential services, small business 
customers, and other business customers) by 
reason of any regulatory action of the Federal 
Government; and 
(2) submit to the Federal Communications 
Commission the reports required to be submitted 
by the carrier to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission under sections 13(a) 
and 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act 
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a), 78o(d)). 
(b) COVERED CHARGES.—Subsection (a) applies 
in the case of the following charges: 
(1) Any specific charge included after June 
30, 1997, if the imposition of the charge is attributed 
to a regulatory action of the Federal 
Government. 
(2) Any specific charge included before that 
date if the description of the charge is 
changed after that date to attribute the imposition 
of the charge to a regulatory action 
of the Federal Government. 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2975 

By Mr. BAUCUS (for himself and 
Mr. BURNS): 

S. 1899. A bill entitled ‘‘Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation 
Indian Reserved Water Rights Settlement 
Act of 1998’’; to the Committee 
on Indian Affairs. 
THE CHIPPEWA CREE TRIBE OF THE ROCKY BOY’S 

RESERVATION INDIAN RESERVED WATER 

RIGHTS SETTLEMENT ACT OF 1998 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce the ‘‘Chippewa Cree 
Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation 
Indian Reserved Water Rights Settlement 
Act of 1998’’ along with my colleague 
Senator BURNS. 

This bill represents the culmination 
of sixteen years of intensive technical 
studies and six years of negotiations 
involving the Chippewa Cree Tribe, the 
State of Montana, local governments, 
water districts and ranchers as well as 
the United States Departments of justice 
and Interior. 

The 108,000 acre Rocky Boy’s Reservation 
is located west of Havre, Montana 
in the Bears Paw Mountains with 
portions extending onto the plains between 
the mountains and the Milk 
River in north-central Montana. Historically, 
the area was part of the large 
territory north of the Missouri and 
Musselshell Rivers designated for the 
Blackfeet Nation in the treaty of 1855. 

In 1880 the Fort Assiniboine military 
reservation was established. In 1916 
Congress set aside 56,035 acres for the 
Chippewa and Cree Bands of Chief 
Rocky Boy. In 1947 it was expanded by 
45,523 acres bringing it to near its current 
size. None of the land has been allotted 
although some individual assignments 
have been made. 

The reservation is home to over 3,000 
tribal members and has an annual population 
growth exceeding 3%. While unemployment 
is estimated at nearly 70% 
the tribe has made important progress 
in economic development. Production 
of cattle and grain, development of 
timber and tourism provide solid 
sources of tribal income. 

The reservation is located in an area 
of scarce water supply. Studies have 
demonstrated that the reservation 
could not sustain tribal membership 
without additional supplies of water 
for drinking, agricultural and municipal 
purposes. 

Since 1992, the tribe, state and federal 
government have worked hard to 
reach an equitable water rights settlement. 


The tribe and state reached tentative 
agreement on the compact in January 
1997. The tribal Council passed a resolution 
supporting ratification of the 
agreement shortly thereafter. In the 
spring of 1997, the Montana State Senate 
unanimously ratified the compact 
and the State House gave its approval 
on a 91–9 vote. It was signed into law 
by the Governor of Montana on April 
14, 1997. 

This legislation ratifies the compact 
and settles the tribe’s claims against 
the United States. The bill provides 
for: 

(1) quantification of the tribe’s water 
rights including 10,000 acre feet from 
surface and groundwater sources on the 
reservation as well as reserving 10,000 
acre feet for the tribe from Lake 
Elwell, a US Bureau of Reclamation 
Project located approximately 50 miles 
from the reservation. The settlement 
does not provide for transport of this 
water to the reservation; 
(2) mitigation of impacts on off-reservation 
water use including designating 
two pools of water stored in 
Bonneau Reservoir on the reservation 
for irrigation, stockwatering and maintenance 
of water quality on Box Elder 
Creek. Additional water will also be 
made available for protecting the 
Brook Trout fishery in upper Beaver 
Creek; 
(3) authorization of two feasibility 
studies by the Bureau of Reclamation 
to examine water and related resources 
for both reservation and off-reservation 
water supplies in the area, and; 
(4) authorization of $25 million in 
Federal funding for development of reservation 
water supplies including enlargement 
of Bonneau, Towe, Brown 
and East Fork Reservoirs; a $3 million 
dollar economic development fund for 
the tribe and $15 million for future importation 
of drinking water to the reservation, 
a much needed project in 
north central Montana. Additionally, 
$3 million will be provided for tribal 
administration of the agreement. 
This legislation would never have become 
a reality without the hard work 
and cooperation of many people. I 
would especially like to recognize the 
staff and tribal council of the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe, the staff of the Montana 
Water Rights Compact Commission, 
the Department of Interior and the Native 
American Rights Fund. I am particularly 
grateful for the efforts of 
David Hayes, Special Counselor to Secretary 
Babbitt. Mr. Hayes’ involvement 
was like a breath of fresh air, he moved 
forward when others were ready to give 
up on negotiations. 

Mr. President, I look forward to 
working with Senator BURNS to expedite 
passage of this historic settlement. 


I ask unanimous consent that the bill 
be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1899 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation 
Indian Reserved Water Rights Settlement 
Act of 1998’’. 
SEC. 2 FINDINGS. 

Congress hereby finds that— 

(1) in fulfillment of its trust responsibility 
to Indian tribes and to promote tribal sovereignty 
and economic self sufficiency, it is 
the policy of the United States to settle the 
water rights claims of the tribes without 
lengthy and costly litigation; 
(2) the Rocky Boy’s Reservation was established 
as a homeland for the Chippewa Cree 
Tribe; 
(3) adequate water for the Chippewa Cree 
Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation is important 
to a permanent, sustainable and sovereign 
homeland for the Tribe and its members; 
(4) the Chippewa Cree Tribe’s sovereignty 
and Reservation economy depend on the development 
of the Reservation’s water resources; 
(5) the planning, design, and construction 
of the facilities needed to utilize water supplies 
effectively are necessary to the development 
of a viable Reservation economy and 
to implementation of the Chippewa Cree-
Montana Water Rights Compact; 
(6) the Rocky Boy’s Reservation is located 
in a water short area of the State of Montana 
and the Compact contemplates the development 
of additional water supplies, including 
importation of domestic water, to 
meet the needs of the Chippewa Cree Tribe; 
(7) proceedings to determine the full extent 
of the Chippewa Cree Tribe’s water rights are 
currently pending before the Montana Water 
Court as a part of ‘‘In the Matter of the Adjudication 
of All Rights to the Use of Water, 
Both Surface and Underground, within the 
State of Montana;’’ 
(8) recognizing that final resolution of the 
general stream adjudication will take many 
years and entail great expense to all parties, 
prolong uncertainty as to the availability of 
water supplies, and seriously impair the 
long-term economic planning and development 
of all parties, the Chippewa Cree Tribe 
and the State of Montana entered into a 
Water Rights Compact on April 14, 1997; and 
(9) the allocation of water resources from 
the Tiber Reservoir to the Tribe under this 
Act is uniquely suited to the geographic, social, 
and economic characteristics of the situation 
involved. 
SEC. 3. PURPOSES OF ACT. 

The purposes of this Act are— 

(1) to achieve a fair, equitable, and final 
settlement of all claims to water rights in 
the State of Montana for— 
(A) the Chippewa Cree Tribe; and 
(B) the United States of America for the 
benefit of the Chippewa Cree Tribe; 
(2) to approve, ratify, and confirm, as 
modified herein, the Water Rights Compact 
entered into by the Chippewa Cree Tribe of 
the Rocky Boy’s Reservation and the State 
of Montana on April 14, 1997, and to provide 
funding and other authorization necessary to 
its implementation; 
(3) to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
to execute and implement the Water 
Rights Compact and to take such other actions 
as are necessary to implement the 
Compact consistent with this Act; 
(4) to authorize Federal feasibility studies 
designed to identify and analyze potential 
mechanisms to enhance, through conservation 
or otherwise, water supplies in North 
Central Montana, including, but not limited 
to, mechanisms to import domestic water 
supplies for the future growth of the Rocky 
Boy’s Indian Reservation; 
(5) to authorize certain projects on the 
Rocky Boy’s Indian Reservation, Montana, 
in order to implement the Compact; 
(6) to authorize certain modifications to 
the purposes and operation of the Bureau of 
Reclamation’s Tiber Dam and Lake Elwell 
on the Marias River in Montana in order to 
implement the Compact; and 
(7) to authorize appropriation of funds necessary 
for the implementation of the Compact. 
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS. 

As used in this Act— 

(1) ‘‘Compact’’ means the water rights 
compact between the Chippewa Cree Tribe of 
the Rocky Boy’s Reservation and the State 
of Montana published at 85–20–601 MCA 
(1997); 

S2976 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(2) ‘‘Final’’ with reference to approval of 
the decree in section 5(b) means completion 
of any direct appeal to the Montana Supreme 
Court of a final decree by the Water Court 
pursuant to 85–2–235, MCA (1997), or to the 
Federal Court of Appeals, including the expiration 
of the time in which a petition for 
certiorari may be filed in the United States 
Supreme Court, denial of such a petition, or 
the issuance of the Supreme Court’s mandate, 
whichever occurs last; 
(3) ‘‘Missouri River System’’ means the 
mainstem of the Missouri River and its tributaries, 
including but not limited to the 
Marias River; 
(4) ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of the 
United States Department of the Interior, or 
his or her duly authorized representative; 
(5) ‘‘Towe Ponds’’ means the reservoir or 
reservoirs referred to as ‘‘Stoneman Reservoir’’ 
in the Compact; 
(6) ‘‘Tribal Compact Administration’’ 
means the activities assumed by the Tribe 
for implementation of the Compact as set 
forth in Article IV of the Compact; 
(7) ‘‘Tribal Water Right’’ means the right 
of the Chippewa Cree Tribe of the Rocky 
Boy’s Reservation to divert, use, or store 
water as described by Article III of the Compact; 
(8) ‘‘Tribe’’ means the Chippewa Cree Tribe 
of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation and all officers, 
agents, and departments thereof; 
(9) ‘‘Water development’’ includes all activities 
that involve the use of water or 
modification of water courses or water bodies 
in any way. 
SEC. 5. RATIFICATION OF COMPACT AND ENTRY 
OF DECREE. 

(a) WATER RIGHTS COMPACT APPROVED.— 
Except as modified by this Act, and to the 
extent the Compact does not conflict with 
this Act, the Water Rights Compact entered 
into by the Chippewa Cree Tribe of the 
Rocky Boy’s Reservation and the State of 
Montana on April 14, 1997, is hereby approved, 
ratified and confirmed and the Secretary 
shall execute and implement the 
Compact together with any amendments 
agreed to by the parties or necessary to 
bring the Compact into conformity with this 
Act, and to take such other actions as are 
necessary to implement the Compact. 
(b) APPROVAL OF ‘‘PROPOSED DECREE’’.—No 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the United States, the 
Tribe, or the State of Montana shall petition 
the Montana Water Court, individually or 
jointly, to enter and approve the ‘‘Proposed 
Decree’’ agreed to by the United States, the 
Tribe, and the State of Montana attached as 
Appendix 1 to the Compact, or any amended 
version thereof agreed to by the United 
States, the Tribe and the State of Montana. 
Resort may be had to the Federal District 
Court in the circumstances set forth in Article 
VII.B.4 of the Compact. In the event the 
approval by the appropriate court, including 
any direct appeal, does not become final 
within three (3) years following the filing of 
the decree, or the decree is approved but is 
subsequently set aside by the appropriate 
court, the Compact shall be void. The Secretary 
may act for the United States to extend 
this three (3) year deadline twice in one 
(1) year increments on agreement with the 
State and the Tribe. 
SEC. 6. USE AND TRANSFER OF THE TRIBAL 
WATER RIGHT. 

(a) ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.—As 
provided in the Compact, until the adoption 
and approval of a tribal water code, the Secretary 
shall administer and enforce the Tribal 
Water Right. 
(b) TRIBAL MEMBER ENTITLEMENT.—Any entitlement 
to Federal Indian reserved water 
of any tribal member shall be satisfied solely 
from the water secured to the Tribe by the 
Compact and shall be governed by the terms 
and conditions thereof. Such entitlement 
shall be administered by the Tribe pursuant 
to a tribal water code developed and adopted 
pursuant to Article IV.A.2. of the Compact, 
or by the Secretary pending the adoption 
and approval of the tribal water code. 

(c) TEMPORARY TRANSFER OF TRIBAL WATER 
RIGHT.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of statutory or common law, the Tribe 
may, with the approval of the Secretary and 
subject to the limitations and conditions set 
forth in the Compact, including limitation 
on transfer of any portion of the Tribal 
Water right to within the Missouri River 
Basin, enter into a service contract, lease, 
exchange, or other agreement providing for 
the temporary delivery, use, or transfer of 
the water rights confirmed to the Tribe in 
the Compact; provided, however, that no 
service contract, lease, exchange or other 
agreement entered into under this subsection 
may permanently alienate any portion 
of the Tribal Water Right. 
SEC. 7. FEASIBILITY STUDIES AUTHORIZATION. 

(a) MUNICIPAL, RURAL AND INDUSTRIAL FEASIBILITY 
STUDY.—The Secretary of the Interior, 
through the Bureau of Reclamation 
shall perform a municipal, rural, and industrial 
(MR&I) feasibility study of water and 
related resources in North Central Montana 
to evaluate alternatives for an MR&I supply 
for the Rocky Boy’s Reservation. The study 
shall include but not be limited to the feasibility 
of releasing the Tribe’s Tiber allocation 
as provided in section 8 of this Act into 
the Missouri River System for later diversion 
to a treatment and delivery system for 
the Rocky Boy’s Reservation. The MR&I 
Study shall include utilization of existing 
Federal and non-Federal studies and shall be 
planned and conducted in consultation with 
other Federal agencies, the State of Montana, 
and the Chippewa-Cree Tribe. 
(b) ACCEPTANCE OR PARTICIPATION IN IDENTIFIED 
OFF-RESERVATION SYSTEM.—The 
United States, the Chippewa Cree Tribe of 
the Rocky Boy’s Reservation, and the State 
of Montana shall not be obligated to accept 
or participate in any potential off-reservation 
water supply system identified in the 
MR&I Feasibility Study authorized in subsection 
7(a) of this Act. 
(c) REGIONAL FEASIBILITY STUDY.—The Secretary, 
through the Bureau of Reclamation, 
shall conduct, pursuant to Reclamation Law, 
a Regional Feasibility Study to evaluate 
water and related resources in North Central 
Montana in order to determine the limitations 
of such resources and how they can 
best be managed and developed to serve the 
needs of the citizens of Montana. The Regional 
Study shall evaluate existing and potential 
water supplies, uses, and management; 
identify major water related issues, 
including environmental, water supply and 
economic issues; evaluate opportunities to 
resolve such issues; and evaluate options for 
implementation of resolutions to issues. Because 
of the regional and international impact 
of the Regional Study, it may not be 
segmented. The Regional Study shall utilize, 
to the maximum extent possible, existing information 
and shall be planned and conducted 
in consultation with all affected interests, 
including interests in Canada. 
SEC. 8. TIBER RESERVOIR ALLOCATION. 

(A) ALLOCATION OF WATER TO THE TRIBE.— 
(1) The Secretary shall permanently allocate 
to the Tribe, without cost to the Tribe, 10,000 
acre-feet per year of stored water from the 
water right of the Bureau of Reclamation in 
Lake Elwell, Lower Marias Unit, Upper Missouri 
Division, Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin 
Program, Montana, measured at the outlet 
works of the dam or at the diversion point 
from the reservoir. The allocation shall be 
effective when the requirements of section 
5(b) of this Act are met. 

(2) The Secretary shall enter into an agreement 
with the Tribe setting forth the terms 
of the allocation and providing for the 
Tribe’s use or temporary transfer of water 
stored in Lake Elwell, subject to the terms 
and conditions of the Compact and this Act. 
(3) The allocation provided in this section 
shall be subject to the prior reserved water 
rights, if any, of any Indian tribe, or persons 
claiming water through any Indian Tribe. 
(b) USE AND TEMPORARY TRANSFER OF ALLOCATION.—(
1) Subject to the limitations and 
conditions set forth in the Compact and this 
Act, the Tribe shall have the right to devote 
the water allocated by this Section to any 
use, including, but not limited to, agricultural, 
municipal, commercial, industrial, 
mining, or recreational uses, within or outside 
the rocky Boy’s Reservation. 
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
statutory or common law, the Tribe may, 
with the approval of the Secretary and subject 
to the limitations and conditions set 
forth in the Compact, enter into a service 
contract, lease, exchange, or other agreement 
providing for the temporary delivery, 
use, or transfer of the water allocated by 
this section: Provided, however, That no service 
contract, lease, exchange, or other agreement 
may permanently alienate any portion 
of the tribal allocation. 
(c) REMAINING STORAGE.—The United 
States shall retain the right to use for any 
authorized purpose, any and all storage remaining 
in Lake Elwell after the allocation 
made to the Tribe in subsection (a)(1) of this 
section. 
(d) WATER TRANSPORT OBLIGATION; DEVELOPMENT 
AND DELIVERY COSTS.—The United 
States shall have no responsibility or obligation 
to provide any facilities for the transport 
of the water allocated by this section to 
the Rocky boy’s Reservation or to any other 
location. Except for the contribution set 
forth in section 11(b)(3) of this Act, the cost 
of developing and delivering the water allocated 
by this section or any other supplemental 
water to the Rocky Boys Reservation 
shall not be borne by the United States. 
(e) ACT NOT PRECEDENTIAL.—The provisions 
of this Act regarding the allocation of 
water resources from the Tiber Reservoir to 
the Tribe shall not be precedent for any 
other Indian water right claims. 
SEC. 9. ON-RESERVATION WATER RESOURCES 
DEVELOPMENT. 

(a) WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.—The 
Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau 
of Reclamation, is authorized and directed 
to plan, design, and construct, or to 
provide, pursuant to subsection (b) of this 
section, for the planning, design, and construction 
of the following water development 
projects on the Rocky Boy’s Reservation: 
(1) Bonneau Dam and Reservoir Enlargement. 
(2) East Fork of Beaver Creek Dam Repair 
and Enlargement 
(3) Brown’s Dam Enlargement. 
(4) Towe Ponds’ Enlargement. 
(5) Such other water development projects 
as the Tribe shall from time to time deem 
appropriate. 
(b) IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT.—The Secretary, 
at the request of the Tribe, shall 
enter into an agreement with the Tribe to 
implement the provisions of this Act 
through the Tribe’s Self-Governance Compact 
and Annual Funding Agreement by 
which the Tribe shall plan, design, and construct 
any or all of the projects authorized 
by this section. 
(c) BUREAU OF RECLAMATION PROJECT AD-
MINISTRATION.—The Secretary, through the 
Bureau of Reclamation, has entered into an 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2977 

agreement with the Tribe, pursuant to P.L. 
93–638, as amended by the Self Governance 
Act, defining and limiting the role of the Bureau 
of Reclamation in its administration of 
the projects authorized in subsection (a) of 
this section; establishing the standards upon 
which the projects will be constructed; and 
for other purposes necessary to implement 
this section. This agreement shall be effective 
on the Tribe exercising its right under 
subsection (b) of this section. 

SEC. 10. CHIPPEWA CREE INDIAN RESERVED 
WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT FUND. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST FUND.—There 
is hereby established in the Treasury of the 
United States a trust fund for the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s Reservation 
to be known as the ‘‘Chippewa Cree Indian 
Reserved Water Rights Settlement Trust 
Fund.’’ Pursuant to the provisions of the 
Trust Fund Management Act of 1994, 25 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq., the Tribe, with the approval 
of the Secretary, may transfer the 
Fund to a mutually agreed upon private financial 
institution. The Fund shall consist 
of the following accounts: 
(1) Tribal Compact Administration Account. 
(2) Economic Development Account. 
(3) Future Water Supply Facilities Account. 
(b) FUND COMPOSITION.—The Fund shall 
consist of such amounts as are appropriated 
to its accounts in accordance with the authorizations 
for appropriations in subsections 
(b)(1), (2), and (3) of section 11 of this 
Act together with all interest which accrues 
on the Fund: Provided, That, if the Tribe exercises 
its right pursuant to subsection (a) of 
this section to transfer the funds to a private 
financial institution, except as provided in 
the transfer agreement, the Secretary shall 
retain no oversight over the investment of 
the funds. In addition, the transfer agreement 
shall provide for the appropriate terms 
and conditions, if any, on expenditures from 
the Fund in addition to the plans set forth in 
subsections (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section. 
(c) USE OF FUND.—The Tribe may use the 
Fund to fulfill the purposes of this Act, subject 
to the following restrictions on expenditures: 
(1) Except for $400,000 necessary for capital 
expenditures in connection with tribal compact 
administration, only interest accrued 
on the Tribal Compact Administration Account 
shall be available to satisfy the Tribe’s 
obligations for tribal compact administration 
under the provisions of the Compact. 
(2) Both principal and accrued interest on 
the Economic Development Account shall be 
available to the Tribe for expenditure pursuant 
to an Economic Development Plan approved 
by the Secretary. 
(3) Both principal and accrued interest on 
the Future Water Supply Facilities Account 
shall be available to the Tribe for expenditure 
pursuant to a Water Supply Plan approved 
by the Secretary. 
(d) AGREEMENT REGARDING FUND EXPENDI-
TURES.—If the Tribe does not exercise its 
right under subsection (a) of this section to 
transfer the funds to a private financial institution, 
the Secretary shall enter into an 
agreement with the Tribe providing for appropriate 
terms and conditions, if any, on expenditures 
from the Fund in addition to the 
plans set forth in subsections (e)(2) and (c)(3) 
of this section. 
(e) PER CAPITA DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.—
No part of the Fund shall be distributed 
on a per capita basis to members of the 
Tribe. 
(f) CONGRESSIONAL INTENT.—Nothing in this 
Act is intended— 
(1) to alter the trust responsibility of the 
United States to the Tribe; or 
(2) to prohibit the Tribe from seeking additional 
authorization or appropriation of 
funds for tribal programs or purposes. 
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) FEASIBILITY STUDIES.—There is authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of 
Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, not to exceed 
$4,000,000 for the purpose of conducting 
the Feasibility Studies authorized in section 
7(a) and (c) of this Act as follows: 
(a) $1,000,000 in FY 1999 to be divided equally 
between the two studies. 
(2) $3,000,000 in FY 2000; $500,000 for the 
study authorized in section 7(a) and the balance 
for the study authorized in section 7(c). 
(b) CHIPPEWA CREE FUND.—There is authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of 
the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs, for the 
Chippewa Cree Fund, established in section 
10 of this Act, $21,000,000 as follows: 
(1) TRIBAL COMPACT ADMINISTRATION ACCOUNT.—
For tribal compact administration 
assumed by the Tribe under the Compact and 
this Act $3,000,000 in FY 1999. 
(2) ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT.—For 
Tribal economic development, $3,000,000, in 
FY 2000. 
(3) FUTURE WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES ACCOUNT.—
For the total Federal contribution 
to the planning, design, construction, operation, 
maintenance and rehabilitation of a 
future Reservation water supply system, 
$15,000,000 as follows: 
(A) $2,000,000 in FY 1999. 
(B) $5,000,000 in FY 2000. 
(C) $8,000,000 in FY 2001. 

(c) ON-RESERVATION WATER DEVELOP-
MENT.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
to the Department of the Interior, 
Bureau of Reclamation, $24,000,000 for the 
construction of the on-Reservation water development 
projects authorized by section 9 of 
this Act as follows: 
(1) $13,000,000 in FY 2000 for the planning, 
design and construction of the Bonneau Dam 
Enlargement. The Federal contribution is 
provided for the development of additional 
capacity in Bonneau Reservoir for storage of 
water secured to the Tribe under the Compact. 
(2) $8,000,000 in FY 2001 for the planning, 
design and construction of the East Fork 
Dam and Reservoir enlargement ($4,000,000), 
of the Brown’s Dam and Reservoir enlargement 
($2,000,000), and the Towe Ponds enlargement 
($2,000,000). 
(3) $3,000,000 in FY 2002 for the planning, 
design and construction of such other water 
resource developments as the Tribe, with the 
approval of the Secretary, from time to time 
may deem appropriate or for the completion 
of the four projects enumerated in subsections 
11(c)(1) and (2) of this Act. 
(4) Any unexpended balance in the funds 
appropriated under paragraphs (c)(1) and 
(c)(2) of this section, after substantial completion 
of all of the projects enumerated in 
section 9(a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) shall be available 
to the Tribe first for completion of the 
enumerated projects and then for other 
water resource development projects under 
Section 9(a)(5). 
(d) ADMINISTRATION COSTS.—There is authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department 
of the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, 
in FY 2000, $1,000,000 for its costs of administration: 
Provided, That, if such costs exceed 
$1,000,000, the Bureau of Reclamation may 
use funds authorized for appropriation under 
subsection (c) of this section for such costs: 
Provided, further, That, the Bureau of Reclamation 
shall exercise its best efforts to 
minimize such costs to avoid exceeding 
$1,000,000. 
(e) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—The monies 
authorized in section 11(a) and (b)(1) shall be 
available for use immediately upon appropriation. 
Those monies deposited in the 
Chippewa Cree Fund accounts shall draw interest 
consistent with section 10(a), but the 
monies appropriated under section 11(b)(2) 
and (3) and 11(c) are not available for expenditure 
until completion of the requirements of 
section 5(b) of this Act and execution of the 
waiver and release required of Sec. 13(c). 

(f) WITHOUT FISCAL YEAR LIMITATION.—All 
money appropriated pursuant to authorizations 
under this Act shall be available without 
fiscal year limitation. 
SEC. 12. STATE CONTRIBUTIONS TO SETTLEMENT. 


Consistent with Article VI.C.2. and C.3. of 
the Compact, the State contribution to settlement 
shall be as follows: 

(1) $150,000 for the following purposes: 
water quality discharge monitoring wells 
and monitoring program; diversion structure 
on Big Sandy Creek; conveyance structure 
on Box Elder Creek; and purchase of contract 
water from Lower Beaver Creek Reservoir. 
(2) Subject to the availability of funds, the 
State shall provide services valued at $400,000 
for administration required by the Compact 
and for water quality sampling required by 
the Compact. 
SEC. 13. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 

(a) NON-EXERCISE OF TRIBE’S RIGHTS.—The 
Tribe shall not exercise the rights set forth 
in Article VII(A)(3) of the Compact. 
(b) WAIVER OF SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY.—The 
United States shall not be deemed to have 
waived its sovereign immunity except to the 
extent provided in subsections (a), (b), and 
(c) of section 208 of the Act of July 10, 1952 
(43 U.S.C. 666). 
(c) TRIBAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE 
UNITED STATES.—(1) Upon passage of this 
Act, the Tribe shall execute a waiver and release 
of the following claims against the 
United States, the validity of which are not 
recognized by the United States: Provided 
That the waiver and release of claims shall 
not be effective until completion of the appropriation 
of the funds set forth in section 
11 of this Act and completion of the requirements 
of section 5(b) of this Act. 
(2) Any and all claims to water rights (including 
water rights in surface water, 
groundwater, and effluent), claims for injuries 
to water rights, claims for loss or deprivation 
of use of water rights and claims for 
failure to acquire or develop water rights for 
lands of the Tribe from time immemorial to 
the date of ratification of the Compact by 
Congress. 
(3) Any and all claims arising out of the 
negotiation of the Compact and the settlement 
authorized by this Act. 
(4) In the event the waiver and release does 
not become effective as set forth in subsection 
(c)(1), the United States shall be entitled 
to set-off against any claim for damages 
asserted by the Tribe against the 
United States any funds transferred to the 
Tribe pursuant to section 11 and any interest 
accrued thereon up to the date of set-off, and 
the United States shall retain any other 
claims or defenses not waived in this Act or 
in the Compact as modified by this Act. 
(d) OTHER TRIBES NOT ADVERSELY AFFECTED.—
Nothing in this Act is intended to 
quantify or otherwise adversely affect the 
land and water rights, or claims or entitlements 
to land or water of an Indian Tribe 
other than the Chippewa Cree Tribe. 
(e) ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.—In implementing 
the Compact, the Secretary shall 
comply with all aspects of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 
et seq.), and the Endangered Species Act (16 
U.S.C. 1531 et. seq.), and all other applicable 
environmental acts and regulations. 
(f) EXECUTION OF COMPACT.—Execution of 
the Compact by the Secretary as provided 
for in this Act shall not constitute a major 
Federal Action under the National Environmental 
Policyh Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). 
The Secretary is directed to carry out all 

S2978 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

necessary environmental compliance required 
by Federal law in implementing this 
agreement. 

(g) ACT NOT PRECEDENTIAL.—Nothing in 
this Act shall be construed or interpreted as 
a precedent for the litigation of reserved 
water rights or the interpretation or administration 
of future water settlement acts. 
Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, today, I 
am pleased to join with my colleagues 
from Montana, Senator BAUCUS, to introduce 
the The Chippewa Cree Tribe of 
the Rocky Boy’s Reservation Indian 
Reserved Water Rights Settlement Act 
of 1998, a bill to settle the claims and 
quantify the water rights of the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe of the Rocky Boy’s 
Reservation. This bill is the culmination 
of many years of work and negotiations 
in our state and will result in 
the federal government sanctioning the 
water rights compact that has been 
adopted by the Montana State Legislature. 
This settlement may represent a 
textbook example of how state and 
tribal governments, together with off-
reservation local representatives, can 
sit down and resolve their differences. I 
am pleased that local ranchers were involved 
in every step of the discussions. 

The Rocky Boy’s Indian Reservation, 
the present homeland of the Chippewa 
Cree Tribe, is located in area of scarce 
water supply. The region is arid with 
an average annual precipitation of 12 
inches suitable for growing hay. However, 
an average annual precipitation 
of 30 inches of snowpack in the 
Bearpaw Mountains contributes to a 
significant spring runoff. A more efficient 
and effective utilization of that 
runoff is a critical part of this package. 
The state legislation authorized funding 
for efficiency improvements that 
mitigate the impact of tribal water development 
on off-reservation water 
use. 

By reaching an out of court settlement, 
the parties will—once this package 
is implemented—go to the state 
water court and ask that all pending 
litigation involving claims by the 
Tribe, and by the United States on behalf 
of the Tribe, be dropped. The quantification 
of the Tribe’s water right 
will also clearly benefit upstream and 
downstream users of water in the effected 
drainage, including the Big 
Sandy and Beaver Creek as well as the 
Milk River. These other users will be 
able to plan for their future because 
they will know precisely how much 
water the Chippewa Cree Tribe is entitled 
to. One of the progressive components 
of this settlement is a Water 
Compact Board made up of three members, 
a tribal representative, an off-reservation 
representative and a third 
person mutually agreed to by the state 
and tribe. This Board will be tasked 
with resolving disputes between users 
of the tribal water right and users of 
water rights recognized under state 
law. 

The bill set ups a Chippewa Cree 
Fund that will include funds for the administration 
of the compact, a tribal 
economic development account and a 
future water supply facilities account. 

The bill allows for increased on reservation 
storage at existing dams and 
two feasibility studies for alternative 
sources and methods of delivery for 
MR&I water supplies for both the reservation 
and the region. Finally, all 
parties to this settlement agree that 
the Tribe will need more water in the 
future for drinking purposes. While the 
settlement reserves 10,000 acre feet of 
water in Tiber Reservoir, it does not 
propose a method of delivery. We are 
all committed to revisiting the on-reservation 
drinking water matter in the 
near future either through a pipeline or 
other methods that will be part of the 
authorized studies. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
to include in the RECORD a letter 
from our state’s Governor, Marc 
Racicot, endorsing this legislation. 
Senator BAUCUS and I will soon be asking 
the Indian Affairs Committee to 
hold hearings and then to act favorable 
on this bill as expeditiously as the 
Committee’s schedule will allow. 

There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR, 
STATE OF MONTANA, 

Helena, MT, March 30, 1998. 

Hon. CONRAD BURNS, 

Dirksen Senate Office Bldg., 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR SENATOR BURNS: I write to express 
my strong support for Congressional ratification 
of the compact settling the water rights 
of the Chippewa Cree Tribe of the Rocky 
Boy’s Reservation, and to express my appreciation 
for your efforts in this process. The 
settlement of reserved water rights claimed 
within the State of Montana is of utmost importance 
to the State, particularly the reserved 
water rights claimed within the 
water-short Milk River basin where the 
Rocky Boy’s Reservation lies. The Rocky 
Boy’s Compact provides for the development 
of much needed water resources on the Reservation, 
while at the same time protecting 
existing water development adjacent to, and 
downstream from the Reservation. The federal 
funding for development will help alleviate 
some of the very dire needs of Montana 
citizens who are Tribal members living on 
the Reservation. 

Thank you again for your efforts in helping 
us finalize this historic agreement. 
Sincerely, 
MARC RACICOT, 

Governor. 

By Mr. D’AMATO (for himself, 
Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN, Mr. 
SHELBY, Mr. FAIRCLOTH, Mr. 
BENNETT, Mr. HAGEL, Mr. SARBANES, 
Mr. DODD, Mr. KERRY, 
Mr. BRYAN, Mrs. BOXER, Mr. 
REED, and Mr. DEWINE): 

S. 1900. A bill to establish a commission 
to examine issues pertaining to 
the disposition of Holocaust-era assets 
in the United States before, during, 
and after World War II, and to make 
recommendations to the President on 
further action, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 
THE U.S. HOLOCAUST ASSETS COMMISSION ACT 
OF 1998 

Mr. D’AMATO. Mr. President, I rise 
today along with Senators MOSELEY-

BRAUN, SHELBY, FAIRCLOTH, BENNETT, 
HAGEL, SARBANES, DODD, KERRY, 
BRYAN, BOXER, REED and DEWINE to introduce 
the U.S. Holocaust Assets 
Commission Act of 1998. This legislation 
will create the ‘‘Presidential Advisory 
Commission on Holocaust Assets 
in the United States,’’ that will examine 
the disposition of assets of Holocaust 
victims, survivors, and heirs here 
in the United States. 

For two years now, I have worked 
closely with Ambassador Stuart 
Eizenstat who has labored tirelessly to 
close this difficult chapter of history in 
an honorable, speedy, and satisfactory 
manner. He cares passionately that the 
survivors receive justice and I could 
not agree more. I am pleased to say 
that the Administration fully supports 
this legislation and we have worked 
with them closely over the past four 
months to craft the language to bring 
this commission to reality. 

While we have sought answers from 
Switzerland and other nations on the 
disposition of dormant bank accounts 
and Nazi gold, we have not pursued the 
issue here in the United States. Today, 
we begin this search. Now we are 
obliged to set history straight and correct 
any injustices in our own country. 
The United States has a moral responsibility 
to address the same issues to 
which we have sought answers from 
Switzerland and other nations in Europe. 
The spirit of American decency 
demands no less. 

If we are to provide long overdue justice 
to Holocaust survivors and the 
heirs of the victims, we must do so as 
expeditiously as possible. Time is of 
the essence if we are going to provide 
the necessary restitution to this already 
aged and rapidly dwindling survivor 
community. Moreover, by creating 
this commission we establish 
even greater moral authority and diplomatic 
credibility with other nations 
from which we seek answers on these 
important questions. Thus far, twelve 
nations have already set up national 
commissions to look into these issues. 

With this legislation we will create a 
commisison that will seek to find the 
disposition of the following assets in 
this country: dormant bank accounts 
of Holocaust victims in U.S. banks; 
brokerage accounts, securities, & 
bonds; artwork & religious/cultural artifacts; 
German-looted gold shipped to 
the U.S. through the Tripartite Gold 
Commission; and insurance policies. 

As far as funding is concerned, the 
Commission will be funded for $3.5 million, 
with the costs split by the interested 
agencies of the U.S. Government. 
The Commission will operate through 
December 31, 1999, the date its final report 
is due to the President. 

The Commission will comprise members 
appointed by both the Congress 
and the President, as well as private 
citizens who have demonstrated their 
leadership on issues relating to the financial 
community, public service, and 
the history of the Holocaust. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2979 

Mr. President, we need this Commission. 
We must leave no stone unturned. 
If we are to fully examine the disposition 
of the assets of the victims of the 
Holocaust, we cannot ignore what happened 
in this country. While it is not 
within our power to change what happened 
during WWII, it is within our 
power to correct a historic wrong by 
providing answers to questions that 
have remained unanswered for over 
fifty years. If we do at least this much 
now, then we will provide a measure of 
comfort and justice for the survivors of 
the greatest evil mankind has ever 
known. I encourage my colleagues to 
join me in this legislation and I urge 
its speedy passage. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1900 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘U.S. Holocaust 
Assets Commission Act of 1998’’. 
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established a 
Presidential Commission, to be known as the 
‘‘Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust 
Assets in the United States’’ (hereafter 
in this Act referred to as the ‘‘Commission’’). 
(b) MEMBERSHIP.— 
(1) NUMBER.—The Commission shall be 
composed of 23 members, appointed in accordance 
with paragraph (2). 
(2) APPOINTMENTS.—Of the 23 members of 
the Commission— 
(A) 11 shall be private citizens, appointed 
by the President; 
(B) 3 shall be representatives of the Department 
of State, the Department of Justice, 
and the Department of the Treasury (1 
representative of each such Department), appointed 
by the President; 
(C) 2 shall be Members of the House of Representatives, 
appointed by the Speaker of 
the House of Representatives; 
(D) 2 shall be Members of the House of Representatives, 
appointed by the Minority 
Leader of the House of Representatives; 
(E) 2 shall be Members of the Senate, appointed 
by the Majority Leader of the Senate; 
(F) 2 shall be Members of the Senate, appointed 
by the Minority Leader of the Senate; 
and 
(G) 1 shall be the Chairperson of the United 
States Holocaust Memorial Council. 
(3) CRITERIA FOR MEMBERSHIP.—Each private 
citizen appointed to the Commission 
shall be an individual who has a record of 
demonstrated leadership on issues relating 
to the Holocaust or in the fields of commerce, 
culture, or education that would assist 
the Commission in analyzing the disposition 
of the assets of Holocaust victims. 
(4) ADVISORY PANELS.—The Chairperson of 
the Commission may, in the discretion of the 
Chairperson, establish advisory panels to the 
Commission, including State or local officials, 
representatives of organizations having 
an interest in the work of the Commission, 
or others having expertise that is relevant 
to the purposes of the Commission. 
(5) DATE.—The appointments of the members 
of the Commission shall be made not 
later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
(c) CHAIRPERSON.—The Chairperson of the 
Commission shall be selected by the President 
from among the members of the Commission 
appointed under subparagraph (A) or 
(B) of subsection (b)(2). 
(d) PERIOD OF APPOINTMENT.—Members of 
the Commission shall be appointed for the 
life of the Commission. 
(e) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy in the membership 
of the Commission shall not affect 
its powers, but shall be filled in the same 
manner as the original appointment. 
(f) MEETINGS.—The Commission shall meet 
at the call of the Chairperson at any time 
after the date of appointment of the Chairperson. 
(g) QUORUM.—Thirteen of the members of 
the Commission shall constitute a quorum, 
but a lesser number of members may hold 
meetings. 
SEC. 3. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION. 

(a) ORIGINAL RESEARCH.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in paragraph (3), the Commission shall 
conduct a thorough study and develop an 
historical record of the collection and disposition 
of the assets described in paragraph 
(2), if such assets came into the possession or 
control of the Federal Government at any 
time after January 30, 1933, either— 
(A) after having been obtained from victims 
of the Holocaust by, on behalf of, or 
under authority of a government referred to 
in subsection (c); or 
(B) because such assets were left unclaimed 
as the result of actions taken by, on 
behalf of, or under authority of a government 
referred to in subsection (c). 
(2) TYPES OF ASSETS.—Assets described in 
this paragraph include— 
(A) gold; 
(B) gems, jewelry, and non-gold precious 
metals; 
(C) accounts in banks in the United States; 
(D) domestic financial instruments purchased 
before May 8, 1945 by individual victims 
of the Holocaust, whether recorded in 
the name of the victim or in the name of a 
nominee, and whether or not held in a brokerage 
account; 
(E) insurance policies and proceeds thereof; 
(F) real estate situated in the United 
States; 
(G) works of art; and 
(H) books, manuscripts, and religious objects. 
(3) COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES.—In carrying 
out its duties under paragraph (1), the 
Commission shall, to the maximum extent 
practicable, coordinate its activities with, 
and not duplicate similar activities already 
or being undertaken by, private individuals, 
private entities, or government entities, 
whether domestic or foreign. 
(b) COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF OTHER RESEARCH.—
Upon request by the Commission 
and permission by the relevant individuals 
or entities, the Commission shall review 
comprehensively research by private individuals, 
private entities, and non-Federal government 
entities, whether domestic or foreign, 
into the collection and disposition of 
the assets described in subsection (a)(2), to 
the extent that such research focuses on assets 
that came into the possession or control 
of private individuals, private entities, or 
non-Federal government entities within the 
United States at any time after January 30, 
1933, either— 
(1) after having been obtained from victims 
of the Holocaust by, on behalf of, or under 
authority of a government referred to in subsection 
(c); or 
(2) because such assets were left unclaimed 
as the result of actions taken by, on behalf 
of, or under authority of a government referred 
to in subsection (c). 
(c) GOVERNMENTS INCLUDED.—A government 
referred to in this subsection includes, 
as in existence during the period beginning 
on March 23, 1933, and ending on May 8, 
1945— 
(1) the Nazi government of Germany; 
(2) any government in any area occupied 
by the military forces of the Nazi government 
of Germany; 
(3) any government established with the 
assistance or cooperation of the Nazi government 
of Germany; and 
(4) any government which was an ally of 
the Nazi government of Germany. 
(d) REPORTS.— 
(1) SUBMISSION TO THE PRESIDENT.—Not 
later than December 31, 1999, the Commission 
shall submit a final report to the President 
that shall contain any recommendations 
for such legislative, administrative, or 
other action as it deems necessary or appropriate. 
The Commission may submit interim 
reports to the President as it deems appropriate. 
(2) SUBMISSION TO THE CONGRESS.—After receipt 
of the final report under paragraph (1), 
the President shall submit to the Congress 
any recommendations for legislative, administrative, 
or other action that the President 
considers necessary or appropriate. 
SEC. 4. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION. 

(a) HEARINGS.—The Commission may hold 
such hearings, sit and act at such times and 
places, take such testimony, and receive 
such evidence as the Commission considers 
advisable to carry out this Act. 
(b) INFORMATION FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
The Commission may secure directly 
from any Federal department or agency such 
information as the Commission considers 
necessary to carry out this Act. Upon request 
of the Chairperson of the Commission, 
the head of any such department or agency 
shall furnish such information to the Commission 
as expeditiously as possible. 
(c) POSTAL SERVICES.—The Commission 
may use the United States mails in the same 
manner and under the same conditions as 
other departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government. 
(d) GIFTS.—The Commission may accept, 
use, and dispose of gifts or donations of services 
or property. 
SEC. 5. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS. 

(a) COMPENSATION.—No member of the 
Commission who is a private citizen shall be 
compensated for service on the Commission. 
All members of the Commission who are officers 
or employees of the United States shall 
serve without compensation in addition to 
that received for their services as officers or 
employees of the United States. 
(b) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—The members of 
the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, 
at rates authorized for employees of 
agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of 
title 5, United States Code, while away from 
their homes or regular places of business in 
the performance of services for the Commission. 
(c) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, DEPUTY EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR, GENERAL COUNSEL, AND 
OTHER STAFF.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days 
after the selection of the Chairperson of the 
Commission under section 2, the Chairperson 
shall, without regard to the civil service 
laws and regulations, appoint an executive 
director, a deputy executive director, and a 
general counsel of the Commission, and such 
other additional personnel as may be necessary 
to enable the Commission to perform 
its duties under this Act. 
(2) QUALIFICATIONS.—The executive director, 
deputy executive director, and general 

S2980 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

counsel of the Commission shall be appointed 
without regard to political affiliation, 
and shall possess all necessary security 
clearances for such positions. 

(3) DUTIES OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.—The 
executive director of the Commission shall— 
(A) serve as principal liaison between the 
Commission and other Government entities; 
(B) be responsible for the administration 
and coordination of the review of records by 
the Commission; and 
(C) be responsible for coordinating all official 
activities of the Commission. 
(4) COMPENSATION.—The Chairperson of the 
Commission may fix the compensation of the 
executive director, deputy executive director, 
general counsel, and other personnel employed 
by the Commission, without regard to 
the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter 
III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
Code, relating to classification of positions 
and General Schedule pay rates, except 
that— 
(A) the rate of pay for the executive director 
of the Commission may not exceed the 
rate payable for level III of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5314 of title 5, United 
States Code; and 
(B) the rate of pay for the deputy executive 
director, the general counsel of the Commission, 
and other Commission personnel may 
not exceed the rate payable for level IV of 
the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of 
title 5, United States Code. 
(5) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—An employee of the Commission 
shall be an employee for purposes of 
chapters 84, 85, 87, and 89 of title 5, United 
States Code, and service as an employee of 
the Commission shall be service for purposes 
of such chapters. 
(B) NONAPPLICATION TO MEMBERS.—This 
paragraph shall not apply to a member of the 
Commission. 
(6) OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.— 
The Office of Personnel Management— 
(A) may promulgate regulations to apply 
the provisions referred to under subsection 
(a) to employees of the Commission; and 
(B) shall provide support services relating 
to— 
(i) the initial employment of employees of 
the Commission; and 
(ii) other personnel needs of the Commission. 
(d) DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES.— 
Any Federal Government employee may be 
detailed to the Commission without reimbursement 
to the agency of that employee, 
and such detail shall be without interruption 
or loss of civil service status or privilege. 
(e) PROCUREMENT OF TEMPORARY AND 
INTERMITTENT SERVICES.—The Chairperson of 
the Commission may procure temporary and 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of 
title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals 
which do not exceed the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed 
for level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of such title. 
(f) STAFF QUALIFICATIONS.—Any person appointed 
to the staff of or employed by the 
Commission shall be an individual of integrity 
and impartiality. 
(g) CONDITIONAL EMPLOYMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may 
offer employment on a conditional basis to a 
prospective employee pending the completion 
of any necessary security clearance 
background investigation. During the pend-
ency of any such investigation, the Commission 
shall ensure than such conditional employee 
is not given and does not have access 
to or responsibility involving classified or 
otherwise restricted material. 
(2) TERMINATION.—If a person hired on a 
conditional basis as described in paragraph 
(1) is denied or otherwise does not qualify for 
all security clearances necessary for the fulfillment 
of the responsibilities of that person 
as an employee of the Commission, the Commission 
shall immediately terminate the 
employment of that person with the Commission. 


(h) EXPEDITED SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCEDURES.—
A candidate for executive director 
or deputy executive director of the Commission 
and any potential employee of the Commission 
shall, to the maximum extent possible, 
be investigated or otherwise evaluated 
for and granted, if applicable, any necessary 
security clearances on an expedited basis. 
SEC. 6. SUPPORT SERVICES. 

During the 180-day period following the 
date of enactment of this Act, the General 
Services Administration shall provide administrative 
support services (including offices 
and equipment) for the Commission. 

SEC. 7. TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION. 

The Commission shall terminate 90 days 
after the date on which the Commission submits 
its final report under section 3. 

SEC. 8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 

(a) INAPPLICABILITY OF FACA.—The Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 
does not apply to the Commission. 
(b) PUBLIC ATTENDANCE.—To the maximum 
extent practicable, each meeting of the Commission 
shall be open to members of the public. 
SEC. 9. FUNDING OF COMMISSION. 

Notwithstanding section 1346 of title 31, 
United States Code, or section 611 of the 
Treasury and General Government Appropriations 
Act, 1998, of funds made available 
for fiscal years 1998 and 1999 to the Departments 
of Justice, State, and any other appropriate 
agency that are otherwise unobligated, 
not more than $3,500,000 shall be available 
for the interagency funding of activities 
of the Commission under this Act. Funds 
made available to the Commission pursuant 
to this section shall remain available for obligation 
until December 31, 1999. 

Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN. Mr. President, 
I am very proud to introduce this 
legislation along with my colleague, 
Chairman D’AMATO. The establishment 
of this commission is the next logical 
step in the work we have been doing on 
this issue, and it is something that 
should have been done in 1948 rather 
than 1998. 

This bill will establish an independent 
Presidential Commission to 
comprehensively examine issues pertaining 
to the disposition of Holocaust 
assets in the United States before, during, 
and after World War II. It will investigate 
the disposition of Holocaust 
victims’ assets in the United States, 
including but not limited to: dormant 
bank accounts, securities, bonds, insurance 
policies, artwork, and German-
looted gold shipped to the U.S. through 
the Tripartite Gold Commission, as revealed 
in the Eizenstat report. The 
Commission will issue reports, and 
make recommendations to the President 
on further action. 

The amount of assets the Commission 
finds is likely to be significantly 
smaller than that discovered in other 
countries, but there are certainly assets 
here. This matter even touches my 
hometown of Chicago. Currently, there 
is a dispute about the origins of a 
Degas pastel, ‘‘Landscape with Smokestacks,’’ 
owned by a trustee of the Art 
Institute of Chicago. Heirs of Freidrich 

and Louise Guttman, who were killed 
by the Nazis, are litigating this issue 
and expect to have a verdict later this 
spring. 

It is vitally important that the U.S. 
lead by example. As citizens of the 
world, we must ensure that all of the 
relevant financial transactions of this 
era are brought to light. Then, as now, 
those who enslave their own populations 
often try to use the international 
banking system to further 
their own illegitimate ends. We cannot 
fully avoid repeating the tragedies of 
history until we have entirely uncovered 
and have a full understanding of 
the past. 

We all have a responsibility to deal 
with the consequences of that horrific 
act, no matter how much time has 
passed, and no matter how much effort 
it takes. We have an obligation to ensure 
that the Swiss, and other neutral 
countries that played a role in hiding 
the stolen possessions of innocent Jewish 
families continue to work with the 

U.S. so that restitution is made. The 
vast majority of our work in the Committee 
focused on the actions of other 
countries, especially the Swiss banks. 
Now it is time to look in the mirror. In 
the Eizenstat report, released last 
year, we learned that the actions of the 
United States before, during and after 
the war were not all that could have 
been desired. I am saddened to learn 
that America did not work as hard as it 
could to ensure compensation for Holocaust 
survivors and other refugees, but 
I realize that the goal of that report 
was to unearth the truth, and that is 
what it has done, and what we will continue 
to do with the establishment of 
this Commission. 
Already, a dozen countries have 
formed similar commissions. This is 
due in no small part to the leadership 
role the United States has taken in 
searching for the truth. We would not 
have come this far without the commitment 
of the Clinton Administration, 
the efforts of the Senate Banking 
Committee and, especially, the tenaciousness 
of our Committee Chairman, 
ALFONSE D’AMATO. 

Over the past several years, the 
Banking Committee has held many 
hearings on the disposition of the assets 
of Holocaust victims. Each hearing 
has brought to light valuable but distressing 
information about events surrounding 
the tragedy that was the Holocaust. 
It has been over 50 years since 
the nightmare of the Holocaust, during 
which, over 7 million Jewish men 
women and children were stripped of 
their homes, businesses, their possessions, 
the very clothes off their backs 
and, ultimately, their lives—by a government 
that industrialized death and 
literally attempted to exterminate the 
Jewish people. 

We have made a tremendous step 
through our commitment to finding 
the truth. We must now commit to 
work together to do everything possible 
to put whatever assets belonging 
to victims or survivors into the proper 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2981 

hands before it is too late. Time is of 
the essence. With the passing of each 
day, the few remaining Holocaust survivors 
continue to age and their numbers 
decrease. This is why it is imperative 
that we enact this legislation 
quickly and allow this commission to 
begin work as soon as possible. 

It will not be possible to track down 
every asset, but complete success is 
not required. What is required is that 
everyone who had a role in this tragedy 
does their best to right the wrongs that 
have been committed, and that they 
understand that much more than 
money is at stake. 

By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Mr. 

ASHCROFT, Mr. REID, and Mr. 

WYDEN): 

S. 1901. A bill to amend the Freedom 
of Information Act to provide electronic 
access to certain Internal Revenue 
Service information on the Internet, 
and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
THE TAXPAYERS INTERNET ASSISTANCE ACT OF 
1998 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, it is time 
for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 
to use the latest technology to deliver 
better service to the American people. 
Our nation’s taxpayers deserve no less. 

Today, Senator ASHCROFT and I are 
introducing the Taxpayers Internet Assistance 
Act of 1998. I am pleased that 
Senator REID and Senator WYDEN are 
original cosponsors of our bill. 

Our bipartisan legislation requires 
the IRS to provide taxpayers with 
speedy access to tax forms, publications, 
regulations, and rulings via the 
Internet. It also authorizes the Treasury 
Department, with input from the 
public, to develop more online services 
to help taxpayers. 

Mr. President, I want to praise the 
Senate Finance Committee, Chairman 
ROTH, Senator MOYNIHAN, Senator 
KERREY and Senator GRASSLEY for 
their leadership in moving the IRS reform 
legislation to the full Senate. I 
strongly support the bill approved by 
the Finance Committee last night. 

As the Senate prepares to debate IRS 
reforms, we must use technology to 
make the IRS more effective for all 
taxpayers. What better way to do that 
then to require the IRS to maintain 
online access to the latest tax information. 
Every citizen in the United 
States, no matter if he or she lives in 
a small town or big city, should be able 
to receive electronically the latest tax 
ruling or download the most up-to-date 
tax form. 

The IRS web page at > http:// 
irs.ustreas.gov < provides timely service 
to taxpayers by increasing electronic 
access to some tax forms and 
publications. I commend the IRS for its 
use of Internet technology to improve 
its services. More information and 
services should be offered online and 
not just as a passing fad. Our legislation 
is needed to build on this electronic 
start and lock into the law for 
today and tomorrow comprehensive on-
line taxpayer services. 

Our bipartisan bill protects the privacy 
of taxpayers by amending the 
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 
which already calls for the deletion of 
identifying details to prevent an unwarranted 
invasion of personal privacy. 
For more than 30 years, the FOIA has 
served the nation well in maintaining 
the right of Americans to know what 
their government is doing—or not 
doing—while protecting personal privacy. 
Our legislation does not give new 
access to private tax information, but 
merely provides a new, easier method 
of receiving public tax information. 

Under the FOIA, the IRS must maintain 
public access to Treasury Regulations, 
Internal Revenue Manuals, Internal 
Revenue Bulletins, Revenue Rulings, 
Revenue Procedures, IRS Notices, 
IRS Announcements, General Counsel 
Memorandum and other taxpayer guidance. 
Under our legislation, the IRS 
must post this public tax information 
on the Internet in a searchable database, 
giving all taxpayers quick access 
to it. In addition, our bipartisan bill requires 
the IRS to post on its web site 
all Tax Forms, Instructions and Publications, 
the most essential information 
for the average taxpayer. 

To keep any administrative burden 
and taxpayer cost to a minimum, our 
legislation limits the Internet posting 
of past tax information. For information 
available under the FOIA, our legislation 
requires online posting of documents 
created on or after November 1, 
1996, the same date electronic access is 
required under the Electronic Freedom 
of Information Act Amendments of 
1996. I am proud to have been the chief 
Senate sponsor of that new law enacted 
in the last Congress. 

For Tax Forms, Instructions and 
Publications, our legislation provides 
for online posting of documents created 
during the most recent five years, the 
same period of time that the IRS now 
keeps these documents on CD-ROM for 
Congressional offices. 

With these common sense requirements, 
the IRS will be able to enhance 
its web page with comprehensive tax 
guidance in a matter of days at little 
cost to taxpayers under our bipartisan 
bill. In fact, the Congressional Budget 
Office has scored our legislation as 
adding no new direct spending. 

We strongly believe that the IRS 
must prepare itself for the next millennium 
now. That is why our legislation 
authorizes the Treasury Department to 
study and report back to the American 
people on online access to taxpayer information, 
the protection of online taxpayer 
privacy rights, the security of 
online taxpayer services and public 
comments on online taxpayer services. 

Thomas Jefferson observed that, ‘‘Information 
is the currency of democracy.’’ 
Let’s harness the power of the 
information age to make the IRS a 
truly democratic institution, open to 
all our citizens all the time. 

I thank Senator ASHCROFT for his 
support and I look forward to working 
with him on other high technology 

issues to help the Internet reach its 
full potential such as encryption legislation. 


I urge my colleagues to support the 
Taxpayers Internet Assistance Act of 
1998. 

Mr. ASHCROFT. Mr. President, one 
of my fundamental beliefs is that we 
should labor to make sure that the collective 
voice of our constituents is 
heard and followed in everything we do 
here. That is to say, the values of 
Washington, D.C. should not be imposed 
on the country, but instead the 
values of the country should be imposed 
on Washington. One of the best 
ways to make sure we follow this principle 
is to provide the country with 
best information possible about what 
we do and how we do it. 

We must do what we can to open the 
doors to government so that all may 
access the available information. In 
1995, I introduced an on-line term limits 
petition. Thousands of people singed 
petition. In 1996, I began an effort to 
educate Missouri’s students on how to 
access the federal government’s available 
information on the Internet. This 
program, Gateways to Government, 
was presented by myself or my staff in 
every county of Missouri, and in more 
than 135 individual schools. My homepage 
continues to act as a ‘‘gateway’’ 
to a great wealth of electronic information 
about congress and the federal 
government. 

In this same spirit I rise today to 
join with Senator LEAHY to introduce 
the Taxpayers Internet Assistance Act 
of 1998. He has been a real leader on 
technology issues and shares a great 
interest in guaranteeing that U.S. citizens 
enjoy an environment that allows 
them to know the operations of their 
federal government. In addition, he has 
for years championed the rights of individuals 
to keep their private affairs 
private, particularly with his principal 
sponsorship of the Electronic Freedom 
of Information Act. 

I am also pleased that several other 
senators are joining our effort as original 
co-sponsors. Our intent is to provide 
to the American public an easy 
and inexpensive way to receive the latest 
information related to the IRS, including 
forms, instructions, and recent 
rulings. 

Under the Taxpayers Internet Assistant 
Act individuals will be able to access 
a great deal of material from the 
IRS beginning in November of 1996. 
Revenue rulings, treasury regulations, 
internal revenue bulletins, and IRS 
general counsel memorandum are just 
a few of the documents that will routinely 
be made available in an easy to 
use format. This information should 
provide for an easier and more understandable 
approach to tax planning and 
preparation. Individuals will be able to 
see rulings that may be similar to a 
situation they are in currently and 
plan accordingly. 

‘‘The difference between death and 
taxes,’’ quipped Will Rogers, ‘‘is that 


S2982 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

death doesn’t get worse every time 
Congress meets.’’ Unfortunately, Mr. 
Rogers’ observation has held true for 
more than six decades. The tax doe has 
become increasingly complex and onerous. 
My wife is a tax attorney, she even 
teaches tax law at Howard University, 
and we do not even prepare our own tax 
forms. My hope is that this modest effort 
will provide the public with timely, 
reliable information that may assist 
in their efforts to prepare their 
taxes. 

In fact, taxpayers are working longer 
than ever to pay their taxes. According 
to the non-partisan Tax Foundation, 
the average American now works until 
May 9—a full week longer than when 
Bill Clinton assumed the presidency— 
to pay federal, state, and local taxes. I 
can’t help but think of President Reagan’s 
definition of a taxpayer as 
‘‘someone who works for the federal 
government but doesn’t have to take a 
civil service examination.’’ At the very 
least we can assist taxpayers with easy 
to access, timely and inexpensive information 
that can help them in preparing 
their individuals taxes. 

In addition, our legislation amends 
the Freedom of Information Act, which 
maintains the personal privacy of individuals 
by guaranteeing that any reference 
to identifying details be deleted 
to prevent an invasion of personal privacy. 
Importantly, this legislation does 
not give any new access to tax information, 
but instead provides an additional 
means of receiving the same information 
already made available in 
hard copy form or, in some cases, on 
CD. 

Finally, the legislation requires that 
the Department of Treasury evaluate 
the process to ensure that all technical 
advances are being used that would 
provide more timely and efficient service 
to taxpayers. In addition, a further 
consideration of individual privacy will 
occur and a process developed to receive 
comments from the public regarding 
the on-line taxpayer services. 

This bipartisan approach to continuing 
the opening of the federal government 
to all citizens should be 
viewed as a first step in changing our 
fundamental interaction with the IRS. 
We can pass this legislation and provide 
greater information to anyone 
who can gain access to a PC. I urge all 
senators to support and pass this year 
the Taxpayers Internet Assistance Act 
of 1998. 

By Mrs. BOXER: 

S. 1902. A bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow the first 
$2,000 of health insurance premiums to 
be fully deductible; to the Committee 
on Finance. 
THE HEALTH INSURANCE TAX RELIEF ACT 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, today I 
am introducing legislation to allow individuals 
to deduct up to $2,000 a year 
for the costs of health insurance (for 
themselves and their dependents). If 
health insurance costs are shared by an 
individual and an employer, the individual 
could deduct the amount of his 

or her share. If an individual pays the 
full cost of health insurance, the entire 
amount could be deducted, subject to 
the $2,000 annual limit. 

The Joint Tax Committee has estimated 
that my bill would reduce revenues 
to the federal government by approximately 
$11 billion per year. 

WHY THIS BILL IS NEEDED 

Every year, as employers continue to 
roll back health benefits, and as the 
costs of those benefits keep rising, the 
number of uninsured Americans increases. 
There are now 41 million 
Americans lack health insurance. That 
number increases by one million each 
year. An estimated eighty percent of 
the uninsured are workers or the dependents 
of workers. 

Under the current tax code, corporations 
can deduct the cost of providing 
health insurance for their employees. 
The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 also 
expanded the deductibility of health 
insurance for the self-employed. Health 
insurance-related tax deductions for 
corporations and the self-employed are 
now taken to the tune of about $50 billion 
annually. 

But for the 16 million Americans who 
purchase health insurance for themselves 
and their dependents, the current 
tax code is much less generous. 
They may deduct only the cost of 
health insurance if their total health 
care expenditures exceed 7.5 percent of 
adjusted gross income—a threshold few 
Americans meet. 

HOW THE BOXER BILL WOULD HELP 

My bill would create an ‘‘above the 
line’’ deduction, which would be listed 
on all tax returns. Taxpayers need not 
itemize in order to receive ‘‘above the 
line’’ deductions. 

The benefit to an individual taxpayer 
will depend on the amount of health insurance 
expense claimed and on the individual’s 
tax bracket. Those claiming 
the full $2000 deduction could save $300 
or more. 

For example, if Jane Doe makes 
$30,000 a year, has no investment income, 
and pays for her own health insurance, 
she currently pays, $3,476 in 
federal income taxes. Under my bill, 
assuming Ms. Doe takes the full $2,000 
deduction, she would pay only $3,176, a 
savings of $300, or nearly 10 percent of 
her tax bill. 

Another example is Joe and Sally 
SMITH, a married couple who file jointly, 
have two children, and have a total 
income of $75,000 a year. They purchase 
an insurance policy that covers the entire 
family. Currently, they pay $10,751 
in federal income taxes. Under my bill, 
assuming they take the entire $2,000 
deduction, they would pay only $10,191, 
a savings of $560 off their tax bill. 

I hope that senators will join with 
me to help expand opportunities for all 
Americans to acquire health insurance 
by cosponsoring this legislation. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 1902 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Health Insurance 
Tax Relief Act’’. 

SEC. 2. FIRST $2,000 OF HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS 
FULLY DEDUCTIBLE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 
213 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating 
to medical, dental, etc., expenses) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) ALLOWANCE OF DEDUCTION.—There 
shall be allowed as a deduction the following 
amounts not compensated for by insurance 
or otherwise— 

‘‘(1) the amount by which the amount of 
expenses paid during the taxable year (reduced 
by the amount deductible under paragraph 
(2)) for medical care of the taxpayer, 
the taxpayer’s spouse, and the taxpayer’s dependents 
(as defined in section 152) exceeds 

7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, plus 
‘‘(2) so much of the expenses paid during 
the taxable year for insurance which constitutes 
medical care under subsection 
(d)(1)(D) (other than for a qualified long-
term care insurance contract) for such taxpayer, 
spouse, and dependents as does not exceed 
$2,000.’’ 

(b) DEDUCTION ALLOWED WHETHER OR NOT 
TAXPAYER ITEMIZES DEDUCTION.—Section 
62(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(defining adjusted gross income) is amended 
by inserting after paragraph (17) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(18) HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS.—The 
deduction allowed by section 213(a)(2).’’ 

(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
162(l)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (relating to special rules for health insurance 
costs of self-employed individuals) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an individual 
who is an employee within the meaning 
of section 401(c)(1), there shall be allowed 
as a deduction under this section an amount 
equal to the sum of— 

‘‘(i) so much of the amount paid during the 
taxable year for insurance which constitutes 
medical care for the taxpayer, his spouse, 
and dependents as does not exceed $2,000, 
plus 

‘‘(ii) the applicable percentage of the 
amount so paid in excess of $2,000.’’ 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 1998. 
By Mr. THOMAS (for himself, Mr. 

ENZI, Mr. THURMOND, Mr. 
HELMS, Mr. HAGEL, and Mr. 
SMITH of Oregon): 

S. 1903. A bill to prohibit the return 
of veterans memorial objects to foreign 
nations without specific authorization 
in law; to the Committee on Veterans 
Affairs. 
THE VETERANS MEMORIAL PHYSICAL INTEGRITY 
ACT OF 1998 

Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, I come 
to the floor today to introduce S. 1903, 
a bill to prohibit the return to a foreign 
country of any portion of a memorial 
to American veterans without the 
express authorization of Congress. 

I would not have thought that a bill 
like this was necessary, Mr. President. 
It would never have occurred to me 
that an American President would even 
briefly consider dismantling part of a 
memorial to American soldiers who 
died in the line of duty in order to send 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2983 

a piece of that memorial to a foreign 
country. But a real possibility of just 
that happening exists in my state of 
Wyoming involving what are known as 
the ‘‘Bells of Balangiga.’’ 

In 1898, the Treaty of Paris brought 
to a close the Spanish-American War. 
As part of the treaty, Spain ceded possession 
of the Philippines to the United 
States. At about the same time, the 
Filipino people began an insurrection 
in their country. In August 1901, as 
part of the American effort to stem the 
insurrection, a company of 74 officers 
and men from the 9th Infantry, Company 
G, occupied the town of Balangiga 
on the island of Samar. These men 
came from Ft. Russell in Cheyenne, 
Wyoming—today’s F.E. Warren Air 
Force Base. 

On September 28 of that year, taking 
advantage of the preoccupation of the 
American troops with a church service 
for the just-assassinated President 
McKinley, a group of Filipino insurgents 
infiltrated the town. Only three 
American sentries were on duty that 
day. As described in an article in the 
November 19, 1997 edition of the Wall 
Street Journal: 

Officers slept in, and enlisted men didn’t 
bother to carry their riffles as they ambled 
out of their quarters for breakfast. 
Balangiga had been a boringly peaceful site 
since the infantry company arrived a month 
earlier, according to military accounts and 
soldiers’ statements. The quiet ended abruptly 
when a 23 year old U.S. sentry named Adolph 
Gamlin walked past the local police 
chief. In one swift move, the Filipino 
grabbed the slightly built Iowan’s rifle and 
smashed the butt across [Gamlin’s] head. As 
PFC Gamlin crumpled, the bells of Balangiga 
began to peal. 

With the signal, hundreds of Filipino fighters 
swarmed out of the surrounding forest, 
armed with clubs, picks and machete-like 
bolo knives. Others poured out of the church; 
they had arrived the night before, disguised 
as women mourners and carrying coffins 
filled with bolos. A sergeant was beheaded in 
the mess tent and dumped into a vat of 
steaming wash water. A young bugler was 
cut down in a nearby stream. The company 
commander was hacked to death after jumping 
out a window. Besieged infantrymen defended 
themselves with kitchen forks, mess 
kits and baseball bats. Others threw rocks 
and cans of beans. 

Though he was also slashed across the 
back, PFC. 

. . Gamlin came to and found a rifle. 
By the time he and the other survivors 
fought their way to the beach, 38 US 
soldiers were dead and all but six of the 
remaining men had been wounded. 

The remaining soldiers escaped in 
five dug-out canoes. Only three boats 
made it to safety on Leyte. Seven men 
died of exposure at sea, and another 
eight died of their wounds; only twenty 
of the company’s seventy-four members 
survived. 

A detachment of fifty-four volunteers 
from 9th Infantry units stationed at 
Leyte returned to Balangiga and recaptured 
the village. They were reinforced 
a few days later from Companies K and 
L of the 11th Infantry Regiment. When 
the 11th Infantry was relieved on October 
18 by Marines, the 9th Infantry 

took two of the church bells used to 
signal the attack with them back to 
Wyoming as a memorial to the fallen 
soldiers. 

The bells have been displayed in 
front of the base flagpole on the central 
parade grounds since that time. 
The bells were placed in two openings 
in a large, specially-constructed masonry 
wall with a bronze plaque dedicating 
the memorial to the memory of 
the fallen soldiers. 

Since at least 1981, there have been 
on-and-off discussions in various circles 
in Cheyenne, Washington, and Manila 
about the future of the bells, including 
the possibility of returning 
them to the Philippines. Most recently, 
the Philippine government—having run 
into broad opposition to their request 
to have both bells returned to them— 
has proposed making a copy of both 
bells, and having both sides keep one 
copy and one original. 

Opposition to this proposal from 
local and national civic and veterans 
groups has been very strong. Mr. President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
text of a letter from the national office 
of the Veterans of Foreign Wars dated 
January 6, 1998; from the VFW’s Department 
of Wyoming dated December 
5, 1997; and from the United Veterans 
Council of Wyoming dated March 27, 
1998; be printed in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection. 

Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, in the 
last few months, developments have indicated 
to me that the White House is 
seriously contemplating returning one 
or both of the bells to the Philippines. 
This year marks the 100th anniversary 
of the Treaty of Paris, and a state visit 
by President Fidel Valdes Ramos—his 
last as President—to the United States 
has been planned for this month. The 
disposition of the bells has been high 
on President Ramos’ agenda; he has 
spoken personally to President Clinton 
and several members of Congress about 
it over the last three years, and has indicated 
he will do so on this visit. 
Since January, the Filipino press has 
included almost weekly articles on the 
bells’ supposed return, including one in 
the Manila Times last week which reported 
that a new tower to house the 
bells is being constructed in Borongon, 
Samar, to receive them in May. 

In addition, inquiries to me from various 
agencies of the Administration soliciting 
the opinion of the Wyoming 
congressional delegation on the issue 
have increased in frequency. I have 
also learned that the Defense Department, 
perhaps in conjunction with the 
Justice Department, has recently prepared 
a legal memorandum outlining 
its opinion of who actually controls the 
disposition of the bells. 

In response to this apparent 
groundswell, the Wyoming congressional 
delegation wrote a letter to 
President Clinton on January 9 of this 
year to make clear our opposition to 
removing the bells. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the text of 
that letter be inserted in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection. 

Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, in response 
to that letter, on March 26 I received 
a letter from Sandy Berger of 
the National Security Council which I 
think is perhaps the best indicator of 
the direction the White House is headed 
on this issue. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the text of 
that letter be inserted in the RECORD. 

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection. 

MR. THOMAS. Mr. President, I cannot 
fathom that this issue has gotten 
to this point. First, it is very evident 
to me that the Constitution precludes 
the President from returning the bells 
without Congressional assent. Article 
IV, section 3, clause 2 provides: ‘‘The 
Congress shall have Power to dispose of 
and make all needful Rules and Regulations 
respecting . . . Property belonging 
to the United States.’’ The bells are 
certainly property of the United States 
as contemplated by this clause, and 
thus clearly can only constitutionally 
be disposed of by Congress—not by the 
President. 

Second, I was amazed to find, even in 
these days of political correctness and 
revisionist history, that a U.S. President—
our Commander-in-Chief—would 
appear to be ready to ignore the wishes 
of our veterans and tear down a memorial 
to U.S. soldiers who died in the 
line of duty in order to send part of it 
back to the country in which they were 
killed. Amazed, that is, until I recalled 
this President’s fondness for sweeping 
apologies and what some might view as 
flashy P.R. gestures, as most recently 
evidenced by his Africa trip. 

Third, I was amazed to learn that 
during a state visit when our two countries 
should be discussing the on-going 
Asian financial crisis and its ramifications, 
East Asian security issues, and 
other issues of long-range significance, 
President Ramos has proposed discussing 
only three topics, all parochial: 
the bells, pension payments to Filipino 
veterans, and a Subic Bay-related 
waste issue. Amazed, that is Mr. President, 
until I was reminded that the 
candidate President Ramos is supporting 
in the upcoming presidential 
elections is running in third place in 
the polls and might just get a much-
needed boost if his mentor could return 
from Washington with a bell or a check 
from the U.S. Treasury in hand. 

Mr. President, to the veterans of Wyoming, 
and the United States as a 
whole, the bells represent a lasting memorial 
to those fifty-four American 
soldiers killed as a result of an 
unprovoked insurgent attack in 
Balangiga on September 28, 1901. In 
their view, which I share, any attempt 
to remove either or both of the bells— 
and in doing so actually physically dismantling 
a war memorial—is a desecration 
of that memory. History 
brought the bells to Wyoming, and it is 
there they should remain. 

Consequently, I am introducing S. 
1903 today to protect the bells and 


S2984 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

similar veterans memorials from such 
an ignoble fate. The bill is not complicated, 
and in my view simply restates 
what already appears in black 
and white in the Constitution; it prohibits 
the transfer of a veterans memorial, 
or any portion thereof, to a foreign 
country or government unless specifically 
authorized by law. 

The bill is supported by all of Wyoming’s 
veterans groups, and I am 
pleased to be joined in this effort by 
my good friend and colleague from Wyoming 
Senator ENZI, as well as by the 
distinguished Chairman of the Armed 
Services Committee, Senator THURMOND; 
the distinguished Chairman of 
the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator 
HELMS; and my fellow subcommittee 
Chairmen on the Foreign 
Relations Committee Senator HAGEL 
and Senator SMITH of Oregon, as original 
cosponsors. Representative Barbara 
Cubin is introducing similar legislation 
today in the House. I trust that my colleagues 
will support its swift passage. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the full text of this bill be 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the items 
were ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

S. 1903 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PROHIBITION ON RETURN OF VETERANS 
MEMORIAL OBJECTS WITHOUT 
SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION IN 
LAW. 

(a) PROHIBITION.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the President may 
not transfer a veterans memorial object to a 
foreign country or entity controlled by a foreign 
government, or otherwise transfer or 
convey such object to a person or entity for 
purposes of the ultimate transfer or conveyance 
of such object to a foreign country or 
entity controlled by a foreign government, 
unless specifically authorized by law. 
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) ENTITY CONTROLLED BY A FOREIGN GOV-
ERNMENT.—The term ‘‘entity controlled by a 
foreign government’’ has the meaning given 
that term in section 2536(c)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code. 
(2) VETERANS MEMORIAL OBJECT.—The term 
‘‘veterans memorial object’’ means any object, 
including a physical structure or portion 
thereof, that— 
(A) is located at a cemetery of the National 
Cemetery System, war memorial, or 
military installation in the United States; 
(B) is dedicated to, or otherwise memorializes, 
the death in combat or combat-related 
duties of members of the United States 
Armed Forces; and 
(C) was brought to the United States from 
abroad as a memorial of combat abroad. 
VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS OF 
THE UNITED STATES, 

January 6, 1998. 

Hon. DOUGLAS K. BEREUTER, 

Chairman, East Asia Subcommittee, Committee 

on International Relations, U.S. House of 

Representatives, Washington, DC. 
RE: Bells of Balangiga 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Recently, we learned 
that Mr. Robert Underwood, U.S. Representative 
from Guam, has introduced House Resolution 
312 urging the President to authorize 
the transfer of ownership of one of the Bells 

of Balangiga to the Philippines. In brief, the 
Bells of Balangiga, which serve as a war memorial 
to U.S. Army soldiers killed by insurgents 
in the Philippines in 1901, are located 
at E.E. Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, 
Wyoming. The proposal of the Philippine 
Ambassador to return one of the bells to the 
Philippines is opposed by veterans and the 
supporting community in Wyoming. 

Although the 98th National Convention of 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United 
States did not adopt a Resolution on this 
issue, the VFW does have a position on the 
Bells of Balangiga. After carefully reviewing 
the history and background of the issue involving 
the Bells of Balangiga, the VFW opposes 
and rejects any compromise or agreement 
with the government of the Philippines 
which would result in the return of any of 
the Bells of Balangiga to the Philippines. 
The church bells were paid for with American 
blood in 1901 when they were used to 
signal an unprovoked attack by insurrectionists 
against an American Army garrison 
which resulted in the massacre of 45 American 
soldiers. The Bells serve is a permanent 
memorial to the sacrifice of the American 
soldiers from Fort D.A. Russell (Wyoming) 
who gave their lives for their country while 
doing their duty. We do not think any of the 
bells should be given back to the Philippines. 
To return the bells sends the wrong message 
to the world. In addition, local Wyoming veterans 
and other citizens are opposed to dismantling 
the sacred monument and returning 
any part of it to the Philippines. 

In the past several years, the Philippine 
Government has made several attempts to 
get the Bells of Balangiga returned to their 
country. To date, they have not been successful 
in any their attempts to get the bells 
returned. For the past 95 years, two of the 
bells have been enshrined at Fort Russell/ 
Warren AFB in Wyoming. The third is with 
the U.S. Army’s 9th Infantry in the Republic 
of Korea. 

Recently, Philippine President Fidel 
Ramos ordered his United States Ambassador, 
Paul Rabe, to step up his effort on the 
bells hoping to have them returned in time 
for next summer’s celebration of 100 years of 
Philippine independence. In October 1997, 
Ambassador Paul Rabe suggested a compromise 
solution. He suggested returning one 
of the bells to the Philippines thereby giving 
both nations an original and the opportunity 
to make a replica. In fact, the justification 
for the latest proposal of the Philippine government 
is fatally flawed. The Bells of 
Balangiga played no part at all in Admiral 
Dewey’s defeat of the Spanish Navy at Manila 
Bay in 1898. Subsequently, that naval 
defeat forced the Spanish to relinquish control 
of the Philippine Islands to the U.S. The 
soldiers killed were from Fort D.A. Russell 
and were ordered to the Philippine Islands 
because a savage guerrilla war had broken 
out after the conclusion of the Spanish-
American War of 1898. Therefore, we believe 
the bells have no significance or connection 
to the celebration of Philippine independence. 


Kenneth Weber, Commander of the VFW 
Department of Wyoming, expressed the feelings 
of local Wyoming veterans and supporters 
when he said, ‘‘The members of the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United 
States . . . will not stand idle and allow a sacred 
memorial to those soldiers killed while 
doing their duty to be dismantled.’’ 

We believe the Wyoming veterans are correct 
on this issue. The bells should stay right 
where they are—in Wyoming and with the 
9th Regiment. 

Respectfully, 

KENNETH A. STEADMAN, Executive Director. 

VFW, DEPARTMENT OF WYOMING 

December 5, 1997. 

KENNETH WEBER, 

Torrington, WY. 

The VFW Department of Wyoming is making 
the following statement on behalf of its 
veterans for immediate media release: 

As the Commander of the Department of 
Wyoming Veterans of Foreign Wars, I have 
followed the current debate concerning the 
Bells of Balangiga with a great deal of interest. 
It is becoming apparent that this issue is 
not going away soon. Two of three bells are 
located at the Cheyenne’s F.E. Warren Air 
Force Base as a permanent memorial to Fort 

D.A. Russell soldiers who lost their lives in 
1901 as a result of hostile action during the 
Philippine rebellion. American soldiers stationed 
at then Fort D.A. Russell, now Warren 
Air Force Base, were ordered to the Philippine 
Islands because of a savage guerrilla 
war which had broken out following the 
Spanish-American War of 1898. 
Now the Republic of the Philippines, as 
they have several times in the past, has requested 
the return of one or both bells to 
their country. This time, their justification 
is apparently to celebrate their 100 year anniversary 
of independence from Spain. The 
interesting part of their argument, is the 
simple fact that the Bells of Balangiga 
played no role in Admiral Dewey’s defeat of 
the Spanish Navy at Manila Bay in 1898 and 
Spain’s subsequent relinquishing control of 
the Philippine Islands to the United States 
government. 

Evidently, the current posturing by the 
Republic of the Philippines is only another 
attempt to have the Bells of Balangiga returned. 
The United States government has 
repeatedly, and for all the right reasons, refused 
to return the bells to them. 

The members of the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars, a veterans organization whose roots go 
back to the Spanish-American War of 1898, 
will not stand idle and allow a sacred memorial 
to those soldiers killed while doing their 
duty be dismantled. We can only continue to 
hope that the people who have taken the 
time to speak out in favor of returning the 
bells would get their facts straight before engaging 
the media in any further debate. 
When all the facts are known regarding the 
circumstances surrounding the Bells of 
Balangiga, any compromise offer with the 
Philippine government remains unacceptable. 


Sincerely yours, 
KENNETH WEBER, 

Commander. 

UNITED VETERANS COUNCIL OF WYOMING 

Cheyenne, WY, March 27, 1998. 
The President of the United States, 
WILLIAM JEFFERSON CLINTON 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR PRESIDENT CLINTON: Member organizations 
of the United Veterans Council of 
Wyoming, Inc. are in receipt of White House 
letter dated March 26, 1998 asking the Wyoming 
Congressional Delegation to reevaluate 
the compromise approach to resolving the 
bells of Balangiga question, and we would 
like to respond. 

Wyoming veterans are aware of the long-
standing ties with the Philippines during 
World War II, and after. We have taken into 
account the fact that U.S. veterans and our 
allies lived among the Filipinos during the 
war, fought shoulder to shoulder with them, 
and together defeated the Japanese invaders 
to preserve Philippine freedom and way of 
life. Many died retaking the Philippine islands 
from Japanese forces. Veterans who believe 
the bells should remain in Wyoming do 
so without malice towards the people of the 
Philippines. No one denies the contributions 
and sacrifices made by the Filipinos during 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2985 

the war effort and to continued prosperity 
afterwards. We clearly understand honor, 
comradeship, and the sacrifices veterans of 
both countries have made. 

We believe that we have made our reasons 
for not compromising on the return of the 
bells very clear. As the VFW and others have 
continually pointed out, the bells of 
Balangiga played no part in Admiral Dewey’s 
defeat of the Spanish navy at Manila Bay in 
1898, three years before the bells were used to 
signal the 1901 massacre of US soldiers garrisoned 
within the village of Balangiga. The 
premeditated massacre was particularly brutal 
on the surprised and outnumbered soldiers. 
We believe that the bells have no significance 
or connection to this centennial 
year of celebration of the Philippine’s independence 
from Spain. 

As stated in a recent article from the Manila 
Times, it is known that the Philippine 
government is designing a war memorial to 
the Balangiga Bells, rather than for their use 
as a symbol of independence from Spain. It 
appears that representatives of the Philippine 
government are not being straightforward 
regarding their true intentions, if a 
bell is returned. 

The Philippine government has yet to 
present a compelling argument justifying a 
reversal of the U.S. government’s long-standing 
decision to not return the bells. Mr. 
Berger says, ‘‘he understands the concerns of 
those who are worried that any altercation 
of the existing monument might cause 
present day Americans to forget the sacrifices 
of past generations.’’ Though Mr. 
Berger shares our worries, it appears that 
our government, by continuing on its 
present course, will allow such sacrifices to 
be forgotten sooner than later. It is an affront 
to the soldiers who died, and their survivors, 
to suggest that a permanent memorial 
be dismantled for no better reasons than 
are being provided by the Philippine government. 


Sincerely yours, 

JIM LLOYD, 

President. 

WYOMING DELEGATION, 

January 9, 1998. 

President Bill Clinton, 

The White House, Washington, DC. 

DEAR PRESIDENT CLINTON: The Wyoming 
delegation wishes to express our opposition 
to any plan to remove the Bells of Balangiga 
from F.E. Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, 
Wyoming, to the Philippines. Many 
times and for many years, the government of 
the Philippines has tried to have the bells returned. 
The United States government has 
rightfully rejected every attempt. Most recently, 
there have been proposals by the 
Philippine government and in Congress to 
transfer one of the original bells to the Philippines 
and keep one at F.E. Warren. We find 
this ‘‘compromise’’ proposal wholly unacceptable 
and an affront to the soldiers massacred 
in Balangiga. 

The Philippines became an American possession 
after the Spanish-American War, but 
peace in the islands was delayed by a bloody 
civil war. American soldiers at Fort D.A. 
Russell, now F.E. Warren Air Force Base, 
were sent to the Philippines as part of the 
American military force dispatched to the 
area. On September 29, 1901, guerilla forces 
on the island of Samar used the bells to 
sound a surprise attack on American troops 
stationed in the village of Balangiga. Of the 
76 Americans stationed in Balangiga, only 20 
returned home. The survivors brought the 
bells back to Wyoming as a memorial to 
their fallen comrades. 

Wyoming’s many veterans, represented by 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American 
Legion, strongly oppose removing the 

bells. For our veterans the bells serve as a 
constant reminder of the men who died in 
that surprise attack. The Wyoming delegation 
has always opposed desecrating this memorial 
for the same reason. 

Preserving this memorial will serve as a 
symbol that American troops who serve 
around the world will not be forsaken. It also 
reaffirms to the world that the United States 
will protect its forces serving around the 
world if they are attacked. 

On behalf of America’s soldiers who have 
made the ultimate sacrifice, please join with 
us in refusing all present and future efforts 
to dismantle this memorial. 

Sincerely, 

CRAIG THOMAS, 

U.S. Senator. 
MICHAEL B. ENZI, 

U.S. Senator. 
BARBARA CUBIN, 

Member of Congress. 

The White House, Washington, 
March 26, 1998. 

DEAR SENATOR THOMAS: Thank you for 
your letter concerning the bells of Balangiga 
and the proposed compromise solution for 
addressing this issue. I am writing on behalf 
of the President to request that you not oppose 
the compromise solution. We believe it 
effectively takes into account the interests 
and sensitivities of both American veterans 
and the people of the Philippines. 

I understand American forces brought the 
two bells of Balangiga to Wyoming following 
the Philippine insurrection of 1901, and that 
they currently are on display at F.E. Warren 
Air Force Base in Cheyenne. As you may 
know, Philippine President Fidel Ramos is 
eager to explore the possibility of returning 
at least one of the bells during this centennial 
year of the Philippines’ declaration of 
independence from Spain. President Ramos 
will be the President’s guest at the White 
House on April 10, 1998. The bells of 
Balangiga will be one of the principal issues 
on the discussion agenda. 

I appreciate the importance of the bells to 
Wyoming veterans who consider them to be 
symbols of the supreme sacrifice American 
soldiers, sailors and airmen often have had 
to make far from home. At the same time, 
Filipinos see the bells as representative of a 
struggle for national independence lasting 
more than five centuries. 

Our longstanding ties with the Philippines 
were forged in the intense combat of World 
War II by tens of thousands of Americans 
and Filipinos. Growing out of this experience 
is a relationship, which is closer on a person-
to-person level than with any other country 
in East Asia. The Philippines is a key ally in 
the Asia Pacific and shares our commitment 
to democratic and free market principles. 
Presidential elections in May of this year 
will re-enforce the democratic traditions and 
institutions Filipinos have so eagerly embraced. 


I believe a compromise solution, by which 
the United States and the Philippines would 
each retain custody of one of the original 
bells, offers a unique opportunity to honor 
both the American soldiers who gave their 
lives in the town of Balangiga and the centennial 
celebration of the Philippines’ first 
step toward democracy. I understand the 
concerns of those who are worried that any 
alteration of the existing monument might 
cause present day Americans to forget the 
sacrifices of past generations. But the historical 
significance of Balangiga rests on the 
fact that today the United States and the 
Philippines are united in a common cause of 
promoting stability and prosperity throughout 
the Asia Pacific region. I urge you and 
your colleagues from the Wyoming Congressional 
Delegation to reevaluate the com


promise approach to resolving the bells of 
Balangiga question. 
Sincerely, 
SAMUEL R. BERGER, 

Assistant to the President for National 
Security Affairs. 

Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to 
join my colleague, the senior Senator 
from my state of Wyoming, in the effort 
to safeguard the integrity of the 
nation’s military memorials from the 
politically expedient demands of foreign 
governments—in this case the so-
called ‘‘Bells of Balangiga’’ war memorial 
located in Wyoming’s capital city 
of Cheyenne. I too, am amazed that 
such legislation is necessary. Amazed, 
but not surprised. After all, this is a 
President who seems to have no qualms 
about throwing overboard those states 
and communities who have not proven 
politically valuable to him. I recall his 
unilateral Utah land grab of the Grand 
Escalante. I also recall that he, with 
the Vice President at his side, signed 
the Presidential directive for that action 
in Arizona, so unpopular was it in 
the State of Utah. His unilateral forest 
roads construction moratorium is another 
such example of his proclivity for 
government by executive fiat. 

Many people contend that church 
bells are not a fitting subject for a war 
memorial. The circumstances surrounding 
these particular bells, however, 
are not normal. As the Senior 
Senator from Wyoming related, those 
bells were not used by Philippino insurgents 
to call the faithful to prayer that 
harrowing morning. They were used instead 
to signal the massacre of Wyoming 
troops as they sat down, unarmed, 
to breakfast. Of the 74 officers 
and men in the garrison, only twenty 
survived. Eye witness accounts had 
some of the attackers disguised as 
women, their weapons hidden beneath 
their dresses. Many others smuggled 
their weapons into the village hidden 
in the coffins of children. Under those 
circumstances, one must conclude that 
the bells in question were used to kill. 
Consequently I feel their use as the 
subject for a war memorial is wholly 
appropriate. 

This is especially true in light of 
their intended purpose if returned to 
the Philippines. As everyone concedes, 
the Philippine government desires the 
return of these bells in time for their 
100th anniversary of independence. Apparently, 
these bells do not represent a 
religious symbol for the Philippine 
government either. 

Most significant of all, however, is 
the purpose they currently serve. Contrary 
to the assumptions of many, they 
do not memorialize American foreign 
policies of the time. Nor do they serve 
as a tribute to our political system, 
America’s turn of the century notions 
of race relations, or the performance of 
the American troops who served there 
during that conflict. Rather, these 
bells memorialize one thing and one 
thing only: The tragic and premature 
deaths of 54 young men who volunteered 
to do the bidding of the American 
people. For this purpose I believe 


S2986 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

these bells serve as a most fitting memorial 
indeed and I am opposed to its 
dismantlement. 

It is time to honor our veterans, our 
war dead, and the principle that in this 
country, we do not submit to government 
by Presidential fiat. I ask the 
support of my colleagues for this legislation. 


By Mr. GORTON: 

S. 1904. A bill to amend the Elwha 
River Ecosystem and Fisheries Restoration 
Act to provide further for the 
acquisition and removal of the Elwha 
dam and acquisition to Glines Canyon 
dam and the restoration of the Elwha 
River ecosystem and native anadromous 
fisheries, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 
THE ELWHA RIVER ECOSYSTEM AND FISHERIES 
RESTORATION ACT OF 1998 

Mr. GORTON. Mr. President, six 
months ago, I came to the floor of the 
United States Senate to announce my 
reluctant support for removing one of 
two dams on the Elwha River on the 
Olympic Peninsula. Today, after spending 
countless hours working with interested 
Washington State residents, I 
am introducing legislation to accomplish 
this difficult and costly endeavor 
provided certain conditions are met. 

As I mentioned in my statement last 
fall, I have never been enthusiastic 
about the idea of dam removal on the 
Elwha River as a means to enhance declining 
salmon runs on the river. For 
many years, national environmental 
groups, the Clinton Administration, 
much of the Northwest media, and 
many Northwest elected officials have 
pushed for removal of both dams from 
the Elwha River. In 1992, I supported 
legislation to begin the process of having 
the government acquire both of 
these dams with an eye toward removing 
them someday. While I have always 
been enthusiastic about the federal 
government buying these two dams 
from a local paper company, I continue 
to be skeptical toward claims that 
salmon runs will see a significant benefit 
through dam removal on the Elwha 
River. Anyone who believes otherwise 
needs to ask him why salmon runs on 
nearby rivers on the Olympic Peninsula 
with no dams are doing just as 
poorly. 

I am quite certain, however, that 
there are clear costs to dam removal. 
The taxpayers must pay at least $65 
million to remove just one dam on the 
Elwha River. Power generation will be 
lost, and in the case of the Elwha River 
dams, serious questions remain about 
the potential damage to the City of 
Port Angeles’ water supply. As I weigh 
these costs against the potential benefits 
to salmon, I have generally inclined 
against dam removal. 

Unfortunately, the issue isn’t as simple 
as a cost-benefit analysis. There is 
a wild card over which I have no control 
that could have a devastating effect 
on the Port Angeles community. 
The lower Elwha River dam produces a 

tiny amount of power—only a quarter 
of the amount of power produced by 
the upper Elwha River dam and a minuscule 
amount in comparison to our 
productive Snake and Columbia River 
dams. In addition, the lower Elwha 
River dam is in poor physical condition. 


These two factors, combined with the 
desire of the Interior Secretary to tear 
down a dam, have me concerned that 
there is a very real and growing threat 
that a federal judge or the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (FERC) 
could order removal of the Elwha River 
dams without Congressional approval. 

A court or agency ordered removal 
will impose all of the costs of removing 
the dams on the local community, jobs 
will be destroyed, and Port Angeles’ 
supply of clean drinking water will be 
threatened. The risk of court or agency 
action is too great and will leave the 
local community in a terrible position 
if a judge, or a Washington, DC bureaucrat, 
suddenly decides he needs to be in 
charge of this issue. 

Instead, if Congress acts, we can remove 
the wild card and assure an important 
level of community protection. 
Thus, I have conditioned my support 
for this dam’s removal on certain legislated 
protection for Port Angeles’ 
water supply and protection for the 
jobs created by the local mill. No legislation 
to remove the dam will pass the 

U.S. Senate without these protections 
while I am a member. 
As a result of these recent developments 
and circumstances beyond my 
control, this comprehensive package 
will complete the federal government’s 
acquisition of both Elwha River dams, 
authorizes removal of one dam, while 
at the same time protecting local economic 
interests. 

Over the last three years, the Interior 
Appropriations Subcommittee that 
I chair has appropriated $11 million of 
the $29.5 million necessary to complete 
the acquisition of the projects. Acquisitions 
of the projects is extremely important 
to the future economic health 
of the Port Angeles community. While 
the James River Corporation currently 
holds title to the projects, Daishowa 
America, as local owner of the directory 
paper mill and second largest employer 
in Clallam County, uses energy 
from the dams. Clearly, continued uncertainty 
over the fate of these dams 
reduces the competitive position of the 
mill and inhibits future investment in 
the plant and its equipment. 

My bill amends the 1992 Act and calls 
for completion of acquisition of the 
projects. As Chairman of the Subcommittee 
that controls the purse 
strings for this project, I have every intention 
of allocating the remaining 
$18.5 million needed to complete acquisition 
as part of the $699 million worth 
of additional Land and Water Conservation 
Fund dollars that we appropriated 
last year and have yet to be 
spent. 

In addition to committing to fund 
the removal of the Elwha project 

should it become law, my bill prohibits 
the Secretary from removing the larger 
dam, better known as the Clines Canyon 
Project, for 12 years. Many have 
asked why we can’t remove both dams 
simultaneously. My answer is that I 
prefer the phased approach to restoration 
of the river spelled out by the 
Elwha Citizens Advisory Committee in 
its 1996 report. 

The Committee, which is comprised 
of a diverse array of local interests, 
cautions against simultaneous removal 
of both dams. As an appropriations 
subcommittee chairman, I can tell 
them that they are absolutely correct 
because it is simply unrealistic to expect 
sufficient funds immediately to 
remove both projects. More importantly, 
immediate removal of both 
projects would have unpredictable consequences 
for the community’s water 
supply—something my bill is careful to 
protect—and would needlessly forgo a 
valuable economic and recreational resource 
that can be put to use to accomplish 
restoration activities. 

When the 12 year moratorium has expired, 
my bill allows the Secretary to 
remove the upper dam provided he determines 
that the benefits of dam removal 
to salmon restoration and the 
natural state of the river outweighs 
the importance of the project’s power 
generation capabilities and the recreational 
value of the lake that was 
created by its construction. The 12 
year waiting period also spells out several 
important steps that the Secretary 
must take to evaluate the impact 
removing one dam has on fish 
runs. I firmly believe that should we 
decide one day to remove the second 
dam, we will do a far better job if we 
take the time to learn from the challenges 
of removing the first dam before 
deciding on the fate of the second one. 
Should the Secretary determine that it 
is necessary to remove the Glines Canyon 
project before 12 years have gone 
by, nothing in the bill I am offering 
today prevents him from seeking Congressional 
approval to do so. 

Finally with regard to the Elwha 
River, my bill takes several important 
steps to project the local community 
from the potentially adverse impacts 
of dam removal. They include: (1) protecting 
the quality and quantity of the 
community’s existing water supply to 
meet current and future demands; (2) 
continued protection of James River 
and Daishowa from potential liability; 
and (3) compensation for Clallam County 
for further loss of tax revenue due to 
federal acquisition of the projects. 

As a Senator who takes pride in trying 
to represent all interests in my 
state, I have also taken great interest 
in the concerns of my constituents in 
eastern Washington, who while not directly 
impacted by the removal of the 
Elwha dam, have legitimate fears that 
something similar could happen to a 
dam on the Columbia or Snake Rivers. 
Clearly some groups and agency officials 
within the Clinton-Gore Administration 
want to use the removal of 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2987 

Elwha River dams as a first step toward 
removing or severely limiting the 
effectiveness of Columbia River system 
hydroelectric dams. Already, the Army 
Corps of Engineers is evaluating dam 
removal on the Snake River as a legitimate 
option. The Corps has even taken 
the unprecedented step of paying Pacific 
Northwest residents $12 to fill out 
a totally biased survey in favor of dam 
removal to build support for this cause. 

I will never support such efforts to 
cripple the world’s most productive 
hydro system. As the source of the nation’s 
lowest power rates, water for irrigating 
productive farmland in three 
states, and a cost effective transportation 
system that moves our agricultural 
products to market, these dams 
are truly the lifeblood of our economy 
in the Pacific Northwest. 

While Columbia River dams have 
hurt salmon runs, that damage was felt 
primarily in the 1930’s and 1940’s. Since 
the last Columbia River dam was constructed 
we still had large and healthy 
salmon runs. The last decade’s decline 
in Columbia River salmon runs cannot 
be honestly attributed solely to our hydroelectric 
facilities. 

Nevertheless, we can and should do 
more for salmon especially by acting in 
a more coordinated way to restore this 
vital resource. But the costs associated 
with removing dams on the Snake and 
Columbia Rivers will vastly exceed any 
potential benefit that might occur in 
terms of salmon restoration. 

Rather than working cooperatively 
with local communities directly impacted 
by the Columbia-Snake Resource 
on a rational policy that balances 
the rivers’ important uses, the 
Clinton-Gore Administration has chosen 
a combative policy. Its approach 
punishes people who make their livelihoods 
from this resource and who have 
made good faith efforts to reach out 
and work together. 

Another example of the draconian actions 
federal agencies are using against 
ordinary people who depend on the Columbia 
Snake River System for their 
livelihoods is the National Marine 
Fisheries Service’s recently announced 
Columbia Basin water policy. The 
NMFS approach seeks to discourage or 
even eliminate any new additional 
water withdrawals for municipal, industrial, 
or irrigation development 
within the Basin. The NMFS policy 
goes even further in challenging the 
legislative authority of states to regulate, 
manage, and allocate water 
rights. If adopted, the NMFS policy 
would effectively abrogate state authority 
to grant future water rights for 
such uses. By calling for a review of existing 
water withdrawals, the policy 
postures toward challenging existing 
state-granted water rights. The agency 
has completely ignored the efforts of 
local irrigators to work together on a 
plan that balances the rivers’ competing 
uses. Moreover, the agency has 
taken this direction without Congressional 
approval. 

Given the out-of-control nature of 
agencies like the Corps and NMFS to 

go beyond their statutory authority to 
severely compromise the Columbia-
Snake system as well as their eagerness 
to tear down a Columbia-Snake 
River dam, I would not be surprised to 
see this administration try to fulfill its 
dream without Congressional approval. 

The people of my state are simply fed 
up with this top down approach and my 
bill attempts to do something about it. 
In addition to prohibiting the removal 
or breach of any dam on the Columbia 
or Snake Rivers, my bill prohibits any 
federal or state agency from taking the 
following actions without an act of 
Congress: 

(1) Impairing flood control activities 
on the Columbia-Snake system; 
(2) Reducing the power and energy 
generating capacity of federally owned 
and federally licensed projects to 
unaffordable levels; 
(3) Further restricting access to the 
Columbia or Snake River for irrigation 
and recreational use; 
(4) Impairing the river navigation 
system; and 
(5) Restricting state water rights. 
I look forward to working with the 
Administration and my colleagues 
from the Pacific Northwest on building 
support for my proposal. If the Administration 
can not bring itself to support 
something very close to what’s in the 
Columbia-Snake River section of this 
bill, we will know just how serious it is 
about dam removal in eastern Washington. 
I have made major concessions 
to bring myself to support removal of a 
dam even though I find the policy a dubious 
one, and if the administration is 
serious about preserving the effectiveness 
of the Columbia-Snake system it 
will support my proposal. 

f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 10 
At the request of Mr. CRAIG, his name 
was withdrawn as a cosponsor of S. 10, 
a bill to reduce violent juvenile crime, 
promote accountability by juvenile 
criminals, punish and deter violent 
gang crime, and for other purposes. 
S. 71 
At the request of Mr. DASCHLE, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
CLELAND) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 71, a bill to amend the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 and the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964 to provide more effective 
remedies to victims of discrimination 
in the payment of wages on the 
basis of sex, and for other purposes. 
S. 263 

At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL, 
the name of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. FRIST) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 263, a bill to prohibit the 
import, export, sale, purchase, possession, 
transportation, acquisition, and 
receipt of bear viscera or products that 
contain or claim to contain bear 
viscera, and for other purposes. 

S. 348 
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL, 
the name of the Senator from Virginia 

(Mr. WARNER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 348, a bill to amend title I of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 to encourage States 
to enact a Law Enforcement Officers’ 
Bill of Rights, to provide standards and 
protection for the conduct of internal 
police investigations, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 707 
At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. MOSELEY-BRAUN) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 707, a bill to prohibit 
the public carrying of a handgun, with 
appropriate exceptions for law enforcement 
officials and others. 
S. 1029 
At the request of Mr. DEWINE, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1029, a bill to provide loan forgiveness 
for individuals who earn a degree in 
early childhood education, and enter 
and remain employed in the early child 
care profession, to provide loan cancellation 
for certain child care providers, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1251 
At the request of Mr. D’AMATO, the 
name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1251, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the 
amount of private activity bonds which 
may be issued in each State, and to 
index such amount for inflation. 
S. 1427 
At the request of Mr. FORD, the 
names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. FRIST), the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. INOUYE), the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. DASCHLE), and the Senator 
from Hawaii (Mr. AKAKA) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1427, a bill to amend 
the Communications Act of 1934 to require 
the Federal Communications 
Commission to preserve lowpower television 
stations that provide community 
broadcasting, and for other purposes. 
S. 1473 
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1473, a bill to encourage 
the development of a commercial space 
industry in the United States, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 1529 
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the 
name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1529, a bill to enhance 
Federal enforcement of hate crimes, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1604 
At the request of Mr. D’AMATO, the 
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1604, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to repeal the 
restriction on payment for certain hospital 
discharges to post-acute care imposed 
by section 4407 of the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997. 

S2988 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

S. 1606 

At the request of Mr. WELLSTONE, the 
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr. 
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1606, a bill to fully implement the Convention 
Against Torture and Other 
Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment 
or Punishment and to provide a 
comprehensive program of support for 
victims of torture. 

S. 1673 
At the request of Mr. HUTCHINSON, 
the names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. THOMPSON) and the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. BOND) were added 

as cosponsors of S. 1673, a bill to terminate 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 
S. 1680 

At the request of Mr. DORGAN, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1680, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to clarify that 
licensed pharmacists are not subject to 
the surety bond requirements under 
the medicare program. 
S. 1682 

At the request of Mr. D’AMATO, the 
name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Ms. LANDRIEU) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1682, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal joint 
and several liability of spouses on joint 
returns of Federal income tax, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 1722 
At the request of Mr. FRIST, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1722, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to revise and extend 
certain programs with respect to 
women’s health research and prevention 
activities at the National Institutes 
of Health and the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention. 
S. 1723 

At the request of Mr. ABRAHAM, the 
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
SMITH) and the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. HAGEL) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1723, a bill to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to assist the 
United States to remain competitive 
by increasing the access of the United 
States firms and institutions of higher 
education to skilled personnel and by 
expanding educational and training opportunities 
for American students and 
workers. 

S. 1724 

At the request of Mr. DEWINE, the 
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
LUGAR) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1724, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal the information 
reporting requirement relating to 
the Hope Scholarship and Lifetime 
Learning Credits imposed on educational 
institutions and certain other 
trades and businesses. 

S. 1754 
At the request of Mr. FRIST, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1754, a bill to amend the Public Health 

Service Act to consolidate and reauthorize 
health professions and minority 
and disadvantaged health professions 
and disadvantaged health education 
programs, and for other purposes. 

S. 1808 

At the request of Mr. REED, the name 
of the Senator from Maryland (Ms. MIKULSKI) 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1808, a bill to amend title XXVII of the 
Public Health Service Act and part 7 of 
subtitle B of title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to establish standards for the 
health quality improvement of children 
in managed care plans and other 
health plans. 

S. 1864 

At the request of Ms. MIKULSKI, the 
name of the Senator from South Carolina 
(Mr. HOLLINGS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1864, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to exclude 
clinical social worker services 
from coverage under the medicare 
skilled nursing facility prospective 
payment system. 

S. 1868 

At the request of Mr. NICKLES, the 
name of the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mr. HELMS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1868, a bill to express 
United States foreign policy with respect 
to, and to strengthen United 
States advocacy on behalf of, individuals 
persecuted for their faith worldwide; 
to authorize United States actions 
in response to religious persecution 
worldwide; to establish an Ambassador 
at Large on International Religious 
Freedom within the Department 
of State, a Commission on International 
Religious Persecution, and a 
Special Adviser on International Religious 
Freedom within the National Security 
Council; and for other purposes. 

S. 1890 

At the request of Mr. DASCHLE, the 
names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. KERREY) and the Senator from 
South Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1890, a bill to 
amend the Public Health Service Act 
and the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 to protect consumers 
in managed care plans and 
other health coverage. 

S. 1891 

At the request of Mr. DASCHLE, the 
names of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. KERREY) and the Senator from 
South Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1891, a bill to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to protect consumers in managed 
care plans and other health coverage. 

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 30 

At the request of Mr. HELMS, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
COVERDELL) was added as a cosponsor 
of Senate Concurrent Resolution 30, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the 
sense of the Congress that the Republic 
of China should be admitted to multilateral 
economic institutions, including 
the International Monetary Fund 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development. 

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 77 

At the request of Mr. SESSIONS, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 77, a 
concurrent resolution expressing the 
sense of the Congress that the Federal 
government should acknowledge the 
importance of at-home parents and 
should not discriminate against families 
who forego a second income in 
order for a mother or father to be at 
home with their children. 

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 82 

At the request of Mr. WELLSTONE, the 
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr. 
DURBIN), the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. DODD), the Senator from Louisiana 
(Ms. LANDRIEU), the Senator 
from New Jersey (Mr. TORRICELLI), the 
Senator from Illinois (Ms. MOSELEY-
BRAUN), the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KENNEDY), and the Senator 
from California (Mrs. BOXER) were 
added as cosponsors of Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 82, a concurrent resolution 
expressing the sense of Congress 
concerning the worldwide trafficking 
of persons, that has a disproportionate 
impact on women and girls, and is condemned 
by the international community 
as a violation of fundamental 
human rights. 

SENATE RESOLUTION 139 

At the request of Mr. JEFFORDS, the 
name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. DOMENICI) was added as a cosponsor 
of Senate Resolution 139, a resolution 
to designate April 24, 1998, as ‘‘National 
Child Care Professional’s Day,’’ 
and for other purposes. 

SENATE RESOLUTION 188 

At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. WELLSTONE) was added as a cosponsor 
of Senate Resolution 188, a resolution 
expressing the sense of the Senate 
regarding Israeli membership in a 
United Nations regional group. 

SENATE RESOLUTION 201 

At the request of Mr. KEMPTHORNE, 
the names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. BIDEN) and the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. KOHL) were added as cosponsors 
of Senate Resolution 201, a 
resolution to commemorate and acknowledge 
the dedication and sacrifice 
made by the men and women who have 
lost their lives while serving as law enforcement 
officers. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2103 

At the request of Mr. HOLLINGS his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 2103 proposed to S. 
1768, an original bill making emergency 
supplemental appropriations for 
recovery from natural disasters, and 
for overseas peacekeeping efforts, for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1998, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2175 

At the request of Ms. MOSELEY-
BRAUN the names of the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY), the Senator 
from Iowa (Mr. HARKIN), the Senator 
from Washington (Mrs. MURRAY), 
the Senator from California (Mrs. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2989 

BOXER), and the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 2175 proposed 
to S.Con.Res. 86, an original concurrent 
resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal years 
1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising 
the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2178 

At the request of Mr. BURNS the 
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
ROBERTS), the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
CRAIG), the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. JOHNSON), the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. WYDEN), and the Senator 
from Washington (Mr. GORTON) were 
added as cosponsors of amendment No. 
2178 proposed to S.Con.Res. 86, an original 
concurrent resolution setting forth 
the congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal years 
1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising 
the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2193 

At the request of Mrs. BOXER her 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 2193 proposed to 
S.Con.Res. 86, an original concurrent 
resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal years 1999, 2000, 
2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for 
fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2195 

At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG 
the names of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY), the Senator from 
Montana (Mr. BAUCUS), the Senator 
from New Mexico (Mr. BINGAMAN), the 
Senator from California (Mrs. BOXER), 
the Senator from Florida (Mr. GRAHAM), 
the Senator from New York (Mr. 
MOYNIHAN), the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. LEAHY), the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. REID), the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. WYDEN), the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. LIEBERMAN), and the Senator 
from Washington (Mrs. MURRAY) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 2195 proposed to S.Con.Res. 
86, an original concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for 
fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 
2003 and revising the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2202 

At the request of Mr. COVERDELL the 
name of the Senator from South Carolina 
(Mr. THURMOND) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 2202 intended 
to be proposed to S.Con.Res. 86, 
an original concurrent resolution setting 
forth the congressional budget for 
the United States Government for fiscal 
years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 
and revising the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2205 

At the request of Mr. DURBIN the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 2205 proposed to 

S.Con.Res. 86, an original concurrent 
resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal years 1999, 2000, 
2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for 
fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2209 
At the request of Mr. THURMOND his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 2209 proposed to 
S.Con.Res. 86, an original concurrent 
resolution setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States 
Government for fiscal years 1999, 2000, 
2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for 
fiscal year 1998. 
At the request of Mr. ROTH the name 
of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
BROWNBACK) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 2209 proposed to 
S.Con.Res. 86, supra. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2210 

At the request of Mr. JOHNSON the 
names of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. KOHL) and the Senator from Hawaii 
(Mr. INOUYE) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 2210 proposed 
to S.Con.Res. 86, an original concurrent 
resolution setting forth the 
congressional budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal years 
1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 and revising 
the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 1998. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2211 

At the request of Mr. ENZI his name 
was added as a cosponsor of amendment 
No. 2211 proposed to S.Con.Res. 
86, an original concurrent resolution 
setting forth the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for 
fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 
2003 and revising the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 1998. 

f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED 

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON 

THE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET 

TORRICELLI (AND JEFFORDS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2212 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. (for Mr. 
TORRICELLI, for himself and Mr. JEFFORDS) 
proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 86) 
setting forth the congressional budget 
for the United States Government for 
fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 
2003 and revising the concurrent resolution 
on the budget for fiscal year 1998; 
as follows: 

On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 3 . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON BATTLEFIELD 
PRESERVATION. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budget 
levels in this resolution assume that— 

(1) preserving Revolutionary War, War of 
1812, and Civil War battlefields is an integral 
part of preserving our Nation’s history; 
(2) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War and War of 1812 battlefields, 
by making funds available for the conduct 
of the Revolutionary War and War of 
1812 Historic Preservation Study as authorized 
by section 603 of Public Law 104–333 (16 

U.S.C. 1a–5 note); and 
(3) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil 
War battlefields by allocating funds in the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund for the 
purchase of battlefield sites the integrity of 
which is threatened by urban or suburban development. 
BOND (AND OTHERS) AMENDMENT 
NO. 2213 

Mr. BOND (for himself, Ms. MIKULSKI, 
Mr. KERRY, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. 
D’AMATO, and Mr. GRASSLEY) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 


‘‘SEC. 317. SENSE OF THE SENATE TO MAINTAIN 

FULL FUNDING FOR THE SECTION 

202 ELDERLY HOUSING PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following— 


‘‘(1) The Section 202 Elderly Housing program 
is the most important housing program 
for elderly, low-income Americans, providing 
both affordable low-income housing and supportive 
services designed to meet the special 
needs of the elderly. 

‘‘(2) Since 1959, the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program has funded some 5,400 elderly 
housing projects with over 330,000 housing 
units, with the current average tenant in 
Section 202 housing being a frail, older 
woman in her seventies, living alone with an 
income of less than $10,000 per year. 

‘‘(3) The combination of affordable housing 
and supportive services under the Section 202 
Elderly Housing program is critical to promoting 
independent living, self-sufficiency, 
and dignity for the elderly while delaying 
more costly institutional care. 

‘‘(4) There are over 1.4 million elderly 
Americans currently identified as having 
‘‘worst case housing needs’’ and in need of affordable 
housing. 

‘‘(5) There are 33 million Americans aged 65 
and over, some 13 percent of all Americans. 
The number of elderly Americans is anticipated 
to grow to over 69 million by the year 
2030, which would be some 20 percent of all 
Americans, and continue to increase to almost 
80 million by 2050. 

‘‘(6) The President’s Budget Request for 
fiscal year 1999 proposes reducing funding for 
the Section 202 Elderly Housing program 
from the fiscal year 1998 level of $645,000,000 
to $109,000,000 in fiscal year 1999. This represents 
a reduction of over 83 percent in 
funding, which will result in reducing the 
construction of Section 202 housing units 
from some 6,000 units in fiscal year 1998 to 
only 1,500 units in fiscal year 1999. 

‘‘(7) The full funding of the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program as an independent 
federal housing program is an investment in 
our elderly citizens as well as our Nation. 

‘‘(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the Section 202 Elderly 
Housing program, as provided under section 
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, 
shall be funded in fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 
2002, and 2003 at not less than the fiscal year 
1998 funding level of $645,000,000.’’. 

KERREY AMENDMENTS NOS. 2214– 
2215 

Mr. KERREY proposed two amendments 
to the concurrent resolution, S. 
Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 


S2990 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

AMENDMENT NO. 12214 

At the appropriate place, add the following: 


sec. . Sense of the Senate supporting long-term entitlement 
reforms. 

(a) The Senate finds that the resolution assumes 
the following— 
(1) entitlement spending has risen dramatically 
over the last thirty-five years. 
(2) in 1963, mandatory spending (i.e. entitlement 
spending and interest on the debt) 
made up 30 percent of the budget, this figure 
rose to 45 percent by 1973, to 56 percent by 
1983 and to 61 percent by 1993. 
(3) mandatory spending is expected to 
make up 68 percent of the federal budget in 
1998. 
(4) absent changes, that spending is expected 
to take up over 70 percent of the federal 
budget shortly after the year 2000 and 74 
percent of the budget by the year 2008. 
(5) if no action is taken, mandatory spending 
will consume 100 percent of the budget by 
the year 2030. 
(6) this mandatory spending will continue 
to crowd out spending for the traditional 
‘‘discretionary’’ functions of government 
like clean air and water, a strong national 
defense, parks and recreation, education, our 
transportation system, law enforcement, research 
and development and other infrastructure 
spending. 
(7) taking significant steps sooner rather 
than later to reform entitlement spending 
will not only boost economic growth in this 
country, it will also prevent the need for 
drastic tax and spending decisions in the 
next century. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that that levels in this budget 
resolution assume that— 
(1) Congress and the President should work 
to enact structural reforms in entitlement 
spending in 1998 and beyond which sufficiently 
restrain the growth of mandatory 
spending in order to keep the budget in balance 
over the long term, extend the solvency 
of the Social Security and Medicare Trust 
Funds, avoid crowding out funding for basic 
government functions and that every effort 
should be made to hold mandatory spending 
to no more than seventy percent of the budget. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2215 
At the end of Title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING PASSAGE 
OF THE IRS RESTRUCTURING 
AND REFORM ACT. 

(2) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) The House of Representatives overwhelmingly 
passed IRS Reform Legislation 
(H.R. 2676), on November 5, 1997. 
(2) The IRS Restructuring and Reform Act 
has the potential to benefit 120 million 
Americans by simplifying the tax process 
and making the IRS more responsive to taxpayer 
concerns: 
(3) The President has announced that he 
would sign H.R. 2676; 
(4) The Senate plans to recess without considering 
legislation to reform the IRS. 
(5) The American people are busy preparing 
their taxes to meet the April 15th deadline. 
They do not get to recess before filing their 
returns; and 
(5) Senators should keep their commitment 
to take up and pass IRS reform legislation 
before they recess. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.— 
It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
in this budget resolution assume that the 
Senate shall not recess until it has considered 
and voted on H.R. 2676, the IRS Restructuring 
and Reform Act of 1997. 

MURRAY AMENDMENTS NOS. 2216– 

2217 

Mrs. MURRAY proposed two amendments 
to the concurrent resolution, S. 
Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2216 
On page 16, line 9, increase the amount by 
$2,088,000,000. 
On page 16, line 10, increase the amount by 
$81,000,000. 
On page 16, line 13, increase the amount by 
$1,776,000,000. 
On page 16, line 14, increase the amount by 
$1,487,000,000. 
On page 16, line 17, increase the amount by 
$1,437,000,000. 
On page 16, line 18, increase the amount by 
$1,686,000,000. 
On page 16, line 21, increase the amount by 
$593,000,000. 
On page 16, line 22, increase the amount by 
$1,301,000,000. 
On page 25, line 8, strike ‘‘¥$300,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$2,388,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 9, strike ‘‘¥$1,900,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$1,981,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 12, strike ‘‘¥$1,200,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$2,976,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 13, strike ‘‘¥$4,600,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$6,087,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 16, strike ‘‘¥$2,700,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$4,137,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 17, strike ‘‘¥$3,000,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$4,686,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 20, strike ‘‘¥$3,800,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$4,393,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 21, strike ‘‘¥$7,000,000,000’’ 
and insert ‘‘¥$8,301,000,000.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 2217 
At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON EXPANDING 
MEDICARE BENEFITS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 
(1) In the 1997 Balanced Budget Agreement, 
changes were made to Medicare that extended 
the solvency of the Trust Fund for 10 
years. 
(2) The Medicare Commission, also established 
in the Balanced Budget Agreement, 
has just started the task of examining the 
Medicare program in an effort to make sound 
policy recommendations to Congress and the 
Administration about what needs to be done 
to ensure that Medicare is financially prepared 
to handle the added burden when the 
baby boomers begin retiring. 
(3) The problems facing Medicare are not 
about more revenues. The program needs to 
do more to improve the health care status of 
retirees and give them more choices and better 
information to make wise consumer decisions 
when purchasing health care services. 
(4) Improving the health care status of senior 
citizens would ensure additional savings 
for Medicare. Helping seniors stay healthier 
should be a priority of any legislation aimed 
at protecting Medicare. 
(5) In order to keep seniors healthier, Medicare 
has to become more prevention based. 
Currently, Medicare offers very few prevention 
benefits. As a result, seniors are often 
sicker when they seek care or are hospitalized. 
(6) If the objective is to use tobacco revenues 
to save Medicare, a portion of these new 
revenues must be allocated to expanding prevention 
benefits. 
(7) Preventing illnesses or long hospital 
stays or repeated hospital stays will save 
Medicare dollars. 
(8) Medicare cannot be saved without 
structural changes and reforms. Simply 
using a new Federal tax to prop up Medicare 
will not extend solvency much beyond a few 
months and will do little to improve the 
health status of senior citizens and the disabled. 


(9) Congress should use these new revenues 
to expand prevention benefits to ensure that 
seniors are healthier and stronger. This is 
how we can truly save Medicare. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals underlying 
this resolution assume the allocation 
of a portion of the Federal share of tobacco 
revenues to expand prevention benefits 
for Medicare beneficiaries with an emphasis 
on improving the health status of Medicare 
beneficiaries and providing long term savings 
to the program. 
DORGAN AMENDMENTS NOS. 2218– 
2219 

Mr. DORGAN proposed two amendments 
to the concurrent resolution, S. 
Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2218 
Strike page 33, line 3, through page 34, line 
3, and insert the following: 

SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE TAX 

TREATMENT OF HOME MORTGAGE 

INTEREST AND CHARITABLE GIVING. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) current Federal income tax laws embrace 
a number of fundamental tax policies 
including longstanding encouragement for 
home ownership and charitable giving; 
(2) the mortgage interest deduction is 
among the most important incentives in the 
income tax code and promotes the American 
Dream of home ownership—the single largest 
investment for most families, and preserving 
it is critical for the more than 20,000,000 families 
claiming it now and for millions more 
in the future; 
(3) favorable tax treatment to encourage 
gifts to charities is a longstanding principle 
that helps charities raise funds needed to 
provide services to poor families and others 
when government is simply unable or unwilling 
to do so, and maintaining this tax incentive 
will help charities raise money to meet 
the challenges of their charitable missions in 
the decades ahead; 
(4) legislation has been proposed to repeal 
the entire income tax code at the end of the 
year 2001 without providing a specific replacement; 
and 
(5) recklessly sunsetting the entire income 
tax code threatens our Nation’s future economic 
growth and unwisely eliminates existing 
tax incentives that are crucial for taxpayers 
who are often making the most important 
financial decisions of their lives. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that the levels in this resolution 
assume that Congress supports the continued 
tax deductibility of home mortgage interest 
and charitable contributions. 
At the appropriate place in the resolution, 
insert the following: 
SEC. . HEALTH RESEARCH RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be adjusted 
and allocations may be adjusted for legislation 
that reserves 21 percent of the Federal 
share of receipts from tobacco legislation for 
the health research purposes provided in subsection 
(b), provided that, to the extent that 
this concurrent resolution on the budget 
does not include the costs of that legislation, 
the enactment of that legislation will not increase 
(by virtue of either contemporaneous 
or previously-passed deficit reduction) the 
deficit in this resolution for— 
(1) fiscal year 1999; 
(2) the period of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003; or 
(3) the period of fiscal years 2004 through 
2009. 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2991 

(b) ELIGIBLE HEALTH RESEARCH.—Of the receipts 
from tobacco legislation reserved pursuant 
to subsection (a), the following 
amounts may be used for the following purposes: 
(1) 7.5 percent of such receipts to fund research 
into the prevention and cure of cancer; 
(2) 7.5 percent of such receipts to fund research 
into the prevention and cure of heart 
disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases; 
(3) 2 percent of such receipts, to be allocated 
at the discretion of the Director of the 
National Institutes of Health, to fund the responsibilities 
of his office and to fund construction 
and acquisition of equipment or facilities 
for the National Institutes of Health; 
(4) 2 percent of such receipts for transfer to 
the National Center for Research Resources 
to carry out section 1502 of the National Institutes 
of Health Revitalization Act of 1993; 
(5) 1 percent of such receipts to fund prevention 
research programs at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention; 
(6) 1 percent of such receipts to fund quality 
and health outcomes research at the 
Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; 
and 
(7) the remainder of such receipts to fund 
other member institutes and centers, including 
the Office of AIDS Research, of the National 
Institutes of Health in the same proportion 
to such remainder, as the amount of 
annual appropriations under appropriations 
acts for each member institute and center 
for a fiscal year bears to the total amount of 
appropriations under appropriations acts for 
all member institutes and centers for that 
fiscal year. 
(c) REVISED LEVELS, AGGREGATES AND ALLOCATIONS.— 
(1) ADJUSTMENTS FOR LEGISLATION.—Upon 
the consideration of legislation pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file 
with the Senate appropriately-revised allocations 
under Section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this 
section. 
(2) ADJUSTMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS.—If the 
Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of 
the Senate submits an adjustment under this 
section for legislation in furtherance of the 
purposes described in subsection (b), upon 
the offering of an amendment that would necessitate 
such submission, the Chairman 
shall submit to the Senate appropriately-revised 
allocations under Section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revised 
functional levels and aggregates to carry out 
this section. 
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Revised allocations, 
functional levels and aggregates submitted 
or filed pursuant to this subsection 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, 
functional levels and aggregates contained 
in this resolution. 
(c) REPORTING REVISED ALLOCATIONS.—The 
appropriate committees shall report appropriately-
revised allocations pursuant to Section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 to carry out this section. 
(d) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th 
Congress) shall not apply for purposes of this 
section. 
BIDEN AMENDMENT NO. 2220 

Mr. BIDEN proposed an amendment 
to the concurrent resolution, S. Con. 
Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

On page 28, line 5, before the period insert 
‘‘and Veterans Administration health care’’. 

KYL (AND OTHERS) AMENDMENT 
NO. 2221 

Mr. KYL (for himself, Mr. GRAMS, 
Mr. HELMS, Mr. BROWNBACK, and Mr. 
HAGEL) proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING A 

SUPERMAJORITY REQUIREMENT 

FOR RAISING TAXES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the Nation’s current tax system is indefensible, 
being overly complex, burdensome, 
and severely limiting to economic opportunity 
for all Americans: 
(2) fundamental tax reform should be undertaken 
as soon as practicable to produce a 
tax system that— 
(A) applies a low tax rate, through easily 
understood laws, to all Americans; 
(B) provides tax relief for working Americans; 
(C) protects the rights of taxpayers and reduces 
tax collection abuses; 
(D) eliminates the bias against savings and 
investment; 
(E) promotes economic growth and job creation; 
(F) does not penalize marriage or families; 
and 
(G) provides for a taxpayer-friendly collections 
process to replace the Internal Revenue 
Service; and 
(3) the stability and longevity of any new 
tax system designed to achieve these goals 
should be guaranteed with a supermajority 
vote requirement so that Congress cannot 
easily raise tax rates, impose new taxes, or 
otherwise increase the amount of a taxpayer’s 
income that is subject to tax. 
(b) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of 
Senate that the assumptions underlying the 
functional totals of this resolution assume 
fundamental tax reform that is accompanied 
by a proposal to amend the Constitution of 
the United States to require a supermajority 
vote in each House of Congress to approve 
tax increases. 
GRAMS AMENDMENT NO. 2222 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. GRAMS) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as 
follows: 

At the appropriate place in the resolution, 
insert the following new section: 

SEC. . USE OF BUDGET SURPLUS TO REFORM 
SOCIAL SECURITY. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
included in the resolution assume— 

(a) the Congress and the President should 
use any budget surplus to reduce the Social 
Security payroll tax and to establish personal 
retirement accounts with the tax reduction 
for hard-working Americans. 
(b) the Congress and the President should 
not use the Social Security surplus to finance 
general government programs and 
other spending, should begin to build real assets 
for the trust funds, and work to reform 
the Social Security system. 
BINGAMAN (AND LIEBERMAN) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2223 

Mr. BINGAMAN (for himself and Mr. 
LIEBERMAN) proposed an amendment to 
the concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 
86, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND FOR 

CIVILIAN RESEARCH AND DEVELOP


MENT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates and other appropriate 
budgetary levels and limits may be 
adjusted and allocations may be revised for 
legislation to fund civilian scientific and 
technological research and development, to 
increase research and development for the 
health sciences, or to increase research and 
development to improve the global environment, 
provided that, to the extent that this 
concurrent resolution on the budget does not 
include the costs of that legislation, the enactment 
of that legislation will not increase 
(by virtue of either contemporaneous or previously-
passed deficit reduction) the deficit 
in this resolution for— 

‘‘(1) fiscal year 1999; 

‘‘(2) the period of fiscal years 1999 through 
2003; or 

‘‘(3) the period of fiscal years 2004 through 
2009. 

‘‘(b) REVISED ALLOCATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) ADJUSTMENTS FOR LEGISLATION.—Upon 
the consideration of legislation pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file 
with the Senate appropriately-revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this 
section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered for 
the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as allocations, functional levels, 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 

‘‘(2) ADJUSTMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS.—If 
the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget 
of the Senate submits an adjustment 
under this section for legislation in furtherance 
of the purpose described in subsection 
(a), upon the offering of an amendment to 
that legislation that would necessitate such 
submission, the Chairman shall submit to 
the Senate appropriate-revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this section. 
These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered for 
the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as allocations, functional levels, 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 

‘‘(c) REPORTING REVISED ALLOCATIONS.— 
The appropriate committees shall report appropriately-
revised allocations pursuant to 
section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 to carry out this section.’’. 

FEINGOLD (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2224 

Mr. FEINGOLD (for himself, Mr. 
KENNEDY, and Mr. HARKIN) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

At the end of title II, add the following: 

SEC. ll. DISABILITY RESERVE FUND FOR FISCAL 
YEARS 1999–2003. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—If legislation generates 
revenue increases or direct spending reductions 
to finance disability programs designed 
to allow persons with a disability to become 
employed and remain independent and to the 
extent that such increases or reductions are 
not included in this concurrent resolution on 
the budget, the appropriate budgetary levels, 
allocations, and limits may be adjusted (but 
by amounts not to exceed $2,000,000,000 for 
the period of fiscal years 1999 through 2003) if 
such adjustments do not cause an increase in 
the deficit in the resolution. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT FOR BUDGET AUTHORITY.— 
After the reporting of legislation (the offering 
of an amendment thereto or conference 

S2992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

report thereon) that reduces nondisability 
direct spending or increases revenue for a fiscal 
year or years, the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget shall submit appropriately 
revised allocations and aggregates 
by an amount that equals the amount such 
legislation reduces direct spending or increases 
revenues for a fiscal year or years. 

(c) ESTABLISHING A RESERVE.— 
(1) REVISIONS.—After the enactment of legislation 
described in subsection (a), the 
Chairman of the Committee on the Budget 
shall submit revisions to the appropriate allocations 
and aggregates by the amount that 
provisions in such legislation generates revenue 
increases or direct nondisability-related 
spending reductions. 
(2) REVENUE INCREASES OR DIRECT SPENDING 
REDUCTIONS.—After the submission of revisions 
under paragraph (1), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget shall also submit 
the amount of revenue increases or non-
disability related direct spending reductions 
such legislation generates and the maximum 
amount available each year for adjustments 
pursuant to subsection (d). 
(d) EFFECT OF REVISED ALLOCATIONS AND 
AGGREGATES.—Revised allocations and aggregates 
submitted under subsection (c) shall 
be considered for the purposes of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(e) REPORTING REVISED SUBDIVISIONS.—The 
appropriate committee may report appropriately 
revised subdivisions of allocations 
pursuant to section 302 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 to carry out this section. 
DEWINE AMENDMENT NO. 2225 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. DEWINE) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as 
follows: 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF THE SENATE. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) while it is important to study the effects 
of class size on learning and study the 
need to hire more teachers, each type of 
study must be carried out in conjunction 
with an effort to ensure that there will be 
quality teachers in every classroom; 
(2) all children deserve well-educated 
teachers; 
(3) there is a teacher quality crisis in the 
United States; 
(4) individuals entering a classroom as 
teachers should have a sound grasp on the 
subject the individuals intend to teach, and 
the individuals should know how to teach; 
(5) less than 40 percent of the individuals 
teaching core subjects (consisting of English, 
mathematics, science, social studies, and 
foreign languages) majored or minored in the 
core subjects; 
(6) the quality of teachers impacts student 
achievement; 
(7) the measure of a good teacher is how 
much and how well the teacher’s students 
learn; 
(8) teachers should have the opportunity to 
learn new technology and teaching methods 
through the establishment of teacher training 
facilities so that teachers can share their 
new knowledge and experiences with children 
in the classroom; 
(9) school officials should have the flexibility 
the officials need to have teachers in 
their schools adequately trained to meet 
strenuous teacher standards; 
(10) knowledgeable and eager individuals of 
sound character and various professional 
backgrounds should be encouraged to enter 
kindergarten through grade 12 classrooms as 
teachers; and 
(11) States should have maximum flexibility 
and incentives to create alternative 
teacher certification and licensure programs 
in order to recruit well-educated people into 
the teaching profession. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution on the budget assume— 
(1) the enactment of legislation to provide 
assistance for programs that— 
(A) focus on teacher training delivered 
through local partnerships, with private and 
public partners, to ensure that current and 
future teachers possess necessary teaching 
skills and knowledge of subject areas; and 
(B) focus on alternative certification to recruit 
knowledgeable and eager individuals of 
sound character to enter kindergarten 
through grade 12 classrooms as teachers; 
(2) that the quality of teachers can be 
strengthened by improving the academic 
knowledge of teachers in the subject areas in 
which the teachers teach; 
(3) that institutions of higher education 
should be held accountable to prepare teachers 
who are highly competent in the subject 
areas in which the teachers teach, including 
preparing teachers by providing training in 
the effective uses of technologies in classrooms; 
and 
(4) that there should be recruitment into 
teaching of high quality individuals, including 
individuals from other occupations. 
ROCKEFELLER AMENDMENT NO. 
2226 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. ROCKEFELLER) 
proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

On page 14, line 7, strike ‘‘$51,500,000,000.’’ 
and all that follows through line 24, and substitute 
in lieu thereof the following: 

‘‘$51,000,000,000. 

(B) Outlays, $42,300,000,000. 

Fiscal year 2000: 

(A) New budget authority, $50,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $43,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $50,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $43,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $48,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $42,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $48,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $42,900,000,000.’’ 
On page 25, line 8, strike ‘‘¥$300,000,000.’’ 
and all that follows through line 25, and sub


stitute in lieu thereof the following: 
‘‘$200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 

(A) New budget authority, ¥$200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$3,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$4,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$1,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,000,000,000. 
On page 31, line 24, strike subsection (6) in 
its entirety. 

CONRAD AMENDMENT NO. 2227 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. CONRAD) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 

On page 28, strike line 2 through line 17 and 
insert the following: 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be adjusted 
and allocations may be revised for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation for the Medicare 
Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the 
Federal Old-Age, Survivors and Disability 
Insurance Trust Funds. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES AND ALLOCATIONS.—
Upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
may file with the Senate appropriately-revised 
allocations under section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revised 
functional levels and aggregates to carry out 
this section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered 
for the purposes of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF N. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in the Federal share of receipts resulting 
from tobacco legislation shall not be 
taken into account. 
BUMPERS (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2228 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. BUMPERS, 
for himself, Mr. GREGG, and Mr. 
FEINGOLD) proposed an amendment to 
the concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 
86, supra; as follows: 

On page 3, line 10, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 3, line 11, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 3, line 12, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 3, line 13, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 3, line 14, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 3, line 19, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 4, line 1, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 4, line 2, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 4, line 3, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 4, line 4, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 4, line 19, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 4, line 20, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 4, line 21, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 4, line 22, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 4, line 23, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 5, line 5, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 5, line 6, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 5, line 7, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 5, line 8, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 5, line 9, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 16, line 9, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 16, line 10, increase the amount by 
$39,000,000. 

On page 16, line 13, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 16, line 14, increase the amount by 
$66,000,000. 

On page 16, line 17, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2993 

On page 16, line 18, increase the amount by 
$67,000,000. 

On page 16, line 21, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 16, line 22, increase the amount by 
$69,000,000. 

On page 16, line 25, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

On page 17, line 1, increase the amount by 
$71,000,000. 

FEINSTEIN AMENDMENT NO. 2229 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mrs. FEINSTEIN) 
proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON EDUCATION 
GOALS. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the functional 
totals underlying this resolution assume 
that the Federal Government should 
work hand-in-hand with States, school districts, 
and local leaders— 

(1) to accomplish the following goals by 
the year 2005: 
(A) establish achievement levels and assessments 
in every grade for the core academic 
curriculum; measure each regular student’s 
performance; and prohibit the practice 
of social promotion of students (promoting 
students routinely from one grade to the 
next without regard to their academic 
achievement); 
(B) provide remedial programs for students 
whose achievement levels indicate they 
should not be promoted to the next grade; 
(C) create smaller schools to enable students 
to have closer interaction with teachers; 
(D) require at least 180 days per year of instruction 
in core curriculum subjects; 
(E) recruit new teachers who are adequately 
trained and credentialed in the subject 
or subjects they teach and encourage excellent, 
experienced teachers to remain in 
the classroom by providing adequate salaries; 
require all teachers to be credentialed 
and limit emergency or temporary teaching 
credentials to a limited period of time; hold 
teachers and principals accountable to high 
educational standards; and 
(F) require all regular students to pass an 
examination in basic core curriculum subjects 
in order to receive a high school diploma; 
and 
(2) to reaffirm the importance of public 
schooling and commit to guaranteeing excellence 
and accountability in the public 
schools of this nation. 
KERRY AMENDMENT NO. 2230 
Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. KERRY) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 
On page 28, strike line 2 through line 17 and 
insert the following: 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be adjusted 
and allocations may be adjusted for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation for— 
(1) (A) public health efforts to reduce the 
use of tobacco products by children, including 
youth tobacco control education and prevention 
programs, counter-advertising, research, 
and smoking cessation; 
(B) transition assistance programs for tobacco 
farmers; 
(C) increased funding for the Food and 
Drug Administration to protect children 
from the hazards of tobacco products; 
(D) improving the availability, afford-
ability and quality of child care; 
(E) increased funding for education; 
(F) increased funding for health research; 
(G) reimbursements to States for tobacco-
related health costs; or, 
(H) expanding children’s health insurance 
coverage; and, 
‘‘(2) savings for the Medicare Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund or the Social Security 
Federal Old-Age, Survivors and Disability 
Insurance Trust Funds. 

(b) REVISED AGGREGATES AND ALLOCATIONS.—
Upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
may file with the Senate appropriately-revised 
allocations under section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revised 
functional levels and aggregates to carry out 
this section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered 
for the purposes of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in the Federal share of receipts resulting 
from tobacco legislation and used to fund 
subsection (a)(2) shall not be taken into account. 
WELLSTONE AMENDMENT NO. 2231 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. WELLSTONE) 
proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 317. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON FUNDING 
FOR MEDICAL CARE FOR VETERANS. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the functional 
totals underlying this resolution assume 
that $159,116,000 in additional amounts 
above the President’s budget levels will be 
made available for veterans health care for 
fiscal year 1999. 

ROBB AMENDMENT NO. 2232 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. ROBB) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 

On page 28, strike lines 1 through 17, and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 202. TOBACCO RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be increased 
and allocations may be increased for legislation 
which reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation only for the 
Medical Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or 
for providing transition assistance to tobacco 
farmers. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES.—Upon the consideration 
of legislation pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file with 
the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and increased aggregates 
to carry out this section. These aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
shall not be taken into account, except the 
portion dedicated to providing transition assistance 
to the tobacco farmers. 
BIDEN AMENDMENT NO. 2233 
Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. BIDEN) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 

SEC. . A RESOLUTION REGARDING THE SENATE’S 
SUPPORT FOR FEDERAL, 
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT. 


(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) our Federal, State and local law enforcement 
officers provide essential services 
that preserve and protect our freedom and 
safety, and with the support of Federal assistance, 
state and local law enforcement officers 
have succeeded in reducing the national 
scourge of violent crime, illustrated 
by a murder rate in 1996 which is projected 
to be the lowest since 1971 and a violent 
crime total in 1990 which is the lowest since 
1990; 
(2) through a comprehensive effort to attack 
violence against women mounted by 
state and local law enforcement, and dedicated 
volunteers and professionals who provide 
victim services, shelter, counseling and 
advocacy to battered women and their children, 
important strides have been made 
against the national scourge of violence 
against women, illustrated by the decline in 
the murder rate for wives, ex-wives and 
girlfriends at the hands of their ‘‘intimates’’ 
fell to a 19-year low in 1995; 
(3) recent gains by Federal, State and local 
law enforcement in the fight against violent 
crime and violence against women are fragile, 
and continued financial commitment 
from the Federal Government for funding 
and financial assistance is required to sustain 
and build upon these gains; and 
(4) the Violent Crime Reduction Trust 
Fund as adopted by the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 funds 
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994, the Violence Against 
Women Act of 1994, and the Antiterrorism 
and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 
without adding to the Federal budget deficit. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that the provisions and the 
functional totals underlying this resolution 
assume the Federal Government’s commitment 
to fund Federal law enforcement programs 
and programs to assist State and local 
efforts to combat violent crime, including violence 
against women, shall be maintained 
and funding for the Violent Crime Reduction 
Trust Fund shall continue to at least fiscal 
year 2003. 
BOXER (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2234 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mrs. BOXER, 
for herself, Mr. SARBANES, and Mr. 
JOHNSON) proposed an amendment to 
the concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 
86, supra; as follows: 

On page 28, beginning on line 5, after 
‘‘Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund,’’ 
strike all through the end of line 17, and insert 
the following: 

‘‘, or for health research, including funding 
for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). 

‘‘(b) REVISED BUDGETARY LEVELS AND LIMITS.—
Upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Chairman of 
the Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
may adjust all appropriate budgetary levels 
and limits, including aggregates and allocations, 
to carry out this section. These budgetary 
levels and limits shall be considered 
for the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as the budgetary levels and limits 
contained in this resolution. 

‘‘(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 


S2994 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
shall not be taken into account, except 
the portion dedicated to health research, 
including the National Institutes of 
Health.’’ 

BINGAMAN (AND LIEBERMAN) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2235 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. BINGAMAN 
for himself and Mr. LIEBERMAN) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra: 
as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON ANALYSIS OF 
CIVILIAN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
PROGRAMS IN THE FEDERAL 
BUDGET. 

‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 


‘‘(1) The National Academy of Sciences, 
National Academy of Engineering, and Institute 
of Medicine have recommended, in their 
1995 report, entitled ‘Allocating Federal 
Funds for Science and Technology,’ that the 
Federal science and technology budget ‘be 
presented as a comprehensive whole in the 
President’s budget and similarly considered 
as a whole at the beginning of the congressional 
budget process before the total federal 
budget is disaggregate and sent to the appropriations 
committees and subcommittees.’’ 

‘‘(2) Civilian federal agencies are supporting 
more than $35 billion of research and 
development in fiscal year 1998, but it is difficult 
for the Congress and the public to 
track or understand this support because it 
is dispersed among 12 different budget functions. 


‘‘(3) A meaningful examination of the overall 
Federal budget for science and technology, 
consistent with the recommendation 
of the National Academies, as well as an examination 
of science and technology budgets 
in individual civilian agencies, would be facilitated 
if the President’s budget request 
clearly displayed the amounts requested for 
science and technology programs across all 
civilian agencies and classified these 
amounts in Budget Function 250. 

‘‘(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the Congressional budget 
for the United States for fiscal year 2000, 
2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004 should consolidated 
the spending for all federal civilian science 
and technology programs in Budget Function 
250, and that the President should accordingly 
transmit to the Congress a budget 
request for fiscal year 2000 that classifies 
these programs, across all federal civilian 
departments and agencies, in Budget Function 
250.’’. 

BINGAMAN (AND OTHERS) 

AMENDMENT NO. 2236 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. BINGAMAN 
for himself, Mr. GRAMM and Mr. 
LIEBERMAN) proposed an amendment to 
the concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 
86, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON CIVILIAN 

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PRO


GRAMS IN THE FEDERAL BUDGET. 

‘‘It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the function totals in 
this budget resolution assume that expenditures 
for civilian science and technology programs 
in the Federal budget will double over 
the period from fiscal year 1998 to fiscal year 
2008.’’ 

KERREY (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2237 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. KERREY, 
for himself, Mr. CHAFEE, Mr. BREAUX, 
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. KOHL, Mr. THOMPSON, 
Mr. BRYAN, Mr. ROBB, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, 
and Mr. BENNETT) proposed an amendment 
to the concurrent resolution, S. 
Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON LONG-TERM 
BUDGETING AND REPAYMENT OF 
THE PUBLIC DEBT. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) today, there are 34,000,000 Americans 
over the age of 65, and by the year 2030, that 
number will grow to nearly 70,000,000; 
(2) in 1963, mandatory spending represented 
30 percent of the Federal budget, while discretionary 
spending made up 70 percent, and 
by 1998, those proportions have almost completely 
reversed, in that mandatory spending 
now accounts for 68 percent of the Federal 
budget, while discretionary spending represents 
32 percent; 
(3) according to the 1997 Annual Report of 
the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age 
and Survivors Insurance and Disability Insurance 
(OASDI) Trust Fund— 
(A) the difference between the income and 
benefits for the OASDI program is a deficit 
of 2.23 percent of taxable payroll; 
(B) the assets in the Trust Fund are expected 
to be depleted under present law in 
the year 2029; 
(C) by the time the assets in the Trust 
Fund are depleted, annual tax revenues will 
be sufficient to cover only three-fourths of 
the annual expenditures; 
(D) intermediate estimates are that OASDI 
will absorb nearly 17.5 percent of national 
payroll by the year 2030; and 
(E) the cost of the OASDI program is estimated 
to rise from its current level of 4.7 
percent of Gross Domestic Product to 6.7 percent 
by the end of the 75-year projection period; 
(4) according to reports by the Congressional 
Budget Office, the Economic and 
Budget Outlook: Fiscal Years 1999-2008 (January 
1998) and Reducing the Deficit: Spending 
and Revenue Options (March 1997)— 
(A) the Medicare Part A Trust Fund will be 
exhausted early in fiscal year 2010; 
(B) enrollment in Medicare will increase 
dramatically as the baby boomers reach age 
65; 
(C) between the years 2010 and 2030, enrollment 
in Medicare is projected to grow by 2.4 
percent per year, up from the 1.4 percent average 
annual growth projected through 2007; 
(D) by the year 2030, Medicare enrollment 
will have doubled, to 75,000,000 people; and 
(E) the increase in Medicare enrollment 
caused by the aging of the population will be 
accompanied by a tapering of the growth 
rate of the working age population, and the 
number of workers will drop from 3.8 for 
every Medicare beneficiary in 1997 to 2.02 per 
beneficiary by 2030; 
(5) the demographic shift that is currently 
taking place, and will continue for the next 
30 years, will put a tremendous burden on 
workers as the cost of programs such as Social 
Security and Medicare are borne by proportionately 
fewer workers; 
(6) the current Budget Resolution, which 
projects revenues and spending only for the 
next 10 years, does not give Congress a clear 
picture of the budget problems that confront 
the United States shortly after the turn of 
the century; 
(7) currently, 14 percent of the Federal 
budget is spent on interest payments on the 
national debt; and 
(8) if projected surpluses are used entirely 
for debt reduction and current tax and 
spending policies remain unchanged, the 
share of Federal income needed to pay interest 
would drop below 5 percent within 12 
years, and in 1997, that 10 percentage-point 
reduction would have amounted to 
$158,000,000,000 available for other priorities. 

(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution assume that future 
budget resolutions and future budgets 
submitted by the President should include— 
(1) an analysis for the period of 30 fiscal 
years beginning with such fiscal year, of the 
estimated levels of total budget outlays and 
total new budget authority, the estimated 
revenues to be received, the estimated surplus 
or deficit, if any, for each major Federal 
entitlement program for each fiscal year in 
such period; and 
(2) a specific accounting of payments, if 
any, made to reduce the public debt, or unfunded 
liabilities associated with each major 
Federal entitlement program. 
MOSELEY-BRAUN AMENDMENTS 
NOS. 2238–2240 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Ms. 
MOSELEY-BRAUN) proposed three 
amendments to the concurrent resolution, 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 86, 
supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2238 

At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING LEG


ISLATION THAT INCREASES COM


PLEXITY OF TAX RETURNS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 
(1) As part of the consideration by the Senate 
of tax cuts for the families of America, 
the Senate should also examine the condition 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 
(2) According to the Congressional Research 
Service, the Revenue Reconciliation 
Act of 1997 added 1,000,000 words and 315 
pages to the Internal Revenue Code. 
(3) The Internal Revenue Code continues to 
grow more complex and difficult for the average 
taxpayer to understand, and the average 
tax return has become more time-consuming 
to prepare. 
(4) The average taxpayer will spend 9 hours 
and 54 minutes preparing Form 1040 for the 
1997 tax year. 
(5) The average taxpayer spends between 21 
and 28 hours each year on tax matters. 
(6) In 1995, 58,965,000 of the 118,218,327 tax 
returns that were filed, almost 50 percent, 
were filed by taxpayers who utilized the help 
of paid tax preparers. 
(7) The average taxpayer spends $72 each 
year for tax preparation. 
(8) The total burden on all taxpayers of 
maintaining records, and preparing and filing 
tax returns is estimated to be in excess 
of 1,600,000 hours per year. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the budgetary levels in 
this resolution assume that the Senate 
should give priority to tax proposals that 
simplify the tax code and reject proposals 
that add greater complexity in the tax code 
and increase compliance costs for the taxpayer. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2239 
At the end of title III, insert the following; 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
PRESIDENT’S BUDGET. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budgetary 
levels in this resolution assume that 
the President should submit, as part of the 
budget request of the President that is submitted 
to Congress, a study of the impact of 
the provisions of the budget on each generation 
of Americans and its long-term effects 
on each generation. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2995 

AMENDMENT NO. 2240 

At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
THE VALUE OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY 
SYSTEM FOR FUTURE RETIREES. 


(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The social security system has allowed 
a generation of Americans to retire with dignity. 
Today, 13 percent of the population is 
65 or older and by 2030, 20 percent of the population 
will be 65 or older. More than 1/2 of 
the elderly do not receive private pensions 
and more than 1/3 have no income from assets. 
(2) For 60 percent of all senior citizens, social 
security benefits provide almost 80 percent 
of their retirement income. For 80 percent 
of all senior citizens, social security 
benefits provide over 50 percent of their retirement 
income. 
(3) Poverty rates among the elderly are at 
the lowest level since the United States 
began to keep poverty statistics, due in large 
part to the social security system. 
(4) 78 percent of Americans pay more in 
payroll taxes than they do in income taxes. 
(5) According to the 1997 report of the Managing 
Trustee for the social security trust 
funds, the accumulated balance in the Federal 
Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
Fund is estimated to fall to zero by 2029, and 
the estimated payroll tax at that time will 
be sufficient to cover only 75 percent of the 
benefits owed to retirees at that time. 
(6) The average American retiring in the 
year 2015 will pay $250,000 in payroll taxes 
over the course of a working career. 
(7) Future generations of Americans must 
be guaranteed the same value from the social 
security system as past covered recipients. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the budgetary levels in 
this resolution assume that no change in the 
social security system should be made that 
would reduce the value of the social security 
system for future generations of retirees. 
DURBIN (AND CHAFEE) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2241 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. DURBIN, 
for himself and Mr. CHAFEE) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 


At the end of title III, insert the following: 

SEC. ll. FINDINGS AND SENSE OF CONGRESS 
REGARDING AFFORDABLE, HIGH-
QUALITY HEALTH CARE FOR SENIORS. 


(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following: 
(1) Seniors deserve affordable, high quality 
health care. 
(2) The medicare program under title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et 
seq.) has made health care affordable for millions 
of seniors. 
(3) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
deserve to know that such program 
will cover the benefits that they are currently 
entitled to. 
(4) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
can pay out-of-pocket for health care 
services whenever they— 
(A) do not want a claim for reimbursement 
for such services submitted to such program; 
or 
(B) want or need to obtain health care 
services that such program does not cover. 
(5) Beneficiaries under the medicare program 
can use doctors who do not receive any 
reimbursement under such program. 
(6) Close to 75 percent of seniors have annual 
incomes below $25,000, including 4 percent 
who have annual incomes below $5,000, 
making any additional out-of-pocket costs 
for health care services extremely burdensome. 


(7) Very few beneficiaries under the medicare 
program report having difficulty obtaining 
access to a physician who accepts reimbursement 
under such program. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this resolution assume 
that seniors have the right to affordable, 
high-quality health care, that they 
have the right to choose their physicians, 
and that no change should be made to the 
medicare program that could— 
(1) impose unreasonable and unpredictable 
out-of-pocket costs for seniors or erode the 
benefits that the 38,000,000 beneficiaries 
under the medicare program are entitled to; 
(2) compromise the efforts of the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to screen inappropriate 
or fraudulent claims for reimbursement 
under such program; and 
(3) allow unscrupulous providers under 
such program to bill twice for the same services. 
DORGAN AMENDMENT NO. 2242 
Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. DORGAN) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 
At the appropriate place in the resolution, 
insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON SOCIAL SECURITY 
SOLVENCY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the Social Security system provides 
benefits to 44,000,000 Americans, including 
27,300,000 retirees, over 4,500,000 people with 
disabilities, 3,800,000 surviving children, and 
8,400,000 surviving adults, and is essential to 
the dignity and security of the Nation’s elderly 
and disabled. 
(2) the Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and 
Survivors Insurance and Disability Insurance 
Trust Funds have reported to Congress 
that the ‘‘total income’’ of the Social Security 
system ‘‘is estimated to fall short of expenditures 
beginning in 2019 and in each year 
thereafter... until [trust fund] assets are 
exhausted in 2029’’; 
(3) intergenerational fairness, honest accounting 
principles, prudent budgeting, and 
sound economic policy all require saving Social 
Security first, in order that the Nation 
may better afford the retirement of the baby 
boom generation beginning in 2010; 
(4) in reforming Social Security in 1983, 
Congress intended that near-term Social Security 
trust fund surpluses be used to 
prefund the retirement of the baby boom 
generation; 
(5) in his State of the Union message to the 
joint session of Congress on January 27, 1998, 
President Clinton called on Congress to 
‘‘save Social Security first’’ and to ‘‘reserve 
one hundred percent of the surplus, that is 
any penny of any surplus, until we have 
taken all the necessary measures to 
strengthen the Social Security system for 
the twenty-first century’’; 
(6) the nation will engage in a national dialogue 
during 1998 on the future of Social Security, 
which will include 4 regional conferences 
organized by the Concord Coalition 
and the American Association of Retired 
Persons, a White House summit on private 
retirement savings in July, and a White 
House Conference on Social Security in December; 
and 
(7) saving Social Security first would work 
to expand national savings, reduce interest 
rates, enhance private investment, increase 
labor productivity, and boost economic 
growth. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the levels in this resolution 
assume that: 
(1) Congress should save Social Security 
first by reserving any unified budget surplus 
until legislation is enacted to make Social 
Security actuarially sound and capable of 
paying future retirees the benefits to which 
they are entitled; 
(2) enactment of such legislation will require 
a broad base of public support that 
should be developed during 1998 through a 
national bipartisan discussion of alternative 
approaches to ensuring Social Security solvency; 
and 
(3) since that discussion has just begun, 
Congress should not act now to foreclose policy 
options that could help ensure Social Security 
solvency. 
LAUTENBERG (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2243 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for himself, Mr. 
LOTT, Mr. BIDEN, Mr. ROTH, and Mr. 
TORRICELLI) proposed an amendment to 
the concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 
86, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING AMTRAK 
FUNDING. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) on November 13, 1997 the Senate unanimously 
passed the Amtrak Reform and Accountability 
Act of 1997, P.L. 105–134, authorizing 
appropriations of $1,058,000,000 for FY99; 
$1,023,000,000 for FY00, $989,000,000 for FY01; 
and $955,000,000 for FY02, totaling $4.025 billion 
FY99–02; 
(2) in P.L. 105–134 the Congress declared 
that ‘‘intercity rail passenger service is an 
essential component of a national inter-
modal passenger transportation system’’; 
(3) section 201 of the Amtrak Reform and 
Accountability Act of 1997 has now statutorily 
formalized prior Congressional directives 
to Amtrak to reach operating self-sufficiency 
by fiscal year 2002; 
(4) the Congress and the President, through 
enactment of this legislation, have effectively 
agreed that Congress will provide adequate 
funding to permit Amtrak to achieve 
the goal of operating self-sufficiency; 
(5) capital investment is critical to reducing 
operating costs and increasing the quality 
of Amtrak service; 
(6) capital investment is essential to improving 
Amtrak’s long-term financial 
health; 
(7) the $2.2 billion provided to Amtrak 
through the Taxpayer Relief Act is for the 
sole purpose of capital expenditures and 
other qualified expenses and is intended to 
supplement, not supplant, annual appropriations. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the assumptions underlying 
the functional totals in this budget 
resolution assume that Congress and the Administration 
will fulfill the intent of the 
Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 
1997 and appropriate sufficient funds in each 
of the next five fiscal years for Amtrak to 
implement its FY 1998–FY 2003 Strategic 
Business Plan, while preserving the integrity 
of the $2.2 billion provided under the Taxpayer 
Relief Act for the statutory purpose of 
capital investment. 
DASCHLE AMENDMENT NO. 2244 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. DASCHLE) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 


S2996 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Strike all after the resolving clause and insert 
the following: 

SECTION 1. CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE 
BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 1999. 

(a) DECLARATION.—Congress determines 
and declares that this resolution is the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 1999 including the appropriate budgetary 
levels for fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, 
and 2003 as required by section 301 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and revising 
the budgetary levels for fiscal year 1998 
set forth in the concurrent resolution on the 
budget for fiscal year 1998 as authorized by 
section 304 of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for this concurrent resolution is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Concurrent resolution on the budget 
for fiscal year 1999. 
TITLE I—LEVELS AND AMOUNTS 
Sec. 101. Recommended levels and 

amounts. 

Sec. 102. Social security. 

Sec. 103. Major functional categories. 

TITLE II—BUDGETARY RESTRAINTS AND 
RULEMAKING 
Sec. 201. Deficit-neutral reserve fund in the 
Senate for President’s initiatives. 
SEC. 202. Exercise of rulemaking powers. 
TITLE III—SENSE OF CONGRESS AND 
THE SENATE 
SEC. 301. Sense of the Senate on saving Social 
Security first. 
TITLE I—LEVELS AND AMOUNTS 

SEC. 101. RECOMMENDED LEVELS AND 
AMOUNTS. 

The following budgetary levels are appropriate 
for the fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 
and 2003. 

(1) FEDERAL REVENUES.—For purposes of 
the enforcement of this resolution— 
(A) The recommended levels of Federal 
revenues are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $1,312,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $1,341,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $1,386,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $1,449,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $1,505,000,000,000. 

(B) The amounts by which the aggregate 
levels of Federal revenues should be changed 
are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $12,252,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $15,257,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $16,838,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $18,005,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $18,166,000,000. 

(C) The amounts of Federal Insurance Contributions 
Act revenues for hospital insurance 
within the recommended levels of Federal 
revenues are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $123,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $129,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $135,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $141,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $148,100,000,000. 

(2) NEW BUDGET AUTHORITY.—For purposes 
of the enforcement of this resolution, the appropriate 
levels of total new budget authority 
are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $1,441,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $1,484,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $1,525,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $1,557.200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $1,636,600,000,000. 

(3) BUDGET OUTLAY.—For purposes of the 
enforcement of this resolution, the appropriate 
levels of total budget outlays are as 
follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $1,420,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $1,465,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $1,506,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $1,524,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $1,601,700,000,000. 

(4) DEFICITS.—For purposes of the enforcement 
of this resolution, the amounts of the 
deficits are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $108,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $124,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $120,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $74,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $96,700,000,000. 

(5) PUBLIC DEBT.—The appropriate levels of 
the public debt are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $5,667,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $5,870,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $6,067,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $6,224,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $6,400,900,000,000. 

SEC. 102. SOCIAL SECURITY. 

(a) SOCIAL SECURITY REVENUES.—For purposes 
of Senate enforcement under sections 
302, 602, and 311 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, the amounts of revenues of the 
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
Trust Fund are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $438,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $457,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $477,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $497,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $520,700,000,000. 

(b) SOCIAL SECURITY OUTLAYS.—For purposes 
of Senate enforcement under sections 
302, 602, and 311 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, the amounts of outlays of the 
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
Trust Fund are as follows: 
Fiscal year 1999: $212,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: $331,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: $344,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: $355,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: $369,400,000,000. 

SEC. 103. MAJOR FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES. 

Congress determines and declares that the 
appropriate levels of new budget authority, 
budget outlays, new direct loan obligations, 
and new primary loan guarantee commitments 
for fiscal years 1999 through 2003 for 
each major functional category are: 

(1) National Defense (050): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $270,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $265,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $274,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $268,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $280,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $269,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $288,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $272,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $296,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $279,800,000,000. 
(2) International Affairs (150): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $15,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,700,000,000. 
(3) General Science, Space, and Technology 
(250): 
Fiscal year 1999: 

(A) New budget authority, $18,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $17,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $18,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $18,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 

(A) New budget authority, $17,900,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $17,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $15,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,800,000,000. 
(4) Energy (270): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $1,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $1,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $0. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$300,000,000. 
(5) Natural Resources and Environment 
(300): 
Fiscal year 1999: 

(A) New budget authority, $23,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $23,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $23,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $23,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $22,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $23,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $22,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $22,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $22,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $22,400,000,000. 
(6) Agriculture (350): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $12,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $10,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $11,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $10,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $10,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $8,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $10,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $8,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $10,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $8,800,000,000. 
(7) Commerce and Housing Credit (370): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $4,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $3,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $9,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $10,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $11,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $11,500,000,000. 
(8) Transportation (400): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $52,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $44,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $52,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $47,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $53,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $48,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $53,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $48,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2997 

(A) New budget authority, $54,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $49,100,000,000. 
(9) Community and Regional Development 
(450): 
Fiscal year 1999: 

(A) New budget authority, $9,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $11,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $8,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $9,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $8,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $9,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $8,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $8,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $8,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $8,300,000,000. 
(10) Education, Training, Employment, and 
Social Services (500): 
Fiscal year 1999: 

(A) New budget authority, $66,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $61,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $66,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $64,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $67,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $66,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $67,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $66,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $69,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $68,700,000,000. 
(11) Health (550): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $146,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $143,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $153,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $151,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $162,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $160,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $170,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $169,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $183,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $181,200,000,000. 
(12) Medicare (570): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $210,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $210,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $221,900,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $221,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $239,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $242,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $251,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $248,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $273,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $273,700,000,000. 
(13) Income Security (600): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $245,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $248,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $259,900,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $261,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $271,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $272,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $281,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $281,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $292,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $291,400,000,000. 
(14) Social Security (650): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $12,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $12,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $13,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $13,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $12,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $12,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $14,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,200,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $15,200,000,000. 
(15) Veterans Benefits and Services (700): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $43,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $43,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $44,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $44,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $45,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $45,600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $46,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $46,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $49,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $49,500,000,000 
(16) Administration of Justice (750): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $26,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $24,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $25,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $25,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $24,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $25,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $24,600,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $25,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $25,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $24,800,000,000. 
(17) General Government (800): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $20,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $20,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $16,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $16,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $15,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $14,700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, $14,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $13,200,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $21,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $20,700,000,000. 
(18) Net Interest (900): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, $300,000,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $300,000,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, $301,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $301,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, $301,800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $301,800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002:. 
(A) New budget authority, $302,100,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $302,100,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, $304,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, $304,300,000,000. 
(19) Allowances (902): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$600,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$700,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$800,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$800,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$1,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$1,200,000,000. 
(20) Undistributed Offsetting Receipts (950): 
Fiscal year 1999: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$36,300,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$36,300,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2000: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$36,400,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$36,400,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2001: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$37,900,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$37,900,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2002: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$44,500,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$44,500,000,000. 
Fiscal year 2003: 
(A) New budget authority, ¥$35,700,000,000. 
(B) Outlays, ¥$35,700,000,000. 
TITLE II—BUDGETARY RESTRAINTS AND 
RULEMAKING 

SEC. 201. DEFICIT-NEUTRAL RESERVE FUND IN 
THE SENATE FOR PRESIDENT’S INITIATIVES. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates and other appropriate 
budgetary levels and limits may be 
adjusted and allocations may be revised for 
legislation that generates revenues, in which 
the purpose of the increase in revenues is to 
reduce smoking by teenagers and children, 
and for legislation to fund the President’s 
‘‘Funds for America’’ initiatives, provided 
that the legislation which changes revenues 
or spending does not cause an increase in the 
deficit for— 
(1) fiscal year 1999; 
(2) the period of fiscal year 1999 through 
2003; or 
(3) the period of fiscal years 2004–2009. 
(b) REVISED ALLOCATIONS.— 
(1) ADJUSTMENTS FOR LEGISLATION.—Upon 
the consideration of legislation pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file 
with the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and revised functional 
levels and aggregates to carry out this 
section. These revised allocations, functional 
levels, and aggregates shall be considered for 
the purposes of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974 as allocations, functional levels, 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(2) ADJUSTMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS.—If the 
Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of 
the Senate submits an adjustment under this 
section for legislation in furtherance of the 
purpose described in subsection (a) upon the 
offering of an amendment to that legislation 
that would necessitate such submission, the 
Chairman shall submit to the Senate appropriately 
revised allocations under section 
302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 
and revised functional levels and aggregates 
to carry out this section. These revised allocations, 
functional levels, and aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as allocations, 
functional levels and aggregates contained 
in this resolution. 
(c) REPORTING REVISED ALLOCATIONS.—The 
appropriate committees shall report appropriately 
revised allocations pursuant to section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 to carry out this section. 

S2998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

SEC. 202. EXERCISE OF RULEMAKING POWERS. 

Congress adopts the provisions of this 
title— 

(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives, 
respectively, and as such they shall be 
considered as part of the rules of each House, 
or of that House to which they specifically 
apply, and such rules shall supersede other 
rules only to the extent that they are inconsistent 
therewith; and 
(2) with full recognition of the constitutional 
right of either House to change those 
rules (so far as they relate to that House) at 
any time, in the same manner, and to the 
same extent as in the case of any other rule 
of that House. 
TITLE III—SENSE OF CONGRESS AND 
THE SENATE 

SEC. 301. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON SAVING SOCIAL 
SECURITY FIRST. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the Social Security program, created in 
1935 to provide old-age, survivors, and disability 
insurance benefits, is one of the most 
successful and important social insurance 
programs in the United States, and has 
played an essential role in reducing poverty 
among seniors; 
(2) the Social Security system will face 
significant pressures when the baby boom 
generation retires, which could threaten the 
long-term viability of the program; 
(3) Congress needs to act promptly to ensure 
that Social Security benefits will be 
available when today’s younger Americans 
retire; 
(4) under current budget law, the Federal 
budget is still in deficit; 
(5) to the extent that a budget surplus may 
someday materialize in the future, current 
budget law and rules that were established 
to ensure fiscal discipline, including caps on 
discretionary spending and the pay-as-you-
go system (which requires that all new tax 
breaks and mandatory spending be fully offset) 
would prevent Congress from using any 
projected budget surplus; and 
(6) President Clinton has called on Congress 
to save Social Security first by taking 
action to reform and strengthen the Social 
Security system, and by holding in reserve 
any projected budget surpluses that may materialize 
in the future rather than using 
them for new spending or tax breaks, while 
Congress and the Administration work toward 
a long-term solution for the challenges 
facing Social Security. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this resolution assume that, to the extent 
that any budget surplus is realized in the future, 
that surplus should not be decreased 
for any purpose other than reducing the national 
debt, while Congress and the Administration 
work together to ensure that Social 
Security is financially sound over the long 
term and that it will be available for future 
generations. 
TORRICELLI AMENDMENTS NOS. 
2245–2246 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. 
TORRICELLI) proposed two amendments 
to the concurrent resolution, S. Con. 
Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2245 

On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 3 . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON BATTLEFIELD 
PRESERVATION. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budget 
levels in this resolution assume that— 

(1) preserving Revolutionary War, War of 
1812, and Civil War battlefields is an integral 
part of preserving our Nation’s history; 
(2) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War and War of 1812 battlefields, 
by making funds available for the conduct 
of the Revolutionary War and War of 
1812 Historic Preservation Study as authorized 
by section 603 of Public Law 104–333 (16 
U.S.C. 1a–5 note); and 
(3) the Secretary of the Interior should 
give special priority to the preservation of 
Revolutionary War, War of 1812, and Civil 
War battlefields by allocating funds in the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund for the 
purchase of battlefield sites the integrity of 
which is threatened by urban or suburban development. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2246 
On page 53, after line 22, add the following: 

SEC. 3 . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE LAND 
AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the budget 
levels in this resolution assume that programs 
funded from the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund should be funded in the full 
amount authorized by law. 

MOYNIHAN AMENDMENT NO. 2247 

Mr. LAUTENBERG (for Mr. MOYNIHAN) 
proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE OF THE FUTURE 
OF SOCIAL SOCIAL SECURITY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Public confidence in the long-term viability 
of the Social Security System is low, 
with opinion polls repeatedly indicating that 
a majority of non-retired young adults do 
not believe they will receive Social Security 
when they retire; 
(2) In the year 2012, outlays for Old Age 
Survivors and Disability Insurance will exceed 
its tax revenues; 
(3) Early action by the Congress is needed 
in order to strengthen public confidence in 
Social Security and address the long-run actuarial 
deficit of the program; 
(b) Sense of the Senate—It is the Sense of 
the Senate that: 
(1) the Committee on Finance should at 
the earliest possible date hold hearings on 
and begin consideration of legislation to preserve 
the Social Security program and ensure 
its long-run solvency; and that no policy 
options, affecting either revenues, outlays, 
or the manner of investment of funds, 
should be excluded from consideration. 
BOND AMENDMENT NO. 2248 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. BOND) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as 
follows: 

At the appropriate place insert: 

It is the Sense of the Senate that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that included 
in the funding for the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service (INS) is $2 million 
dollars for the establishment of INS circuit 
rides in the former Soviet Union for the 
purpose of processing refugees and conducting 
medical examinations of refugees 
who will enter the United States under the 
Refugee Act of 1980. 

ABRAHAM AMENDMENT NO. 2249 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. ABRAHAM) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 

SEC. . SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING BUDGET 
ACT REFORMS. 

It is the sense of the Congress that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that The 
Budget Control Act of 1974 and the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 should be amended to facilitate the 
use of future unified budget surpluses to 
strengthen and reform Social Security, reform 
the tax code, and reduce the tax burden 
on middle-class families, including: 

(1) Eliminating Paygo rules with regard to 
revenue reductions while the unified budget 
is in surplus; and 
(2) Striking points of order against reducing 
the Social Security payroll tax. 
THURMOND (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2250 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. THURMOND, 
for himself, Ms. SNOWE, and Ms. COLLINS) 
proposed an amendment to the 
concurrent resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

On page 43, strike line 4 through line 17 and 
insert the following: 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) Our Nation is not financially prepared 
to meet the long-term care needs of its rapidly 
aging population and that long-term 
care needs threaten the financial security of 
American families; and 
(2) Many people are unaware that most 
long-term care costs are not covered by 
Medicare and that Medicaid covers long-
term care only after the person’s assets have 
been exhausted. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that— 
(1) this concurrent resolution on the budget 
assumes that the National Bipartisan 
Commission on the Future of Medicare 
should, as part of its deliberations, describe 
long-term care needs and make all appropriate 
recommendations including private 
sector options that reflect the need for a 
continuum of care that spans from acute to 
long-term care. This is not a specific recommendation 
that any new program be 
added to Medicare; 
(2) the Federal Government should take all 
appropriate steps to inform the public about 
the financial risks posed by long-term care 
costs and about the need for families to plan 
for their long-term care needs; 
(3) the Federal Government should take all 
appropriate steps to inform the public that 
Medicare does not cover most long-term care 
costs and that Medicaid covers long-term 
care costs only when the beneficiary has exhausted 
his or her assets; 
(4) the appropriate committees of the Senate, 
together with the Department of Health 
and Human Services and other appropriate 
Executive Branch agencies, should develop 
specific ideas for encouraging Americans to 
plan for their own long-term care needs; and 
(5) the upcoming National Summit on Retirement 
Income Savings should ensure that 
planning for long-term care is an integral 
part of any discussion of retirement security. 
FAIRCLOTH (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2251 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. FAIRCLOTH, 
for himself, Mr. DOMENICI, Mrs. 
HUTCHISON, Mr. HUTCHINSON, Mr. 
INHOFE, Mr. GRAMM, Mr. THURMOND, 
and Mr. KEMPTHORNE) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 

ELIMINATION OF THE MARRIAGE 

PENALTY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that: 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2999 

(1) Marriage is the foundation of the American 
society and the key institution preserving 
our values; 
(2) The tax code should not penalize those 
who choose to marry; 
(3) However, the Congressional Budget Office 
found that 42 percent of married couples 
face a marriage penalty under the current 
tax system; 
(4) The Congressional Budget Office found 
that the average penalty amounts to $1380 a 
year; 
(5) This penalty is one of the factors behind 
the decline of marriage. 
(6) In 1970, just 0.5 percent of the couples in 
the United States were unmarried. By 1996, 
this percentage had risen to 7.2 percent. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the provisions in this 
budget resolution assume that the Congress 
shall begin to phase out the marriage penalty 
this year. 
SESSIONS (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2252 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. SESSIONS, for 
himself, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. COVERDELL, 
Mr. HELMS, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. ASHCROFT, 
Mr. ENZI, and Mr. THURMOND) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place, insert the following 
new section: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING DISPLAY 
OF TEN COMMANDMENTS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the Ten Commandments have had a significant 
impact on the development of the 
fundamental legal principles of Western Civilization; 
and 
(2) the Ten Commandments set forth a 
code of moral conduct, observance of which 
is acknowledged to promote respect for our 
system of laws and the good of society. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution on the budget assume 
that— 
(1) the Ten Commandants are a declaration 
of fundamental principles that are the cornerstones 
of a fair and just society; and 
(2) the public display, including display in 
the Supreme Court, the Capitol building, the 
White House, and other government offices 
and courthouses across the nation, of the 
Ten Commandments should be permitted. 
STEVENS (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2253 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. STEVENS, for 
himself, Mr. LOTT, Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. 
THURMOND, and Mr. INOUYE) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 


In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING OUT


LAY ESTIMATES OF THE DEPART


MENT OF DEFENSE BUDGET. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 created 
a new era for federal spending and forced the 
Department of Defense to plan on limited 
spending over the five year period from fiscal 
year 1998 through 2002. 
(2) The agreements forged under the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997 specifically defined 
the available amounts of budget authority 
and outlays, requiring the Department of Defense 
to properly plan its future activities in 
the new, constrained budget environment. 
(3) The Department of Defense worked with 
the Office of Management and Budget to develop 
a fiscal year 1999 budget which complies 
with the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. 
(4) Based on Department of Defense program 
plans and policy changes, the Office of 
Management and Budget and the Department 
of Defense made detailed estimates of 
fiscal year 1999 Department of Defense outlay 
rates to ensure that the budget submitted 
would comply with the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997. 
(5) The Congressional Budget Office outlay 
estimate of the fiscal year 1999 Department 
of Defense budget request exceeds both the 
outlay limit imposed by the Balanced Budget 
Act of 1997 and the Office of Management 
and Budget’s outlay estimate, a disagreement 
which would force a total restructuring 
of the Department of Defense’s fiscal year 
1999 budget. 
(6) The restructuring imposed on the Department 
of Defense would have a devastating 
impact on readiness, troop morale, 
military quality of life, and ongoing procurement 
and development programs. 
(7) The restructuring of the budget would 
be driven solely by differing statistical estimate 
made by capable parties. 
(8) In a letter dated March 31, 1998, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget identified multiple differences between 
the Office of Management and Budget’s 
estimated outlay rates and the Congressional 
Budget Office’s estimated outlay 
rates. 
(9) New information on Department of Defense 
policy changes and program execution 
plans now permit the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office 
to reevaluate their initial projections of 
fiscal year 1999 outlay rates. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that not later than April 22, 
1998, the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, and Secretary of Defense, 
and the Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office shall complete discussions and develop 
a common estimate of the projected fiscal 
year 1999 outlay rates for Department of Defense 
accounts. 
SPECTER AMENDMENTS NOS. 2254– 
2256 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. SPECTER) 
proposed three amendments to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, 
supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2254 
On page 28, strike lines 1 through 17, and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 202. TOBACCO RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be increased 
and allocations may be increased for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
from tobacco legislation for— 
(1) tobacco-related programs and activities, 
including extending the solvency of the 
Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund; 
and 
(2) not less than $2,000,000,000 for biomedical 
research in fiscal year 1999 and other 
public health research. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES.—Upon the consideration 
of legislation pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file with 
the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and increased aggregates 
to carry out this section. These aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
used to reimburse the Medicare Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund shall not be taken into 
account. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2255 
On page 28, line 17, after the material that 
appears on line 17, insert the following: 
‘‘(d) VETERANS.— 
‘‘(1) Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this section, upon the consideration of legislation 
pursuant to section (a), the Chairman 
of the Budget Committee may increase 
the appropriate budget authority and outlay 
aggregates and allocations by the amount 
such legislation increases spending for post-
service smoking related Veterans compensation 
benefits. 
‘‘(2) The adjustments made pursuant to 
this subsection shall not exceed $500,000,000 
for fiscal year 1999 and $10,500,000 for fiscal 
years 1999 through 2003. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2256 
On page 28, line 17, after the material that 
appears on line 17, insert the following: 

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this section, $500,000,000 in receipts from tobacco 
legislation shall be reserved for purposes 
of section 204(a) in function 920, Allowances, 
as additional new budget authority 
for fiscal year 1999 and additional outlays for 
fiscal year 1999; and $10,500,000,000 in receipts 
from tobacco legislation shall be reserved for 
purposes of section 204(a) in function 920, Allowances, 
as additional new budget authority 
for fiscal years 1999–2003, and additional 
outlays for fiscal years 1999–2003. 
On page 31, line 24, strike subsection (6) in 
its entirety. 

NICKLES AMENDMENT NO. 2257 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. NICKLES) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as 
follows: 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . PROHIBITION ON PRECATORY AMENDMENTS. 


In setting forth the budget authority and 
outlay amounts in this resolution, the Senate 
assumes that the Senate of the United 
States instructs the Senate Parliamentarian 
to interpret Section 305(b)(2) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 as amended by inserting 
after the second sentence the following: 
‘‘For purposes of the preceding sentence 
an amendment is not germane if it 
states precatory language.’’; and that precatory 
includes, in the context of Senate consideration 
of any budget resolution, amendments 
which reference the budget resolution’s 
assumptions regarding budgetary levels; 
federal revenues; Federal Insurance Contributions 
Act revenues for hospital insurance; 
budget authority; budget outlays; deficits; 
public debt; social security revenues, 
and outlays; loan obligations; loan guarantees; 
allowances; undistributed, and distributed, 
offsetting receipts; reconciliation; reserve 
funds; allocations; revenue, spending, 
and revised aggregates; offsets; appropriations; 
mandatory spending; entitlements; 
and any other term or definition employed, 
under the Budget Act, in a budget resolution. 


FIRST AMENDMENT NO. 2258 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. FRIST) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 


S3000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

resolution, Senate Concurrent Resolution 
86, supra; as follows: 
At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
FUNDING FOR THE AIRPORT IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the congressional 
budget for the United States Government 
as provided for in this resolution 
should assure that— 

(1) the contract authority level for the Airport 
Improvement Program (provided for in 
part B of subtitle VII of title 49, United 
States Code) not be reduced below the current 
level of $2,347,000,000; and 
(2) the critical infrastructure development, 
maintenance, and repair of airports not be 
jeopardized. 
MCCONNEL AMENDMENT NO. 2259 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. MCCONNELL) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 86, supra; as follows: 
At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC.ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON PAYMENT OF 
COSTS OF LITIGATION. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds that— 
(1) the President’s Task Force on National 
Health Care Reform, convened by President 
Clinton in 1993, was charged with calling together 
officials of the Federal Government 
and others to debate critical health issues of 
concern to the American public; 
(2) the Task Force convened behind closed 
doors and inappropriately included individuals 
who were not employees of the Federal 
Government; 
(3) United States District Judge Royce C. 
Lamberth ruled in Association of American 
Physicians and Surgeons, Inc., et al. versus 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, et al., that representatives 
of the administration engaged 
in ‘‘dishonest’’ and ‘‘reprehensible’’ conduct 
in characterizing the membership of the 
Task Force; 
(4) Judge Royce C. Lamberth on the basis 
of such conduct ruled against the defendants 
and ordered them to pay $285,864.78 in attorneys’ 
fees, costs, and sanctions for the plaintiffs; 
and 
(5) American taxpayers should not be held 
responsible for the inappropriate and dishonest 
conduct of Federal Government officials 
and lawyers involved with the Task 
Force. 
(b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.—It is the sense 
of the Congress that the functional totals in 
this concurrent resolution on the budget assume 
that the award of $285,864.78 in attorneys’ 
fees, costs, and sanctions that Judge 
Royce C. Lamberth ordered the defendants 
to pay in Association of American Physicians 
and Surgeons, Inc., et al. versus Hillary 
Rodham Clinton, et al., should not be 
paid with taxpayer funds. 
SESSIONS (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2260 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. SESSIONS, for 
himself, Mr. ASHCROFT, and Mr. ENZI) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 86, supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
LIMITATIONS ON ATTORNEYS’ FEES 
UNDER ANY NATIONAL TOBACCO 
SETTLEMENT. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 
in this resolution assume that legislation 
providing for a national tobacco settlement 
should provide the following: 

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State that receives funds under such 
legislation may not utilize those funds to 
pay attorneys’ fees, on behalf of attorneys 
for the State in connection with an action 
maintained by a State against one or more 
tobacco companies to recover tobacco-related 
medicaid expenditures, or for other 
causes of action, in excess of the reasonable 
and customary fee for similarly skilled legal 
services for the specific locale. In no event 
should the rate exceed $500 per hour. 

(2) The limitation described in paragraph 
(1) shall not apply to any amounts provided 
for the attorneys’ reasonable and customary 
expenses. 
(3) No award of attorneys’ fees shall be 
made under any national tobacco settlement 
until the attorneys involved have— 
(A) provided State officials with a detailed 
time accounting with respect to the work 
performed in relation to any legal action 
which is the subject of the settlement or 
with regard to the settlement itself; and 
(B) made public disclosure of the time accounting 
under subparagraph (A) and any fee 
agreements entered into, or fee arrangements 
made, with respect to any legal action 
that is the subject of the settlement. 
CRAIG (AND DOMENICI) 

AMENDMENT NO. 2261 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. CRAIG, for 
himself and Mr. DOMENICI) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 86, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON VA COM


PENSATION AND POST-SERVICE 

SMOKING-RELATED ILLNESSES. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) the President has twice included in his 
budgets not permitting the program expansion 
that the Veterans Administration (referred 
to as the ‘‘VA’’) is proposing to allow 
post-service smoking-related illness to be eligible 
for VA compensation; 
(2) Congress has never acted on this program 
expansion; 
(3) the Congressional Budget Office and the 
Office of Management and Budget have concluded 
that this change in VA policy would 
result in at least $10,000,000,000 in additional 
costs to the VA; 
(4) these increased number of claims and 
the resulting costs may present undue delay 
and hardship on veterans seeking claim review; 
and 
(5) the programs expansion apparently runs 
counter to all existing VA policy, including 
a statement by former Secretary Brown that 
‘‘It is inappropriate to compensate for death 
or disability resulting from veterans’ personal 
choice to engage in conduct damaging 
to their health.’’. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the function totals and 
assumptions underlying this resolution assume 
the following: 
(1) The support of the President’s proposal 
to not allow post-service smoking related illnesses 
to be eligible for VA compensation 
until the study annd report required by paragraph 
(2) are completed. 
(2) The Veterans Administration and the 
Office of Management and Budget are jointly 
required to— 
(A) jointly study (referred to in this section 
as the ‘‘study’’) the VA General Counsel’s 
determination (O.G.C. 2–93) and the resulting 
actions to change the compensation 
rules to include disability and death benefits 
for conditions related to the use of tobacco 
products during service; and 
(B) deliver an opinion as to whether illnesses 
resulting from post-service smoking 
should be considered as a compensable disability. 
(3) The study should include— 
(A) the estimated numbers of those filing 
such claims, the cost resulting from such 
benefits, the time necessary to review such 
claims, and how such a number of claims will 
affect the VA’s ability to review its current 
claim load; 

(B) an examination of how the proposed 
change corresponds to prior VA policy relating 
to post-service actions taken by an individual; 
and 
(C) what Federal benefits, both VA and 
non-VA, former service members having 
smoking-related illnesses are eligible to receive. 
(4) The study shall be completed no later 
than July 1, 1999. 
(5) The Veterans Administration shall report 
its finding to the Majority and Minority 
Leaders of the Senate and the chairmen and 
ranking minority members of the Senate 
Budget and Veterans’ Affairs Committees. 
COVERDELL (AND SHELBY) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2262 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. COVERDELL, 
for himself and Mr. SHELBY) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 
86, supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON COLOMBIAN 
DRUG WAR HELICOPTERS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) Colombia is the leading illicit drug producing 
country in the Western Hemisphere; 
(2) 80 percent of the world’s cocaine originates 
in Colombia; 
(3) based on the most recent data of the 
Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), 
more than 60 percent of the heroin seized in 
the United States originates in Colombia; 
(4) in the last 10 years more than 4,000 officers 
of the Colombian National Police have 
died fighting the scourge of drugs; 
(5) in one recent year alone, according to 
data of the United States Government, the 
United States had 141,000 new heroin users 
and the United States faces historic levels of 
heroin use among teenagers between the 
ages of 12 and 17; 
(6) once Colombian heroin is in the stream 
of commerce it is nearly impossible to interdict 
because it is concealed and trafficked in 
very small quantities; 
(7) the best and most cost efficient method 
of preventing Colombian heroin from entering 
the United States is to destroy the 
opium poppies in the high Andes mountains 
where Colombian heroin is produced; 
(8) the elite anti-narcotics unit of the Colombian 
National Police has the responsibility 
to eradicate both coca and opium in 
Colombia, including the reduction and elimination 
of cocaine and heroin production, and 
they have done a remarkably effective job 
with the limited and outdated equipment at 
their disposal; 
(9) more than 40 percent of the anti-narcotics 
operations of the Colombian National 
Police involve hostile ground fire from 
narco-terrorists and 90 percent of such operations 
involve the use of helicopters; 
(10) the need for better high performance 
helicopters by the Colombian National Police, 
especially for use in the high Andes 
mountains, is essential for more effective 
eradication of opium in Colombia; 
(11) on December 23, 1997, one of the antiquated 
Vietnam-era UH–1H Huey helicopters 
used by the Colombian National Police in an 
opium eradication mission crashed in the 
high Andes mountains due to high winds and 
because it was flying above the safety level 
recommended by the original manufacturer; 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3001 

(12) in the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations 
Act, 1998 (Public Law 105–118), amounts 
were appropriated for the procurement by 
the United States for the Colombian National 
Police of three UH–60L Blackhawk 
utility helicopters that can operate safely 
and more effectively at the high altitudes of 
the Andes mountains where Colombian 
opium grows at altitudes as high as 12,000 
feet; 
(13) the Blackhawk helicopter is a high 
performance utility helicopter, with greater 
lift capacity, that can perform at the high 
altitudes of the Andes mountains, as well as 
survive crashes and sustain ground fire, 
much better than any other utility helicopter 
now available to the Colombian National 
Police in the war on drugs; 
(14) because the Vietnam-era Huey helicopters 
that the United States has provided 
the Colombian National Police are outdated 
and have been developing numerous stress 
cracks, a sufficient number should be upgraded 
to Huey II’s and the remainder should 
be phased-out as soon as possible; 
(15) these Huey helicopters are much older 
than most of the pilots who fly them, do not 
have the range due to limited fuel capacity 
to reach many of the expanding locations of 
the coca fields or cocaine labs in southern 
Colombia, nor do they have the lift capacity 
to carry enough armed officers to reach and 
secure the opium fields in the high Andes 
mountains prior to eradication; 
(16) the elite anti-narcotics unit of the Colombian 
National Police has a stellar record 
in respecting for human rights and has received 
the commendation of a leading international 
human rights group in their operations 
to reduce and eradicate illicit drugs in 
Colombia; 
(17) the narco-terrorists of Colombia have 
announced that they will now target United 
States citizens, particularly those United 
States citizens working with their Colombian 
counterparts in the fight against illicit 
drugs in Colombia; 
(18) a leading commander of the Revolutionary 
Armed Forces of Colombia (‘‘FARC’’) 
announced recently that the objective of 
these narco-terrorists, in light of recent successes, 
will be ‘‘to defeat the Americans’’; 
(19) United States Government personnel 
in Colombia who fly in these helicopters accompanying 
the Colombian National Police 
on missions are now at even greater risk 
from these narco-terrorists and their drug 
trafficking allies; 
(20) in the last six months four anti-narcotics 
helicopters of the Colombian National 
Police have been downed in operations; 
(21) Congress intends to provide the necessary 
support and assistance to wage an effective 
war on illicit drugs in Colombia and 
provide the equipment and assistance needed 
to protect all of the men and women of the 
Colombian National Police as well as those 
Americans who work side by side with the 
Colombian National Police in this common 
struggle against illicit drugs; 
(22) the new Government of Bolivia has 
made a commitment to eradicate coca and 
cocaine production in that country within 5 
years; 
(23) the United States should support any 
country that is interested in removing the 
scourge of drugs from its citizens; and 
(24) Bolivia has succeeded, in large measure 
due to United States assistance, in reducing 
acreage used to produce coca, which 
is the basis for cocaine production. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals underlying 
this resolution assume that— 
(1) the President should, with funds made 
available under Public Law 105–118, expeditiously 
procure and provide to the Colombian 
National Police three UH–60L 
Blackhawk utility helicopters solely for the 
purpose of assisting the Colombian National 
Police to perform their responsibilities to reduce 
and eliminate the production of illicit 
drugs in Colombia and the trafficking of 
such illicit drugs, including the trafficking 
of drugs such as heroin and cocaine to the 
United States; 

(2) if the President determines that the 
procurement and transfer to the Colombian 
National Police of three UH–60L Blackhawk 
utility helicopters is not an adequate number 
of such helicopters to maintain operational 
feasibility and effectiveness of the 
Colombian National Police, then the President 
should promptly inform Congress as to 
the appropriate number of additional UH–60L 
Blackhawk utility helicopters for the Colombian 
National Police so that amounts can be 
authorized for the procurement and transfer 
of such additional helicopters; and 
(3) assistance for Bolivia should be maintained 
at least at the level assumed in the 
fiscal year 1998 budget submission of the 
President and the Administration should act 
accordingly. 
SANTORUM AMENDMENTS NOS. 
2263–2264 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. SANTORUM) 
proposed two amendments to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 86, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2263 
On page , insert the following new section: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE THAT THE 105TH 
CONGRESS, 2ND SESSION SHOULD 
REAUTHORIZE FUNDS FOR THE 
FARMLAND PROTECTION PROGRAM. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings— 
(1) Eighteen states and dozens of localities 
have spent nearly $1 billion to protect over 
600,000 acres of important farmland; 
(2) The Farmland Protection Program has 
provided cost-sharing for eighteen states and 
dozens of localities to protect over 82,000 
acres on 230 farms since 1996; 
(3) The Farmland Protection Program has 
generated new interest in saving farmland in 
communities around the country; 
(4) The Farmland Protection Program represents 
an innovative and voluntary partnership, 
rewards local ingenuity, and supports 
local priorities; 
(5) Current funds authorized for the Farmland 
Protection Program will be exhausted 
in the next six months; 
(6) The United States is losing two acres of 
our best farmland to development every 
minute of every day; 
(7) These lands produce three quarters of 
the fruits and vegetables and over one-half of 
the dairy in the United States; 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the functional totals contained 
in this resolution assume that the 
105th Congress, 2nd Session will reauthorize 
funds for the Farmland Protection Program. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2264 
At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE ON HEALTH CARE 
QUALITY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Out of a total 549 plans under the 
FEHBP, which includes fee-for-service, point 
of service, and HMOs, only 186 were fully accredited; 
(2) Out of a total 549 plans under the 
FEHBP, which includes fee-for-service, point 
of service, and HMOs, 7 were denied accreditation. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the Sense 
of the Senate that the assumptions underlying 
this resolution provide for the enactment 
of legislation requiring all health plans 
participating in the Federal Employees 
Health Benefits Program to be accredited by 
a nationally recognized accreditation organization 
representative of a spectrum of health 
care interests including purchasers, consumers, 
providers and health plans. 
KEMPTHORNE AMENDMENT NO. 
2265 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. KEMPTHORNE) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 86, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING MARKET 
ACCESS PROGRAM. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds the following: 
(1) The Market Access Program (MAP) continues 
to be a vital and important part of 
U.S. trade policy aimed at maintaining and 
expanding U.S. agricultural exports, countering 
subsidized foreign competition, 
strengthening farm income and protecting 
American jobs. Further, the Senate finds 
that: 
(A) The Market Access Program is specifically 
targeted towards small business, farmer 
cooperatives and trade associations. 
(B) The Market Access Program is administered 
on a cost-share basis. Participants, 
including farmers and ranchers, are required 
to contribute up to 50 percent or more toward 
the cost of the program. 
(2) The Market Access Program has been a 
tremendous success by any measure. Since 
the program was established, U.S. agricultural 
exports have doubled. In FY 1997, U.S. 
agricultural exports amounted to $57.3 billion, 
resulting in a positive agricultural 
trade surplus of approximately $22 billion, 
and contributing billions of dollars more in 
increased economic activity and additional 
tax revenues. 
(3) The Market Access Program has also 
helped maintain and create needed jobs 
throughout the nation’s economy. More than 
one million Americans now have jobs that 
depend on U.S. agricultural exports. Further, 
every billion dollars in additional U.S. agricultural 
exports helps create as many as 
17,000 or more new jobs. 
(4) U.S. agriculture, including farm income 
and related jobs, is more dependent than 
ever on maintaining and expanding U.S. agricultural 
exports as federal farm programs 
are gradually reduced under the FAIR Act of 
1996. 
(5) In addition to the Asian economic situation 
and exchange rate fluctuations, U.S. 
agricultural exports continue to be adversely 
impacted by continued subsidized foreign 
competition, artifical trade barriers and 
other unfair trade practices. 
(6) The European Union (EU) and other foreign 
competitors continue to heavily outspend 
the U.S. by more than 10 to 1 with regard 
to export subsidies. 
(A) In 1997, the EU budgeted $7.2 billion for 
export subsidies aimed at capturing a larger 
share of the world market at the expense of 
U.S. agriculture. 
(B) EU and other foreign competitors also 
spent nearly $500 million on market promotion 
activities. The EU, spends more on 
wine promotion than the U.S. currently 
spends on all commodities and related agricultural 
products. 
(C) The EU has announced a major new initiative 
aimed at increasing their exports to 
Japan—historically, the largest single market 
for U.S. agriculture exports. 

S3002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(7) U.S. agriculture is the most competitive 
industry in the world, but it can not and 
should not be expected to compete alone 
against the treasuries of foreign governments. 
(8) Reducing or eliminating funding for the 
Market Access Program would adversely affect 
U.S. agriculture’s ability to remain 
competitive in today’s global marketplace. A 
reduction in U.S. agricultural exports would 
translate into lower farm income, a worsening 
trade deficit, slower economic growth, 
fewer export-related jobs, and a declining tax 
base. 
(9) U.S. success in upcoming trade negotiations 
on agriculture schedule to begin in 1999 
depends on maintaining an aggressive trade 
strategy and related policies and programs. 
Reducing or eliminating the Market Access 
Program would represent a form of unilateral 
disarmament and weaken the U.S. negotiating 
position. 
(10) The Market Access Program is one of 
the few programs specifically allowed under 
the current Uruguay Round Agreement. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that funding for the Market 
Access Program (MAP) should be fully maintained 
as authorized and aggressively utilized 
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
to encourage U.S. agricultural exports, 
strengthen farm income, counter subsidized 
foreign competition, and protect American 
jobs. 
GRAMM (AND BIDEN) AMENDMENT 
NO. 2266 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. GRAMM, for 
himself and Mr. BIDEN) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


‘‘SEC. . EXTENSION OF VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION 
TRUST FUND. 

‘‘(a) DISCRETIONARY LIMITS.—In the Senate, 
in this section and for the purposes of allocations 
made for the discretionary category 
pursuant to section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, the term ‘discretionary 
spending limit’ means— 

‘‘(1) with respect to fiscal year 1999— 

‘‘(A) for the defense category: 
$271,570,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$266,635,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(B) for the nondefense category: 
$255,450,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$289,547,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(C) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$5,800,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $4,953,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(2) with respect to fiscal year 2000— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$532,693,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$558,711,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,500,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $5,554,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘(3) with respect to fiscal year 2001— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$537,632,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$558,415,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,400,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $5,981,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(4) with respect to fiscal year 2002— 

‘‘(A) for the discretionary category: 
$546,574,000,000 in new budget authority and 
$556,269,000,000 in outlays; and 

‘‘(B) for the violent crime reduction category: 
$4,500,000,000 in new budget authority 
and $4,530,000,000 in outlays; 

‘‘as adjusted in strict conformance with subsection 
(b) of section 251 of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 and section 314 of the Congressional 
Budget Act. 

‘‘(b) POINT OF ORDER IN THE SENATE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), it shall not be in order in the 
Senate to consider— 

‘‘(A) a revision of this resolution or any 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
years 1999, 2000, 2001, or 2002 (or amendment, 
motion, or conference report on such a 
resolution) that provides discretionary 
spending in excess of the discretionary 
spending limit or limits for such fiscal year; 
or 

‘‘(B) any bill or resolution (or amendment, 
motion, or conference report on such bill or 
resolution) for fiscal year 1999, 2000, 2001, or 
2002 that would cause any of the limits in 
this section (or suballocations of the discretionary 
limits made pursuant to section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974) to be exceeded. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not 
apply if a declaration of war by the Congress 
is in effect or if a joint resolution pursuant 
to section 258 of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 has 
been enacted. 

‘‘(c) WAIVER.—This section may be waived 
or suspended in the Senate only by the affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members, 
duly chosen and sworn. 

‘‘(d) APPEALS.—Appeals in the Senate from 
the decisions of the Chair relating to any 
provision of this section shall be limited to 1 
hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
by, the appellant and the manager of 
the concurrent resolution, bill, or joint resolution, 
as the case may be. An affirmative 
vote of three-fifths of the Members of the 
Senate, duly chosen and sworn, shall be required 
in the Senate to sustain an appeal of 
the ruling of the Chair on a point of order 
raised under this section. 

‘‘(e) DETERMINATION OF BUDGET LEVELS.— 
For purposes of this section, the levels of 
new budget authority, outlays, new entitlement 
authority, revenues, and deficits for a 
fiscal year shall be determined on the basis 
of estimates made by the Committee on the 
Budget of the Senate.’’. 

COVERDELL AMENDMENTS NOS. 
2267–2268 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. COVERDELL) 
proposed two amendments to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent 
Resolution 86, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 2267 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING EF


FORTS TO COMBAT MEDICARE 

FRAUD AND ABUSE. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that while 
fighting Medicare fraud and abuse is critical, 
so is the avoidance of criminalizing those 
parties whose errors were made inadvertently. 
The Senate applauds heightened attention 
to fraud and abuse issues in the effort 
to promote Medicare solvency. In evaluating 
the enforcement activities of the Department 
of Justice regarding fraud and 
abuse, the Senate should ensure that standards 
of proof as prescribed by law are present 
in these activities. It is incumbent upon the 
Senate to ensure that parties are not subject 
to criminal penalties absent a finding of specific 
intent to defraud. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2268 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING NA


TIONAL RESPONSE TO THE THREAT 

OF ILLEGAL DRUGS. 

SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense of 
Senate that— 

(1) the provisions of this resolution assume 
that Congress will significantly increase 
funding for drug interdiction operations by 
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 
Customs Service, Coast Guard, Department 
of Defense and other responsible agencies; 
(2) the provisions of this resolution assume 
that Congress will continue to support and 
increase funding for anti-drug education and 
prevention efforts aimed at informing every 
American child in the middle school and 
high school age brackets about the dangers 
of drugs and at empowering them to reject 
illegal drug use; 
(3) increasing grassroots parental involvement 
should be a key component of our national 
drug education and prevention efforts; 
(4) Congress should promote efforts to establish 
annual measures of performance for 
evaluating the effectiveness of the National 
Drug Control Strategy. 
COVERDELL (AND GRASSLEY) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2269 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. COVERDELL, 
for himself and Mr. GRASSLEY) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent Resolution 
86, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
WASTEFUL SPENDING DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 
ACQUISITION PRACTICES. 


(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) According to the Defense Department’s 
Inspector General, despite efforts to streamline 
government purchases, the military, in 
some cases, paid more than ‘‘fair value’’ for 
many items; 
(2) efficient purchasing policies, in the context 
of decreasing defense budgets, are more 
important than ever to ensure Defense Department 
spending contributes to military 
readiness. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—it is the sense 
of the Senate that the provisions of this resolution 
assume that the Defense Department 
should continue efforts to eliminate wasteful 
spending such that defense spending allocated 
in the FY 99 budget, and all subsequent 
budgets, is spent in the manner most efficient 
to maintain and promote military 
readiness for U.S. armed forces around the 
globe. 
COVERDELL (AND KYL) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2270 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. COVERDELL 
for himself and Mr. KYL) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution. 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 86, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place insert the following: 


SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
UNITED STATES’ RESPONSE TO THE 
CHANGING NATURE OF TERRORISM 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) The threat of terrorism to American 
citizens and interests remains high, with 
Americans suffering one-third of the total 
terrorist attacks in the world in 1997. 
(2) The terrorist threat is changing—while 
past acts were generally limited to the use of 
conventional explosives and weapons, terrorists 
today are exploring technological advances 
and increasingly lethal tools and 
strategies to pursue their agenda; 
(3) On a worldwide basis, terrorists are focusing 
on afflicting mass casualties on civilian 
targets through the acquisition of chemical, 
biological and nuclear weapons of mass 
destruction; 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3003 

(4) Chemical and biological weapons in the 
hands of terrorists or rogue nations constitute 
a threat to the United States; 
(5) The multi-faceted nature of the terrorist 
threat encompasses not only foreign 
terrorists targeting American citizens and 
interests abroad, but foreign terrorists operating 
within the United States itself, as well 
as domestic terrorists; 
(6) Terrorist groups are becoming increasingly 
multinational, more associated with 
criminal activity, and less responsive to external 
influences; 
(7) Terrorists exploit America’s free and 
open society to illegally enter the country, 
raise funds, recruit new members, spread 
propaganda, and plan future activities; 
(8) Terrorists are also making of use of 
computer technology to communicate, solicit 
money and support, and store information 
essential to their operations; 
(9) State sponsors of terrorism and other 
foreign countries are known to be developing 
computer intrusion and manipulation capabilities 
which could pose a threat to essential 
public and private information systems 
in the United States; 
(10) The infrastructure deemed critical to 
the United States are the telecommunication 
networks, the electric power grid, oil 
and gas distribution, water distribution facilities, 
transportation systems, financial 
networks, emergency services, and the continuity 
of government services, the disruption 
of which could result in significant 
losses to the United States’ economic well-
being, public welfare, or national security. 
(11) A national strategy of infrastructure 
protection, as required by the Defense Appropriations 
Act of 1996, and subsequent 
amendments, has yet to be issued; and 
(12) We as a nation remain fundamentally 
unprepared to respond in a coordinated and 
effective manner to these growing terrorist 
threats. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the provisions of this resolution 
assuming that— 
(1) The federal government must take the 
lead in establishing effective coordination 
between intelligence-gathering and law enforcement 
agencies, among federal, state, 
and local levels of government, and with the 
private sector, for the purpose of assessing, 
warning, and protecting against terrorist attacks; 
(2) Technical preparedness for the detection 
and analysis of chemical and biological 
weapons, and for swift and adequate emergency 
response to their use by terrorists, 
must be a near-term continuing priority; 
(3) The United States must seek full international 
cooperation in securing the capture 
and conviction of terrorists who attack or 
pose a threat to American citizens and interests; 
(4) The United States should fully enforce 
its laws intended to deny foreign terrorist 
organizations the ability to rise money in 
the United States, prevent the evasion of our 
immigration laws and furthering of criminal 
activities, and curtail the use of our country 
as a base of operations; and 
(5) A national strategy, adequate to addressing 
the complexity of protecting our 
critical infrastructures, and as required by 
the Defense Appropriations Act of 1996 and 
subsequent amendments, must be completed 
and implemented immediately. 
COVERDELL (AND DODD) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2271 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. COVERDELL 
for himself and Mr. DODD) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 86, 
supra; as follows: 

At the propriate place insert the following: 

SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING A 
MULTINATIONAL ALLIANCE 
AGAINST DRUG TRAFFICKING. 

FINDINGS.—the Senate finds that— 

(1) the traffic in illegal drugs greatly 
threatens democracy, security and stability 
in the Western Hemisphere due to the violence 
and corruption associated with drug 
trafficking organizations; 
(2) drug trafficking organizations operate 
without respect for borders or national sovereignty; 
(3) the production, transport, sale, and use 
of illicit drugs endangers the people and legitimate 
institutions of all countries in the 
hemisphere; 
(4) no single country can successfully confront 
and defeat this common enemy; 
(5) full bilateral cooperation with the 
United States to reduce the flow of drugs is 
in the national interests of our neighbors in 
the hemisphere; 
(6) in addition, victory in the hemispheric 
battle against drug traffickers requires expanded 
multilateral cooperation among the 
nation of the region. 
SENSE OF THE SENATE.—it is the sense of 
the Senate that the provisions of this resolution 
assume that in addition to existing bilateral 
cooperative efforts, the Administration 
should promote at the Summit of the 
Americas and in other fora the concept of a 
multinational hemispheric ‘‘war alliance’’ 
bringing together the United States and key 
illicit drug producing and transiting countries 
in the Western Hemisphere for the purpose 
of implementing a coordinated plan of 
action against illegal drug trafficking and 
promoting full cooperation against this common 
menace. 

MACK AMENDMENT NO. 2272 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. MACK) proposed 
an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, Senate Concurrent Resolution 
86, supra; as follows: 
At the appropriate place insert the following: 
SEC. . SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING THE 
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) heart disease was the leading cause of 
death or for both men and women in every 
year from 1970 to 1993; 
(2) mortality rates for individuals suffering 
from prostate cancer, skin cancer, and kidney 
cancer continue to rise; 
(3) the mortality rate for African American 
women suffering from diabetes is 134 percent 
higher than the mortality rate of Caucasian 
women suffering from diabetes; 
(4) asthma rates for children increased 58 
percent from 1982 to 1992; 
(5) nearly half of all American women between 
the ages of 65 and 75 reported having 
arthritis; 
(6) AIDS is the leading cause of death for 
Americans between the ages of 24 and 44; 
(7) the Institute of Medicine has described 
United States clinical research to be ‘‘in a 
state of crisis’’ and the National Academy of 
Sciences concluded in 1994 that ‘‘the present 
cohort of clinical investigators is not adequate’’; 
(8) biomedical research has been shown to 
be effective in saving lives and reducing 
health care expenditures; 
(9) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has contributed significantly 
to the first overall reduction in cancer 
death rates since recordkeeping was instituted; 
(10) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has resulted in the identification 
of genetic mutations for 
osteoporosis; Lou Gehrig’s Disease, cystic fibrosis, 
and Huntington’s Disease; breast, 
skin and prostate cancer; and a variety of 
other illnesses; 

(11) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has been key to the development 
of Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
(MRI) and Positron Emission Tomography 
(PET) scanning technologies; 
(12) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health has developed effective 
treatments for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia 
(ALL). Today, 80 percent of children 
diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia 
are alive and free of the disease after 
5 years; and 
(13) research sponsored by the National Institutes 
of Health contributed to the development 
of a new, cost-saving cure for peptic 
ulcers. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that the function totals in this 
budget resolution assume that— 
(1) appropriations for the National Institutes 
of Health should be increased by 100 
percent over the next 5 fiscal years; 
(2) appropriations for the National Institutes 
of Health should be increased by 
$2,000,000,000 in year 1999 over the amount appropriated 
in fiscal year 1998; 
(3) the budget resolution takes a major 
step toward meeting this goal; and 
(4) at a minimum, appropriations for the 
National Institutes of Health should match 
the recommendations provided in the budget 
resolution. 
HATCH (AND JEFFORDS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2273 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. HATCH, for 
himself and Mr. JEFFORDS) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

On page 28, strike lines 1 through 17, and 
insert the following: 

SEC. 202. TOBACCO RESERVE FUND. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate, revenue 
and spending aggregates may be increased 
and allocations may be increased for legislation 
that reserves the Federal share of receipts 
for tobacco-related programs and activities 
authorized by comprehensive Senate-
passed tobacco legislation. 
(b) REVISED AGGREGATES.—Upon the consideration 
of legislation pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Chairman of the Committee 
on the Budget of the Senate may file with 
the Senate appropriately revised allocations 
under section 302(a) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 and increased aggregates 
to carry out this section. These aggregates 
shall be considered for the purposes of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 as the allocations 
and aggregates contained in this resolution. 
(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION 202 OF H. CON. 
RES. 67.—For the purposes of enforcement of 
section 202 of H. Con. Res. 67 (104th Congress) 
with respect to this resolution, the increase 
in receipts resulting from tobacco legislation 
used to reimburse the Medicare Hospital Insurance 
Trust Fund shall not be taken into 
account. 
SESSIONS AMENDMENT NO. 2274 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. SESSIONS) 
proposed an amendment to the concurrent 
resolution, S. Con. Res. 86, supra; 
as follows: 
At the end of title III add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
LIMITATIONS ON ATTORNEYS’ FEES 
UNDER ANY NATIONAL TOBACCO 
SETTLEMENT. 

It is the sense of the Senate that the assumptions 
underlying the functional totals 


S3004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

in this resolution assume that legislation 
providing for a national tobacco settlement 
should provide the following: 

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State that receives funds under such 
legislation may not utilize more than 
$5,000,000 to pay attorneys’ fees on behalf of 
attorneys for the State in connection with 
an action maintained by a State against one 
or more tobacco companies to recover to-
bacco-related medicaid expenditures, or for 
other causes of action. 
(2) The limitation described in paragraph 
(1) shall apply to attorneys’ fees provided for 
or in connection with an action of the type 
described in such paragraph under any— 
(A) court order; 
(B) settlement agreement; 
(C) Contingency fee arrangement; 
(D) arbitration procedure; 
(E) alternative dispute resolution procedure 
(including mediation); or 
(F) other arrangement providing for the 
payment of attorneys’ fees. 
(3) The limitation described in paragraph 
(1) shall not apply to any amounts provided 
for the attorneys’ reasonable and customary 
expenses. 
(4) No award of attorneys’ fees shall be 
made under any national tobacco settlement 
until the attorneys involved have— 
(A) provided to the Governor of the appropriate 
State, a detailed time accounting 
with respect to the work performed in relation 
to any legal action which is the subject 
of the settlement or with regard to the settlement 
itself; and 
(B) made public disclosure of the time accounting 
under subparagraph (A) and any fee 
agreements entered into, or fee arrangements 
made, with respect to any legal action 
that is the subject of the settlement. 
BURNS (AND BAUCUS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 2275 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. BURNS, for 
himself and Mr. BAUCUS) proposed an 
amendment to the concurrent resolution, 
S. Con. Res. 86, supra; as follows: 

At the end of title III, add the following: 

SEC. ll. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING PER


MANENT EXTENSION OF INCOME 

AVERAGING FOR FARMERS. 

It is the sense of Congress that the provisions 
of this resolution assume that if the 
revenue levels are reduced pursuant to section 
201 of this resolution for tax legislation, 
such amount as is necessary shall be used to 
permanently extend income averaging for 
farmers for purposes of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986. 

f 

THE TEXAS LOW-LEVEL RADIO


ACTIVE WASTE DISPOSAL COM


PACT CONSENT ACT 

SNOWE AMENDMENT NO. 2276 
Mr. DOMENICI (for Ms. SNOWE) proposed 
an amendment to the bill (H.R. 

629) to grant the consent of the Congress 
to the Texas Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Disposal Compact; as follows: 
Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Texas Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact 
Consent Act’’. 

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDING. 

Congress finds that the compact set forth 
in section 5 is in furtherance of the Low-

Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act (42 

U.S.C. 2021b et seq.). 
SEC. 3. CONDITIONS OF CONSENT TO COMPACT. 

The consent of Congress to the compact set 
forth in section 5— 

(1) shall become effective on the date of enactment 
of this Act; 
(2) is granted subject to the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 2021b 
et seq.); and 
(3) is granted only for so long as the regional 
commission established in the compact 
complies with each provision of the Act. 
SEC. 4. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW. 

Congress may alter, amend, or repeal this 
Act with respect to the compact set forth in 
section 5 after the expiration of the 10-year 
period following the date of enactment of 
this Act, and at such intervals thereafter as 
may be provided in the compact. 

SEC. 5. TEXAS LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE 
COMPACT. 

(a) CONSENT OF CONGRESS.—In accordance 
with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 
2021d(a)(2)), the consent of Congress is given 
to the States of Texas, Maine, and Vermont 
to enter into the compact set forth in subsection 
(b). 
(b) TEXT OF COMPACT.—The compact reads 
substantially as follows: 
‘‘TEXAS LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE 
DISPOSAL COMPACT 

‘‘ARTICLE I. POLICY AND PURPOSE 
‘‘SEC. 1.01. The party states recognize a responsibility 
for each state to seek to manage 
low-level radioactive waste generated within 
its boundaries, pursuant to the Low-Level 
Radioactive Waste Policy Act, as amended 
by the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy 
Amendments Act of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 2021b– 
2021j). They also recognize that the United 
States Congress, by enacting the Act, has 
authorized and encouraged states to enter 
into compacts for the efficient management 
and disposal of low-level radioactive waste. 
It is the policy of the party states to cooperate 
in the protection of the health, safety, 
and welfare of their citizens and the environment 
and to provide for and encourage the 
economical management and disposal of low-
level radioactive waste. It is the purpose of 
this compact to provide the framework for 
such a cooperative effort; to promote the 
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens 
and the environment of the party states; to 
limit the number of facilities needed to effectively, 
efficiently, and economically manage 
low-level radioactive waste and to encourage 
the reduction of the generation 
thereof; and to distribute the costs, benefits, 
and obligations among the party states; all 
in accordance with the terms of this compact. 
‘‘ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS 
‘‘SEC. 2.01. As used in this compact, unless 
the context clearly indicates otherwise, the 
following definitions apply: 
‘‘(1) ‘Act’ means the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act, as amended by the 
Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments 
Act of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 2021b–2021j). 
‘‘(2) ‘Commission’ means the Texas Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact 
Commission established in Article III of this 
compact. 
‘‘(3) ‘Compact facility’ or ‘facility’ means 
any site, location, structure, or property located 
in and provided by the host state for 
the purpose of management or disposal of 
low-level radioactive waste for which the 
party states are responsible. 
‘‘(4) ‘Disposal’ means the permanent isolation 
of low-level radioactive waste pursuant 
to requirements established by the United 
States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and 

the United States Environmental Protection 
Agency under applicable laws, or by the host 
state. 

‘‘(5) ‘Generate,’ when used in relation to 
low-level radioactive waste, means to 
produce low-level radioactive waste. 

‘‘(6) ‘Generator’ means a person who produces 
or processes low-level radioactive 
waste in the course of its activities, excluding 
persons who arrange for the collection, 
transportation, management, treatment, 
storage, or disposal of waste generated outside 
the party states, unless approved by the 
commission. 

‘‘(7) ‘Host county’ means a county in the 
host state in which a disposal facility is located 
or is being developed. 

‘‘(8) ‘Host state’ means a party state in 
which a compact facility is located or is 
being developed. The State of Texas is the 
host state under this compact. 

‘‘(9) ‘Institutional control period’ means 
that period of time following closure of the 
facility and transfer of the facility license 
from the operator to the custodial agency in 
compliance with the appropriate regulations 
for long-term observation and maintenance. 

‘‘(10) ‘Low-level radioactive waste’ has the 
same meaning as that term is defined in Section 
2(9) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2021b(9)), or in 
the host state statute so long as the waste is 
not incompatible with management and disposal 
at the compact facility. 

‘‘(11) ‘Management’ means collection, consolidation, 
storage, packaging, or treatment. 

‘‘(12) ‘Operator’ means a person who operates 
a disposal facility. 

‘‘(13) ‘Party state’ means any state that 
has become a party in accordance with Article 
VII of this compact. Texas, Maine, and 
Vermont are initial party states under this 
compact. 

‘‘(14) ‘Person’ means an individual, corporation, 
partnership or other legal entity, 
whether public or private. 

‘‘(15) ‘Transporter’ means a person who 
transports low-level radioactive waste. 

‘‘ARTICLE III. THE COMMISSION 

‘‘SEC. 3.01. There is hereby established the 
Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal 
Compact Commission. The commission shall 
consist of one voting member from each 
party state except that the host state shall 
be entitled to six voting members. Commission 
members shall be appointed by the 
party state governors, as provided by the 
laws of each party state. Each party state 
may provide alternates for each appointed 
member. 

‘‘SEC. 3.02. A quorum of the commission 
consists of a majority of the members. Except 
as otherwise provided in this compact, 
an official act of the commission must receive 
the affirmative vote of a majority of 
its members. 

‘‘SEC. 3.03. The commission is a legal entity 
separate and distinct from the party 
states and has governmental immunity to 
the same extent as an entity created under 
the authority of Article XVI, Section 59, of 
the Texas Constitution. Members of the commission 
shall not be personally liable for actions 
taken in their official capacity. The liabilities 
of the commission shall not be 
deemed liabilities of the party states. 

‘‘SEC. 3.04. The commission shall: 

‘‘(1) Compensate its members according to 
the host state’s law. 

‘‘(2) Conduct its business, hold meetings, 
and maintain public records pursuant to 
laws of the host state, except that notice of 
public meetings shall be given in the non-
host party states in accordance with their 
respective statutes. 

‘‘(3) Be located in the capital city of the 
host state. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3005 

‘‘(4) Meet at least once a year and upon the 
call of the chair, or any member. The governor 
of the host state shall appoint a chair 
and vice-chair. 

‘‘(5) Keep an accurate account of all receipts 
and disbursements. An annual audit of 
the books of the commission shall be conducted 
by an independent certified public accountant, 
and the audit report shall be made 
a part of the annual report of the commission. 


‘‘(6) Approve a budget each year and establish 
a fiscal year that conforms to the fiscal 
year of the host state. 

‘‘(7) Prepare, adopt, and implement contingency 
plans for the disposal and management 
of low-level radioactive waste in the 
event that the compact facility should be 
closed. Any plan which requires the host 
state to store or otherwise manage the low-
level radioactive waste from all the party 
states must be approved by at least four host 
state members of the commission. The commission, 
in a contingency plan or otherwise, 
may not require a non-host party state to 
store low-level radioactive waste generated 
outside of the state. 

‘‘(8) Submit communications to the governors 
and to the presiding officers of the 
legislatures of the party states regarding the 
activities of the commission, including an 
annual report to be submitted on or before 
January 31 of each year. 

‘‘(9) Assemble and make available to the 
party states, and to the public, information 
concerning low-level radioactive waste management 
needs, technologies, and problems. 

‘‘(10) Keep a current inventory of all generators 
within the party states, based upon 
information provided by the party states. 

‘‘(11) By no later than 180 days after all 
members of the commission are appointed 
under Section 3.01 of this article, establish 
by rule the total volume of low-level radioactive 
waste that the host state will dispose 
of in the compact facility in the years 1995– 
2045, including decommissioning waste. The 
shipments of low-level radioactive waste 
from all non-host party states shall not exceed 
20 percent of the volume estimated to 
be disposed of by the host state during the 
50-year period. When averaged over such 50-
year period, the total of all shipments from 
non-host party states shall not exceed 20,000 
cubic feet a year. The commission shall coordinate 
the volumes, timing, and frequency 
of shipments from generators in the non-host 
party states in order to assure that over the 
life of this agreement shipments from the 
non-host party states do not exceed 20 percent 
of the volume projected by the commission 
under this paragraph. 

‘‘SEC. 3.05. The commission may: 

‘‘(1) Employ staff necessary to carry out 
its duties and functions. The commission is 
authorized to use to the extent practicable 
the services of existing employees of the 
party states. Compensation shall be as determined 
by the commission. 

‘‘(2) Accept any grants, equipment, supplies, 
materials, or services, conditional or 
otherwise, from the federal or state government. 
The nature, amount and condition, if 
any, of any donation, grant or other resources 
accepted pursuant to this paragraph 
and the identity of the donor or grantor shall 
be detailed in the annual report of the commission. 


‘‘(3) Enter into contracts to carry out its 
duties and authority, subject to projected resources. 
No contract made by the commission 
shall bind a party state. 

‘‘(4) Adopt, by a majority vote, bylaws and 
rules necessary to carry out the terms of this 
compact. Any rules promulgated by the commission 
shall be adopted in accordance with 
the Administrative Procedure and Texas 

Register Act (Article 6252–13a, Vernon’s 
Texas Civil Statutes). 

‘‘(5) Sue and be sued and, when authorized 
by a majority vote of the members, seek to 
intervene in administrative or judicial proceedings 
related to this compact. 

‘‘(6) Enter into an agreement with any person, 
state, regional body, or group of states 
for the importation of low-level radioactive 
waste into the compact for management or 
disposal, provided that the agreement receives 
a majority vote of the commission. 
The commission may adopt such conditions 
and restrictions in the agreement as it 
deems advisable. 

‘‘(7) Upon petition, allow an individual generator, 
a group of generators, or the host 
state of the compact, to export low-level 
waste to a low-level radioactive waste disposal 
facility located outside the party 
states. The commission may approve the petition 
only by a majority vote of its members. 
The permission to export low-level radioactive 
waste shall be effective for that period 
of time and for the specified amount of 
low-level radioactive waste, and subject to 
any other term or condition, as is determined 
by the commission. 

‘‘(8) Monitor the exportation outside of the 
party states of material, which otherwise 
meets the criteria of low-level radioactive 
waste, where the sole purpose of the exportation 
is to manage or process the material 
for recycling or waste reduction and return 
it to the party states for disposal in the compact 
facility. 

‘‘SEC. 3.06. Jurisdiction and venue of any 
action contesting any action of the commission 
shall be in the United States District 
Court in the district where the commission 
maintains its office. 

‘‘ARTICLE IV. RIGHTS, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND 
OBLIGATIONS OF PARTY STATES 

‘‘SEC. 4.01. The host state shall develop and 
have full administrative control over the development, 
management and operation of a 
facility for the disposal of low-level radioactive 
waste generated within the party 
states. The host state shall be entitled to unlimited 
use of the facility over its operating 
life. Use of the facility by the non-host party 
states for disposal of low-level radioactive 
waste, including such waste resulting from 
decommissioning of any nuclear electric generation 
facilities located in the party states, 
is limited to the volume requirements of 
Section 3.04(11) of Article III. 

‘‘SEC. 4.02. Low-level radioactive waste 
generated within the party states shall be 
disposed of only at the compact facility, except 
as provided in Section 3.05(7) of Article 
III. 

‘‘SEC. 4.03. The initial states of this compact 
cannot be members of another low-level 
radioactive waste compact entered into pursuant 
to the Act. 

‘‘SEC. 4.04. The host state shall do the following: 


‘‘(1) Cause a facility to be developed in a 
timely manner and operated and maintained 
through the institutional control period. 

‘‘(2) Ensure, consistent with any applicable 
federal and host state laws, the protection 
and preservation of the environment and the 
public health and safety in the siting, design, 
development, licensing, regulation, operation, 
closure, decommissioning, and long-
term care of the disposal facilities within 
the host state. 

‘‘(3) Close the facility when reasonably 
necessary to protect the public health and 
safety of its citizens or to protect its natural 
resources from harm. However, the host 
state shall notify the commission of the closure 
within three days of its action and 
shall, within 30 working days of its action, 
provide a written explanation to the com


mission of the closure, and implement any 
adopted contingency plan. 

‘‘(4) Establish reasonable fees for disposal 
at the facility of low-level radioactive waste 
generated in the party states based on disposal 
fee criteria set out in Sections 402.272 
and 402.273, Texas Health and Safety Code. 
The same fees shall be charged for the disposal 
of low-level radioactive waste that was 
generated in the host state and in the non-
host party states. Fees shall also be sufficient 
to reasonably support the activities of 
the Commission. 

‘‘(5) Submit an annual report to the commission 
on the status of the facility, including 
projections of the facility’s anticipated 
future capacity, and on the related funds. 

‘‘(6) Notify the Commission immediately 
upon the occurrence of any event which 
could cause a possible temporary or permanent 
closure of the facility and identify all 
reasonable options for the disposal of low-
level radioactive waste at alternate compact 
facilities or, by arrangement and Commission 
vote, at noncompact facilities. 

‘‘(7) Promptly notify the other party states 
of any legal action involving the facility. 

‘‘(8) Identify and regulate, in accordance 
with federal and host state law, the means 
and routes of transportation of low-level radioactive 
waste in the host state. 

‘‘SEC. 4.05. Each party state shall do the 
following: 

‘‘(1) Develop and enforce procedures requiring 
low-level radioactive waste shipments 
originating within its borders and destined 
for the facility to conform to packaging, 
processing, and waste form specifications of 
the host state. 

‘‘(2) Maintain a registry of all generators 
within the state that may have low-level radioactive 
waste to be disposed of at a facility, 
including, but not limited to, the 
amount of low-level radioactive waste and 
the class of low-level radioactive waste generated 
by each generator. 

‘‘(3) Develop and enforce procedures requiring 
generators within its borders to minimize 
the volume of low-level radioactive 
waste requiring disposal. Nothing in this 
compact shall prohibit the storage, treatment, 
or management of waste by a generator. 


‘‘(4) Provide the commission with any data 
and information necessary for the implementation 
of the commission’s responsibilities, 
including taking those actions necessary to 
obtain this data or information. 

‘‘(5) Pay for community assistance projects 
designated by the host county in an amount 
for each non-host party state equal to 10 percent 
of the payment provided for in Article V 
for each such state. One-half of the payment 
shall be due and payable to the host county 
on the first day of the month following ratification 
of this compact agreement by Congress 
and one-half of the payment shall be 
due and payable on the first day of the 
month following the approval of a facility 
operating license by the host state’s regulatory 
body. 

‘‘(6) Provide financial support for the commission’s 
activities prior to the date of facility 
operation and subsequent to the date of 
congressional ratification of this compact 
under Section 7.07 of Article VII. Each party 
state will be responsible for annual payments 
equalling its pro-rata share of the 
commission’s expenses, incurred for administrative, 
legal, and other purposes of the commission. 


‘‘(7) If agreed by all parties to a dispute, 
submit the dispute to arbitration or other alternate 
dispute resolution process. If arbitration 
is agreed upon, the governor of each 
party state shall appoint an arbitrator. If 
the number of party states is an even number, 
the arbitrators so chosen shall appoint 


S3006 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

an additional arbitrator. The determination 
of a majority of the arbitrators shall be binding 
on the party states. Arbitration proceedings 
shall be conducted in accordance 
with the provisions of 9 U.S.C. Sections 1 to 

16. If all parties to a dispute do not agree to 
arbitration or alternate dispute resolution 
process, the United States District Court in 
the district where the commission maintains 
its office shall have original jurisdiction 
over any action between or among parties to 
this compact. 
‘‘(8) Provide on a regular basis to the commission 
and host state— 

‘‘(A) an accounting of waste shipped and 
proposed to be shipped to the compact facility, 
by volume and curies; 

‘‘(B) proposed transportation methods and 
routes; and 

‘‘(C) proposed shipment schedules. 

‘‘(9) Seek to join in any legal action by or 
against the host state to prevent nonparty 
states or generators from disposing of low-
level radioactive waste at the facility. 

‘‘SEC. 4.06. Each party state shall act in 
good faith and may rely on the good faith 
performance of the other party states regarding 
requirements of this compact. 

‘‘ARTICLE V. PARTY STATE CONTRIBUTIONS 
‘‘SEC. 5.01. Each party state, except the 
host state, shall contribute a total of $25 
million to the host state. Payments shall be 
deposited in the host state treasury to the 
credit of the low-level waste fund in the following 
manner except as otherwise provided. 
Not later than the 60th day after the date of 
congressional ratification of this compact, 
each non-host party state shall pay to the 
host state $12.5 million. Not later than the 
60th day after the date of the opening of the 
compact facility, each non-host party state 
shall pay to the host state an additional $12.5 
million. 
‘‘SEC. 5.02. As an alternative, the host state 
and the non-host states may provide for payments 
in the same total amount as stated 
above to be made to meet the principal and 
interest expense associated with the bond indebtedness 
or other form of indebtedness 
issued by the appropriate agency of the host 
state for purposes associated with the development, 
operation, and post-closure monitoring 
of the compact facility. In the event 
the member states proceed in this manner, 
the payment schedule shall be determined in 
accordance with the schedule of debt repayment. 
This schedule shall replace the payment 
schedule described in Section 5.01 of 
this article. 
‘‘ARTICLE VI. PROHIBITED ACTS AND PENALTIES 
‘‘SEC. 6.01. No person shall dispose of low-
level radioactive waste generated within the 
party states unless the disposal is at the 
compact facility, except as otherwise provided 
in Section 3.05(7) of Article III. 
‘‘SEC. 6.02. No person shall manage or dispose 
of any low-level radioactive waste within 
the party states unless the low-level radioactive 
waste was generated within the 
party states, except as provided in Section 
3.05(6) of Article III. Nothing herein shall be 
construed to prohibit the storage or management 
of low-level radioactive waste by a generator, 
nor its disposal pursuant to 10 C.F.R. 
Part 20.302. 
‘‘SEC. 6.03. Violations of this article may 
result in prohibiting the violator from disposing 
of low-level radioactive waste in the 
compact facility, or in the imposition of pen


alty surcharges on shipments to the facility, 
as determined by the commission. 
‘‘ARTICLE VII. ELIGIBILITY, ENTRY INTO EFFECT; 

CONGRESSIONAL CONSENT; WITHDRAWAL; EXCLUSION 


‘‘SEC. 7.01. The states of Texas, Maine, and 
Vermont are party states to this compact. 

Any other state may be made eligible for 
party status by a majority vote of the commission 
and ratification by the legislature of 
the host state, subject to fulfillment of the 
rights of the initial non-host party states 
under Section 3.04(11) of Article III and Section 
4.01 of Article IV, and upon compliance 
with those terms and conditions for eligibility 
that the host state may establish. The 
host state may establish all terms and conditions 
for the entry of any state, other than 
the states named in this section, as a member 
of this compact; provided, however, the 
specific provisions of this compact, except 
for those pertaining to the composition of 
the commission and those pertaining to Section 
7.09 of this article, may not be changed 
except upon ratification by the legislatures 
of the party states. 

‘‘SEC. 7.02. Upon compliance with the other 
provisions of this compact, a state made eligible 
under Section 7.01 of this article may 
become a party state by legislative enactment 
of this compact or by executive order 
of the governor of the state adopting this 
compact. A state becoming a party state by 
executive order shall cease to be a party 
state upon adjournment of the first general 
session of its legislature convened after the 
executive order is issued, unless before the 
adjournment, the legislature enacts this 
compact. 

‘‘SEC. 7.03. Any party state may withdraw 
from this compact by repealing enactment of 
this compact subject to the provisions herein. 
In the event the host state allows an additional 
state or additional states to join the 
compact, the host state’s legislature, without 
the consent of the non-host party states, 
shall have the right to modify the composition 
of the commission so that the host state 
shall have a voting majority on the commission, 
provided, however, that any modification 
maintains the right of each initial party 
state to retain one voting member on the 
commission. 

‘‘SEC. 7.04. If the host state withdraws from 
the compact, the withdrawal shall not become 
effective until five years after enactment 
of the repealing legislation and the 
non-host party states may continue to use 
the facility during that time. The financial 
obligation of the non-host party states under 
Article V shall cease immediately upon enactment 
of the repealing legislation. If the 
host state withdraws from the compact or 
abandons plans to operate a facility prior to 
the date of any non-host party state payment 
under Sections 4.05(5) and (6) of Article 
IV or Article V, the non-host party states 
are relieved of any obligations to make the 
contributions. This section sets out the exclusive 
remedies for the non-host party 
states if the host state withdraws from the 
compact or is unable to develop and operate 
a compact facility. 

‘‘SEC. 7.05. A party state, other than the 
host state, may withdraw from the compact 
by repealing the enactment of this compact, 
but this withdrawal shall not become effective 
until two years after the effective date 
of the repealing legislation. During this two-
year period the party state will continue to 
have access to the facility. The withdrawing 
party shall remain liable for any payments 
under Sections 4.05(5) and (6) of Article IV 
that were due during the two-year period, 
and shall not be entitled to any refund of 
payments previously made. 

‘‘SEC. 7.06. Any party state that substantially 
fails to comply with the terms of the 
compact or to fulfill its obligations hereunder 
may have its membership in the compact 
revoked by a seven-eighths vote of the 
commission following notice that a hearing 
will be scheduled not less than six months 
from the date of the notice. In all other respects, 
revocation proceedings undertaken 

by the commission will be subject to the Administrative 
Procedure and Texas Register 
Act (Article 6252–13a, Vernon’s Texas Civil 
Statutes), except that a party state may appeal 
the commission’s revocation decision to 
the United States District Court in accordance 
with Section 3.06 of Article III. Revocation 
shall take effect one year from the date 
such party state receives written notice from 
the commission of a final action. Written notice 
of revocation shall be transmitted immediately 
following the vote of the commission, 
by the chair, to the governor of the affected 
party state, all other governors of 
party states, and to the United States Congress. 


‘‘SEC. 7.07. This compact shall take effect 
following its enactment under the laws of 
the host state and any other party state and 
thereafter upon the consent of the United 
States Congress and shall remain in effect 
until otherwise provided by federal law. If 
Texas and either Maine or Vermont ratify 
this compact, the compact shall be in full 
force and effect as to Texas and the other 
ratifying state, and this compact shall be interpreted 
as follows: 

‘‘(1) Texas and the other ratifying state are 
the initial party states. 

‘‘(2) The commission shall consist of two 
voting members from the other ratifying 
state and six from Texas. 

‘‘(3) Each party state is responsible for its 
pro-rata share of the commission’s expenses. 

‘‘SEC. 7.08. This compact is subject to review 
by the United States Congress and the 
withdrawal of the consent of Congress every 
five years after its effective date, pursuant 
to federal law. 

‘‘SEC. 7.09. The host state legislature, with 
the approval of the governor, shall have the 
right and authority, without the consent of 
the non-host party states, to modify the provisions 
contained in Section 3.04(11) of Article 
III to comply with Section 402.219(c)(1), 
Texas Health & Safety Code, as long as the 
modification does not impair the rights of 
the initial non-host party states. 

‘‘ARTICLE VIII. CONSTRUCTION AND 
SEVERABILITY 

‘‘SEC. 8.01. The provisions of this compact 
shall be broadly construed to carry out the 
purposes of the compact, but the sovereign 
powers of a party shall not be infringed upon 
unnecessarily. 

‘‘SEC. 8.02. This compact does not affect 
any judicial proceeding pending on the effective 
date of this compact. 

‘‘SEC. 8.03. No party state acquires any liability, 
by joining this compact, resulting 
from the siting, operation, maintenance, 
long-term care or any other activity relating 
to the compact facility. No non-host party 
state shall be liable for any harm or damage 
from the siting, operation, maintenance, or 
long-term care relating to the compact facility. 
Except as otherwise expressly provided 
in this compact, nothing in this compact 
shall be construed to alter the incidence of 
liability of any kind for any act or failure to 
act. Generators, transporters, owners and operators 
of the facility shall be liable for their 
acts, omissions, conduct or relationships in 
accordance with applicable law. By entering 
into this compact and securing the ratification 
by Congress of its terms, no party state 
acquires a potential liability under section 
5(d)(2)(C) of the Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 
2021e(d)(2)(C)) that did not exist prior to entering 
into this compact. 

‘‘SEC. 8.04. If a party state withdraws from 
the compact pursuant to Section 7.03 of Article 
VII or has its membership in this compact 
revoked pursuant to section 7.06 of Article 
VII, the withdrawal or revocation shall 
not affect any liability already incurred by 
or chargeable to the affected state under 
Section 8.03 of this article. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3007 

‘‘SEC. 8.05. The provisions of this compact 
shall be severable and if any phrase, clause, 
sentence, or provision of this compact is declared 
by a court of competent jurisdiction 
to be contrary to the constitution of any 
participating state or of the United States or 
the applicability thereof to any government, 
agency, person or circumstances is held invalid, 
the validity of the remainder of this 
compact and the applicability thereof to any 
government, agency, person, or circumstance 
shall not be affected thereby to the extent 
the remainder can in all fairness be given effect. 
If any provision of this compact shall be 
held contrary to the constitution of any 
state participating therein, the compact 
shall remain in full force and effect as to the 
state affected as to all severable matters. 

‘‘SEC. 8.06. Nothing in this compact diminishes 
or otherwise impairs the jurisdiction, 
authority, or discretion of either of the following: 


‘‘(1) The United States Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. Sec. 2011 et 
seq.). 

‘‘(2) An agreement state under section 274 
of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended 
(42 U.S.C. Sec. 2021). 

‘‘SEC. 8.07. Nothing in this compact confers 
any new authority on the states or commission 
to do any of the following: 

‘‘(1) Regulate the packaging or transportation 
of low-level radioactive waste in a 
manner inconsistent with the regulations of 
the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
or the United States Department of 
Transportation. 

‘‘(2) Regulate health, safety, or environmental 
hazards from source, by-product, or 
special nuclear material. 

‘‘(3) Inspect the activities of licensees of 
the agreement states or of the United States 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.’’. 

WELLSTONE AMENDMENTS NOS. 
2277–2278 

Mr. DOMENICI (for Mr. WELLSTONE) 
proposed two amendments to the bill, 

H.R. 629, supra; as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 2277 
On page 2, strike lines 5 through 15 and insert 
the following: 

SEC. 3. CONDITIONS ON CONSENT TO COMPACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The consent of Congress 
to the compact set forth in section 5— 
(1) shall become effective on the date of enactment 
of this Act; 
(2) is granted subject to the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 2021b 
et seq.); and 
(3) is granted on the conditions that— 
(A) the Commission (as defined in the compact) 
comply with all of the provisions of 
that Act; and 
(B) the compact not be implemented (including 
execution by any party state (as defined 
in the compact) of any right, responsibility, 
or obligation of the party state under 
Article IV of the compact) in any way that 
discriminates against any community 
(through disparate treatment or disparate 
impact) by reason of the composition of the 
community in terms of race, color, national 
origin, or income level. 
(b) CONSENT TO SUIT.—By proceeding to implement 
the compact after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the party states and Commission 
shall be considered to have consented 
to suit in a civil action under subsection 
(d). 
(c) CONTINUING EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDITION.—
If the consent of Congress is declared 
to be of no further effect in a civil action 
under subsection (d), the condition stated in 
subsection (a)(3)(B) shall continue to apply 
to any subsequent operation of the compact 
facility. 

(d) ENFORCEMENT.— 
(1) BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—If the Attorney 
General obtains evidence that a condition 
stated in subsection (a)(3) has not 
been complied with at any time, the Attorney 
General shall bring a civil action in 
United States district court for a judgment 
against the party states (as defined in the 
compact) and Commission— 
(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; and 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance. 
(2) BY A MEMBER OF AN AFFECTED COMMUNITY.—
If person that resides or has a principal 
place of business a community that is 
adversely affected by a failure to comply 
with the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) obtains evidence of the failure of 
compliance, the person may bring a civil action 
in United States district court for a 
judgment against the party states and Commission— 
(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; and 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2278 
On page 2, strike lines 5 through 15 and insert 
the following: 

SEC. 3. CONDITIONS ON CONSENT TO COMPACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The consent of Congress 
to the compact set forth in section 5— 
(1) shall become effective on the date of enactment 
of this Act; 
(2) is granted subject to the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 2021b 
et seq.); and 
(3) is granted on the conditions that— 
(A) the Commission (as defined in the compact) 
comply with all of the provisions of 
that Act; and 
(B) no low-level radioactive waste be 
brought into Texas for disposal at a compact 
facility from any State other than the State 
of Maine or Vermont. 
(b) CONSENT TO SUIT.—By proceeding to implement 
the compact after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the party states and Commission 
shall be considered to have consented 
to suit in a civil action under subsection 
(d). 
(c) CONTINUING EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDITION.—
If the consent of Congress is declared 
to be of no further effect in a civil action 
under subsection (d), the condition stated in 
subsection (a)(3)(B) shall continue to apply 
to any subsequent operation of the compact 
facility. 
(d) ENFORCEMENT.— 
(1) BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—If the Attorney 
General obtains evidence that a condition 
stated in subsection (a)(3) has not 
been complied with at any time, the Attorney 
General shall bring a civil action in 
United States district court for a judgment 
against the party states (as defined in the 
compact) and Commission— 
(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance; 
and 
(C) in any second or subsequent civil action 
under this subsection in which the court 
finds that a second or subsequent failure to 
comply with the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) has occurred, ordering that 
the compact facility be closed. 
(2) BY A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNITY IN 
WHICH A COMPACT FACILITY IS LOCATED.—If 
any person that resides or has a principal 
place of business in the community in which 
a compact facility is located obtains evidence 
that the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) has not been complied with at any 
time, the person may bring a civil action in 
United States district court for a judgment 
against the party states and Commission— 

(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance; 
and 
(C) in any second or subsequent civil action 
under this subsection in which the court 
finds that a second or subsequent failure to 
comply with the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) has occurred, ordering that 
the compact facility be closed. 
f 

NOTICE OF HEARING 

COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS 

Mr. CAMPBELL. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce that the Senate 
Committee on Indian Affairs will conduct 
three Field Hearings as follows: 
on Tuesday, April 7, 1998 at 11:00 a.m. 
to conduct a Hearing on Tribal Sovereign 
Immunity, in Seattle, Washington; 
on Wednesday, April 8, 1998 at 

1:30 p.m. to conduct a hearing on Jurisdiction 
Issues in the State of Montana, 
in Billings, Montana; and on Thursday, 
April 9, 1998 at 1:00 p.m. to conduct a 
Hearing on Economic Development in 
St. Paul, Minnesota. 
f 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND 
TRANSPORTATION 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation be authorized to meet 
on Wednesday, April 1, 1998 at 9:30 a.m. 
on pending committee business (tobacco 
legislation). 

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC 
WORKS 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the full Committee 
on Environment and Public 
Works be granted permission to conduct 
a hearing on environmental tobacco 
smoke Wednesday, April 1, 1:30 
p.m., Hearing Room (SD–406). 

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Finance be permitted to 
meet Wednesday, April 1, 1998 beginning 
at 10:00 a.m. in room SH–215, to 
conduct a markup. 

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent on behalf of the 
Governmental Affairs Committee to 
meet on Wednesday, April 1, 1998, at 

10:00 a.m. for a hearing on ‘‘Crashing 
into the Millenium’’. 

S3008 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent on behalf of the 
Governmental Affairs Committee to 
meet on Wednesday, April 1, 1998, at 

2:30 p.m. for a hearing on the nomination 
of Melvin R. Wright to be Associate 
Judge of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia. 
THE PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent on behalf of the 
Governmental Affairs Committee to 
meet on Wednesday, April 1, 1998, at 

4:00 p.m. for a business meeting and 
markup on legislative items and pending 
nominations. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
Committee on Indian Affairs be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Wednesday, April 1, 1998, at 

10:30 a.m. in room 106 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building to conduct a 
markup on the following business: (1) 
the nomination of Katherine Archuleta 
of Denver, Colorado to serve on the 
Board of Directors of the Institute of 
American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development; (2) S. 
1279, Indian Employment, Training and 
Related Services Demonstration Act 
Amendments of 1997; and (3) S. 1797, the 
Reduction in Tobacco Use and Regulation 
of Tobacco Products in Indian 
Country Act of 1998. To be followed immediately 
by a hearing on Amendments 
to the Indian Gaming Regulatory 
Act. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON LABOR AND HUMAN RESOURCES 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Labor and Human Resources 
be authorized to meet in executive session 
during the session of the Senate 
on Wednesday, April 1, 1998, at 1:30 p.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON ANTITRUST, BUSINESS 
RIGHTS, AND COMPETITION 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Subcommittee 
on Antitrust, Business 
Rights, and Competition, of the Senate 
Judiciary Committee, be authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate 
on Wednesday, April 1, 1998 at 10:00 

a.m. to hold a hearing in room 226, Senate 
Dirksen Building, on: ‘‘Airline 
Hubs: Fair Competition or Predatory 
Pricing?’’ 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Subcommittee 
on Financial Services and 
Technology of the Committee on Bank


ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs be authorized 
to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Wednesday, April 1, 1998, 
to conduct a hearing on identity theft. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATIONAL PARKS, HISTORIC 
PRESERVATION, AND RECREATION 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Subcommittee 
on National Parks, Historic 
Preservation, and Recreation of the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
be granted permission to meet 
during the session of the Senate on 
Wednesday, April 1, for purposes of 
conducting a subcommittee hearing 
which is scheduled to begin at 2:00 p.m. 
The purpose of this hearing is to receive 
testimony on titles I, II, III, and 
V of S. 1693, the Vision 2020 National 
Parks Restoration Act. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENT 

NATIONAL BREAST CANCER 
SURVIVORS DAY 

S Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, 
today is National Breast Cancer Survivors 
Day and I want to take this opportunity 
to focus my colleague’s attention 
on the importance of continued 
research and early detection efforts for 
this tragic disease. 

Mr. President, one out of nine American 
women will suffer the tragedy of 
breast cancer. It is today the leading 
cause of death for women between the 
ages of 35 to 54. 

Alaskan women are particularly vulnerable 
to this disease. We have the 
second highest rate of breast cancer in 
the Nation. One in 7 Alaska women will 
get breast cancer and tragically it is 
the Number One cause of death among 
Native Alaskan women. 

Mr. President, these tragic Alaska 
deaths are not inevitable. Health experts 
agree that the best hope for lowering 
the death rate is early detection 
and treatment. It is estimated that 
breast cancer deaths can be reduced by 
30 percent if all women avail themselves 
of regular clinical breast examination 
and mammography. 

But for many Alaska women, especially 
native women living in one of 
our 230 remote villages, regular screening 
and early detection are often hopeless 
dreams. 

For more than 20 years, my wife 
Nancy has recognized this problem and 
tried to do something about it. In 1974, 
she and a group of Fairbanks’ women 
created the Breast Cancer Detection 
Center, for the purpose of offering 
mammographies to women in remote 
areas of Alaska—regardless of a woman’s 
ability to pay. 

Now, the Center uses a small portable 
mammography unit which can be 
flown to remote areas of Alaska, offering 
women in the most rural of areas 
easy access to mammographies at no 

cost. Additionally, the Center uses a 
43-foot long, 14 foot high and 26,000 
pound mobile mammography van to 
travel through rural areas of Alaska. 
The van makes regular trips, usually 
by river barge, to remote areas in Interior 
Alaska such as Tanana. 

Julie Roberts, a 42-year-old woman of 
Tanana, who receives regular 
mammographies from the mobile mammography 
van, knows the importance 
of early screening: 

There’s a lot of cancer here (in Tanana)— 
a lot of cancer. That’s why it’s important to 
have the mobile van here . . . I know that if 
I get checked, I can catch it early and can 
probably save my life. I have three children 
and I want to see my grandchildren. 

I am proud to say that the Fairbanks 
Center now serves about 2,200 women a 
year and has provided screenings to 
more than 25,000 Alaska women in 81 
villages throughout the state. To help 
fund the efforts of the Fairbanks Center, 
each year Nancy and I sponsor a 
fishing tournament to raise money for 
the operation of the van and mobile 
mammography unit. After just three 
years, donations from the tournament 
have totalled $830,000. 

Mr. President, Nancy and I are committed 
to raising more funds for this 
important program so that every 
woman in Alaska can benefit from the 
advances of modern technology and reduce 
their risk of facing this killer disease. 


Mr. President on this day that we 
recognize survivors of breast cancer, I 
want take a moment to discuss legislation 
that I am cosponsoring with Senator 
D’AMATO to end the practices of 
so-called ‘‘drive-through’’ 
mastectomies. 

In too many cases women who survive 
the trauma of a mastectomy are 
being forced to get out of the hospital 
only hours after their surgery. How can 
medical care professionals allow this? 
Simply because many insurance companies 
demand that the procedure of a 
mastectomy be considered an out-patient 
service.’’ 

Here’s the horror that many insurance 
companies cause: 

Nancy Couchot, a 60 year old woman 
had a radical mastectomy at 11:30 a.m. 
She was released from the hospital five 
hours— even though she was not able 
to walk or use the rest room without 
assistance. 

Victoria Berck, had a mastectomy 
and lymph node removal at 7:30 a.m. 7 
hours late. She was given instructions 
on how to empty two drains attached 
to her body and sent home. Ms. Berck 
concludes, ‘‘No civilized country in the 
world has a mastectomy as an out-patient 
service.’’ 

Mr. President that is why I am proud 
to co-sponsor the Women’s Health and 
Cancer Rights Act of 1997, which would 
put an end to the drive-through 
mastectomies. 

Specifically, the Act will require 
health insurance companies to allow 
physicians to determine the length of a 
mastectomy patient’s hospital stay according 
to medical necessity. In other 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3009 

words, the bill makes it illegal to punish 
a doctor for following good medical 
judgment and sound medical treatment. 


Another important provision of this 
bill ensures that mastectomy patients 
will have access to reconstructive surgery. 
Scores of women have been denied 
reconstructive surgery following 
mastectomies because insurers have 
deemed the procedure to be cosmetic’’ 
and, therefore, not medically necessary. 


Mr. President, far too often breast 
cancer victims, who believe that they 
have adequate health care coverage, 
are horrified when they learn that reconstruction 
is not covered in their 
health plan. 

In Alaska, of the 324 mastectomies 
and lumpectomies performed in 1996, 
reconstruction only occurred on 11 of 
the patients. That means that only 
3.4% of women who have their breast 
removed have reconstructive surgery, 
compared to the national average of 
23%. 

Mr. President, the simple reason for 
this tragically low figure is simple: 
women can’t afford the procedure. 

Breast reconstruction costs average 
about $5,000 for just the procedure. If 
hospital, physician and other costs are 
included—the costs escalate to around 
$15,000. 

Dr. Sarah Troxel, of Providence hospital, 
the only doctor in the Mat-Su 
Valley who does breast reconstruction, 
states the importance of reconstruction: 


Women who are unable to receive reconstructive 
surgery, suffer from depression, a 
sense of loss, and need more cancer survivor 
counseling . . . Additionally reconstructive 
surgery can be preventative medicine— 
women who don’t have reconstructive surgery 
often develop other medical problems or 
complications with their spine. 

Mr. President, these issues are not 
partisan issues. We may have our differences 
regarding managing and financing 
health reform, but I think we 
all endorse accessible and affordable 
health care that preserves patient 
choice and physician discretion. Cancer 
does not look to see the politics of its 
victims. 

It is my hope that we will adopt this 
legislation this year.S 

f 

50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE U.S. 

AIR FORCE RESERVE 
S Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to honor the United States Air 
Force Reserve on its 50th Anniversary, 
which will be celebrated across the 
country on April 14, 1998. The United 
States Air Force Reserve can trace its 
heritage back to the National Defense 
Act of 1916 which authorized a reserve 
corps of 2,300 officer and enlisted aviators. 
In 1917, the War Department established 
the First Reserve Aero 
Squadron. However, the Air Reserve 
was not formally established until 
after World War II. 

On July 26, 1947, the National Security 
Act was signed into law by Presi


dent Truman. This act established the 
United States Air Force as a separate 
branch of our Nation’s armed forces. 
On April 14, 1948, just seven months 
later, the U.S. Air Force Reserve was 
established. On April 27, 1948, the Air 
Reserve was transferred to the Air 
Force. In October 1948, President Truman 
directed the services to revamp 
their reserve components. As a result, 
the Air Force established the position 
of Special Assistant to the Chief of 
Staff for Reserve Forces to oversee the 
Air Reserve. The first person to fill 
this position was Lt. Gen. Elwood R. 
Quesada. On December 1, 1948, the Air 
Force established the Continental Air 
Command (CONAC) at Mitchell Air 
Force Base, New York. The CONAC’s 
mission was to administer all Air Reserve 
programs. After the establishment 
of the CONAC, the Air Reserve’s 
mission became more coherent and diversified. 


Since its humble beginnings during 
World War I, the Air Force Reserve has 
seen many dramatic changes as it has 
built itself into the world-class force it 
is today. Over the past fifty years the 
men and women of the Air Force Reserve 
have served with honor and distinction 
during the 1961 Berlin Crisis 
and the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, and 
in the major conflicts of Korea, Vietnam 
and in the Persian Gulf. Major 
General Robert A. McIntosh, the Commander 
of the Air Force Reserve Command, 
recently summarized the remarkable 
accomplishments of the Air 
Force Reserve. He said, ‘‘In five decades, 
we moved from a standby force, 
training on obsolete and war-weary airplanes, 
to a front-line force that is 
more capable than the air forces of 
many nations. We are a role model for 
keeping unique capabilities in a military 
framework without spending the 
money that a large full-time military 
requires.’’ 

As the Air Force Reserve celebrates 
its Golden Anniversary this month, we 
recognize that the Air Force Reserve 
truly does have a golden legacy. It is a 
legacy that we should all take time to 
reflect upon and honor. Regardless of 
any future threat our Nation may face, 
the Air Force Reserve will meet the 
challenge just as they always have. Air 
Force Reservists deserve the respect 
and gratitude of all Americans for 
their service and their sacrifice for our 
country. These volunteers exemplify 
daily their dedication to the ideals 
that make our country great. 

In Michigan, the 927th Air Refueling 
Wing at Selfridge Air National Guard 
Base will celebrate the Air Reserve’s 
50th Anniversary. The 927th ARW flies 
KC–135E Stratotankers to fulfill its 
mission of providing Global Reach for 
United States air power. The 927th has 
a rich history of service which includes 
missions in Vietnam, the Persian Gulf 
and Bosnia. We in Michigan are very 
proud of the job the 927th is doing for 
our nation. 

I know my Senate colleagues join me 
in celebrating the 50th Anniversary of 
the United States Air Force Reserve.S 

NATIONAL BREAST CANCER 
SURVIVORS’ DAY 

S Mrs. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I 
rise today to highlight to the Senate 
and to the American people the importance 
of this day—National Breast 
Cancer Survivors’ Day—a day commemorating 
breast cancer awareness 
and the celebration of life. 

Breast cancer is the most common 
cancer among women of all ages. There 
is scarcely an American family that in 
some way has not been touched by this 
disease. In fact, it is estimated that 
over 180,000 women and men are diagnosed 
with breast cancer and over 
43,000 die from the disease each year. 
Women have a 12 percent lifetime risk 
for developing breast cancer, and one 
in 25 women will develop the disease by 
age 60. While these statistics are grim, 
today we pause to focus our attention 
on the hundreds of thousands of success 
stories—individuals who have survived 
and even prospered despite breast 
cancer. 

I salute every brave woman and man 
who has battled and beaten this disease. 
Only someone who has had cancer 
can really know what it is like—the 
fear, the doubt, and the often painful 
and debilitating treatments and medical 
procedures. But beat it they have. 
And to those who are still in the fight, 
I say: ‘‘Hang in there. You can do it, 
and the chances are ever greater that 
you will do it.’’ 

When detected early and when confined 
to the breast, the five-year survival 
rate for this disease is over 95 
percent. Mr. President, this is a remarkable 
statistic, and represents a 
dramatically improved picture than 
that of even a few years ago. It is also 
important to note that, for the first 
time in years, the mortality rate for 
both Caucasian and African-American 
women is also declining. With continued 
advancements in early detection 
and treatment procedures, and with 
the growing hope that a cure might be 
found in a matter of years, not decades, 
women today certainly do have cause 
to celebrate. 

But our work is far from done. I and 
many of my Senate and House colleagues 
are doing all we can to ensure 
that adequate federal resources are 
being allocated to research, education, 
and treatment of breast cancer. 
Through research grants and direct research 
conducted at the National Institutes 
of Health, promising leads and 
even occasional breakthroughs are 
being pursued with vigor by the best 
and brightest of the medical and scientific 
worlds. We can of course do 
more, and I am joining many of my colleagues 
on the Appropriations Committee 
in supporting a significant increase 
in the fiscal year 1999 budget for 
the NIH so that this important work 
can move forward. Put simply, we will 
not rest until a cure is found. 

But until a cure is found, let me say 
to every woman in America that you 
are your own best ally in the fight 
against breast cancer. Self-exams and 


S3010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

regular breast cancer screenings for 
high risk women and women over 40 is 
absolutely crucial. I was pleased that 
last year the National Institutes of 
Health joined me and others in recognizing 
the importance of annual 
screening of women over 40, and the 
availability and affordability of mammography 
and other promising detection 
techniques continues to increase. 

So today, I join my colleagues and all 
Americans in celebrating those who 
have won the battle against breast cancer. 
We salute and celebrate their courage, 
optimism, and often selfless commitment 
to help those newly diagnosed 
to overcome the challenges that lay 
ahead. Mr. President, these individuals 
are not just survivors, they are beacons 
of inspiration and hope for all of us. 
With the heart and spirit of these survivors 
leading our way, I know that we 
will eventually win and conquer this 
disease. That will be the best Survivors’ 
Day of allÆ 

f 

VIOLENT AND REPEAT JUVENILE 

OFFENDER ACT OF 1997 
S Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the recent 
shootings outside a school in 
Jonesboro, Arkansas, that left four 
young students and a teacher dead and 
scores of others wounded in both body 
and mind are shocking. Just over the 
last few months, we have seen deadly 
shootings carried out by juveniles in 
rural communities in Kentucky, in 
Mississippi and now in Arkansas. 
Clearly, juvenile crime is not just an 
urban problem. These shootings leave 
scars on the loved ones of those killed 
and injured and on the communities involved 
that take a long time to heal. 

We may never fully comprehend how 
such crimes against children could be 
executed by other children. But one 
thing should be clear: The issue of juvenile 
crime should not be used for 
cheap grandstanding or short-sighted 
political gain. We need to find constructive 
approaches to this problem 
that builds upon past successes and respects 
the proper roles of State, local 
and Federal authorities. 

In the last session, and again at the 
beginning of this session, I have spoken 
about the need to address the nation’s 
juvenile crime problem on a bipartisan 
basis. Politicizing the juvenile crime 
problem does a disservice to the citizens 
in this country who want constructive 
responses. 

I have spoken about the need to address 
the flaws in the juvenile crime 
bill, S. 10, which the Judiciary Committee 
voted on last summer. In floor 
statements and in the extensive minority 
views included in the Committee 
report, I have outlined those areas in 
which this bill needs significant improvement. 


In short, the bill reported by the 
Committee to the Senate would mandate 
massive changes in the juvenile 
justice systems in each of our States, 
and it would invite an influx of juvenile 
cases in Federal courts around the 

country. The repercussions of this legislation 
would be severe for any State 
seeking federal juvenile justice assistance. 
The bill also removes core protections 
that have been in pace for 25 
years to keep juvenile offenders out of 
adult jails and away from the harmful 
influences of seasoned adult criminals. 

The need for significant improvements 
to this bill is no secret. Virtually 
every editorial board to consider 
the bill has reached the same conclusion. 
Just in recent days, the Philadelphia 
Inquirer concluded that the bill 
‘‘is fatally flawed and should be rejected.’’ 
On Monday, March 23, the Los 
Angeles Times described the bill as 
‘‘peppered with ridiculous poses and 
penalties’’ and taking a ‘‘rigid, counterproductive 
approach.’’ The Chattanooga 
Times, on March 14, labeled 
the bill ‘‘misguided’’ with ‘‘flaws so 
far-reaching that the bill requires substantial 
surgery.’’ The Houston Chronicle, 
on March 10, observed that this 
bill ‘‘at the very least, needs serious rethinking.’’ 
The Legal Times, on March 
2, called S. 10 ‘‘the crime bill no one 
likes.’’ The St. Petersburg Times, on 
February 23, described the bill as ‘‘an 
amalgam of bad and dangerous ideas.’’ 
A February 10 opinion piece in the Baltimore 
Sun described S. 10 as a ‘‘radical’’ 
and ‘‘aberrant bill.’’ 

The criticisms leveled at S. 10 are, 
unfortunately, well-deserved. Consequently, 
eight months after this bill 
was voted out of Committee, the Committee 
held a belated hearing on some 
of the new controversial mandates in 
the bill. At that hearing, on March 9, 
Senator SESSIONS announced a number 
of changes that he planned to make to 
the new juvenile record-keeping and 
fingerprinting mandates in the bill. I 
had recommended a number of these 
changes during Judiciary Committee 
mark-up of the bill, and I am pleased 
that, finally, my cautions are being 
heeded. 

I will be glad to see removed the requirement 
of photographing every juvenile 
upon arrest for an act that 
would have been a felony if committed 
by an adult, and the new fingerprinting 
and record-keeping mandates limited 
to felony acts that occur in the future. 

I continue to oppose the imposition 
of these new requirements as mandates. 
These mandates will cost States 
more to implement than they can hope 
to receive in federal assistance. Those 
who believe that $250 million over 5 
years, or $50 million per year, will be 
sufficient to pay for the record-keeping 
mandates in S. 10 have not studied the 
comprehensive report recently released 
by the National Center for Juvenile 
Justice and that the bill, as currently 
drafted, would cost the states far more 
than that, especially through its new 
fingerprinting and record-keeping mandates. 


Many of the States are way ahead of 
the federal government in finding innovative 
ways to address juvenile crime 
and need resource assistance, and not 
bullying, from Washington. They need 

help to do what they decide is the right 
balance. 

While it is a better practice to hold 
hearings and examine issues before legislation 
is voted on and reported out of 
committee, I look forward to working 
with Senators HATCH and SESSIONS to 
improve this package, now that the bill 
has been reported but finds itself off 
the main track and stalled on a siding. 
I again urge the sponsors of this legislation 
not to politicize the important 
issue of juvenile crime but to work in 
an open, fair and bipartisan way to 
make S. 10 a better bill that will truly 
do what we all say we want it do to: 
Reduce youth crime.S 

f 

ASYLUM 

S Mr. DEWINE. Mr. President, I rise 
today to express my concerns about 
the implementation of the immigration 
laws that Congress passed in 1996, 
since we are fast approaching an important 
deadline. Today is the deadline 
for those immigrants who have lived in 
the United States for one year who 
wish to apply for political asylum. 

The concerns I raised and shared during 
the debate on the 1996 Immigration 
bill are even more relevant today. People 
who have the most credible asylum 
claims—those under threat of retaliation, 
those suffering physical or mental 
disability, possibly as a result of torture 
they endured in their home country—
may find themselves barred from 
ever applying for asylum if they miss 
this deadline. 

To protect those who flee persecution 
and abuse and seek refuge in the 
United States, the INS should, at the 
very least, promulgate a final rule that 
includes the broad ‘‘good cause’’ exceptions 
from the Senate-passed version of 
the 1996 immigration law. Senators 
KENNEDY, FEINGOLD, and I sent a letter 
on February 12, 1998 to INS urging that 
the final rule include the Senate’s 
more expansive definition of ‘‘good 
cause’’ exceptions for missing that 
deadline. 

The INS should not issue regulations 
that might exclude the very applicants 
that the concept of asylum was meant 
to include. For this reason, our letter 
urges INS to promulgate a final rule 
that adopts the Senate’s entire definition 
of ‘‘good cause’’ for missing the 
one-year filing deadline: 

‘‘Good cause’’ may include, but is not limited 
to, [1] circumstances that changed after 
the applicant entered the United States and 
that are relevant to the applicant’s eligibility 
for asylum; [2] physical or mental disabilities; 
[3] threats of retribution against 
the applicant’s relatives abroad; [4] attempts 
to file affirmatively that were unsuccessful 
because of technical defects; [5] efforts to 
seek asylum that were delayed by the temporary 
unavailability of professional assistance; 
[6] the illness or death of the applicant’s 
legal representative; or [7] other extenuating 
circumstances as determined by 
the Attorney General. [Section 193 of Senate 
bill; *numbers added for reference]. 

Mr. President, the very least our 
country should offer these victims of 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3011 

persecution, are clearly and fairly stated 
exceptions to this one-year filing 
deadline. 

My second concern is that the implementation 
of the summary exclusion or 
expedited removal provisions of the 
new immigration law may prove to be 
even more harmful to those who flee 
from persecution and seek refuge in the 
United States. When this bill was being 
debated in 1996, Senator LEAHY and I 
sponsored an amendment that would 
have limited such expedited removal 
procedures to only emergency situations. 
While that amendment passed by 
one vote in the Senate, it unfortunately 
did not survive in conference. 

I said in May of 1996, and I still believe 
today, that victims of politically 
motivated torture and rape are the 
very ones who are most likely to have 
to resort to the use of false documents 
to flee from repressive governments— 
yet the use of such fraudulent documents 
subjects them to summary exclusion 
under the 1996 law. 

I also remain concerned that while 
the INS may instruct its inspectors not 
to assess the credibility of an asylum 
claim—but instead refer the claim to 
an asylum officer—who can say how 
this process is actually being implemented 
nationwide at all of our 260 
ports of entry? Other outside agencies 
are not permitted to monitor this process. 
Some credible cases are being assessed 
at secondary inspection sites by 
INS officials who are not trained asylum 
officers. As a result, I urge the Attorney 
General to appoint someone 
from her office to oversee the functioning 
of secondary inspection sites to 
ensure that anyone stating a fear of 
persecution or abuse is not forced onto 
the next plane back to his or her persecutors. 


DOJ oversight could also prevent future 
inhumane actions—cases of physical 
and mental abuse that some INS 
officials have allegedly inflicted on 
asylum seekers who are shackled to 
benches at JFK Airport—or at least 
provide accountability for a process 
sorely lacking such oversight. A man 
from Somalia, Mohamoud Farah, who 
was recently granted asylum, yesterday 
described his ordeal during a press 
conference sponsored by the Lawyers 
Committee for Human Rights. I will 
ask that his full statement be printed 
in the RECORD at the conclusion of my 
remarks, but I will highlight some of it 
now. While Mohamoud endured 14 and a 
half hours shackled to a chair at JFK 
Airport, without food or water or even 
restroom breaks, he experienced abuse 
from INS officials and saw them abuse 
others who had been detained in the 
secondary inspection waiting area. 

Being kicked, cursed at, and shackled 
to a chair is not how any of us envision 
proper treatment of people who seek 
refuge in our great nation—in fact, I 
imagine that kind of treatment as only 
occurring at the hands of the persecutors 
in the very countries from which 
these refugees flee. 

Finally, I am concerned about the 
consistency with which INS imple


ments its own rules and regulations in 
compliance with the 1996 immigration 
law. For example, in the General Accounting 
Office’s report that was sent 
to me yesterday, the GAO describes inconsistencies 
among the eight asylum 
offices in the process of conducting 
‘‘credible fear’’ interviews. Some offices 
failed to document whether a required 
paragraph on torture was read 
to the asylum seeker, or whether questions 
about torture were asked. I am 
concerned about these inconsistencies—
especially since information 
about torture would provide a solid 
basis on which to grant asylum. 

INS should also be consistent in allowing 
for effective representation 
when an asylum applicant appears before 
an immigration judge. This means 
that immigration judges should allow 
the attorney or representative of the 
asylum seeker to participate at the 
hearing by speaking or asking questions. 


The right to have a trained asylum 
officer hear an asylum claim or to have 
counsel speak during a review hearing 
before an immigration judge should be 
a consistent right of all asylum seek-
ers—not just a right that depends on 
which airport a person lands in or 
which immigration judge that person 
ends up appealing to. 

In conclusion, Mr. President, the 
Senate must remain vigilant in its 
oversight duties if we want to keep our 
asylum system working. We have to remember 
that there’s a reason for having 
an asylum system in the first 
place—and that is to keep the torch of 
liberty lit for truly oppressed people. 
This is a basic American value, and 
America should not turn its back on 
this fundamental principle. 

I ask that the statement of 
Mohamoud Farah be printed in the 
RECORD. 

The statement follows: 

STATEMENT OF MOHAMOUD FARAH 
(represented by the Hebrew Immigrant Aid 
Society (HIAS)) 
I arrived at JFK airport in New York City 
on October 31, 1997, on an Egypt Air flight 
from Cairo. When the plane landed, I informed 
someone at the airport that I was a 
refugee without a visa to enter the United 
States. I overheard this person tell a uniformed 
INS officer that I was ‘‘illegal’’. This 
INS officer insulted me, cursed at me, and 
asked me why I came to the United States. 
He pushed me backwards, and I fell down. 
Before I knew what was happening, three or 
four INS officers were putting shackles on 
my arms and legs. They bound my wrists and 
ankles to the legs of a chair. As the shackle 
was short, I was forced to lean forward in an 
uncomfortable position. The officers yelled 
and cursed at me. One of them pulled my ear. 
I tried to explain that I was a refugee from 
Somalia, but they just continued to shout. I 
saw the officers kick some other people, who 
were then taken away. 
I remained shackled to the chair, leaning 
forward, for fourteen and a half hours. During 
that time, despite my requests, I was not 
given any food or water, nor was I allowed to 
use the restroom. I saw two shift changes 
take place while I was still bound to the 
chair. At one point, employees from Egypt 
Air came with my luggage and ticket and 

said they were trying to send me back. I was 
afraid that if I were sent to Egypt, I might 
be put in jail. I told them I would rather be 
in jail in the United States. 

They eventually sent me to another office 
where someone from INS began to take a 
statement from me about why I left Somalia. 
This statement would be used by the Immigration 
Judge in my proceedings. I was expected 
to discuss very painful experiences 
with the same people who were being abusive 
to me. This interview took a long time, as 
there was another shift change, and a new officer 
had to finish the statement. After they 
took the statement, I had to wait in that office 
for three more hours. I still was not allowed 
water or given permission to use the 
restroom. Finally, I was transported to the 
detention facility, near the airport in 
Queens, NY, at about 3:30 a.m. At that point, 
I was finally able to have some water and use 
the restroom, but received no food until 
lunch the next day. In the detention center, 
I began the process of applying for asylum in 
the United States. I was represented by Olga 
Narymsky, an attorney with the Hebrew Immigrant 
Aid Society (HIAS). After 101 days 
in detention, on February 9, 1998, I was 
granted political asylum. 

I never expected that I would be treated 
this way in the United States. I know America 
is a great nation and that the way I was 
treated is not normal. I hope that by telling 
my story, I can help prevent anyone else 
from having to endure what happened when 
I arrived seeking refuge in this country. 

f 

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION 
AND EDUCATION REFORM 


S Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
am here to support the Senator from 
Iowa in asking that we be allowed to 
vote on S. 1150, so that we may provide 
crop insurance to the farmers in this 
country and begin to restore food 
stamps to some legal immigrants who 
lost eligibility under welfare reform. It 
is a bill financed primarily by funds 
from reducing the federal dollars for 
the administration of food stamps and 
provides the perfect opportunity to 
start correcting the mistakes made 
under welfare reform in denying legal 
immigrants access to the food stamp 
program. In addition it could allow full 
funding for crop insurance for next 
year and beyond. The only way Congress 
could avoid leaving farmers exposed 
in this way, would be to provide 
significant increases to crop insurance 
during the appropriation process. It 
will be incredibly difficult to increase 
crop insurance through the appropriations 
process because of the tight discretionary 
caps and the tremendous 
pressure on all programs. 

As currently drafted, S. 1150 would 
provide just over $800 million for 
FY1999–FY2003 to restore benefits to 
approximately 250,000 people. That is 
less than a third of those who lost their 
eligibility under welfare reform. It is a 
step in the right direction and we as 
the Senate should have the right to 
vote on this legislation. 

We are not a country built on denying 
food to children and their parents. 
Yet that is essentially what we did 
when we passed Welfare Reform. Estimates 
suggest that around 900,000 legal 


S3012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

immigrants lost their eligibility. In addition, 
600,000 citizen children with 
legal immigrant parents have seen 
their family’s food stamps reduced. Denying 
access to nutrition will indeed 
affect children. It might be in terms of 
reducing children’s food or it might be 
in terms of family dynamics, job performance 
or children’s accomplishments. 
The reality is food is a basic 
need that if lost or reduced has rippling 
effects on a family. 

The legislation that has been stopped 
would, if passed, begin to return food 
stamps to the neediest of those immigrants 
who lost eligibility under welfare 
reform: children, elderly and disabled. 
In addition it extends eligibility 
of asylees and refugees from 5 to 7 
years to allow them the time required 
to apply for citizenship. The remaining 
$1.1 billion would ensure the much 
needed funding for crop insurance and 
increase the much needed funds for agriculture 
research. Agriculture research 
funds are critical to improving 
food safety and providing a better quality 
food supply for all consumers. I encourage 
the President to allow the Senate 
to vote on this legislation so that 
we may improve food stamp eligibility 
to legal immigrants and ensure crop insurance 
to our farmers.S 

f 

CONGRATULATING TUBBY SMITH 
S Mr. SARBANES. Mr. President, I rise 
today to congratulate a native son of 
Southern Maryland, Tubby Smith, 
who, as a first year head coach, led the 
Kentucky Wildcats to victory in this 
year’s NCAA Basketball Tournament. 
This event is a historic one as Tubby 
Smith becomes only the third African-
American to coach an NCAA men’s 
championship basketball team at an 
institution that, at one time, did not 
allow African-Americans students to 
participate in basketball. It is for these 
reasons that I am particularly proud to 
congratulate Tubby Smith, a fellow 
small-town Marylander, on behalf of 
athletes and citizens nationwide who 
appreciate the value of opportunity 
and victory. Mr. President, I ask that 
an article on Tubby Smith, his family 
and life in Scotland, St. Mary’s County, 
Maryland from the April 1, 1998 edition 
of the Washington Post be printed 
in the RECORD. 
The article follows: 
[From the Washington Post, Apr. 1, 1998] 
IN ST. MARY’S, A CHAMPION’S FAMILY 
CELEBRATES 
(By Jessie Mangaliman) 
In the modest one-story cinder-block home 
in Scotland near St. Mary’s County’s southernmost 
point, Tubby Smith’s large family— 
he has 16 brothers and sisters, 10 of whom 
still live in Southern Maryland, and 38 
nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews—
gathered yesterday at the family 
home to celebrate a victory by one of their 
own. 
It was family-style: in the kitchen over a 
cup of coffee or in the den in front of a television 
tuned to a sports channel. 
But in some ways, this victory encompasses 
a larger family. That’s because Tubby 

Smith, the winning coach of the NCAA 
champion University of Kentucky Wildcats, 
was the first African American coach of a 
school that once barred blacks from playing 
on its basketball team. On Monday, he 
brought honor to that school and the country 
when his team, which included his son, 
Saul, won the national basketball title, defeating 
Utah 78–69. 

‘‘I think he’s proved them all wrong,’’ said 
his jubilant sister Ramona Smith, who lives 
in Scotland, the tiny farming community of 
several hundred people six miles from the 
Chesapeake Bay. ‘‘He’s made a believer out 
of everybody. His coaching record speaks for 
itself; he just happens to be black.’’ 

‘‘Yes, my God, we are proud of Tubby 
Smith,’’ declared Frank Dove, manager of 
the Mixx Lounge and Grill in Dameron, a 
nearby community, where more than 100 of 
Smith’s friends gathered Monday night to 
watch the game and toast him in his victory. 
A sign outside the lounge on Route 235 proclaimed: 
‘‘Congratulations, Tubby Smith.’’ 

‘‘You can’t help but smile to think that 
Tubby, who is liked by everyone here, came 
from being a farm boy to what he is now. We 
are proud,’’ said Dove, who opened the 
lounge, usually closed on Mondays, to 
Smith’s friends and family. 

‘‘You want to talk about the coach of the 
year? He’s my coach of the year . . . for 
life,’’ said William Smith, one of Tubby 
Smith’s younger brothers who joined the 
crowd at the Mixx. 

‘‘He’s the greatest!’’ said Guffrie Smith 
Sr., Smith’s father, who worked three jobs 
while helping to raise his family: He drove a 
school bus, fired boilers at Patuxent River 
Naval Air Station and barbered. 

Guffrie, 79, and Parthenia, 72, still live in 
the five-bedroom home where Tubby grew 
up. Guffrie, with the help of his uncle, a 
share-cropper, built that house in 1963 so 
that the family could move out of a farmhouse 
that lacked indoor plumbing. 

The Kentucky coach might be known as 
Tubby—the young boy who liked sitting in 
his grandmother’s wash bin so much that he 
didn’t want to leave—but his given name is 
Orlando. 

‘‘He was an obedient child,’’ Parthenia 
Smith said. ‘‘Weekdays he went to school, 
and on Sundays he went to church. He was 
not allowed to play ball on Sundays.’’ 

But he was also a hard-working child, said 
Dove, who has known Tubby since he was an 
infant. Even at a young age, he helped his father 
plant fruits and vegetables on the family’s 
five acres of land. 

‘‘The whole family is like that—a churchgoing, 
hard-working good family. That’s the 
bottom line,’’ Dove said. Yesterday afternoon 
at the Smith home, there was only one 
subject of conversation: Tubby. 

‘‘Every time Tubby came on, somebody 
holled, ‘Tubby’s on!’’’ said Ramona Smith, a 
guidance counselor at Great Mills High 
School. ‘‘We’re still flying high, and we 
haven’t quite calmed down yet.’’ 

Neither Guffrie nor Parthenia finished 
high school, but from the beginning, education 
was one of the family’s most important 
values, the parents said. It paid off, 
Guffrie Smith Sr. said yesterday, for most of 
his 17 children have college degrees, including 
Tubby. 

‘‘He called last night after the game, and 
he said, ‘Hey, Mama, did you see me on TV? 
I told him, yeah and I thanked the Lord [for 
the win] because I was so nervous,’’ said 
Parthenia Smith, who conceded that she 
could not stop smiling in disbelief. 

At Great Mills High, Tubby Smith scored 
1,000 points in three seasons before graduating, 
helping unite a racially divided 
school in 1967 with his athleticism, according 
to his brother Odell, who was in Texas to 
watch the game Monday night. 

Tubby Smith played for four years at High 
Point University in North Carolina. Then he 
coached in high schools, including at Great 
Mills. One of his college coaches, J.D. 
Barnett, later hired him as an assistant at 
Virginia Commonwealth University. Barnett 
went on to the University of Tulsa, where he 
was fired as head coach and replaced by 
Smith in 1991. 

Under Smith’s coaching, Tulsa went to the 
middle rounds of the NCAA tournament. He 
went to the University of Georgia in 1995, 
leading his teams to two NCAA tournaments. 


Last year when Smith became the first African 
American coach of the men’s team at 
the University of Kentucky, a paper there 
published an open letter from a black staff 
member warning him that the school was 
not ready for a black coach. ‘‘I fear for your 
safety,’’ she wrote. 

‘‘There are good and bad people everywhere 
you go,’’ Parthenia Smith said. ‘‘I told him 
that I didn’t like what she said. But that 
made me nervous more than anything else.’’ 

‘‘He’s a good man,’’ Smith’s father said. 
‘‘The boys believe in him.’’ 

Guffrie Smith, who has had multiple bypass 
surgery, said he had no doubt his son 
would come through a champion, but the 
thrill of Monday night’s game was too much 
for his heart. 

At halftime, when the Wildcats were behind 
10 points, Guffrie Smith stood up, paced 
around the living room and the shut himself 
in the bedroom. He came out only after the 
Wildcats had won. 

After the game Monday night, Tubby 
Smith said: ‘‘It’s obviously something that is 
special. It’s probably the most noteworthy 
thing that has happened in our family as far 
as family achievements. 

Smith said he plans to visit his family in 
St. Mary’s County in the next several days. 

On national television, he thanked his relatives 
in St. Mary’s because he knew they 
were watching. The family gathered at the 
Mixx lounge hooted and hollered, toasting 
with champagne.S 

f 

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

WOLVERINES 
S Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to congratulate the University of 
Michigan Wolverines on the completion 
of a perfect 1997 football season. In 
September, the Wolverines began one 
of the toughest schedules in the Big 
Ten. The team was prepared to play 
some of the strongest teams in NCAA 
football. From their first victory 
against Colorado (27–3) to their last 
game of the season against Ohio State 
(20–14), Michigan dominated the field, 
surrendering few touchdowns with 
their top-rated defense. By November, 
the Wolverines had finished their regular 
season undefeated, with a Big Ten 
Championship, a Rose Bowl berth and 
their first chance at a National Championship 
in fifty years. 

In January, the Michigan Wolverines 
faced the Washington State Cougars in 
the 1998 Rose Bowl. Although the University 
of Michigan has more Rose 
Bowl appearances than any other Big 
Ten school, the Wolverines were appearing 
in Pasadena for the first time 
in five years. Senior quarterback Brien 
Griese led the team with 18 for 30 passing 
for 251 yards and three touchdowns. 
The Wolverines celebrated a 21–16 victory 
over Washington State, giving 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3013 

them their ninth straight win against 
opponents ranked in the Associated 
Press Top 10 and finishing with a perfect 
12–0 season. 

The Rose Bowl victory clinched the 
Wolverines the Associated Press National 
Championship trophy and secured 
the co-national championship. 
The season became even sweeter for 
the Wolverines when University of 
Michigan junior Charles Woodson won 
the 1997 Heisman Trophy, football’s 
most prestigious individual honor, and 
head coach Lloyd Carr was recognized 
as Coach of the Year. 1997 was undoubtedly 
an outstanding year for Michigan 
football, and possibly the best in school 
history. On April 9, President Bill Clinton 
will honor the University of Michigan 
Wolverines at the White House for 
their extraordinary athletic accomplishments 
and remarkable teamwork. 
I extend my heartiest congratulations 
to the University of Michigan football 
team on a perfect 1997 season—Let’s Go 
Blue! 

f 

UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL 

DAY IN SUPPORT OF VICTIMS OF 

TORTURE 

S Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
would like to call the Senate’s attention 
to a recent initiative that addresses 
a very important international 
issue: the use of torture. At its last session, 
the United Nations General Assembly 
decided to proclaim June 26th 
as ‘‘United Nations International Day 
in Support of Victims of Torture.’’ The 
General Assembly proclaimed the day 
‘‘with a view to the total eradication of 
torture and the effective functioning of 
the Convention against Torture and 
Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment, which entered 
into force on 26 June 1987.’’ Governments 
and non-governmental organizations 
are developing plans on how 
to observe this day in a manner that 
will recognize the needs of torture victims 
and the necessity of preventing 
torture. 

Torture is a most effective weapon 
against democracy. Torture victims 
are often in the forefront of the struggle 
for human rights and democracy in 
their own country. The advocates for 
these ideals are tortured in order to 
disable them and instill fear in anyone 
who might aspire for human rights and 
democracy. As a refuge for the persecuted, 
the United States may have as 
many as 400,000 victims of torture. 
They come from all regions of the 
world. Many come from Iraq, Iran, 
China, Ethiopia, Liberia, El Salvador, 
Guatemala and many other countries 
too numerous to mention. Because of 
their experience with torture, they 
often have special difficulties applying 
for asylum and adjusting to a new 
country. They must overcome the 
physical and mental effects of torture—
the latter often requiring months 
or years of therapy. Nightmares, flashbacks, 
anxiety attacks, and depression 
are just some of the mental con


sequences of torture. In some cases it 
may be years before the victim recognizes 
that treatment is necessary to 
overcome these psychological roadblocks. 


Plans are being made around the 
world to recognize the contribution of 
torture victims. In Denmark, the International 
Rehabilitation Council for 
Torture Victims and the Rehabilitation 
and Research Centre for Torture 
Victims are planning a series of event 
and activities. In Greece, where torture 
was prevalent not so many years ago, 
the Medical Rehabilitation Center for 
Torture Victims (MRCT) will hold an 
event at what was, during the dictatorship, 
the Special Interrogating Unit of 
the Military Police (a notorious torture 
and detention center). The building 
is now used for historical memorial 
purposes, and symbolically the area 
has been renamed Park of Freedom. A 
variety of activities are planned, including 
speeches by torture victims 
and refugees. 

I am very proud that the first and 
most comprehensive treatment center 
for victims of torture in the United 
States, the Center for Victims of Torture, 
is located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
It now treats an average of 150 
clients a year who come from all regions 
of the world and are now settled 
in Minnesota. Many of the Center’s clients 
and former clients are now making 
significant contributions to our 
communities and we are grateful to 
have them. The Center is planning a 
special event for June 26th. 

Mr. President, on February 4th I introduced 
the Torture Victims Relief 
Act (S.1606). My bill is co-sponsored by 
Senators TOM HARKIN, EDWARD KENNEDY, 
DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN, BARBARA 
BOXER, BYRON DORGAN, and RICHARD 
DURBIN. The legislation provides a 
focus and a framework of the debate 
about where torture survivors, and our 
response to the practice of torture by 
other countries, fit within our foreign 
policy priorities. Providing treatment 
for torture survivors is one of the best 
ways we can show our commitment to 
fighting human rights abuses around 
the world. 

Mr. President, I strongly urge this 
administration and this Congress to 
undertake activities on June 26th to 
recognize the important contributions 
torture victims have made on behalf of 
human rights and democracy and the 
contributions they have made to our 
country as well. I suggest that President 
Clinton invite some torture victims 
to attend a ceremony at the 
White House where they would be recognized 
for their contributions. The 
invitees should be from countries representing 
a wide geographic and political 
distribution. 

On that occasion the President could 
announce some initiatives the administration 
is taking to support torture 
victims and prevent torture. I would 
suggest that the President consider 
taking the following initiatives: (1) Increase 
the U.S. contribution to the 

United Nations Voluntary Fund from 
$1.5 million to $3.0 million, as recommended 
in the conference report of 
the State Department authorization 
bill; (2) Direct the Agency for International 
Development to set aside $5 
million in fiscal year 1998 funds to assist 
treatment centers for torture victims 
abroad; (3) Direct the Department 
of Health and Human Services to set 
aside $5 million in fiscal year 1998 funds 
to assist treatment centers for victims 
of torture in the United States; and (4) 
Announce administration support for 
the Torture Victims Relief Act (S. 
1606). 

Finally, Mr. President, I would like 
to mention the valuable contribution 
being made by the United Nations Voluntary 
Fund for Victims of Torture. It 
provides financial assistance to treatment 
centers for victims of torture 
throughout the world. These centers 
are providing both an essential humanitarian 
assistance program as well as 
an important strategic instrument for 
advancing human rights and democracy 
around the world. In 1997 the Fund 
assisted 104 projects in about 70 countries 
on a budget of little more than $3 
million dollars. An article that appeared 
in Human Rights, a publication 
initiated by the new U.N. High Commissioner 
for Human Rights, Mary 
Robinson, tells why we need to increase 
our contribution to the Fund. I 
ask that the text of the article be 
printed in the RECORD. 

The article follows: 

U.N. SUPPORT TO VICTIMS OF TORTURE 
(By Daniel Pre´mont) 
Torture continues to occur on a worldwide 
basis, despite enhanced efforts by Governments 
and organizations in keeping with 
provisions contained in domestic law and 
international human rights conventions 
whose objective is its total eradication. 
The practice of torture was first prohibited 
in 1948 by the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and by the International Convention 
on the Prevention and Punishment 
of the Crime of Genocide; the concept was reaffirmed 
in 1966 by the International Covenant 
on Civil and Political Rights; and 
more recently, in 1984, by the Convention 
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or 
Degrading Treatment or Punishment. 
WHAT IS THE VOLUNTARY FUND FOR VICTIMS OF 
TORTURE? 
The effects of torture should not be under-
estimated. Physical and mental consequences 
of torture can endure for several 
years and may be irreversible, often affecting 
not only thousands of victims themselves, 
but also their relatives. One of the 
means of mitigating the subsequent effects 
of torture on victims and their families is to 
provide them with medical, psychological, 
social, legal and economic aid. With this in 
mind, the General Assembly created the 
United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims 
of Torture in 1982. The purpose of the Fund 
is to receive voluntary contributions and distribute 
them to non-governmental organizations 
and treatment centres for assisting victims 
of torture and their relatives whose 
human rights have been severely violated as 
a result of torture, as well as for the funding 
of projects for training healthcare professionals 
specialized in the treatment of victims 
of torture. 
The Fund is administered by the United 
Nations Secretary-General with a Board of 


S3014 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Trustees acting in an advisory capacity and 
comprising five members with wide experience 
in the field of human rights. The members 
serve in their personal capacity and are 
appointed by the Secretary-General for a renewable 
three-year term of office on the 
basis of equitable geographical distribution. 
Currently, members of the Board of Trustees 
are Jaap Walkate, Chairman, from The Netherlands; 
Ribot Hatano from Japan; Elisabeth 
Odio-Benito from Costa Rica; Ivan Tosevsky 
from the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; 
and Amos Wako from Kenya. 

The inadequacy of available resources is a 
limiting factor in the field of assistance of 
victims; as a consequence, programmes of assistance 
are subjected to interruptions. For 
some 100 organisations the support of the 
United Nations Voluntary Fund remains essential. 


HOW DOES THE VOLUNTARY FUND WORK? 
The Fund receives projects which focus on 
providing medical, psychological, economic, 
social and legal assistance to victims of torture 
and to members of their families. A few 
projects also share the objective of organizing 
training seminars for health professionals 
specialized in the treatment of torture 
victims. 
Each May, the Board of Trustees makes 
recommendations on grants to the High 
Commissioner for Human Rights. Subsequently, 
in the following month, on the basis 
of those recommendations, the High Commissioner 
takes decisions on behalf of the 
Secretary-General. As a final step, grants 
are made available at the end of July. 
From 1983 to July 1997, the Fund has financed 
255 projects for direct assistance to 
torture victims. From US$ 2.5 to US$ 3 million 
of voluntary contributions received 
from about 30 Governments and a few individuals 
are disbursed every year to projects 
in some 60 countries representative of all the 
regions of the world. Further information on 
the activities of the Voluntary Fund can be 
found in the latest annual reports of the Secretary-
General to the General Assembly (UN 
document A/52/387) and to the Commission on 
Human Rights (UN documents E/CN.4/1998/37 
and Add.1). 

Grants requested 
(US$) 
Grants 
awarded 
(US$) 
Percent 
granted 
Additional 
amount required 
(US$) 
1997 ........................... 
1996 ........................... 
1995 ........................... 
1994 ........................... 
1993 ........................... 
6,800,000 
5,618,645 
5,827,645 
5,476,959 
5,289,413 
1 3,036,054 
1 2,535,500 
1 2,719,680 
1 3,698,080 
1 2,111,880 
44 .64 
45 .1 
46 .6 
67 .5 
39 .9 
3,765,946 
3,083,145 
3,107,965 
1,778,879 
3,177,533 

1 Each year, the grants awarded correspond to the total amounts which 
the Board of Trustees is able to recommend to the Secretary-General for allocation. 
In view of the insufficient contributions received, the Board avoids 
the practice of carrying forward a reserve from one year to the next. The 
Secretary-General follows this recommendation by the Board. 

As at 30 November 1997 only US$ 1,174,499 has been paid into the 
Fund. Provided that the number of grant requested is maintained at the 
1997 level, the Fund will need an additional amount of US$ 5,6 million to 
meet all requests. 

SOME PROJECTS RECENTLY SUBMITTED 
Torture involves not only physical but also 
psychological forms, sometimes with long-
term sequelae: in this regard, the Fund is 
supporting a project whose objective is to 
provide global assistance to formerly disappeared 
children of victims of torture in 
Latin America. The organization identifies 
disappeared children as those born in detention, 
abducted by security forces and illegally 
adopted. Once located by the organization, 
the children may be returned to their 
biological families. The best interests of the 
child have to be taken into consideration. 
This project consists of two main parts: investigation—
some 1,030 interviews were carried 
out in the past year in conjunction with 
blood tests and analyses of genetic data—and 
psychological support provided to some 431 
persons during 1996. Most of these persons 

suffer from sequelae of post-traumatic stress 
disorder including anxiety, nightmares, depression, 
as well as affective and intellectual 
inhibitions and benefit from individual psychotherapy. 
The number of youths seeking 
assistance remains high while many children 
have yet to be found: to date, 172 children 
still need to be located and 6 who were found 
have yet to be returned to their biological 
families. 

Another project which was being implemented 
in Asia in 1996 focused on providing 
physical and mental relief to torture survivors 
and their families. Firstly, fact-finding 
missions on the incidence of torture were 
carried out establishing that people had been 
subjected to torture by the police and other 
law enforcement agencies: this involved 
methods such as beatings all over the body, 
kicking them with police boots, applying 
electric shocks, scalding them with hot 
water, suspending them by the legs from 
roofs and inflicting them with bullet injuries. 
Long-term consequences, apart from obvious 
physical complaints, were psychological 
and included phobia, depression, sexual 
problems and mental disorders. The more 
commonly occurring complaints were social 
maladjustments at work, in the family and 
society in general, through the overall loss 
of social dignity and a departure from social 
values. In 1995, 263 victims between 15 and 45 
years of age received treatment. The drug 
therapy included prescription of 
antipsychotics, physiotherapy as well as psychotherapeutic 
assistance. Parallel to the 
main objective of providing physical and 
mental relief to the victims, the Care Center 
organized other activities such as seminars 
on torture for health professionals, missions 
in collaboration with the national Human 
Rights Commission in order to establish contact 
with victims, encourage them to visit 
the Car Center and prepare a report for submission 
to governmental authorities asking 
for justice. The organization also established 
a legal division which has already successfully 
assisted in five cases. 

In North America, a treatment centre is 
currently providing clinical services to victims 
of torture who are now refugees, mainly 
from Africa and the Caribbean. 167 persons 
were assisted who had been subjected to 
rape, electric shocks, deprivation of human 
needs, as well as being obliged to eat excrement 
or perform acts of violence or murder 
often targeting their own family members. 
The treatment provided ranges from psychiatric 
and medical examination, to treatment 
in the form of crisis intervention and 
support counselling, psychotherapy, physiotherapy, 
social service, education, medical 
referrals, social support interpreters and 
legal assistance. In 1996, the center also established 
a children’s art therapy branch as 
a medium for treating anxiety and dysfunctions 
related to traumatic experiences which 
children were unable to express verbally in 
the family setting. 

The Commission on Human Rights, by its 
resolution 1997/38 of 11 April 1997, requested 
that the General Assembly proclaim 26 June 
a United Nations international day in support 
of the victims of torture and appealed 
to all Governments, organizations and individuals 
in a position to do so to contribute 
annually to the Fund.S 

f 

1998 APRIL QUARTERLY REPORTS 

The mailing and filing date of the 
April Quarterly Report required by the 
Federal Election Campaign Act, as 
amended, is Wednesday, April 15, 1998. 
All Principal Campaign Committees 
supporting Senate candidates in the 

1998 races must file their reports with 
the Senate Office of Public Records, 232 
Hart Building, Washington, D.C. 20510– 
7116. You may wish to advise your campaign 
committee personnel of this requirement. 


The Public Records office will be 
open from 9:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m. on 
April 15th, to receive these filings. For 
further information, please do not hesitate 
to contact the Office of Public 
Records on (202) 224–0322. 

f 

REGISTRATION OF MASS 
MAILINGS 

The filing date for 1998 first quarter 
mass mailings is April 27, 1998. If your 
office did no mass mailings during this 
period, please submit a form that 
states ‘‘none.’’ 

Mass mailing registrations, or negative 
reports, should be submitted to 
the Senate Office of Public Records, 232 
Hart Building, Washington, D.C. 20510– 
7116. 

The Public Records office will be 
open from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on the 
filing date to accept these filings. For 
further information, please contact the 
Public Records office on (202) 224–0322. 

f 

REMOVAL OF INJUNCTION OF SE


CRECY—TREATY DOCUMENT NO. 

105–39 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, as in 
executive session, I ask unanimous 
consent that the injunction of secrecy 
be removed from the following treaty 
transmitted to the Senate on April 1, 
1998, by the President of the United 
States: Inter-American Convention 
Against Corruption (Treaty Document 
No. 105–39). 

I further ask that the treaty be considered 
as having been read the first 
time; that it be referred, with accompanying 
papers, to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations and ordered to be 
printed; and that the President’s message 
be printed in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The message of the President is as 
follows: 

To the Senate of the United States: 

With a view to receiving the advice 
and consent of the Senate to ratification, 
I transmit herewith the Inter-
American Convention Against Corruption 
(‘‘the Convention’’), adopted and 
opened for signature at the Specialized 
Conference of the Organization of 
American States (OAS) at Caracas, 
Venezuela, on March 29, 1996. The Convention 
was signed by the United 
States on June 27, 1996, at the twenty-
seventh regular session of the OAS 
General Assembly meeting in Panama 
City, Panama. In addition, for the information 
of the Senate, I transmit the 
report of the Department of State with 
respect to the Convention. 

The Convention was the first multilateral 
Convention of its kind in the 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3015 

world to be adopted. The provisions of 
the Convention are explained in the accompanying 
report of the Department 
of State. The report also sets forth proposed 
understandings that would be deposited 
by the United States with its 
instrument of ratification. The Convention 
will not require implementing 
legislation for the United States. 

The Convention should be an effective 
tool to assist in the hemispheric 
effort to combat corruption, and could 
also enhance the law enforcement efforts 
of the States Parties in other 
areas, given the links that often exist 
between corruption and organized 
criminal activity such as drug trafficking. 
The Convention provides for a 
broad range of cooperation, including 
extradition, mutual legal assistance, 
and measures regarding property, in relation 
to the acts of corruption described 
in the Convention. 

The Convention also imposes on the 
States Parties an obligation to criminalize 
acts of corruption if they have 
not already done so. Especially noteworthy 
is the obligation to criminalize 
the bribery of foreign government officials. 
This provision was included in 
the Convention at the behest of the 
United States negotiating delegation. 
In recent years, the United States Government 
has sought in a number of 
multilateral fora to persuade other 
governments to adopt legislation akin 
to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act. This Convention represents a significant 
breakthrough on that front 
and should lend impetus to similar 
measures in other multilateral groups. 

I recommend that the Senate give 
early and favorable consideration to 
the Convention, and that it give its advice 
and consent to ratification, subject 
to the understandings described in 
the accompanying report to the Department 
of State. 

WILLIAM J. CLINTON. 
THE WHITE HOUSE, April 1, 1998. 

f 

UNANIMOUS-CONSENT AGREEMENT—
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR 

Mr. DOMENICI. Further as in executive 
session, I ask unanimous consent 
at 9 a.m. on Thursday, April 2, the Senate 
proceed to executive session and 
immediate vote on Cal. No. 461, the 
nomination of G. Patrick Murphy to be 

U.S. District Judge for the Southern 
District of Illinois. I further ask consent 
immediately following that vote, 
the Senate proceed to a vote on the 
confirmation of Cal. No. 462, Michael P. 
McCuskey to be U.S. District Judge for 
the Central District of Illinois. I finally 
ask consent following these votes 
the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate’s action the Senate then 
return to legislative session. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

TEXAS LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE 

WASTE DISPOSAL COMPACT CON


SENT ACT 

Mr. DOMENICI. This is with reference 
to H.R. 629. I ask unanimous 

consent that the Senate now proceed to 
consideration of Calendar No. 197, H.R. 
629. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R.629) to grant the consent of 
Congress to the Texas Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Disposal Compact. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection to the immediate consideration 
of the bill? 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2276 

(Purpose: To provide a substitute 

amendment) 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, Senator 
SNOWE has a substitute amendment 
at the desk. I ask for its consideration. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 

clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. DOMENICI], 
for Ms. SNOWE, proposes an amendment 
numbered 2276. 

(The text of the amendment is printed 
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Amendments 
Submitted.’’) 

Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise 
today in strong support of HR 629, the 
Texas Compact Consent Act of 1997, 
which addresses the disposal of low-
level radioactive nuclear waste for 
Maine, Vermont and Texas—and to 
thank the cosponsors of this bill: Senators 
COLLINS, LEAHY, and JEFFORDS, 
as well as Senators HUTCHISON and 
GRAMM of Texas for their invaluable 
assistance and support. 

In 1980, Congress told the states to 
form compacts to solve their low-level 
waste disposal problems. Subsequently, 
Congress authorized a means of establishing 
these compacts without violating 
the Interstate Commerce Clause 
of the U.S. Constitution. 

As you can see from the chart behind 
me, 41 states have now joined together 
to form nine different compacts across 
the country. Forty-one states. The 
compact before us today will simply 
add three more states to the nation’s 
compact network, and carry out what 
these 41 other states have already been 
allowed to do. 

As the law requires, Texas, Vermont 
and Maine have negotiated an agreement 
that was approved by each state: 
in the Texas Senate by a vote of 28 to 
zero, and voice voted in the House; in 
Vermont, the bill was also voice voted 
by large margins in both bodies. 

In Maine, the Senate voted 26 to 3 to 
pass the compact; in the House, 131 to 

6. In addition, 73 percent of the people 
in a state-wide referendum approved 
the Compact. All three Governors 
signed the bill. And, last October 7th, 
the House passed the Texas Compact 
by an overwhelming vote of 309 to 107. 
Decisive victories on all counts, and by 
any measure. 
So, we have before us a Compact that 
has been carefully crafted and thoroughly 
examined by the state governments 
and people of all three states in


volved. Now all that is required is the 
approval of Congress, so that the State 
of Texas and the other Texas Compact 
members will be able to exercise appropriate 
control over the waste that will 
come into the Texas facility. 

Let me be clear: the law never intended 
for Congress to determine who 
pays what, how the storage is allocated, 
and where the site is located. To 
the contrary: the intent of the law is 
for states to develop and approve these 
details, and for Congress to ratify the 
plan. A quick review of history bears 
this out—for the nine compacts that 
have been consented to by the United 
States Congress, not one of them was 
amended. Not one of them. 

It is very important for my colleagues 
to know that the language 
ratified by each state for this Compact 
is exactly the same language, and if 
any change is made by Congress, the 
Compact would have to be once again 
returned to each state for reratification. 


And let me take this opportunity to 
clear up some other misconceptions 
about this compact, which are being 
used by our opponents to cast discredit 
on this legislation. 

The Compact before us does not discuss 
any particular site for the disposal 
facility. Let me repeat that—this bill 
has nothing to do with the location of 
a facility in Texas, as some would have 
us believe. It only says that Texas 
must develop a facility in a timely 
manner, consistent with all applicable 
state and federal environmental, 
health, and public safety laws. 

This is being done. The Texas Office 
State Office of Administrative Hearings 
is presently conducting several 
evidentiary hearings at various locations 
all around the state of Texas to 
evaluate a proposed site. All voices are 
being heard, and the state of Texas will 
decide, as it should. 

Opponents of the Texas Compact 
would have you believe that should we 
ratify this Compact it will open the 
doors for other states to dump nuclear 
waste at a site, in the desert, located 
five miles from the town of Sierra 
Blanca, exposing a predominantly low-
income, minority community to health 
and environmental threats. 

The truth is that Texas has been 
planning to build a facility for its own 
waste since 1981, long before Maine 
first proposed a Compact with Texas. 
That is because whether or not this 
Compact passes, Texas still must somehow 
take care of the waste it produces. 

Further, absent the protection of this 
Compact, Texas must, I repeat must, 
open their borders to any other state 
for waste disposal or they will be in 
violation of the Interstate Commerce 
Clause of the U.S. Constitution. The 
Compact gives Texas the protection 
that oversight commissioners, mostly 
appointed by the elected Governor of 


S3016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

Texas but also with a say from Maine 
and Vermont, will decide what is best 
for Texas. 

Local support for the Compact was 
evidenced just last month in state elections 
held in Texas. The Hudspeth 
County judge, who is the top elected official 
who runs county business where 
the site has been proposed, and who has 
strongly declared his support for the 
Compact, won his race for reelection. 
Two candidates for county commissioner 
who also support the Compact 
won their races over two opponents of 
the Compact. 

The opponents of the Compact would 
have you believe this issue is about 
politics. It is not about politics, it is 
about science: sound science. It is very 
dry in the Southwest Texas area, where 
the small amount rainfall it receives 
mostly evaporates before it hits the 
ground. The aquifer that supplies water 
to the area and to nearby Mexico is 
over 600 feet below the desert floor and 
is encased in rock. 

The proposed site has been designed 
to withstand any earthquake equaling 
the most severe that has ever occurred 
in Texas history. Strong seismic activity 
in the area is non-existent. All 
these factors mean that the siting of 
this facility is on strong scientific 
grounds. 

Our opponents say we will be bad 
neighbors if we pass this Compact because 
the proposed site is near the 
Mexican border. In fact, the U.S. and 
Mexico have an agreement, the Las Paz 
Agreement, to cooperate in the environmental 
protection of the border region. 
The Las Paz Agreement simply 
encourages cooperative efforts to protect 
the environment of the region. 

Any proposed facility will be protective 
of the environment because it will 
be constructed in accordance with the 
strictest U.S. environmental safeguards. 
In addition, both the Mexican 
National Water Commission and the 
National Nuclear Security and Safeguards 
Commission have stated that 
the proposed site meets the Mexican 
government’s requirements. 

Without question, the far bigger 
threat to the border environment is the 
untreated sewage dumped into the Rio 
Grande River by poor border communities 
on both sides of the river, and 
large factories, or maquiladoras on the 
Mexican side of the river that do not 
adhere to these stringent U.S. environmental 
standards. 

Mr. President, when this Compact is 
adopted—and it is clear that it should 
be adopted without amendments—the 
States of Texas, Maine and Vermont 
will become the forty second, forty 
third and forty fourth states to be 
given Congressional approval for forming 
a compact. And they will meet 
their responsibilities under federal law 
for the disposal of their low-level waste 
from universities, hospitals, medical 
centers, and power plants and shipyards. 


I, along with my colleagues from the 
Texas Compact states, urge the Senate 

to give us this reasoned opportunity, 
which has widespread public support in 
Texas, Maine and Vermont. I urge the 
Senate to adopt S. 270. 

I ask unanimous consent that several 
letters relating to this subject be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the letters 
were ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

STATE OF TEXAS, 
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR, 

Austin, TX, July 15, 1997. 
DEAR SENATOR: 

As the Governors of the member states, we 
strongly urge passage by the U.S. Senate of 

S. 270, the Texas Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act. 
The 1980 Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy 
Act and its 1985 amendments make each 
state ‘‘responsible for providing, either by 
itself or in cooperation with other states,’’ 
for disposal of its own commercial low-level 
radioactive waste. In compliance with this 
federal legislation, the states of Texas, 
Maine and Vermont have arranged to manage 
their waste through the terms of the 
Texas Compact. This compact passed the legislatures 
of the states involved and is supported 
by all three Governors. Texas, Maine 
and Vermont have complied with all federal 
and state laws and regulations in forming 
this compact. For the Congress to deny ratification 
of the Texas Compact would be a serious 
breach of states’ rights and a rejection 
of Congress’ previous mandate to the states. 

It is important to remember that S. 270 is 
site neutral—a vote on S. 270 is neither a 
vote to endorse nor oppose the proposed site 
in Texas. Federal legislation leaves the 
siting of a facility to state governments and 
should be resolved during formal licensing 
proceedings. Currently, the Texas Natural 
Resource Conservation Commission is conducting 
the appropriate hearings. 

Please vote to supply the member states of 
the Texas Compact with the same protections 
that you have already given 42 states 
in the nine previously approved compacts. 
Thank you for your time and attention on 
this very important matter. We appreciate 
all efforts made on behalf of states’ rights. 

Sincerely, 
GEORGE W. BUSH. 
HOWARD DEAN, M.D. 
ANGUS S. KING, JR. 

MAINE YANKEE, 

Augusta, ME, March 12, 1998. 

Hon. OLYMPIA J. SNOWE, 

Russell Senate Office Building, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR SENATOR SNOWE: Thank you for contacting 
me to let us know that debate on the 
Texas Compact legislation is scheduled to 
begin this Friday. I appreciate the leadership 
role you have taken on this difficult issue. I 
am also grateful to the other members of 
Maine’s congressional delegation for being 
sensitive to the unique issues presented by 
Maine. 

Since the House vote in December, Texas 
has issued a fee schedule that appears to 
make the Texas facility comparable in cost 
to Barnwell, South Carolina, so long as there 
are no delays in the scheduled opening of the 
facility. In addition, we are pleased to see 
the public hearing process in Texas going 
forward on schedule, which gives us greater 
confidence that the site may begin accepting 
waste in 1999 as projected. Given the foregoing, 
Maine Yankee can support ratification 
of the Texas Compact, on the following 
basis: Maine Yankee has the flexibility to 
ship waste to South Carolina prior to the operation 
of the Texas facility; Maine Yankee 

has the ability to use the Envirocare facility 
in Utah throughout our decommissioning; 
and the Compact passes with no amendments. 


Please let me know if you have any questions 
regarding our position on the Texas 
Compact legislation. Once again, thank you 
for taking the lead on this issue which is so 
important to electric ratepayers. 

Yours truly, 

DAVID T. FLANAGAN, 

Chairman. 

HUDSPETH COUNTY COURTHOUSE, 

Sierra Blanca, TX, March 12, 1998. 

Hon. PAUL WELLSTONE, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR WELLSTONE: It is an honor 
for me to write to U.S. Senators, whose title 
and energy is devoted to important national 
and international issues. There are several 
facts I want you to consider as the U.S. Senate 
takes up floor action on SB 270, a low-
level waste Compact between Texas, Maine 
and Vermont. 

First, I am the County Judge for Hudspeth 
County, Texas, the site of the proposed low-
level radioactive waste facility. Second, I am 
a strong and vocal supporter of the proposed 
site and compact. Third, the voters of 
Hudspeth County overwhelmingly reelected 
me on March 10th. I won with 54% of the vote 
in a three person race. 

The people of Hudspeth County know my 
position on these issues and spoke clearly 
and forcefully the best way can—through the 
electoral process. I won. My opponents are 
against the proposed facility. They lost. 

In the County Commissioner races, both 
losing candidates publicly opposed the proposed 
facility. 

Finally, the only candidate on the ballot 
for Chairman of the Hudspeth County Democratic 
Party was defeated by a write-in candidate. 
Billy Addington, a long time an outspoken 
opponent of the proposed facility, 
could not win. The democratic process has 
clearly shown that the citizens of Hudspeth 
County continue to accept the string of the 
facility, despite the loud but false claims by 
the opposition. 

I urge you to listen to what the voters of 
Hudspeth County are saying, as well as the 
past actions of the legislatures in Maine, 
Texas and Vermont. This facility has wide 
support. Please ratify the Compact to enable 
these states to safety and permanently manage 
their low-level waste and to help stimulate 
economic development in Hudspeth 
County. At least that’s what the grass-roots 
level wants. 

Sincerely, 

JAMES A. PEASE, 

Hudspeth County Judge. 

NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION, 

March 2, 1998. 

DEAR MEMBER OF CONGRESS: 

On behalf of the National Governors’ Association, 
we urge you to adopt S. 270 without 
amendment. This bill provides congressional 
consent to the Texas-Maine-Vermont Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Compact. The National 
Governors’ Association (NGA) policy 
in support of this compact is attached. We 
are convinced that this voluntary compact 
provides for the safe and responsible disposal 
of low-level waste produced in the three 
member states. 

As you know, under the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (LLRWPA) of 1980. 
Congress mandated that states assume responsibility 
for disposal of low level radioactive 
waste, and created a compact system 
that provides states with the legal authority 
to restrict, dispose of, and manage waste. 
Since 1995, forty-one states have entered into 
nine congressional approved compacts without 
amendments or objections. The Texas-


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3017 

Maine-Vermont Compact deserves to be the 
tenth. 

Your support for this bipartisan measure, 
which has the full support and cooperation of 
the Governors and legislatures of the three 
participant states, will be crucial. 

If you have any questions concerning this 
matter, please don’t hesitate to contact Tom 
Curtis of the NGA staff at (202) 624–5389. 

Sincerely, 

GOVERNOR GEORGE V. 

VOINOVICH, 

Chairman. 

GOVERNOR TOM CARPER, 

Vice Chairman. 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF 
STATE LEGISLATURES, 

Washington, DC, March 11, 1998. 

Re S. 270, the Texas Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act 
NCSL urges you to support this bill without 
amendment. 

Hon. TRENT LOTT, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR LOTT: The National Conference 
of State Legislatures (NCSL) urges 
you to support S. 270, the Texas Low-Level 
Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact Consent 
Act, which will allow the states of 
Maine, Texas, and Vermont to continue to 
work together to develop a facility in 
Hudspeth County, Texas for the disposal of 
the low-level radioactive waste produced in 
those three states. NCSL has consistently reiterated 
its firm belief that states must be 
allowed to exercise their authority over the 
storage and disposal oflow-level radioactive 
waste, authority that was granted to them 
by Congress in the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act of 1980 and the Low-Level 
Waste Policy Act Amendments of 1985. 

NCSL is concerned about H.R. 629, the 
version of the Texas Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act which 
passed through the House of Representatives 
last October. H.R. 629 was amended with language 
that was not in the compact as approved 
by the Maine, Texas and Vermont 
state legislatures. No low-level radioactive 
waste compact between states has ever been 
amended by Congress. We believe that the 
amendments to H.R. 629 would establish an 
unfortunate precedent for Congressional tinkering 
with agreements that have already 
been passed by their relevant state legislatures. 


The states of Maine, Texas, and Vermont 
have already expended significant time and 
resources in order to negotiate an agreement 
on the Hudspeth County facility. It would be 
inappropriate for Congress to attempt to 
alter a valid effort by the Compact states to 
meet their responsibilities under the Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act. We urge 
you to support S. 270 without amendment. 

Sincerely, 

CRAIG PETERSON, 

Utah State Senate, 

Chair, NCSL Environ


ment Committee. 

CAROL S. PETZOLD, 

Maryland House of 

Delegates, 

Chair, NCSL Energy & 

Transportation Com


mittee. 

U.S. NUCLEAR 
REGULATORY COMMISSION, 
Washington, DC, March 20, 1998. 

Hon. OLYMPIA J. SNOWE, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR SNOWE: In response to the 
request from your staff, here are the views of 
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) 

on two proposed amendments to S. 270, a bill 
to provide the consent of Congress to the 
Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste (LLW) 
Disposal Compact. The proposed amendments 
would add two new conditions to the 
conditions of consent to the compact: (1) 
that no LLW may be brought into Texas for 
disposal at a compact facility from any 
State other than Maine or Vermont (referred 
to below as the ‘‘exclusion’’ amendment); 
and (2) that ‘‘the compact not be implemented 
. . . in any way that discriminates 
against any community (through disparate 
treatment or disparate impact) by reason of 
the composition of the community in terms 
of race, color, national origin, or income 
level’’ (referred to below as the ‘‘discrimination 
clause’’). These amendments raise some 
significant questions of concern to the NRC. 

First, no other Congressional compact 
ratification legislation has included such 
conditions to Congress’ consent. Making the 
Congressional consent for this compact different 
from that for other compacts would 
create an asymmetrical system and could 
lead to conflicts among regions. In the past, 
Congress has set a high priority on establishing 
a consistent set of rules under which 
the interstate compact system for LLW disposal 
would operate. 

With respect to the exclusion condition, 
while the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy 
Act of 1980 and the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 
authorize compact States to exclude LLW 
from outside their compact region, the terms 
of doing so are left to the States. This is consistent 
with the intent of these statutes to 
make LLW disposal the responsibility of the 
States and to leave the implementation of 
that responsibility largely to the States’ discretion. 
Thus, the addition of the exclusion 
condition to the compact would deprive the 
party States of the ability to make their 
own choices as to how to handle this important 
area. In addition, restriction on importation 
of LLW into Texas to waste coming 
from Maine or Vermont could prevent other 
compacts (or non-compact States) from contracting 
with the Texas compact for disposal 
of their waste (such as has occurred between 
the Rocky Mountain and Northwest compacts). 
This type of arrangement with existing 
LLW disposal facilities may well become 
a preferred economical method of LLW disposal. 
It is also important to note that the 
exclusion condition may hamper NRC emergency 
access to the Texas facility pursuant 
to section 6 of the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985. 

With respect to the discrimination clause, 
the Commission supports the general objectives 
of efforts to address discrimination involving 
‘‘race, color, national origin, or income 
level.’’ However, it is unclear how a 
condition containing broad language of the 
type contained in the proposed amendment 
would be applied in a specific case involving 
a compact. This lack of clarity is likely to 
create confusion and uncertainty for all parties 
involved, and could lead to costly, time-
consuming litigation. Including such a provision 
in binding legislation may have broad 
significance for the affected States and other 
parties would appear to warrant extensive 
Congressional review of its implications. 

In light of the above, the NRC opposes the 
approval of amendments to S. 270 that would 
incorporate the exclusion condition or an undefined 
discrimination clause into the Texas 
compact bill. 

Sincerely, 

SHIRLEY ANN JACKSON, 

Chairman. 

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I join 
the senior Senator from the State of 
Maine, Senator SNOWE, in urging my 

colleagues to enact H.R. 629, legislation 
that would ratify the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Disposal Compact, also 
known as the Texas Compact. 

In entering into an agreement for the 
disposal of low-level radioactive waste, 
the States of Maine, Texas, and 
Vermont followed the direction established 
by the Congress in the Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act 
and its 1985 amendments. That legislation 
contemplated that states would 
form agreements of this nature for the 
disposal of low-level waste, and thus, 
by ratifying the compact, Congress will 
be completing a process that it set in 
motion. 

Mr. President, since 1985 Congress 
has ratified nine compacts involving 41 
states. Put differently, 82 of the 100 
members of this body live in states 
with compacts that have been ratified 
by the Senate, and with the approval of 
the Texas Compact, that number will 
rise to 88. In short, what Maine, Texas, 
and Vermont are seeking today has already 
been routinely granted to the 
vast majority of the states. 

While the disposal of radioactive 
waste is bound to generate controversy, 
this agreement has been overwhelmingly 
approved by the Legislatures 
of the three compacting states, 
signed by their governors, and in the 
case of Maine, endorsed by the voters 
in a referendum. This is consistent 
with the congressional determination 
that the states bear responsibility for 
the disposal of low-level radioactive 
waste, and that in the interest of limiting 
the number of disposal sites, they 
work together to carry out this responsibility. 
Indeed, ratification by Congress 
is necessitated only because 
state-imposed limitations on the importation 
of waste would otherwise violate 
the Commerce Clause. 

Mr. President, a member of this body 
has criticized the proposed disposal site 
to be established pursuant to this compact. 
Apart from the fact that the location 
of the site is a matter for the 
states to determine, that criticism is 
unsupported by the facts. 

In the selection of the proposed site 
in Hudspeth County, Texas, there was 
extensive public involvement, as well 
as thorough environmental and technical 
reviews. Hudspeth County was 
found to have the two critical characteristics 
for a disposal site, namely, 
very little rainfall and very low population 
density. Indeed, the county is 
the size of the State of Connecticut and 
has a population of only 2800 people. 

While some may wish to use this legislation 
to pursue a larger ideological 
agenda, it does not square with the 
facts. The choice of Hudspeth County 
had nothing to do with who lives there; 
it had everything to do with the fact 
that very few people live there. 

Mr. President, this body has been 
presented with nine low-level radioactive 
waste compacts. It has ratified 
each one without change. In keeping 
with congressionally established policy 


S3018 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

for the disposal of low-level waste, 
Maine, Texas, and Vermont are seeking 
the same treatment. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I rise 
today to talk about the predicament 
Vermont, Maine and Texas find themselves 
in, simply because they are following 
Congress’ directions. In 1985, we 
amended the Low-Level Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act to encourage states to enter 
into interstate compacts to develop 
disposal facilities for low-level waste 
by December, 1995, or to assume responsibility 
for safe waste disposal in 
their own states. Following our direction, 
Vermont began looking for an in-
state depository location. The sites examined 
in Vermont were not suitable 
because of both their geology and their 
proximity to large populations. At 
about the same time, Texas offered to 
enter into a compact with Vermont 
and Maine and to use a site they were 
already developing for Texas waste. 

The state legislatures of Vermont, 
Maine and Texas agreed to enter into 
this compact in the early 1990s. The 
Compact is a contractual agreement 
among the three states, but it requires 
Congressional approval in order to 
allow the member states to exclude 
waste from outside their compact. According 
to our Constitution, these compacts 
must be approved by Congress. 
Article 1 clearly states that ‘‘No state 
shall, without the Consent of Congress, 
. . . Enter into any Agreement or Compact 
with another state, . . . .’’ 

Since 1985, nine interstate low-level 
waste compacts have been approved by 
Congress, encompassing forty-one 
states. They were ratified without 
change and without a single recorded 
negative vote. I am pleased to see that 
the Vermont, Maine and Texas Compact 
will follow in that tradition. 

I first introduced legislation to approve 
our Compact in the 103rd Congress. 
Passage of H.R. 629 finally ratifies 
the clear will of the Vermont Legislature 
when it entered in the Compact. 
At that time, I believe we all recognized 
that there was no perfect solution 
for dealing with low-level nuclear 
waste, but as long as we are generating 
power from nuclear facilities and as 
long as our research universities, hospitals 
and laboratories use nuclear materials, 
we are going to have to dispose 
of the waste. We cannot continue to ignore 
the need to safely store nuclear 
waste. To pretend otherwise would be 
to ignore the growing environmental 
problem of storing this waste at inadequate, 
temporary sites in Vermont, 
Maine and Texas. 

Instead, we need to make a commitment 
to developing and building the 
safest facility for long-term storage of 
waste. That is what our States have 
done, and Congress should not stand in 
their way. I have talked with our 
Vermont state geologist. We have 
looked at maps of Vermont and we 
have looked at our geology, hydrology 
and meteorology in Vermont. There is 
only one conclusion from all of these 
discussions: there is not an acceptable 
site for nuclear waste storage in our 
state. 

The Compact also makes economic 
sense. The residents of Vermont have 
already committed themselves to this 
Compact, and the twenty-five million 
dollar price tag that goes along with it. 
Since Vermont generates such a small 
amount of waste, it would be economically 
unfeasible to build a facility that 
would meet all the environmental requirements 
and only store waste generated 
in Vermont. Building such a facility 
would put Vermont in a position 
of looking to other states to help support 
the facility. 

It is also important to remember 
that under the Compact, Texas has 
agreed to host the waste facility, but it 
does not name a specific site. That is 
an issue to be decided by the people of 
Texas, as it should be. This Compact 
also allows the states of Vermont, 
Maine and Texas to refuse waste from 
other states. Specifically, Texas will be 
able to limit the amount of low-level 
waste coming into its facility from 
out-of-state sources. Maine and 
Vermont together produce a fraction of 
what is generated in Texas, but by entering 
into this Compact, our states 
will share the cost of building the facility. 


Finally, building the facility does not 
end Vermont’s obligation to the safety 
of this site. We have a long-term commitment 
to the site, from ensuring 
that the facility meets all of the federal 
construction and operating regulations, 
to making sure the waste is 
transported properly to the site, and to 
ensuring that the surrounding area is 
rigorously monitored. Vermont will 
not send its waste to Texas and then 
close it eyes to the rest of the process. 

AMENDMENTS NO. 2277 AND 2278, EN BLOC, TO 

AMENDMENT NO. 2276 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, Senator 
WELLSTONE has two amendments 
at the desk. I ask unanimous consent 
the Senate consider those amendments 
en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from New Mexico [Mr. DOMENICI], 
for Mr. WELLSTONE, proposes amendments 
numbered 2277 and 2278, en bloc, to 
amendment No. 2276. 

The text of the amendments follow. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2277 
(Purpose: To add certain conditions to the 
grant of consent to the compact) 
On page 2, strike lines 5 through 15 and insert 
the following: 

SEC. 3. CONDITIONS ON CONSENT TO COMPACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The consent of Congress 
to the compact set forth in section 5— 
(1) shall become effective on the date of enactment 
of this Act; 
(2) is granted subject to the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 2021b 
et seq.); and 
(3) is granted on the conditions that— 
(A) the Commission (as defined in the compact) 
comply with all of the provisions of 
that Act; and 
(B) the compact not be implemented (including 
execution by any party state (as defined 
in the compact) of any right, responsibility, 
or obligation of the party state under 
Article IV of the compact) in any way that 
discriminates against any community 
(through disparate treatment or disparate 
impact) by reason of the composition of the 
community in terms of race, color, national 
origin, or income level. 

(b) CONSENT TO SUIT.—By proceeding to implement 
the compact after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the party states and Commission 
shall be considered to have consented 
to suit in a civil action under subsection 
(d). 
(c) CONTINUING EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDITION.—
If the consent of Congress is declared 
to be of no further effect in a civil action 
under subsection (d), the condition stated in 
subsection (a)(3)(B) shall continue to apply 
to any subsequent operation of the compact 
facility. 
(d) ENFORCEMENT.— 
(1) BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—If the Attorney 
General obtains evidence that a condition 
stated in subsection (a)(3) has not 
been complied with at any time, the Attorney 
General shall bring a civil action in 
United States district court for a judgment 
against the party states (as defined in the 
compact) and Commission— 
(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; and 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance. 
(2) BY A MEMBER OF AN AFFECTED COMMUNITY.—
If person that resides or has a principal 
place of business a community that is 
adversely affected by a failure to comply 
with the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) obtains evidence of the failure of 
compliance, the person may bring a civil action 
in United States district court for a 
judgment against the party states and Commission— 
(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; and 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2278 

(Purpose: To add certain conditions to the 
grant of consent to the compact) 

On page 2, strike lines 5 through 15 and insert 
the following: 

SEC. 3. CONDITIONS ON CONSENT TO COMPACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The consent of Congress 
to the compact set forth in section 5— 
(1) shall become effective on the date of enactment 
of this Act; 
(2) is granted subject to the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 2021b 
et seq.); and 
(3) is granted on the conditions that— 
(A) the Commission (as defined in the compact) 
comply with all of the provisions of 
that Act; and 
(B) no low-level radioactive waste be 
brought into Texas for disposal at a compact 
facility from any State other than the State 
of Maine or Vermont. 
(b) CONSENT TO SUIT.—By proceeding to implement 
the compact after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the party states and Commission 
shall be considered to have consented 
to suit in a civil action under subsection 
(d). 
(c) CONTINUING EFFECTIVENESS OF CONDITION.—
If the consent of Congress is declared 
to be of no further effect in a civil action 
under subsection (d), the condition stated in 
subsection (a)(3)(B) shall continue to apply 
to any subsequent operation of the compact 
facility. 
(d) ENFORCEMENT.— 
(1) BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—If the Attorney 
General obtains evidence that a condition 
stated in subsection (a)(3) has not 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3019 

been complied with at any time, the Attorney 
General shall bring a civil action in 
United States district court for a judgment 
against the party states (as defined in the 
compact) and Commission— 

(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance; 
and 
(C) in any second or subsequent civil action 
under this subsection in which the court 
finds that a second or subsequent failure to 
comply with the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) has occurred, ordering that 
the compact facility be closed. 
(2) BY A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNITY IN 
WHICH A COMPACT FACILITY IS LOCATED.—If 
any person that resides or has a principal 
place of business in the community in which 
a compact facility is located obtains evidence 
that the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) has not been complied with at any 
time, the person may bring a civil action in 
United States district court for a judgment 
against the party states and Commission— 
(A) declaring that the consent of Congress 
to the compact is of no further effect by reason 
of the failure to meet the condition; 
(B) enjoining any further failure of compliance; 
and 
(C) in any second or subsequent civil action 
under this subsection in which the court 
finds that a second or subsequent failure to 
comply with the condition stated in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) has occurred, ordering that 
the compact facility be closed. 
Mr. DOMENICI. I ask unanimous 
consent that the amendments be 
agreed to, the substitute amendment, 
as amended, be agreed to, the bill be 
considered read a third time and passed 
as amended, the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table, and that any 
statement relating to the bill appear at 
this point in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 629), as amended, was 
considered read the third time, and 
passed. 

f 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
AGREEMENT—H.R. 629 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that, notwithstanding 
adoption of the Wellstone 
amendments and subsequent passage of 

H.R. 629, it be in order for Senator 
WELLSTONE on Thursday to modify 
those amendments only to allow them 
to conform to the substitute. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

VISA WAIVER PILOT PROGRAM 

REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 1998 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
the Chair lay before the Senate a message 
from the House of Representatives 
on the bill (S. 1178) to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to extend 
the visa waiver pilot program, and for 
other purposes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the House of Representatives: 

Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 
1178) entitled ‘‘An Act to amend the Immi


gration and Nationality Act to extend the 
visa waiver pilot program, and for other purposes’’, 
do pass with the following amendments: 


Strike out all after the enacting clause and 
insert: 

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF VISA WAIVER PILOT 
PROGRAM. 

Section 217(f) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act is amended by striking ‘‘1998.’’ and inserting 
‘‘2000.’’. 

SEC. 2. DATA ON NONIMMIGRANT OVERSTAY 
RATES. 

(a) COLLECTION OF DATA.—Not later than the 
date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Attorney General shall implement 
a program to collect data, for each fiscal 
year, regarding the total number of aliens 
within each of the classes of nonimmigrant 
aliens described in section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)) whose authorized period of stay in 
the United States terminated during the previous 
fiscal year, but who remained in the 
United States notwithstanding such termination. 
(b) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than June 30, 
1999, and not later than June 30 of each year 
thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit an 
annual report to the Congress providing numerical 
estimates, for each country for the preceding 
fiscal year, of the number of aliens from 
the country who are described in subsection (a). 
SEC. 3. QUALIFICATIONS FOR DESIGNATION AS 
PILOT PROGRAM COUNTRY. 

Section 217(c)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(c)(2)), is amended to 
read as follows: 

‘‘(2) QUALIFICATIONS.—Except as provided in 
subsection (g), a country may not be designated 
as a pilot program country unless the following 
requirements are met: 

‘‘(A) LOW NONIMMIGRANT VISA REFUSAL 
RATE.—Either— 

‘‘(i) the average number of refusals of non-
immigrant visitor visas for nationals of that 
country during— 

‘‘(I) the two previous full fiscal years was less 
than 2.0 percent of the total number of non-
immigrant visitor visas for nationals of that 
country which were granted or refused during 
those years; and 

‘‘(II) either of such two previous full fiscal 
years was less than 2.5 percent of the total number 
of nonimmigrant visitor visas for nationals 
of that country which were granted or refused 
during that year; or 

‘‘(ii) such refusal rate for nationals of that 
country during the previous full fiscal year was 
less than 3.0 percent. 

‘‘(B) MACHINE READABLE PASSPORT PROGRAM.—
The government of the country certifies 
that it has or is in the process of developing a 
program to issue machine-readable passports to 
its citizens. 

‘‘(C) LAW ENFORCEMENT INTERESTS.—The Attorney 
General determines that the United 
States law enforcement interests would not be 
compromised by the designation of the country.’’. 


Amend the title so as to read ‘‘An Act to 
amend the Immigration and Nationality Act 
to modify and extend the visa waiver pilot 
program, and to provide for the collection of 
data with respect to the number of non-
immigrants who remain in the United States 
after the expiration of the period of stay authorized 
by the Attorney General.’’. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
concur in the amendments of the 
House. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

WIRELESS TELEPHONE 
PROTECTION ACT 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
the Chair lay before the Senate a message 
from the House of Representatives 
on the bill (S. 493) to amend section 
1029 of title 18, United States Code, 
with respect to cellular telephone 
cloning paraphernalia, 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the House of Representatives: 

Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 

493) entitled ‘‘An Act to amend section 1029 
of title 18, United States Code, with respect 
to cellular telephone cloning paraphernalia’’, 
do pass with the following amendments: 
Strike out all after the enacting clause and 
insert: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Wireless Telephone 
Protection Act’’. 

SEC. 2. FRAUD AND RELATED ACTIVITY IN CON


NECTION WITH COUNTERFEIT AC


CESS DEVICES. 

(a) UNLAWFUL ACTS.—Section 1029(a) of title 
18, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph 
(10); and 
(2) by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the 
following: 
‘‘(8) knowingly and with intent to defraud 
uses, produces, traffics in, has control or custody 
of, or possesses a scanning receiver; 

‘‘(9) knowingly uses, produces, traffics in, has 
control or custody of, or possesses hardware or 
software, knowing it has been configured to insert 
or modify telecommunication identifying information 
associated with or contained in a telecommunications 
instrument so that such instrument 
may be used to obtain telecommunications 
service without authorization; or’’. 

(b) PENALTIES.— 
(1) GENERALLY.—Section 1029(c) of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(c) PENALTIES.— 

‘‘(1) GENERALLY.—The punishment for an offense 
under subsection (a) of this section is— 

‘‘(A) in the case of an offense that does not 
occur after a conviction for another offense 
under this section— 

‘‘(i) if the offense is under paragraph (1), (2), 
(3), (6), (7), or (10) of subsection (a), a fine 
under this title or imprisonment for not more 
than 10 years, or both; and 

‘‘(ii) if the offense is under paragraph (4), (5), 
(8), or (9), of subsection (a), a fine under this 
title or imprisonment for not more than 15 years, 
or both; 

‘‘(B) in the case of an offense that occurs 
after a conviction for another offense under this 
section, a fine under this title or imprisonment 
for not more than 20 years, or both; and 

‘‘(C) in either case, forfeiture to the United 
States of any personal property used or intended 
to be used to commit the offense. 

‘‘(2) FORFEITURE PROCEDURE.—The forfeiture 
of property under this section, including any 
seizure and disposition of the property and any 
related administrative and judicial proceeding, 
shall be governed by section 413 of the Controlled 
Substances Act, except for subsection (d) 
of that section.’’. 

(2) ATTEMPTS.—Section 1029(b)(1) of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by striking 
‘‘punished as provided in subsection (c) of this 
section’’ and inserting ‘‘subject to the same penalties 
as those prescribed for the offense attempted’’. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—Section 1029(e)(8) of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting before 
the period ‘‘or to intercept an electronic serial 
number, mobile identification number, or 
other identifier of any telecommunications service, 
equipment, or instrument’’. 

S3020 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

(d) APPLICABILITY OF NEW SECTION 
1029(a)(9).— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1029 of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(g)(1) It is not a violation of subsection (a)(9) 
for an officer, employee, or agent of, or a person 
engaged in business with, a facilities-based carrier, 
to engage in conduct (other than trafficking) 
otherwise prohibited by that subsection 
for the purpose of protecting the property or 
legal rights of that carrier, unless such conduct 
is for the purpose of obtaining telecommunications 
service provided by another facilities-
based carrier without the authorization of such 
carrier. 

‘‘(2) In a prosecution for a violation of subsection 
(a)(9), (other than a violation consisting 
of producing or trafficking) it is an affirmative 
defense (which the defendant must establish by 
a preponderance of the evidence) that the conduct 
charged was engaged in for research or development 
in connection with a lawful purpose.’’. 


(2) DEFINITIONS.—Section 1029(e) of title 18, 
United States Code is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(6); 
(B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(7) and inserting a semicolon; and 
(C) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
(8); and 
(D) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(9) the term ‘telecommunications service’ has 
the meaning given such term in section 3 of title 
I of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
153)); 

‘‘(10) the term ‘facilities-based carrier’ means 
an entity that owns communications transmission 
facilities, is responsible for the operation 
and maintenance of those facilities, and holds 
an operating license issued by the Federal Communications 
Commission under the authority of 
title III of the Communications Act of 1934; and 

‘‘(11) the term ‘telecommunication identifying 
information’ means electronic serial number or 
any other number or signal that identifies a specific 
telecommunications instrument or account, 
or a specific communication transmitted from a 
telecommunications instrument.’’. 

(e) AMENDMENT OF FEDERAL SENTENCING 
GUIDELINES FOR WIRELESS TELEPHONE 
CLONING.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to its authority 
under section 994 of title 28, United States Code, 
the United States Sentencing Commission shall 
review and amend the Federal sentencing guidelines 
and the policy statements of the Commission, 
if appropriate, to provide an appropriate 
penalty for offenses involving the cloning of 
wireless telephones (including offenses involving 
an attempt or conspiracy to clone a wireless 
telephone). 
(2) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In carrying 
out this subsection, the Commission shall consider, 
with respect to the offenses described in 
paragraph (1)— 
(A) the range of conduct covered by the offenses; 
(B) the existing sentences for the offenses; 
(C) the extent to which the value of the loss 
caused by the offenses (as defined in the Federal 
sentencing guidelines) is an adequate measure 
for establishing penalties under the Federal 
sentencing guidelines; 
(D) the extent to which sentencing enhancements 
within the Federal sentencing guidelines 
and the court’s authority to sentence above the 
applicable guideline range are adequate to ensure 
punishment at or near the maximum penalty 
for the most egregious conduct covered by 
the offenses; 
(E) the extent to which the Federal sentencing 
guideline sentences for the offenses have been 
constrained by statutory maximum penalties; 
(G) the extent to which Federal sentencing 
guidelines for the offenses adequately achieve 
the purposes of sentencing set forth in section 
3553(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code; 
(H) the relationship of Federal sentencing 
guidelines for the offenses to the Federal sentencing 
guidelines for other offenses of comparable 
seriousness; and 
(I) any other factor that the Commission considers 
to be appropriate. 
Amend the title so as to read ‘‘An Act to 
amend title 18, United States Code, with respect 
to scanning receivers and similar devices.’’. 


Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I rise today 
in support of S. 493, the Cellular Telephone 
Protection Act, and urge the 
President to sign this important piece 
of legislation without delay. This bill 
makes it easier for federal law enforcement 
to stop cell phone cloning by targeting 
cloning at its source—the equipment 
(‘‘black boxes’’) used to alter or 
modify the ESN (electronic serial number) 
of a cellular phone. 

I am particularly pleased that this 
bill has the support of the U.S. Secret 
Service, the Department of Justice, the 
wireless phone industry, and Congress. 

This bill is not only a victory for law 
enforcement, but also for the 56 million 
Americans who currently use wireless/ 
cellular service. According to the cellular 
telecommunications industry, 
consumers lose in excess of $650 million 
a year due to fraud, much of it as a result 
of cloning. This results in increased 
costs to cellular customers. 

S. 493 is the first in a series of anti-
crime initiatives I introduced that are 
aimed at modernizing U.S. law to reflect 
changes in technology. It is another 
step to assure that law-abiding 
citizens don’t inadvertently become 
part of a criminal activity. 
Wireless fraud is not a victimless 
crime. It strikes at the heart of technology 
that is improving the safety, security 
and business productivity of the 
entire Nation. This bill will help stop 
the criminal cloning of wireless phones 
by giving law enforcement the tools 
they need to combat wireless fraud. 

The Secret Secret—the Federal agency 
charged with investigating cloning 
offenses—has doubled the number of arrests 
in the area of wireless telecommunications 
fraud every year since 
1991, with 800 individuals charged for 
their part in the cloning of cellular 
phones in 1996. 

At a House Subcommittee on Crime 
hearing law year, the Secret Service 
conducted a demonstration in which a 
phone was cloned in approximately 30 
seconds. At that hearing, law enforcement 
officials testified at how cloning 
technology is increasingly being used 
in various types of criminal activity— 
especially in drug crimes. 

On February 24, 1998, I chaired a 
hearing of the Senate Subcommittee 
on Terrorism, Technology, and Government 
Information in which the Secret 
Service testified that foreign terrorists 
were financing their operations in the 

U.S. with the aid of ‘‘cloned’’ cellular 
telephones. Deputy Assistant Director 
Richard Rohde testified that foreign 
terrorists often make money by running 
illegal ‘‘cell-sell’’ rings. These 
rings involve the illegal sale of long-
distance telephone access using fraudulently-
obtained service. One common 
method is ‘‘renting’’ the use of a cellular 
phone which has been ‘‘cloned,’’ 
or modified to direct billing identification 
to the user of a different phone. 

While the current cell phone law (18 

U.S.C. 1029) has been useful in prosecuting 
some cloners, the statute has 
not functioned well in stopping those 
who manufacture and distribute 
cloning devices. In testimony before 
the House Subcommittee on Crime, Michael 
C. Stenger of the Secret Service 
stressed the need to revise our current 
cell phone statute: 
Due to the fact that the statute presently 
requires the proof of ‘‘intent to defraud’’ to 
charge the violation, the distributors of the 
cloning equipment have become elusive targets. 
These distributors utilize disclaimers 
in their advertising mechanisms aimed at 
avoiding a finding of fraudulent intent. This 
allows for the continued distribution of the 
equipment permitting all elements of the 
criminal arena to equip themselves with 
free, anonymous phone service. 

Under S. 493, a prosecutor would need 
to prove that an individual 

knowingly uses, produces, traffics in, has 
control or custody of, or possesses hardware 
or software, knowing it has been configured 
to insert or modify telecommunications 
identifying information associated with or 
contained in a telecommunications instrument 
so that such instrument may be used 
to obtain telecommunications service without 
authorization. 

The removal of the ‘‘intent to defraud’’ 
language in 18 U.S.C. 1029 only 
applies to the possession and use of the 
hardware and software configured to 
alter telecommunications instruments. 
It does not apply to those who are in 
the possession of cloned phones. Nor 
does it apply to those in the possession 
of scanning receivers (which do have 
some legitimate uses). Someone who 
does not know that a telecommunications 
device has been altered to modify 
a telecommunications instrument 
would not be criminally liable under 
this section. 

I am very proud of this important 
crime-fighting legislation and look forward 
to its prompt signature by the 
President. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, in 1994, I 
authored the first law to provide specific 
protection against ‘‘clone’’ telephones. 
While the main focus of the 
Communications Assistance for Law 
Enforcement Act, or CALEA, was to 
help our law enforcement agencies deal 
with the challenge of new digital telecommunications 
equipment and services, 
the law also contained important 
bans on the use and trafficking of clone 
phones, scanning receivers, and hardware 
and software used to steal cellular 
service. 

Specifically, in CALEA, we amended 
the Counterfeit Access Device law, 18 

U.S.C. § 1029, by adding a provision to 
criminalize the use and possession, 
with intent to defraud, of altered telecommunications 
instruments, or scanning 
receivers, hardware or software, 
to obtain unauthorized access to telecommunications 
services. This law also 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3021 

added to the federal criminal code a 
definition of scanning receivers to 
mean devices used to intercept illegally 
wire or electronic communications. 


‘‘Clone’’ telephones are used illegally 
to allow free riding on the cellular 
phone system and result in theft of 
that service. The cellular telephone industry 
estimates that it loses $650 million 
per year due to clone phones. I recall 
testimony at hearings I chaired 
jointly with Representative Don 
Edwards on CALEA about the need to 
address this problem in CALEA. Tom 
Wheeler, President of the Cellular 
Telecommunications Industry Association, 
testified in 1994 about: 

. . . people being surprised by 
‘‘humongous’’ cellular bills because somebody 
had snatched their electronic code out 
of the air, cloned that into another phone, 
and was charging phone calls to Colombia or 
wherever onto their phone. 

S. Hrg. 103–1022, at p. 148 (August 11, 
1994). 
In short, the theft of cellular telephone 
services amounts to millions of 
dollars of losses to wireless service providers 
and to consumers. 

Just as disturbing, clone phones are 
used by drug dealers and other criminals 
trying to evade police surveillance 
of their phone conversations. The 
fraudulent use of electronic serial 
numbers, which are critical in identifying 
the cellular phone subject to 
wiretap orders, represented a real 
threat to privacy. Mr. Wheeler explained 
in 1994, ‘‘If you have a situation 
where there is floating around out 
there multiple users of the same electronic 
serial numbers, you don’t know 
who you are tapping.’’ S. Hrg. 103–1022, 
at p. 148 (August 11, 1994). 

Given the financial losses and the 
threats to privacy posed by clone 
phones, I urge the cellular telephone 
industry to consider the technical 
means available to better protect cellular 
phone service. In particular, if 
strong encryption were used to encrypt 
the radio waves transmitted from cellular 
phones to the nearest cell tower, 
stealing those signals for use in a clone 
phone would be much more difficult, if 
not impossible. 

I have long been a proponent of more 
widespread use of strong encryption. 
Clone phones are a perfect example of 
where the use of strong encryption 
would be far more effective to prevent 
this crime from occurring than all the 
criminal laws we could consider passing. 


This bill, as modified by the House, 
builds upon the work we accomplished 
in CALEA. 

Current law contains an ‘‘intent to 
defraud’’ requirement that has apparently 
posed a stumbling block for law 
enforcement to crack down on the 
cloning of cellular phones. This bill 
would remove this intent requirement 
and make it illegal to use, sell or possess 
hardware or software knowing it 
has been configured for the purpose of 
altering a telephone to steal service. 

The House of Representatives made a 
number of significant improvements to 

S. 493 to ensure that, upon removal of 
the ‘‘intent to defraud’’ requirement, 
the bill did not sweep too broadly. Indeed, 
I understand that even some cellular 
companies were concerned that 
the original bill introduced by Senator 
KYL might inadvertently have applied 
to machinery used by legitimate companies 
to test or reprogram their 
equipment. 
Removal of the ‘‘intent to defraud’’ 
scienter requirement may still pose 
problems for those legitimate companies 
that with to offer ‘‘extension’’ 
telephones for cellular telephones. In 
fact, the Federal Communications 
Commission has a proceeding underway 
to determine whether companies may 
be allowed to alter the electronic serial 
number of a cellular telephone to allow 
more than one phone to have the same 
contact number. 

Passage of this law may be interpreted 
as prejudging the outcome of 
that proceeding by making illegal the 
use of clone phones, even by legitimate 
subscribers who pay their bills. That 
would be regrettable. This bill should 
not affect the outcome of the FCC proceeding, 
since the public interest may 
be well served by allowing competition 
into the extension cellular telephone 
business. Depending on the outcome of 
the FCC proceeding, we may be revisiting 
this legislation. 

This bill, as modified by the House, is 
supported by the FBI, Secret Service 
and the Cellular Telephone Industry 
Association (CTIA). We made important 
progress in this area when we 
passed CALEA, and I am glad to support 
legislation that will further help 
law enforcement combat cellular telephone 
fraud by those who steal cellular 
service. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
concur in the amendments of the 
House. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

LAND CONVEYANCE ACT 
Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of Calendar 
No. 321, H.R. 1116. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 
The legislative clerk read as follows: 
A bill (H.R. 1116) to provide for the conveyance 
of the reversionary interest of the 
United States in certain lands to the Clint 
Independent School District and the Fabens 
Independent School District. 
There being no objections, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 
Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the bill be 
considered read a third time, passed, 
the motion to reconsider be laid upon 
the table, and any statements relating 
to the bill appear at the appropriate 
place in the RECORD. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 1116) was considered 
read the third time and passed. 

f 

MEASURE PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR—S. 1889 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I understand 
that there is a bill at the desk 
that is due for a second reading. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S. 1889 ) to reduce tobacco use by 
children and others through an increase in 
the cost of tobacco products, the imposition 
of advertising and marketing limitations, assuring 
appropriate tobacco industry oversight, 
expanding the availability of tobacco 
use cessation programs, and implementing a 
strong public health prevention and education 
strategy that involves the private sector, 
schools, States and local communities. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I object 
to further proceedings on this matter 
at this time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill 
will be placed on the calendar. 

f 

ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 
1998 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, on behalf 
of the leader, I ask unanimous 
consent that when the Senate completes 
its business today, it stand in 
adjournment until 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, 
April 2; that immediately following 
the prayer, the routine requests 
through the morning hour be granted 
and the Senate resume consideration of 

S. Con. Res. 86, with the pending business 
being the Bumpers amendment 
No. 2228. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DOMENICI. I further ask unanimous 
consent that immediately following 
the previously ordered two 
votes which will occur at 9 a.m., the 
Senate then proceed to consecutive 
votes on or in relation to the following 
amendments in the following order: 

Dorgan amendment No. 2218, relating 
to the Tax Code; 
Allard amendment No. 2170, regarding 
the Federal debt; 
Lautenberg amendment No. 2195, environment 
programs; 
Bond amendment No. 2213, income 
housing; 
Bumpers amendment No. 2228, relating 
to mines. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PROGRAM 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, tomorrow 
the Senate will resume consideration 
of the budget resolution. At 9 
a.m., the Senate will proceed to a series 
of consecutive rollcall votes, with 
the first two votes in relation to two 
judicial nominations and the remaining 
votes in relation to pending amendments 
to the budget resolution. 

It is hoped that during these votes, 
all Senators will contact the managers 


S3022 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE April 1, 1998 

of this resolution to see if their respective 
amendments which are still pending 
may be accepted or they require a 
vote on their amendments or perhaps 
indicate that they have decided to 
withdraw their amendments. It is the 
intention of the majority leader to 
complete action on this measure as 
soon as possible. Therefore, the cooperation 
of all Senators is appreciated. 
Senators should be aware that 
Thursday will be a busy session with 
rollcall votes occurring throughout the 
day and into the evening, as necessary. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 8:30 A.M. 
TOMMORROW 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come before 
the Senate, I now ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate stand in adjournment 
under the previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 10:33 p.m., adjourned until Thursday, 
April 2, 1998, at 8:30 a.m. 

f 

NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate April 1, 1998: 

IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED RESERVE OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
AS CHIEF OF ARMY RESERVE UNDER TITLE 
10, U.S.C., SECTION 3038: 

To be Chief, Army Reserve, United States Army 

MAJ. GEN. THOMAS J. PLEWES, 0000 

IN THE AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR 
FORCE AND FOR REGULAR APPOINTMENT UNDER TITLE 
10,U.S.C., SECTIONS 624, 628, AND 531: 

To be Major 

CHRISTIANNE L. COLLINS, 0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR 
FORCE AND FOR REGULAR APPOINTMENT (IDENTIFIED 
BY AN ASTERISK(*)) UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 
624, 628, AND 531: 

To be Lieutenant Colonel 

ALTON G. CHERNEY, 0000 
GREGORY M. GILLUM, 0000 
STEPHEN J. MILONE, 0000 

To be Major 

*DAVID E. HARRIS, 0000 
RENEE M. JOHNSON, 0000 
NICOLE S. STERMER, 0000 
KEVIN L. TOY, 0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR 
FORCE AND FOR REGULAR APPOINTMENT (IDENTIFIED 
BY AN ASTERISK (*)) UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 
624 AND 531: 

To be Colonel 

ALMA J. ABALOS, 0000 
DAVID V. ADAMS, 0000 
DORIS J. ALLSUP, 0000 
LAURA V. ALVARADO, 0000 
REGINA C. AUNE, 0000 
PATRICIA E. BOYLE, 0000 
LINDA L. BRICKLEY, 0000 
RHONDA L. BRIDGE, 0000 
JOHN A. BUTLER, 0000 
JOSEPH P. CARDONA, JR., 0000 
JOHN B. CARLETON, 0000 
JAMES C. CHAPMAN, 0000 
MATTHEW W. COGDELL, 0000 

VIRGINIA F. CONNELLY, 0000 
PATRICIA L. DAVIS, 0000 
JAMES W. DOOLEY, 0000 
CONNIE E. FESSLER, 0000 
JOHN G. GARLAND III, 0000 
SUZANNE R. HANSEN, 0000 
RANDALL W. HARTLEY, 0000 
RUSSELL W. HEATH, 0000 
DAVID L. HERRES, 0000 
GWENDOLYN F. HOLLAND, 0000 
DEBRA S. HUGHES, 0000 
JEANIE M. KEARNEY, 0000 
JAY K. KIDNEY, 0000 
GENE A. KILLAN, 0000 
PATRICIA A. LAND, 0000 
PATRICIA C. LEWIS, 0000 
THOMAS H. LILLIE, 0000 
DONNA J. MC CLOSKEY, 0000 
MARGARET M. MC GUIRE, 0000 
WILLIAM J. MEHM, 0000 
ARDIS J. MEIER, 0000 
BONNIE A. MERTELY, 0000 
KENNETH L. MEYER, 0000 
TIMOTHY R. MIDDLETON, 0000 
ROSS N. MILLER, 0000 
SHEILA A. W. MILLETTE, 0000 
JAMES P. MORELAND, 0000 
LAURENCE P. PAZYRA, 0000 
MELISSA A. RANK, 0000 
KATHLEEN A. ROBERTS, 0000 
TED JIM WILLIAM ROGERS, 0000 
GLORIA J. ROSEBORO, 0000 
REBECCA A. RUSSELL, 0000 
GREGORY E. SEELY, 0000 
JOHN A. SEIMETZ, 0000 
JANE E. SERIE, 0000 
LORETA S. SEWALL, 0000 
ANDREW J. STOEHR, 0000 
JEFFREY C. SVENTEK, 0000 
ROBIN L. TAYLOR, 0000 
THOMAS J. TEGELER, 0000 
LUCAS J. WALTER, JR., 0000 
DARNELL M. WAUN, 0000 
MARK P. WISNIEWSKI, 0000 
WILLIAM J. WISNIEWSKI, 0000 

To be Lieutenant Colonel 

JANICE L. ABLES, 0000 
BRIAN J. ACKER, 0000 
LOREN A. AHNBERG, 0000 
GARNEL E. ALFORD, 0000 
PATRICIA E. ALVOET, 0000 
SUANNE R. BARLOW, 0000 
LYNETTE M. BELL, 0000 
TONI L. BEUMER, 0000 
JOHN L. BINDER, 0000 
CHERYL M. BOSCO, 0000 
NAOMI M. BOSS, 0000 
DONNA M. BROWN, 0000 
RICHARD E. BURROW III, 0000 
DONALD W. BUTTERWORTH, 0000 
CHARLES M. CAMPBELL, 0000 
SHARON M. CARDONA, 0000 
*DOROTHY L. CARTER, 0000 
RANDY L. CLABAUGH, 0000 
RITA A. CLARK, 0000 
*MARGARET M. COLE, 0000 
PERRY R. COOPER, 0000 
ANNE T. COYNE, 0000 
JOANN H. DAWSON, 0000 
THOMAS S. DELANEY, 0000 
RONALD S. DORNIN, 0000 
JOANNA S. EASTMAN, 0000 
MELYDIA J. EDGE, 0000 
HELEN F. EDWARDS, 0000 
CATHERINE M. ERICKSON, 0000 
DEBRA K. EVERS, 0000 
JOHN F. FELINS, 0000 
GORDON FLINT, 0000 
ANGELA D. FOWLER, 0000 
DENNIS E. FRANKS, 0000 
DEBRA L. GAGNON, 0000 
JOAN L. GONZALEZ, 0000 
CHARLES S. GRANTONIC, 0000 
BRIAN W. GRASSI, 0000 
JANE A. HEBERT, 0000 
RONALD B. HENKE, 0000 
HARVEY K. HILLIARD, 0000 
TYANN A. HINDELANG, 0000 
DIANE L. HOBBS, 0000 
DAVID T. HOCKING, 0000 
EVA J. HOLSTINE, 0000 
ANNIE B. JACKSON, 0000 
LEONARD W. JACKSON, 0000 
PAULA R. JAMESON, 0000 
*MARY A. JASINSKI, 0000 
EDWARD M. JENKINS, 0000 
VICKI L. JONES, 0000 
MICHAEL JOSEPH III, 0000 
PHILIP W. JULIAN, 0000 
LYNN J. KANWISCHER, 0000 
KELLEY J. KASH, 0000 
GRANT D. KOTOVSKY, 0000 

KIM A. KUBELICK, 0000 
THOMAS F. LANGSTON, 0000 
DAVID J. LANNEN, 0000 
DENISE K. LEW, 0000 
DIXIE L. LYON, 0000 
VICTORIA M. MARINO, 0000 
SHERRY L. MAXWELL, 0000 
LORI L. MONTGOMERY, 0000 
DANNY L. MOORE, 0000 
JOAN E. MORRISSEY, 0000 
JOHN S. MURRAY, 0000 
LAMAR ODOM, 0000 
RONALD E. PALMER, 0000 
TERRY L. B. PARKER, 0000 
MONTGOMERY C. PATE, 0000 
ARLENE A. PERRY, 0000 
MICHAEL J. POULSEN, 0000 
SUZANNE M. PRILESZKY, 0000 
KARRIN W. SAX, 0000 
MICHAELA R. SHAFER, 0000 
WILLIAM J. H. SLAUSON, 0000 
PAMELA H. SMITH, 0000 
*CHRISTINE C. STUART, 0000 
MARGARET A. STULTZLALK, 0000 
SUSAN R. SULLIVAN, 0000 
DONNALEE SYKES, 0000 
JAMES F. TITCH, 0000 
GLORIA J. TWILLEY, 0000 
CAROL L. UMSTEADRASCHMANN, 0000 
THOMAS E. VEZIE JR., 0000 
FRANK W. WILLIAMS, 0000 
ELAINE S. WILSON, 0000 
JOHN G. WISEMAN, 0000 
BARBARA L. WOLFE, 0000 
THOMAS E. YINGST, 0000 

M. JEANNE YODER, 0000 
VICTORIA G. ZAMARRIPA, 0000 
IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES 
ARMY AND FOR REGULAR APPOINTMENT (IDENTIFIED 
BY AN ASTERISK (*)) UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 
624, 628, 531, AND 3064: 

To be Colonel 

RICHARD A. CLINE, 0000 

To be Lieutenant Colonel 

*CORNEL L. KITTELL, 0000 
*STANLEY E. SMITH, 0000 

To be Major 

*SONJA S. THOMPSON, 0000 

IN THE NAVY 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES 
NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624: 

To be Captain 

WILLIAM T. D’AMICO, 0000 

To be Commander 

JOHN S. ARBTER, 0000 
STEVEN A. DREISS, 0000 
ROBIN P. MOUTON, 0000 
JOSE PUBILLONES, 0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES 
NAVAL RESERVE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203: 

To be Captain 

ROBERT A. WULFF, 0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR APPOINTMENT 
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED 
STATES NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 5589(A): 

LYNNEANN PINE, 0000 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES 
NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624: 

To be Commander 

BRIAN W. DAUGHERTY, 0000 
PAUL J. DOUR, 0000 
CHARLES S. HAMES, 0000 
HOWARD L. MARSHALL, 0000 
EDWARD C. SIMMONS, JR., 0000 

To be Lieutenant Commander 

MICHAEL CRICCHIO, 0000 

THE JUDICIARY 

TIMOTHY B. DYK, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO 
BE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE FEDERAL 
CIRCUIT, VICE GLENN L. ARCHER, JR., RETIRED. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E537 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

INTRODUCTION OF HOUSE RESO


LUTION TO ISSUE PAUL ROBE


SON COMMEMORATIVE STAMP 

HON. BOBBY L. RUSH 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, today I am introducing 
a resolution, with Mr. Pallone, expressing 
the Sense of Congress that the Citizens’ 
Stamp Advisory Committee should recommend 
to the Postmaster General that a 
commemorative stamp be issued in honor of 
Paul Leroy Robeson’s centennial birthday, 
April 9, 1998. 

Few Americans can surpass the contributions 
of such an extraordinary man. Robeson 
was a fearless advocate for the cause of 
human dignity and justice, both in the United 
States and throughout the world. As an actor, 
singer, athlete, lawyer, and activist, Paul 
Robeson inspired the spirit and lives of millions 
of people. 

The United States Government desperately 
tried to silence Paul Robeson during the repressive 
McCarthy era. The State Department 
revoked his passport for some pro-Soviet 
statements, and the House Committee on Un-
American Activities attacked him. But Paul 
Robeson continued to speak out on behalf of 
freedom and civil rights. 

To commemorate the centennial of his birthday, 
April 9, 1998, the Paul Robeson 100th 
Birthday Committee launched a national 
grassroots petition drive to ask the Citizens 
Stamp Advisory Committee to issue a Paul 
Robeson postage stamp. The Campaign collected 
nearly 90,000 letters and signatures in 
behalf of this request. Numerous Members of 
the 105th Congress also signed letters to the 
Citizens Advisory Committee in support of the 
stamp. 

Despite this outpouring of enthusiasm, the 
Citizens Stamp Advisory Committee turned 
down the request. Our Resolution expresses 
the Sense of Congress that our country should 
honor Paul Robeson with the issuance of a 
commemorative stamp. 

Thousands of people will mark Robeson’s 
100th birthday with celebrations across the 
country. But this accomplished American may 
not be well-known to younger generations. 
The issuance of such a stamp would not only 
be a fitting tribute to Paul Robeson, but also 
an excellent opportunity to educate new generations 
about his contributions to the arts, 
politics, sports, and the movement for social 
justice. 

I urge Members of Congress to join me and 
Congressman PALLONE in honoring Paul 
Robeson and his legacy in American history 
by cosponsoring this Resolution. 

HONORING THE MARTIN LUTHER 
KING, JR. COMMUNITY CENTER 

HON. KEN BENTSEN 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor 
the Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Center 
in Houston as it celebrates its 30th anniversary 
on April 4, 1998. 

Begun by dedicated Vista volunteers and 
community leaders in the 1960s, the King 
Center has grown into a multi-purpose facility 
that meets a wide range of needs, including 
day care, delinquency prevention, education, 
food and clothing emergency assistance, 
housing for the homeless, assistance for 
abused or neglected babies and children, and 
senior citizen support groups. 

I salute all who have contributed to the success 
of the center, especially Executive Director 
Madgelean Bush and the center’s founders 
who had the vision, courage, and commitment 
to turn their dream into reality: Elizabeth 
Hardesty, the late Eugene Hardesty, the late 
Moses Leroy, Dr. Hardy Loe, Bob Newman, 
the late Barbara Russell, Ben Russell, Millie 
Simon, and the late Will Simon. 

The history of the Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Community Center dates to a definitive study 
on low-income housing in Houston conducted 
in the early 1960s by the Houston Council on 
Human Relations. This study found pockets of 
intense poverty in Houston. As a result, the 
Council sponsored Vista volunteers to work in 
these areas. One of these volunteers was Bob 
Newman, who was assigned to the third ward 
area. To help him, he was assigned a volunteer 
support team from the First Unitarian 
Church. 

After several months in the neighborhood, 
Bob Newman arranged for a group of individuals 
to discuss the development of a community 
center. After a series of Tuesday night 
meetings, the founding group of seven rented 
a store front building at the corner of Sampson 
and Drew, and what was then known as the 
Sampson Street Center began its work. On 
the night that Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated 
in Memphis, the group met and 
voted to change the center’s name to honor 
the fallen civil rights leader. 

While the outside volunteers provided invaluable 
assistance, they quickly realized that 
the Center would only succeed with the support 
of neighborhood residents. Only residents 
truly understood the problems and could bring 
about the changes needed to solve them. So 
they began an active and successful outreach 
to build support in the neighborhood. An election 
was held to establish a neighborhood 
board of directors. And residents began organizing 
and staffing programs that addressed 
their immediate needs. 

The priorities of the center echoed the many 
concerns of the neighborhood—the needs of 
children who needed a place to go while their 
parents worked, or teenagers with seemingly 

no direction and nothing to do, of adults who 
needed the chance at further education and 
job training. 

Grandmothers, aunts, and sisters, staffed a 
day care center. Neighborhood cleanup and 
rat eradication programs were started. Volunteers 
began an adult education program 
aimed at an eventual GED. Upholstery and 
ceramic classes were offered. 

It quickly became obvious that volunteers 
could only do so much and that staffing would 
be required. A grant, arranged by Bob Wood-
son of the Unitarian Service Committee, made 
it possible to hire Ms. Ollie Hollies to work the 
Day Care Center, and shortly after, Madge 
Bush was hired to become the director of the 
King Center. 

Space, always a problem, became critical 
as the programs grew. Houston had become 
eligible for Model Cities monies, and in 1974 
a classroom building was built on King Center 
land with a Model Cities grant. This added 
space increased the day care program’s capacity. 
Over the years, other programs were 
established: a halfway house for youngsters in 
trouble; food baskets and food collections for 
the needy; toy collections for children; and a 
senior citizen support program in a separate 
building with kitchen facilities that the seniors 
support themselves through quilting and Friday 
night fish dinner sales. 

In 1990, the Mickey Eland Crisis Nursery 
was added to provide 24-hour-care for abused 
or neglected children and babies. Other vital 
services include programs such as sports, tutorial 
and counseling to combat delinquency 
and drugs and an alternative school, supported 
by the Houston Independent School 
District, for elementary age students who are 
having difficulties in a regular school environment. 
In addition, construction is under way on 
16 family housing units in a project that will 
also include counseling, job training, and other 
services to help families. 

Today, through the dedication and hard 
work of Madgelean Bush, the staff, and volunteers, 
the King Center is alive and well. In 
every challenge, Madge sees hopes for a solution, 
and she inspires others to join her in 
the effort. I salute everyone involved with the 
Martin Luther King, Jr. Community Center 
throughout its 30 years of service and thank 
them for all that they have done to make 
Houston a better and more caring place. 

f 


U.S. OIL RESERVES—BUY HIGH, 
SELL LOW? 
HON. GEORGE MILLER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. MILLER of California. Mr. Speaker, the 
Department of Energy is about to sell off more 
than $207 million worth of oil owned by U.S. 
taxpayers from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 
At today’s low prices, that means the 
United States would dump about 20 million 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E538 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

barrels of oil on a market already awash with 
oversupply. 

Congress created the Reserve in 1975 to 
avoid the devastating effects on our national 
security and our economy that could be 
caused by the kind of shortages that occurred 
when other oil-producing countries stopped 
producing in order to drive up the price of oil 
and gas. 

Last year, Congress directed the DOE to 
sell over $200 million worth of oil—essentially 
covering the cost of operating the Reserve. 
But shouldn’t we think about the wisdom of 
proceeding with this plan at this time? 

Isn’t it foolish to liquidate federal oil reserves 
now, when oil and gas are selling at very low 
prices? Even if the price of oil rebounds this 
year, we would still be selling these federal 
assets for far less than the $27 to $30 per 
barrel it cost us to acquire them. Secretary of 
Energy Federico Pena agrees, noting, ‘‘This is 
the worst time to be selling oil out of the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve.’’ Good economics 
would suggest that we buy oil for the Reserve 
now—not sell it. 

On March 26, the Senate accepted an 
amendment to its supplemental appropriations 
bill to rescind the sale. The House bill passed 
earlier this week does not rescind the sale. On 
behalf of taxpayers who stand to lose millions 
is this unwise liquidation proceeds, I would 
hope that the House conferees will accept the 
Senate position in Conference. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE 
FRED AND MRS. ANNE ANDERSON 

HON. BOB SCHAFFER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the Honorable 
Fred and Mrs. Anne Anderson of 
Loveland, Colorado. Fred and Anne are being 
honored April 1 by the National Multiple Sclerosis 
with the 1998 Hope Award at the fourth 
annual Dinner of Champions. April 1 is a very 
special anniversary for the couple as this was 
the date Fred proposed to Anne 44 years ago, 
so it is especially poignant that the community 
chose this date to honor this dedicated couple 
for their volunteer service. 

As residents of the community for four decades, 
and parents of four children, the Andersons 
have spent an enormous amount of time 
contributing to the political and local community. 
To name just some of the organizations 
they worked for include the Boy Scouts, their 
children’s schools, youth football, church, library, 
McKee Medical Center, Rotary, Jaycees, 
PEO, and foundations. 

Fred, who served in the Colorado State 
Senate for 16 years, including a time as Senate 
President, is well known for his expertise 
on Colorado water issues. His knowledge has 
been invaluable to the citizens of the region 
and state. Anne has served as co-chair of 
United Way with Fred, and board member of 
public television’s Channel 6. Together, they 
signed up to work hard for the National MS 
Society when one of their children, Kate, was 
diagnosed with the disease, chairing the first 
Dinner of Champions. 

The Andersons are a good example of 
Americans who are generous and caring. 

‘‘They would do anything for any person who 
needed a hand,’’ said Cindy Bean, development 
manager for the National MS Society. As 
a personal friend of the Andersons, I know this 
statement to be true. Fred and Anne are two 
people who are working to make this a better 
world. 

f 


CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1757, 

FOREIGN AFFAIRS REFORM AND 

RESTRUCTURING ACT OF 1998 

SPEECH OF 

HON. VINCE SNOWBARGER 

OF KANSAS 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, March 26, 1998 

Mr. SNOWBARGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of this conference report. The United 
Nations Reform Act is an important first step 
in bringing this institution in line with what 
America expects of it, and achieving the goals 
of the Kassebaum-Solomon amendment which 
began our withholding of a portion of our U.N. 
dues. Last year, I introduced the United Nations 
Accountability Act to force reforms at the 

U.N. before any arrears could be paid to that 
body. This measure would go far in accomplishing 
that goal by providing the funds in 
three tranches, but payment of each tranche 
would be contingent on certain specified reforms 
accomplished at the United Nations. 
The U.S.’s dues assessment must be lowered 
from the current 25 percent to 22 percent 
immediately, and to 20 percent by the year 
2000. For too long, the U.S. has been paying 
a disproportionate share of the U.N.’s expenses, 
and other countries have been getting 
off without paying their fair share. 

The bill also requires that our assessment 
for peacekeeping activities be reduced to 25 
percent, and most importantly that our in-kind 
military contributions to U.N. peacekeeping 
missions be credited against our assessment. 
Last year I supported an amendment by the 
gentleman from Maryland—Mr. B ARTLETT—to 
require money we spent in the past for this 
purpose be applied to our arrearage. Unfortunately, 
a majority of the House opposed that 
effort. I can understand why—the Administration 
promised and the Congress appropriated 
this money without first demanding reimbursement, 
and it would be difficult to retroactively 
correct that foolish mistake. But we must 
make sure that we get compensation in the future. 
Administration officials and Members of 
Congress must remember that it is not our 
money they are promising to Kofi Annan, it belongs 
to the people of this country, and they 
deserve full value for it. 

There are other important institutional reforms 
in this bill that deserve our support. 
There are procurement reforms that ensure 
that contracts will be let fairly and openly and 
not to the friends of the U.N. officials awarding 
them. There will finally be a merit-based personnel 
system at the U.N. to end the rampant 
cronyism there. The United States—as the 
largest contributor to the U.N.—will be ensured 
of a seat on the U.N.’s budget committee. 
The bloated staffing levels will be cut. And 
a report will be required on efforts to ensure 
that our ally Israel has the same opportunity to 
serve on the Security Council as every other 
member state. 

Now that the reforms have been required by 
Congress, the next step must be enforcing 

them. I must say that I would have preferred 
the enforcement procedure of the United Nations 
Accountability Act—requiring a second 
vote by Congress to approve the reforms. Instead 
the Administration has to certify that the 

U.N. has indeed made the required reforms— 
not just making progress, but actually accomplishing 
them. Congress now has the duty to 
keep both U.N. and the Administration honest. 
I will do my best to do so, and if any certification 
is made that is in conflict with the facts, 
I will lead the effort to block further appropriations. 
f 


THE DISABLED VETERANS’ SPE


CIAL HOUSING IMPROVEMENTS 

ACT OF 1998—H.R. 3619 

HON. LANE EVANS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, today, I am introducing 
the Disabled Veterans’ Special Housing 
Improvements Act of 1998. This legislation 
will provide our most severely disabled veterans 
with a much needed increase in the 
amount of the one-time grant they may receive 
in order to obtain or adapt special housing 
to meet their unique needs. Only a small 
number of service-connected veterans are so 
disabled that they qualify to receive a grant to 
obtain suitable housing. Most are required to 
use a wheelchair for mobility. During the past 
ten years, the purchasing power of this grant 
has been allowed to erode by almost one-
third. 

The Disabled Veterans’ Special Housing Improvements 
Act of 1998 was prompted by a 
call to my office from a severely disabled veteran. 
This veteran reported that while he had 
been approved for a one-time grant from the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to modify his 
home to meet the requirements of his service-
connected disabilities, the cost of the needed 
adaptations far exceeded the amount of the 
grant. There was a simple reason for this fact. 
The grant amount for veterans which had 
been regularly increased between 1969 and 
1988 has been frozen since 1988. 

The grant available under this program 
amount is limited to 50% of the actual cost of 
the modifications or purchase. Nonetheless, 
almost 95% of the veterans who qualify for 
this benefit receive the maximum grant. The 
legislation I am introducing today makes up for 
years of neglect. It will restore the purchasing 
power of the grant to reflect the current cost 
of housing. In order to avoid repeating the neglect 
of the past ten years, the legislation will 
also index the grant to the cost of new construction 
in future years. 

In addition, this legislation has been recommended 
by the Independent Budget and 
the many veterans service organizations who 
participate in preparing that document. Our 
most severely disabled veterans have earned 
the right to live in a safe, secure home, specially 
adapted to meet their needs. I urge my 
colleagues to support this legislation. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E539 

HONORING NATIONAL COMMUNITY 3579) making emergency supplemental ommendation is in the Statement, the MMS 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DAY appropriations for the fiscal year end-should ignore this unwise effort to tamper with 
ing September 30, 1998, and for other the law and shortchange taxpayers. 

f

HON. KEN BENTSEN purposes: 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize 
National Community Economic Development 
Day (National CED Day), which will be 
celebrated by community development corporations 
(CDCs) across the county on 
Wednesday, April 8, 1998. 

This third annual event, held during National 
Community Development Week and sponsored 
by the National Congress for Community 
Development (NCCED), recognizes the 
achievements of more than 2,500 CDCs working 
in America’s low-income urban and rural 
communities. More than 800 NCCED members 
are actively involved in housing renovation 
and construction, real estate development, 
industrial and small business development, 
employment-generating activities, and other innovative 
programs to revitalize communities. 
More than 21 million people benefit from the 
work of CDCs. 

This year’s National CED Day theme, Community 
Empowerment Through Partnerships, 
underscores the benefits of building effective 
alliances between community and faith-based 
organizations, businesses, and state, local, 
and federal governments. Collectively, these 
partnerships work to foster a better social and 
economic quality of life for America’s families. 
National CED Day gives CDCs the chance to 
form and expand productive partnerships with 
local businesses, corporations, banks, academic 
institutions and public officials, which 
strengthens the economic base of both urban 
and rural communities nationwide. 

Community Development Corporations are 
good at what they do around the country and 
in Houston. They recognize the interrelated 
factors that cause economic decline. They 
evaluate the needs of each community and 
create plans for each neighborhood. They 
then develop comprehensive strategies for 
community economic development using entrepreneurial 
solutions, and they stay in the 
community for the long term. 

Effective community development depends 
on all of us working together, developing and 
sharing good ideas, and bringing individual talents 
and resources to bear addressing the 
economic challenges facing our families and 
our communities. 

Mr. Speaker, I commend all involved with 
National Community Economic Development 
Day and the good work that CDCs have done 
in Houston and around the country. I look forward 
to continuing to work together in this crucial 
effort. 

f 


1998 EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT 

SPEECH OF 

HON. GEORGE MILLER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, March 31, 1998 

The House in Committee of the 
Whole House on the State of the Union 
had under consideration the bill (H.R. 

Mr. MILLER of California. Mr. Chairman, the 
House Report accompanying the Supplemental 
Appropriations bill contains a little-noticed 
section that could cost taxpayers many 
millions of dollars in revenues from public 
lands in the Gulf of Mexico. 

Technological advances in recent years 
have made it much cheaper to find and 
produce oil and gas in what was formerly considered 
‘‘deep water’’ in the Gulf. In 1995, the 
Congress unwisely passed a Deepwater Royalty 
‘‘holiday’’ to stimulate oil companies (most 
of whom were already enormously interested 
in deep water leases) to bid on these tracts. 
Here’s how Congress provided that incentive: 
instead of charging royalties on oil and gas 
produced from these new leases, the oil companies 
would be given as much as 87.5 million 
barrels absolutely free! We have given 
away hundreds of millions, if not billions, of 
dollars in royalties from leases on public lands 
that the oil industry was already clamoring to 
bid on. It came as little surprise that companies 
are snapping up the royalty-free leases 
and paying higher than normal front end bonuses 
to acquire them. Why wouldn’t you pay 
more if you know you will get nearly 100 million 
barrels of production royalty-free? 

Thanks to improved technology and cheaper 
production costs, oil exploration and production 
in the Gulf are booming. As reported in 
Forbes magazine last year, Gulf of Mexico 
deepwater development costs have dropped 
to as little as $3 per barrel, one-third the level 
in 1987. 

This is great news for the oil industry, but 
might not be quite so good a bargain for the 
taxpayers who own the oil and gas. The Minerals 
Management Service, which oversees 
offshore production, wants to look at possibly 
raising the royalty rates on the holiday leases 
once royalties do begin to apply in an effort to 
determine whether or not the public is actually 
receiving fair market value on its oil and gas. 
MMS is fully allowed to take such corrective 
action under the 1995 law that gave away the 
leases royalty-free. 

But the oil industry, enjoying the benefits of 
the 1995 law and flush with money from Gulf 
leases, now wants to curtail the government’s 
legal right to make adjustments to ensure the 
public’s financial interest is fully protected. The 
House Appropriations Committee’s Report on 
the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
bill includes language to prevent the Secretary 
of the Interior from making any changes to the 
lease terms. This language undermines the 
Secretary’s authority to set terms that guarantee 
the taxpayer receives fair market value on 
the sale of its mineral resources. 

Congress should be protecting the public’s 
right to receive a fair return—not tying the 
hands of the Interior Department when it is attempting 
to secure fair market value for the 
taxpayers. This Report languages is irrelevant 
to the Emergency Supplemental and, by revising 
the authority granted Interior in the 1995 
law, constitutes an indirect effort to legislate 
on an appropriations bill. 

I would hope such instructions are not included 
in the Conference Report or the Statement 
of Managers. And I would recommend 
that Members oppose the Conference Report 
should it be included. If the weakening rec-

TRIBUTE TO PHIL WALKER 

HON. BOB SCHAFFER 

OF COLORADO 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Mr. Phil 
Walker, a Fort Collins, Colorado, native and 
40-year broadcaster for KCOL radio who has 
just been recognized as the Colorado Broadcasters 
Association Broadcast Citizen of the 
Year. 

This annual award is given to an individual 
who displays an outstanding record of community 
citizenship. Phil was selected for his tremendous 
service during Fort Collins’ 1997 
devastating flood when he stayed on the air 
non-stop for four days, broadcasting relief coverage 
and directing emergency assistance. 

However, Phil has been known to our community 
and his listeners long before last summer’s 
flood. He started work at KCOL as a 
freshman at Fort Collins High School in 1957. 
Today, we start our weekday mornings at 6:00 
a.m., hearing, ‘‘Good morning everyone! 
How’s my city? on News Talk 1410 AM, Monday 
through Friday. What better way to wake 
up than to hear this cheerful greeting emanating 
from a man who loves and knows his city, 
my hometown. 

Phil has been recognized as a visionary 
who constantly thinks about Fort Collins’ future, 
but he also airs a very popular radio feature 
about the 200-year history of Fort Collins 
and northern Colorado, known as ‘‘Visions 
Along the Poudre.’’ As he proudly states, 
‘‘This is my home town,’’ obviously giving him 
great insight and knowledge of the area. 

Phil has won numerous awards during his 
career including Best Regularly Scheduled 
Newscast by the Colorado Broadcasters Association 
in 1996; Best Broadcast Feature Writer 
in Colorado by the Society of Professional 
Journalists in 1994; and Best Radio Program 
in Colorado by the Broadcasters Association 
in 1980–83, 1989, and 1991–96; was chosen 
as the ‘‘Best Local Author’’ in the annual Coloradoan 
poll four years in a row for ‘‘Visions 
Along the Poudre Valley;’’ President’s Award 
by the Fort Collins Historical Society in 1996; 
and this year, was chosen as the Honorary 
Historian for Larimer County by the Larimer 
County Commissioners. 

His community involvement is extensive as 
well, including being the founding member of 
the NewWestFest committee; creator of the 
Annual community Carolfest held during 
Christmas; administrator of the town’s 4th of 
July fireworks display for 15 years; established 
a fundraising program for the Fort Collins Museum; 
master of ceremonies for many charitable 
events; and was recently the Honorary 
Chairman of Riverfest, the annual celebration 
of the Poudre River. 

Recalling a conversation he had with his father 
as a youngster, he asked his dad, ‘‘Why 
are you doing all this volunteer work? You 
don’t get paid for doing it?’’ 

His dad responded, ‘‘Well, it’s my turn.’’ 

Phil asked, ‘‘What does that mean,’’ to 
which his dad said, ‘‘If you keep your nose 
clean and live in this town for about forty more 
years, you’ll know what it means.’’ 


E540 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

‘‘Well, it’s been forty years and I know what 
he meant,’’ said Phil. 

Mr. Speaker, I am honored to pay tribute to 
this very hardworking, civic-minded, selfless 
man who has contributed so much to this 
community. The Colorado Broadcasters 
‘‘Broadcast Citizen of the Year’’ award is much 
deserved. He embodies the true American 
spirit. 

f 


VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS OF 
THE UNITED STATES OPPOSES 

H.R. 695, THE SAFE ACT 
HON. GERALD B.H. SOLOMON 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, as you know 
every major police organization in the United 
States, representing millions of Americans 
strongly oppose H.R. 695. Now our veterans 
have joined their efforts to defeat the bill. I 
have included in the RECORD today a letter 
from the VFW which outlines their opposition 
to H.R. 695, the SAFE Act. 

The 2.1 million members of the Veterans of 
Foreign Wars believe that the version of the 
bill reported by the Committees on Judiciary, 
International Relations and Commerce will be 
detrimental to our national security and law 
enforcement. 

VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS OF THE 
UNITED STATES, 

Washington, DC, February 17, 1998. 

Hon. Gerald B. Solomon, 

U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, DC. 
Dear Mr. Solomon: On behalf of our 2.1 million 
members, the VFW thanks you for inviting 
us to the presentation you recently sponsored 
regarding the issue of encryption. We 
found the presentation to be extremely informative 
and persuasive. 

Please be assured that the VFW fully 
agrees that there is a need for the law enforcement 
and intelligence communities to 
have an unfettered capability to counter terrorists 
and criminals, both domestic and foreign. 
We strongly support H.R. 695, the ‘‘Security 
and Freedom Through Encryption 
(SAFE) Act’’ as reported by the House National 
Security and Intelligence Committees, 
which calls for controlled government 
access through key recovery tools to decrypt 
information and communications that endanger 
our national security. We oppose the 
version of H.R. 695 reported by the Judiciary, 
International Relations and Commerce Committees 
because they failed to incoporate essential 
key recovery language. As America 
moves forward into the 21st century it is absolutely 
essential that we have the ability to 
keep pace with those who intend to bring us 
harm. 

Again, thank you for inviting us to a most 
stimulating presentation. We look forward 
to working with you on this issue. 

Sincerely, 

KENNETH A. STEADMAN, 

Executive Director. 

IN HONOR OF THE OPENING OF 
EDISON INTERNATIONAL FIELD 
OF ANAHEIM AND OPENING DAY 
OF THE ANAHEIM ANGELS BASEBALL 
SEASON, APRIL 1, 1998 

HON. LORETTA SANCHEZ 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Ms. SANCHEZ. Mr. Speaker, tonight, I 
would like to join you in celebrating the opening 
of Edison International Field of Anaheim 
and the opening day of the Anaheim Angels 
baseball season. When the first ball is thrown 
out on the field tonight, we will be part of the 
history of this great American sport—baseball. 

Baseball has been a part of our American 
history from the 19th century. From its earliest 
beginning, baseball has captivated the American 
audience in a most remarkable way. 
Baseball is synonymous with America. It is as 
American as the Fourth of July, apple pie, and 
the Star Spangled Banner. 

Nothing has captured the imagination of 
America’s young and old, as baseball. How 
many little leaguers dream of playing one day 
in the major leagues, the bright lights shining 
down on the field, the crowds cheering as a 
home run slides into home base. Baseball is 
our national pasttime. We, as Americans, are 
proud of this sport. And, some of our greatest 
American heroes, have been baseball players—
Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Mickey Mantle, 
Joe DiMaggio, Jackie Robinson. 

Tonight, we again celebrate this most American 
of traditions. The new Edison Field has 
brought state of the art facilities to Orange 
County. With the new additions of seating for 
over 45,050 fans, a total of 108 executive 
style boxes and new dining facilities, the Edison 
Field stadium will continue to draw record 
crowds to see their favorite team, the Anaheim 
Angels play. It is so exciting to have this excellent 
team of baseball players representing 
Anaheim. We are so fortunate to have such a 
talented baseball team right here in Orange 
County. 

Best wishes for a winning season! 

f 


HONORING HEAR O’ISRAEL OF 
HOUSTON, TX 

HON. KEN BENTSEN 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize 
a valued organization within the Houston 
community, Hear O’Israel, which is sponsoring 
Listen to the Cries of the Children National 
during the month of April 1998. Hear O’Israel 
works to make a difference in the lives of the 
disabled, battered and abused women, the elderly 
and young people across Houston. They 
work to give these men and women a stronger 
sense of self-worth and instill in them the need 
to treat others with compassion and respect. 
The following resolution approved by the 
Houston City Council demonstrates the high 
regard for Hear O’Israel in our community. 

A RESOLUTION 
LISTEN TO THE CRIES OF THE CHILDREN 
NATIONAL 
Hear O’Israel International, Inc., a nonprofit, 
non-denominational organization will 

sponsor Listen to the Cries of the Children 
National during the month of April 1998. Listen 
to the Cries of the Children National is 
designed to strengthen unity among families 
and enhance public awareness of the negative 
consequences that alcohol and drug 
abuse, family violence, child abuse, and gang 
activity have on children. 

The Listen to the Cries of the Children National 
campaign will call attention to the 
plight of children around the world who are 
abused, neglected, physically challenged, or 
who do not have access to adequate food, 
shelter, clothing, and health care and are 
crying out for help. As a symbol of compassion 
for suffering children, Hear O’Israel 
International, Inc. will encourage supporters 
to turn on their automobile headlights and 
wear white ribbons during the observance. 

The Mayor and the City Council of the 
City of Houston do hereby salute Hear 
O’Israel International, Inc. for its efforts to 
improve and enhance the quality of life for 
our children, and extend best wishes for a 
successful and rewarding campaign. 

Approved by the Mayor and City Council of 
the City of Houston this 26th day of March, 
1998. A.D. 

f 


HONORING THE DISTINGUISHED 
CAREER OF HERSCHEL MULLINS 

HON. BART GORDON 

OF TENNESSEE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. GORDON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate 
Herschel Mullins for marking his 60th 
anniversary as owner and founder of Mullins 
Jewelry. 

On March 1, 1938, Mr. Mullins bought the 
business from the man for whom he worked 
as an apprentice for two years. Raised on a 
farm in the Florence community, Mr. Mullins 
traded in farming for repairing and selling 
clocks and jewelry. His love of working on 
clocks was a trait he inherited from his father. 

A little over a year later, on July 5, 1939, 
Mr. Mullins married Mildred Alsup. Today, they 
have three sons, Charles, James and Thurman, 
nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. 
Mullins Jewelry is one of few remaining 
family owned and operated businesses. 
His wife, sons and their wives and 
grandchildren work with him. The business, located 
on the South side of the square in 
Murfreesboro, needs no advertisements; it is 
sustained by word-of-mouth. 

In addition to contributing to local commerce, 
Mr. Mullins has also contributed to his 
country and community. During World War II, 
he worked on aircraft instruments at Sky Harbor 
and Smyrna Air Force Base. Mr. Mullins 
has been involved in many local and civic activities, 
serving as past president of the 
Blackman Community Club and member of 
the Optimist club, March of Dimes fundraising 
committee and downtown improvement committees. 
He is a lifelong member of the Florence 
Church of Christ, where he serves as an 
elder. 

Again, Mr. Mullins, congratulations on 60 
years of successfully operating your family 
business. May the days to come be filled with 
the happiness of family and friends. Thank 
you for the contributions you have made to 
your country and the communities of Rutherford 
County. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E541 

ON THE INTRODUCTION (BY REQUEST) 
OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
FUND AMENDMENTS OF 
1998 

HON. BRUCE F. VENTO 

OF MINNESOTA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, today I am introducing 
by request of the Administration, along 
with the Chairwoman of the Financial Institutions 
and Consumer Credit Subcommittee, 
Mrs. ROUKEMA, the Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund Amendments of 
1998. 

The reauthorization of the Community Development 
Financial Institutions Fund should 
be an important part of the Financial Institutions 
and Consumer Credit agenda this year. 
The CDFI fund was established to increase 
access to credit in distressed areas and to 
provide community development and financial 
services opportunities to disadvantaged people. 
Created in 1994, funds allocated to the 
CDFI Fund help leverage additional private 
capital used by CDFIs to revitalize neighborhoods, 
encourage and promote entrepreneurs, 
restore private market activity in distressed 
communities and empower local residents. 
The Administration’s FY 1999 budget has requested 
$125 million for the CDFI program 
and in concert with a reauthorization effort, we 
can improve and further empower the CDFI 
funded programs.

Demand for the CDFI funded programs has 
exceeded expectations. The Treasury Department 
has reported that requests for assistance 
in the first two rounds have been approximately 
$500 million. Of the $125 million requested 
by the Administration in FY 1998, 
only $80 million was appropriated. This, along 
with the earlier appropriations, has barely 
scratched the surface of the need for the 
unique activities of the CDFI Fund and its sister 
program, funded with one-third of the appropriations, 
the Bank Enterprise Act (BEA).

I look forward to working with the Administration, 
Chairwoman ROUKEMA and other 
Members of the Banking Committee on a reauthorization 
of the CDFI. We do need to act 
soon to help the CDFI and BEA programs to 
go forward in the future with new initiatives 
that can expand the CDFI Fund’s tools for assisting 
community development financial institutions. 
CDFI provides seed money for the 
creation of jobs, brings capital into distressed 
communities, and lifts people out of poverty. 
With our efforts this year, we can maximize 
the benefits CDFIs can provide to underserved 
communities across the country. 

A section-by-section of the bill follows: 

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTI


TUTIONS FUND AMENDMENTS ACT OF 1998— 

SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

This section designates this legislation as 
the Community Development Financial Institutions 
Fund Amendments Act of 1998 and 
provides a table of contents. 
SECTION 2. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO RE


FLECT STATUS OF THE FUND WITHIN THE 

TREASURY DEPARTMENT; MISCELLANEOUS 

TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS. 

Subsection (a) amends the purpose section 
of the Community Development Banking and 

Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (the Act) 
to add language that clarifies that the purpose 
of the Act is to promote economic revitalization 
and community development not 
only through investment in community development 
financial institutions (CDFIs), 
but also through incentives to insured depository 
institutions under the Bank Enterprise 
Act of 1991. 

Subsections (b) and (c) amend the Act to 
reflect the intent of subsequent appropriations 
provisions that made the Community 
Development Financial Institutions Fund 
(CDFA Fund) a wholly owned government 
corporation within the Treasury Department. 
Technical amendments to the Act 
eliminate the concept of a presidentially appointed 
Administrator of the CDFI Fund, 
and, as with other Treasury programs, vest 
all of the duties and responsibilities of the 
CDFI Fund in the Secretary of the Treasury 
(subject to existing statutory delegation authority). 
The Secretary may appoint all officers 
and employees of the CDFI Fund, including 
a Director. 

Subsection (c) also makes technical 
changes to clarify that the Inspector General 
of the Treasury Department is the Inspector 
General of the CDFI Fund. 

SECTION 3. AMENDMENTS TO PROGRAMS 

ADMINISTERED BY THE FUND. 

Subsection (a) makes minor changes to the 
Community Development Financial Institutions 
Awards Program (CDFI Program) administered 
by the CDFI Fund. The amendments 
provide that, for the training and 
technical assistance programs already authorized 
by the Act, the Fund may enter into 
cooperative agreements in addition to the 
other methods described. 

Subsection (b) contains amendments clarifying 
the Bank Enterprise Act (BEA) Awards 
Program for insured depository institutions. 
The subsection provides technical amendments 
and clarifies that the Fund may provide 
assessment credits to insured depository 
institutions for increases in loans and other 
assistance provided to CDFIs. The provisions 
clarify the manner in which the Fund may 
take account of forms of assistance provided 
by insured depository institutions. In addition, 
the provisions permit the Fund to use 
alternative eligibility requirements to determine 
the definition of a ‘‘qualified distressed 
community.’’ Current criteria are difficult 
to interpret and may exclude some insured 
depository institutions, particularly those 
serving rural areas, from participation in the 
BEA Program. 

SECTION 4. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION. 

This section authorizes appropriations in 
such amounts as may be necessary for the 
CDFI Fund to carry out its responsibilities 
under the Act. 

SECTION 5. AMENDMENTS TO THE SMALL 

BUSINESS CAPITAL ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM. 

Subtitle B of Title II of the Act currently 
provides the CDFI Fund with authority to 
administer a program to encourage states to 
implement small business ‘‘capital access 
programs’’ with participation of certain depository 
institutions. These ‘‘capital access 
programs’’ expand access to small business 
loans by creating a loan loss reserve, funded 
by the depository institution, the borrower, 
and the state. This reserve fund allows banks 
to make more difficult small business loans. 
The Fund, under the Small Business Capital 
Enhancement (SBCE) Program, could reimburse 
participating states for a portion of 
funds contributed to these loan loss reserve 
accounts. 

The amendments made by section 5 remove 
statutory barriers that currently block the 

CDFI Fund from administering the SBCE 
Program. Subsection (a) allows CDFIs to 
participate in the SBCE Program. Subsection 
(b) removes the requirement that the 
SBCE Program receive a threshold appropriation 
before beginning operations. Finally, 
this section will allow the CDFI Fund 
(if the SBCE Program is operating) to reimburse 
participating states according to criteria 
established by the CDFI Fund in an 
amount up to 50 percent of the amount of 
contributions by the states, until funds made 
available for this purpose are expended. This 
permits the Fund to target reimbursements 
to states that have not yet established these 
programs or that have insufficient funds for 
effective programs. 

f 


BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE’S 

20TH ANNUAL HALL OF FAME 

10K RUN 

´ 

HON. JOSE E. SERRANO 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Speaker, it is with joy 
that I rise to pay tribute to Bronx Community 
College, which will hold its 20th Anniversary 
Hall of Fame 10K Run on Saturday, May 2, 
1998. 

The Hall of Fame 10K Run was founded in 
1978 by Bronx Community College’s third 
President, Dr. Roscoe C. Brown. Its mission is 
to highlight the Hall of Fame for Great Americans, 
a national institution dedicated to those 
who have helped make America great. 

The tradition continues, first under the leadership 
of Acting President, Dr. Leo A. Corbie 
and now under Dr. Carolyn G. Williams, the 
first woman President of Bronx Community 
College. Both Dr. Corbie and Dr. Williams 
have endorsed and follow the commitment 
made by Dr. Brown to promote physical wellbeing 
as well as higher education. 

As one who has run the Hall of Fame 10K 
Run, I can attest that the excitement it generates 
brings the entire City together. It is a 
celebration and an affirmation of life. It feels 
wonderful to enable more than 400 people to 
have this experience—one that will change the 
lives of many of them. It is an honor for me 
to join once again the hundreds of joyful people 
who will run along the Grand Concourse, 
University Avenue and West 181 Street and to 
savor the variety of their celebrations. There’s 
no better way to see our Bronx community. 

For its entire 19 years, Professor Henry A. 
Skinner has coordinated the Bronx Community 
College Hall of Fame 10K race, a healthy 
competition which brings together runners of 
all ages from the five boroughs of New York 
City. He is also the President of Unity and 
Strength, the organization of minority faculty, 
staff and administrators of Bronx Community 
College. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in recognizing the individuals and participants 
who are making the Bronx Community College’s 
20th annual Hall of Fame 10K Run possible. 



E542 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

THE SAFE ACT JEOPARDIZES rural communities develop and implement ho-legislation will provide that assistance and I 
ISRAEL’S SECURITY listic revitalization programs. The bill I am in-urge my colleagues to support this important 
troducing today would fulfill this major goal of legislation. 

HON. GERALD B.H. SOLOMON the Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community 

f 


OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. SOLOMON. Mr. Speaker, as you know, 
approval of the SAFE ACT, (H.R. 695) without 
key recovery will damage America’s intelligence 
gathering capability. This is the reason 
the National Security and Intelligence Committees 
strongly oppose the bill. 

When terrorist nations or terrorist organizations 
communicate we now possess the capability 
to intercept and decode those messages. 
However, if the SAFE ACT becomes law our 
country will lose this capability. Approval of 
this bill would have grave consequences on 
Israel. First, since the bill effectively eliminates 
export controls on encryption technology it will 
weaken our ability to collect intelligence and 
as a result devalue the intelligence we share. 
Secondly, making unrestricted encryption technology 
available to terrorist organizations 
would jeopardize Israel’s own intelligence capability. 


When questioned about the effects of H.R. 
695 (The SAFE ACT) General Meir Dagan, 
Advisor to the Israeli Prime Minister on 
Counter Terrorism stated, ‘‘making unbreakable 
encryption software available would be 
the equivalent of shooting ourselves with our 
own gun!’’ And Major General David Ivry, Advisor 
to Israel’s Minister of Defense said that, 
‘‘we would encourage all of our friends in the 
United States to oppose the bill.’’ 

The proponents of this bill maintain that our 
enemies and Israel’s enemies will eventually 
possess encryption technology. Even if true, it 
fails to explain why we should rush to place 
this technology in the hands of our enemies. 
Please give the United States, our allies and 
our friends the time to develop a strategy and 
countermeasures to address these new technologies 
by opposing the SAFE ACT. 

f 


THE EMPOWERMENT ZONE 
ENHACMENT ACT OF 1998 

HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, today, we have 
the opportunity to take another step closer to 
a goal that is close to our hearts—renewing 
investments in our cities and communities. 
Working closely with the administration, the 
leadership of numerous Federal agencies, 
State and local governments, and community 
residents, I am introducing the Empowerment 
Zone Enhancement Act of 1998. 

The Empowerment Zone Enhancement Act 
expands on the successful empowerment 
zone (EZ) initiative we began in the Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1993. In 
1993, OBRA created nine empowerment zone 
demonstration projects and 95 enterprise communities. 
In the 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act, we 
went one step further by authorizing the designation 
of 20 additional EZs and provided for 
tax incentives for these zones. However, the 
1997 Act did not provide the flexible grant 
funding critical to assist distressed urban and 

(EZ/EC) Initiative. Specifically, this bill provides 
for $1.7 billion in grant funds over a 10year 
period, $1.5 billion for the urban zones 
and $0.2 billion for the rural zones. The funds 
are channeled through the Title XX social 
services block grant and are in addition to current 
Title XX resources. 

Despite the short existence of the EC/EZ 
Initiative, various elements for success have 
been identified. This initiative has not produced 
the intended benefits of creating economic 
opportunity, broad-based community 
partnerships and sustainable community development, 
but has also proven to be one in 
which local neighborhoods are encouraged to 
seek solutions to the problems of their community, 
rather than wait for Washington solutions. 


Leveraging public sector resources to enable 
private-sector community investment is a 
fiscally responsible means of promoting community 
development and prosperity. The Empowerment 
Zone Enhancement Act is the next 
logical step in permitting the private sector to 
actively participate in this process of developing 
and implementing solutions. It is important 
and appropriate that we continue this process 
of rebuilding our communities. 

f 


DISABLED VETERANS’ AUTO


MOBILE ASSISTANCE IMPROVE


MENT ACT OF 1998, H.R. 3618 

HON. LANE EVANS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, today, I am introducing 
the Disabled Veterans’ Automobile Assistance 
Improvement Act of 1998. Severely 
disabled veterans are eligible for a grant from 
the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to 
provide or assist in providing an automobile or 
other conveyance. 

The original intent of this program was to 
provide a grant which would enable a veteran 
to actually purchase a motor vehicle. The 
grant currently available is totally insufficient 
for that purpose. In 1971, the average cost of 
a new car was $3,742 and the VA grant 
amount was $2,800. In 1974, the average cost 
of a new car was $4,440 and the VA grant 
was raised to $3,300. By 1988, the average 
cost of a new car had increased to $14,065 
and the VA grant had increased to $5,500. 
Today, the average cost of a new car is 
$20,647, but the VA grant remains limited to 
$5,500. These figures dramatically demonstrate 
the erosion of a benefit which is designed 
to assist disabled veterans in the purchase 
of a motor vehicle. 

The Disabled Veterans’ Automobile Assistance 
Improvement Act of 1998 will enable disabled 
veterans to qualify for a grant which will 
be increased to make up for the increased 
cost of automobiles over the last ten years 
and will index these amounts for future inflation. 
Our severely disabled veterans need assistance 
with the cost of motor vehicles which, 
due to the extent of the veterans’ service-connected 
disabilities, frequently cost far more 
than the average cost of an automobile. This 

HONORING DR. PAUL DRESCHNACK 

HON. MICHAEL BILIRAKIS 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
commend the work of one of my constituents, 
Dr. Paul Dreschnack. Dr. Dreschnack is a 
plastic surgeon who spends several weeks 
each year in India, voluntarily performing free 
operations on children born with facial defects. 

I recently nominated Dr. Dreschnack and his 
mentor, Dr. Sharadkumar Dicksheet, for a 
Nobel Peace Prize. I would like to share with 
our colleagues the letter I submitted with their 
nomination application. I nominated these outstanding 
men because they embody the essence 
of humanitarianism. They have selflessly 
given their time, money, and energy to 
improve the lives of others. 

On behalf of the United States House of 
Representatives, I thank Dr. Dreschnack and 
Dr. Dicksheet for their tireless work. They are 
very worthy of this prestigious award and 
would uphold its tradition of outstanding recipients 
if it is awarded to them. 

DEAR NOBEL COMMITTEE MEMBERS: It is my 
distinct privilege to bring before the Committee 
two physicians whose humanitarian 
contributions in the area of medicine have 
prompted me to submit their names for consideration 
as Nobel Prize Laureates. 

I became acquainted with the work of Dr. 
Dicksheet and Dr. Dreschnack during a recent 
meeting with representatives from a 
local chapter of an international civic organization, 
the Rotary Club of Dunedin, North. 
The story that unfolded over the next several 
hours could be subtitled by the headlines 
of some of the articles contained in 
their packet: ‘‘The Doctor’s Heart: A New 
York Doctor Returns to India to Give His 
Life’s Earnings Back’’; ‘‘New Life to the Deformed’’; 
‘‘One Man, 20,000 Lives.’’ 

Most of us, as we mature and recognize 
that we have been the recipient of unearned 
blessings or talents in life, desire to give 
back to the community. Such is the motive 
driving both Dr. Dicksheet and Dr. 
Dreschnack. But their vision, the longevity 
and the largesse of their contributions sets 
them apart among men. 

For thirty years, Dr. Sharad Dicksheet has 
spent approximately six months each year in 
the poorest regions of India, providing free 
surgery to those in need. He brings with him 
a small team of surgeons, often paying for 
their travel out of his own funds. 

They arrive at one of the many Plastic 
Surgery Camps, or Shibers, as they are 
called. Year after year, the routine has been 
the same. By daybreak, hundreds of people 
have arrived, (some traveling hundreds of 
miles) to be evaluated for treatment. In recent 
years the number arriving at each site 
has often increased to over one-thousand 
people. 

Time and resources dictate that only those 
deemed treatable can be assured of surgery. 
The patients are primarily cleft lip and or 
cleft palate cases but include a variety of facial 
deformities, burn injuries, including 
burn contractures of joints, and deformed 
ears and eyes. 

By nine o’clock, separate operating tables 
have been set up for the team and the surgeries 
begin, continuing uninterrupted until 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E543 

six o’clock in the evening. An average of 
thirty-five surgeries are performed daily, but 
many times the number reaches more than 
fifty. The statistics are phenomenal. Since 
Dr. Dicksheet began his work in 1968, more 
than 40,000 operations have been performed. 
Financially, his contributions exceed $80 
million. 

But, what does the work mean to his patients? 
Nothing short of a new life! Infants 
who would have died, unable to suck milk, 
now thrive. Families outcast by the social 
stigma of deformity, are restored. Young 
girls, (and boys), unmarriageable and unable 
to work or make a living, have a future. 
Each of the 40,000 cases has a life changing 
story. It would be impossible to accurately 
estimate the thousands of people whose lives 
have been positively affected by Dr. 
Dicksheet and his associates. And, when you 
consider that the doctors also teach surgical 
techniques to Indian surgeons through the 
Indian Medical Society, the number increases 
even more. 

What makes Dr. Dicksheet’s story even 
more remarkable is that the doctor has conducted 
the majority of his humanitarian 
work while he, himself, has been in grave 
health. About 18 years ago he underwent surgery 
for laryngeal cancer. His speech is, for 
the most part, inaudible and he must communicate 
in writing much of the time. Ten 
years ago he suffered a severe heart attack, 
followed by another attack in 1994. In spite 
of his health he has continued to raise funds, 
travel and operate from a wheelchair. At this 
time, however, his health has further deteriorated. 
He is not expected to live much 
longer. Over the years he has treated each 
day as a ‘‘bonanza,’’ and filled it with giving 
his life to his fellow man. ‘‘I feel good in giving 
this service to my countrymen,’’ he responds 
when asked about his work. 

What will happen to his work? Preparation 
has been made to turn the work over to the 
very capable hands of Dr. Paul Dreschnack, 
who has worked with Dr. Dicksheet for nine 
years and shares his vision, enthusiasm and 
dedication. As Dr. Dreschnack responded in 
an interview in 1995, ‘‘I’ll be doing it (the 
work) for a long time.’’ I am very proud to 
count Dr. Paul Dreschnack as a resident of 
my Congressional district. 

The humanitarian contributions of these 
men sets an example for the world. They exemplify 
how much more we can give when we 
are willing to give our lives, totally. They 
show us how much larger our vision can be 
when we refuse to see obstacles and we view 
our fellow man as our brother. 

I am very pleased to bring Dr. 
Sharadkumar Dicksheet and Dr. Paul 
Dreschnack before you. 

With best wishes, I am 

Sincerely yours, 

MICHAEL BILIRAKIS, 

Member of Congress. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO DAVID G. RICE, JR. 

HON. BOB SCHAFFER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. SCHAFFER of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to pay tribute to David G. Rice, Jr., 
a true friend of Colorado’s agriculture industry, 
who recently passed away at the age of 81. 

Dave was born on his family’s homestead in 
1916, outside Grand Junction, Colorado. He 

studied animal husbandry at Colorado A&M, 
graduating in 1939. Dave then went to work in 
the Cooperative Extension offices of Elbert 
and Delta Counties for the next ten years, except 
for time he served in the military during 
World War II. 

In 1949, he started his 33-year-long career 
with the Colorado Cattlemen’s Association 
(CCA) retiring as their executive vice president. 
Upon retirement, he became CCA’s Vice 
President for Legislation and Federal Lands 
and, until very recently, remained actively involved 
lobbying on behalf of agriculture. 

For his service to agriculture, Dave received 
numerous awards throughout his career including 
the Federal Land Bank of Wichita’s 
50th Anniversary Medal, authorized by Congress 
and the President of the United States; 
CSU’s Livestock Industry Award; and induction 
into the Colorado Agriculture Hall of Fame. He 
was uniquely acknowledged by the 55th Colorado 
General Assembly for 40 years of service 
to the industry in the form of a plaque dedicated 
and hung in the State Capitol, the only 
plaque hung in honor of a lobbyist. He has 
also been honored by various conservation organizations 
such as Ducks Unlimited and the 
Safari Club. 

The best accolades come, however, in the 
form of what people say about us. I believe 
Kirk Hanna, CCA’s President, best summed 
up many folks’ feelings when he recently said, 
‘‘Dave Rice is a legend in agriculture—though 
I doubt he would have admitted it. He was admired 
by many in both the political and agriculture 
arena not only for what he did, but for 
who he was—a man who cared about other 
people. His contributions to the state of Colorado 
and agriculture are sure to remain unsurpassed.’’ 
Amen. I could not have said it better. 

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to pay tribute to 
this man whose knowledge and wisdom will 
be sorely missed by both the agricultural and 
legislative communities. 

f 


COMMEMORATIVE COIN 

HON. ENI F.H. FALEOMAVAEGA 

OF AMERICAN SAMOA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
in strong support of legislation which is being 
introduced today by Congresswoman ELEANOR 
HOLMES-NORTON with the four Congressional 
delegates as cosponsors. The legislation 
would amend the 50 States Commemorative 
Coin Program Act to extend the program by 
an additional year for the purpose of including 
the District of Columbia, American Samoa, 
Guam, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin 
Islands. 

Mr. Speaker, earlier in this Congress when 
we passed the Commemorative Coin Program 
Act, the insular areas were omitted from the 
legislation. Current law authorizes the minting 
of twenty-five cent coins to commemorate 
each of the 50 states through state-specific 
designs on one side of the coins. It is a ten-
year program, with five states being honored 
each year. 

This bill amends current law by adding an 
eleventh year to the program. During this year, 

the District of Columbia and the four insular 
areas, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, 
and the U.S. Virgin Islands, would also be recognized 
through the minting of twenty-five cent 
coins. Commemorative designs on one side of 
the coins would be submitted by the chief executive 
officer of these areas. 

This legislation is very timely for my Congressional 
district, Mr. Speaker. American 
Samoa will celebrate the centennial of its 
union with the United States in the year 2000. 

American Samoa has a long, proud history 
of supporting the United States—ever since 
the traditional leaders of the main island of 
Tutuila ceded their island to the United States 
on April 17, 1900. Tutuila’s beautiful harbor is 
the deepest in the South Pacific, and the port 
village of Pago Pago was used as a coaling 
station for U.S. naval ships in the early part of 
the century and as a support base for U.S. 
soldiers during World War II. To this day, 
American Samoa serves as a refueling point 
for U.S. naval ships and military aircraft. 

At the present time, American Samoans 
have a per capita enlistment rate in the U.S. 
military which is as high as any state or U.S. 
territory. Our sons and daughters have served 
in record numbers in every U.S. military engagement 
from World War II to Desert Storm. 
We have stood by the United States in good 
times and bad, and we will continue to do so. 

Congress has recognized American Samoa’s 
proud heritage on numerous occasions, 
and many of my constituents have asked that 
the United States Government provide special 
recognition of the 100th year of our union. I 
believe it would be most fitting to acknowledge 
the centennial anniversary of our relationship 
with the United States with the issuance of a 
commemorative coin, and I am optimistic that 
this bill will become public law later this year. 

f 


CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM 

HON. RON KIND 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, today we will adjourn 
for the Easter recess without having had 
a debate on campaign finance reform. The 
leadership of this House may believe they 
made good on their promise to allow a vote, 
but they have not. The House leadership may 
think they have fooled the public into believing 
that they took action, they are wrong. Frankly 
Mr. Speaker, I am outraged that we have not 
taken action on this important issue. 

Over the next two weeks I will be holding a 
Town Hall meeting in each of the sixteen 
counties which I represent in western Wisconsin. 
Having traveled throughout my district no 
one has told me that we need more money in 
politics. They have asked me to pass meaningful 
reform, to take the big money out of the 
process and return campaigns to the people. 
At my Town Hall meetings I will tell my constituents 
that the leadership has denied me 
the right to vote on limiting the influence of big 
money in campaigns. 

When we return at the end of April I hope 
we will make a serious effort to fix our campaign 
finance system. The people of my district 
have told me not to take ‘‘no’’ for an answer. 



E544 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

FAIRNESS FOR SMALL BUSINESS 
AND EMPLOYEES ACT OF 1998 

SPEECH OF 

HON. VINCE SNOWBARGER 

OF KANSAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thurdsay, March 26, 1998 

The House in Committee of the Whole 
House on the State of the Union had under 
consideration the bill (H.R. 3246) to assist 
small businesses and labor organizations in 
defending themselves against government 
bureaucracy; to ensure that employees entitled 
to reinstatement get their jobs back 
quickly; to protect the right of employers to 
have a hearing to present their case in certain 
representation cases; and to prevent the 
use of the National Labor Relations Act for 
the purpose of disrupting or inflicting economics 
harm on employers. 

Mr. SNOWBARGER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today to speak for the many small owners in 
Kansas who have been working for years to 
reform the National Labor Relations Board and 
our current employment laws. 

Millions of dollars and countless jobs have 
been lost in the Third District of Kansas because 
of the tactics of some labor unions. 
While I respect and appreciate the right of 
working Americans to be represented by a 
Union, I also respect the rights of the great 
majority of working men and women who 
choose not to be represented by a Union. 

If this wasn’t such an important issue, Mr. 
Chairman, I might remind my colleagues that 
my district has one of the healthiest economies 
in the nation, which is due, in no small 
part to Kansas’ Right-to-Work legislation. 

As we consider today’s important reform initiative, 
I wanted to share with my colleagues 
some stories from my home in Kansas. 

Millions of dollars and countless jobs have 
been lost in the 3rd District because of a tactic 
referred to by the AFL–CIO as ‘‘salting’’. This 
common procedure is used in Kansas by the 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. 
Their regular plan is to have around 20 
union members storm into a non-union electrical 
contractor’s office with video cameras 
mounted on their shoulders. The union members 
then demand to be hired and if they are 
not, they file discrimination charges with the 
National Labor Relations Board. 

The two largest independent electrical contractors 
in my district, SKC Electric (200 employees) 
and Teague Electric (100 employees), 
have spent nearly $500,000 (between 
the two of them) fighting frivolous charges of 
discrimination. Not once has the union asked 
for a NLRB sanctioned election to decide if the 
employees want to be represented by the 
IBEW. Instead, they harass the companies by 
driving up legal expenditures and limiting their 
ability to grow. Fortunately these two companies 
are financially strong and have been able 
to survive under this intense pressure for the 
past four years. But it is wrong to allow bad 
actor unions to literally . . . litigate small businesses 
to death. 

Not everyone in my district has been so 
lucky. 

M&R Electric was a two-year old electrical 
company with approximately 30 employees. It 
was owned and operated by a former union 
electrician who had saved to start his own 
small business. The company was growing 
rapidly and providing good careers for many 

hard working young people. That is until the 
IBEW showed up with their video cameras 
and NLRB charges. By the time small company 
knew what hit them, they had spent 
more than $250,000 fending off legal challenges 
and were out of business. I am sure 
most of my colleagues know that new businesses 
are very vulnerable. This is why these 
kinds of actions are so threatening. The result 
in this case? Thirty good jobs lost in my district. 


The bottom line is, that no employer should 
be required by law to hire an individual who is 
bent on destroying their company. 

Mr. Chairman, this practice is not defensible 
and the families who lost their jobs and the 
men and women who invested their life savings 
to start a business deserve the protections 
that this bill provides. 

f 


CAMPAIGN REFORM AND 
ELECTION INTEGRITY ACT OF 1998 

SPEECH OF 

HON. BRUCE F. VENTO 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 30, 1998 

Mr. VENTO. Madam Speaker, I opposed 

H.R. 3485 which was defeated by the House. 
This legislation would guarantee a new arms 
race in campaigns and campaign spending by 
setting in place incentives for more money to 
be raised from special interests and more 
money to be spent. 
While there is not agreement in Congress 
on the campaign finance reform, the American 
people have spoken. They are tired of slick, 
multi-million dollar campaigns that feature 30 
second sound-bites and media spin masters. 
They want the unlimited campaign spending 
binges brought under control; they want the 
candidate, not the candidate’s handlers, to 
speak; and they want campaigns to focus on 
the issues. 

However, as with so many other matters, 
the Republican Majority Congress has failed to 
listen to what the American people want, and 
instead relied on the voice and pocketbooks of 
the special interests. The result was H.R. 
3485, more money, not less and a greater 
alienation of the voters. 

H.R. 3485 did nothing to bring the explosion 
of campaign spending under control. Instead, 
this legislation tripled the amount of money 
that individuals could contribute to state, local 
and federal political parties and doubled their 
contribution limits to federal candidates. 
H.R. 3485 would make politics the playground 
of the wealthy. This legislation increased 
individual contributions to federal candidates 
from $1,000 to $2,000 per cycle 
($2,000 to $4,000 for both the primary and 
general elections; to state and local parties 
from $5,000 to $15,000; national parties from 
$20,000 to $60,000 and the aggregate limit 
from $25,000 to $75,000. These levels do not 
invite participation by more people; it encourages 
more participation by the few who have 
the big bucks to participate. 
While H.R. 3485 expanded the ability of 
wealthy to participate, this bill ironically contains 
a separate provision designed to intimidate 
low-income, minority citizens to keep 
them from voting. 

This program, a citizen verification system, 
conjured up poll taxes and inhibiting actions 

form another time in our history. This legislation 
was appropriately rejected by the House 
earlier this year. 

The House should not detour from the road 
of campaign finance reform by adopting H.R. 
3485. Instead, we should move forward with 
the solid bipartisan reform package, that the 
Republican leadership is blocking from House 
action. This alternative, similar to the McCain 
Feingold proposal offered in the Senate, will 
ban soft money and make a meaningful contribution 
to campaign finance reform. 

There has been a lot of public consternation 
by Members of Congress about the declining 
participation levels and the feeling of disenfranchisement 
among American voters. 
After witnessing the lengths that the leadership 
will go to keep real campaign finance reform 
off of the House floor, I can understand 
why the American voter is giving up on Congress. 
The People’s Body does not have time 
to do the people’s work. Instead of bringing up 
meaningful campaign finance reform this 
week, the House is going to be dividing up the 
financial marketplace among the special interests 
who pour money into campaign coffers. 

Madam Speaker, the process used last 
night harkens back to the smoke-filled rooms 
of long ago. A bill supported by a majority of 
the House was kept off the House floor 
through legislative legerdemain. Not only were 
we denied a full debate on campaign finance 
reform, but we were kept in the dark as to the 
final contents of H.R. 3581. This bill is like a 
lot of campaign ads—lots of rhetoric, not much 
substance. 

It was appropriate that H.R. 3485 be considered 
so close to the Academy Awards. Like 
the 1972 Best Actress, Lisa Minelli, in the 
movie, Cabaret, this bill and its supporters 
were singing loud and clear ‘‘Money makes 
the world go around.’’ It is time to get off the 
money merry-go-round and restore our political 
process to the American people by moving 
forward with true campaign finance reform. 

f 


HON. JOHN L. BURTON: STATE 
SENATE PRESIDENT 

HON. GEORGE MILLER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. MILLER of California. Mr. Speaker, it 
may still come as news to some members of 
the House that our former colleague, the Hon. 
John L. Burton of San Francisco, has recently 
been unanimously elected the President of the 
California State Senate, elevating him to one 
of the highest elective positions in our state. 

John Burton, as all who know or have 
served with him know, is an extraordinarily 
gifted legislator, a deeply committed public 
servant, and very much his own man. There 
has not been a more dedicated or unrepentant 
spokesperson for working people, for children, 
for the poor, for those living on society’s margin, 
than Johnny Burton. 

His elevation to Senate President caps a remarkable 
and inspirational career. It also demonstrates 
that we can disagree, even strongly, 
but retain the personal relationships and trust 
that are integral to the operation of a successful 
legislative body. When John Burton set out 
to accomplish something on the floor of the 
House, whether it was expanding food stamp 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E545 

benefits or protecting the Point Reyes seashore, 
he was unmatched in knowing how to 
make the inter- and intra-party contacts that 
led to success. 

His return to the state Legislature in 1988 
was welcomed by Democrats and Republicans 
alike, because all recognized that here was a 
consummate politician who knew how to make 
policy happen and who spoke with a candor 
and frankness unmatched in Sacramento or in 
Washington. Mark Shields, one of our most respected 
political observers, recently wrote a 
wonderful column about John Burton’s election 
as Senate President that every member of the 
House deserves to read. Those who knew 
John here will immediately recognize him; 
those who did not have that pleasure will instantly 
know him. 

A CALIFORNIA COMEBACK 
(By Mark Shields) 
SACRAMENTO, CALIF.—You may already 
have heard the joyless laughter that follows 
the line: George Washington was the president 
who could never tell a lie; Richard 
Nixon was the president who could never tell 
the truth; and Bill Clinton is the president 
who cannot tell the difference. 
Well here in California’s capital city, the 
second most powerful position in state government—
that of president pro tempore of 
the State Senate—has just been won in a 32 
to 0 vote by a blunt, profane, quick-tempered 
and unreconstructed liberal Democrat from 
San Francisco who was elected to the State 
Assembly in 1964, to the U.S. House in 1974 
and who, in 1982, left Congress to seek treatment 
for cocaine and alcohol addiction. 
What makes John Burton so appealing in 
today’s politics of slippery hedging and too-
clever evasiveness is the man’s barefaced 
candor. U.S. Rep. James Rogan, R-Calif., 
who served with and voted against Burton in 
the California Assembly, confesses: ‘‘John 
Burton is just a man of incredible integrity. 
. . . I love him because he is the most honest 
liberal I’ve ever know, He really feels, he 
really bleeds, for the underprivileged.’’ 
Rogan remembered the night in the Assembly 
when Burton single-handedly stopped a 
Republican-backed bill to criminalize the 
use of cocaine by pregnant women. Burton 
spoke in stark terms of his own addiction, of 
the advantages he had as a professional and 
a member of Congress for treatment at Bethesda 
and Walter Reed. 
He told of the daily battle the recovering 
addict must wage against the demons and of 
how much more lonely and terrifying it is 
for the poor addict: ‘‘You don’t kick it until 
you die. You have two choices. Either you 
die clean or you die dirty.’’ 
As John Jacobs wrote in ‘‘A Rage for Justice,’’ 
his truly masterful biography of John 
Burton’s late brother, Phil, who was arguably 
the most influential member of Congress 
ever from California, ‘‘Somewhere in 
his (John’s) mind, he seized on the image of 
his teenage daughter, Kim, and the thought 
of her gave him the strength to begin his 
long, painful recovery. Kim gave him back 
his life. He gave Kim back her father.’’ 
John Burton, who has been both clean and 
sober for 15 years now, won back his State 
Assembly seat in 1988 with the strong backing 
of his friend of 40 years, now San Francisco 
Mayor Willie Brown. He was elected to 
the Senate in 1996. Happily, he has not mellowed. 
His language could still make a longshoreman 
blush. His ability to employ forms 
of a single four letter word as verb, noun, adjective, 
gerund, participle, prefix, suffix and 
even infix is truly remarkable. He does not 
delete expletives. 
Pleased, almost humbled, by the confidence 
of his colleagues, Burton questions 

what all the praise about his integrity and 
the keeping of his word says about the state 
of politics today. ‘‘When I grew up, all you 
had was your word. It was a given that you 
never went back on your word. It should be 
that way.’’ 

In an era of carefully crafted non-responses 
released by elected officeholders who echo 
the findings of focus groups and then deploy 
spin doctors, Burton is refreshing. Another 
old adversary and good friend, former GOP 
State Senate Leader Bill Campbell, explains 
that appeal: ‘‘Johnny Burton has great credibility 
because you and everyone else knows 
where he stands.’’ 

Where Burton stands politically is where 
he has always stood. His politics is personal, 
liberal and decidedly untrendy. He continually 
embraces the poor, workers, the 
stranger, the despised—all of those living on 
the outskirts of hope. Burton fights to prevent 
the rich from getting too greedy, and to 
make sure that the poor and middle class 
enjoy more economic security and receive 
their share of this society’s wealth. 

‘‘I don’t get this ‘New Democrat’ b— s—,’’ 
rails Burton. ‘‘There are only so many ways 
you can feed hungry people, or get jobs for 
people who don’t have them, and get kids a 
good education.’’ 

When he took the oath of office as Senate 
President Pro Tempore, John Burton 
thanked his daughter and quoted the words 
of American composer Jerome Kern: 

Nothing’s impossible I have found, 

for when you find yourself on the ground 

you pick yourself up, dust yourself off, 

and start all over again.’’ 

Whoever said there are no second acts in 
American life never met John Burton. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO SERGEANT JOHN 
FRANCIS KRUG 

HON. VIC FAZIO 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. FAZIO of California. Mr. Speaker, Congress 
is assisted in its duties by many men 
and women without whom we could not do our 
work effectively. From time to time, an opportunity 
arises for us to pay tribute to one of 
those people, and today presents such an opportunity. 


After twenty-five and one-half years of faithful 
service to the United States Congress and 
more than 30 years dedicated to law enforcement, 
Sergeant John Francis Krug is retiring 
on April 3rd. He began his law enforcement 
career as a fingerprint technician for the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation in 1967 and became 
a member of the United States Capitol 
Police on October 16, 1972. 

During his tenure with the Capitol Police, 
John Krug has served in many capacities. His 
initial assignments included patrolling the 
House office buildings and the Capitol. In 
1984, to better utilize his experience, he was 
reassigned to Protective Services where he 
provided personal protection for individual 
Members of Congress. In 1987, John was promoted 
to the rank of sergeant and, once 
again, served as an integral member of the 
Capitol Division, ensuring the safety of Congress, 
staff, and the millions of tourists who 
visit the Capitol each year. 

Most recently, he supervised the Department’s 
Special Events Unit. In this position, he 
became the central information point for nu


merous events such as demonstrations, inaugurations, 
joint meetings of Congress, displays, 
ceremonies and concerts that took 
place within the perimeters of the Capitol complex. 
He assisted in coordinating security for 
visiting U.S. Government Officials and foreign 
dignitaries, from the President of the United 
States to King Hussein of Jordan. Most Capitol 
Police officers and congressional offices 
have sought out the Special Events Unit, and 
Sergeant Krug in particular, for his assistance 
or advice regarding a congressional event. 

I am sure that I speak for all our colleagues 
when I wish Sergeant Krug our best in the 
years ahead, and thank him for his many 
years of dedicated service to the United 
States Congress. 

f 


REFLECTIONS ON EASTER AND 
SPRING 

HON. JENNIFER DUNN 

OF WASHINGTON 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Ms. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay 
tribute to the Honorable Peter Tali Coleman, a 
great American who passed from us on April 
28, 1997. A four-term chief executive of American 
Samoa, Peter Coleman is the only person 
in American history whose service as governor, 
from the 1950s to the 1990s, has 
spanned five decades. 

After World War II service as an army officer 
in the Pacific, for which he later was honored 
by selection to the army infantry hall of 
fame at Ft. Benning, Georgia, Governor Coleman’s 
civilian career as a public servant 
began in 1946 on the staff of The Honorable 
George Bender, a member of this body from 
Ohio. He later also served as a member of our 
Capitol Police Force, all while raising a family 
and completing both an undergraduate and a 
law degree in just five years from Georgetown 
University. 

Mr. Speaker, upon his return to American 
Samo as the first Samoan ever to gain a law 
degree, he quickly rose from public defender 
to attorney general until his appointment in 
1956 by President Eisenhower as the first native-
born governor of American Samoa. He 
went on to be chief executive of the Marshall 
Islands and Northern Mariana Islands, and 
deputy high commissioner of the old Trust 
Territory of the Pacific before returning home 
in 1977 to become America Samoa’s first 
elected governor, a post to which he would be 
elected twice more before retiring in 1993. 

Governor Coleman, a true trailblazer in the 
Pacific Islands and a man of many firsts during 
more than half a century of service to his 
nation and his own people, has been paid tribute 
by the current governor, Tauese P. Sunia, 
who has launched a drive to establish a permanent 
lectureship on Pacific Public Policy at 
Georgetown in Governor Coleman’s name. 

However, of all his honors and achievements, 
Mr. Speaker, Governor Coleman was 
proudest of his family, which at his death included 
his lovely wife Nora, 12 of their 13 children, 
22 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. 
As he departed the hospital last year 
to return home for what he knew would be his 
final battle, he penned a touching farewell letter 
to his people which he called ‘‘Reflections 
on Easter and Spring.’’ 


E546 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

With spring having come to our capital and computers to the Hubble Space Telescope. music is universal and can be found in every 

with Easter upon us, I would like to make part 
of our RECORD Governor Coleman’s Essay of 
April 5, 1997, ‘‘Reflections on Easter and 
Spring.’’ 

REFLECTIONS ON EASTER AND SPRING 
(By Peter Tali Coleman) 
Yesterday I came home to our family residence 
here in Hawaii after a stay at Queen’s 
Hospital over the Easter holidays. While it’s 
never fun to be in the hospital, this Easter 
was memorable because all our family gathered 
to be here with Nora and me in a big 
family lounge that the hospital set aside for 
us. 
As I said the grace before we began our 
Easter meal, I could not help but think of 
the meaning of Easter and Spring, since the 
first day of Spring this year came only a few 
days before Palm Sunday, the traditional beginning 
of our Easter season after the long 
winter Lent. 
Spring and Easter are about the renewal of 
life and new beginnings. Our Lord perished 
on the Cross for our sins, but was resurrected 
to give all of us hope for the future and a 
better life in eternity. So, too, does Mother 
nature awaken each Spring to begin a new 
cycle of life and growth. On the Mainland, 
the last of the snow melts away, the flowers 
begin to bloom and land is green again. Here 
in the Pacific where it’s always green, the 
life-sustaining rains give way to the drier 
and warmer times of spring and summer and 
we go about all the chores we had put aside 
until better weather. 
I could not help but think of family in the 
same way I think of Spring and Easter when 
I saw all of our family members on Easter, 
especially the little grandchildren and great 
grandchildren, great nieces and nephews, all 
with their wide eyes of expectation and excitement 
with Easter eggs and candy and 
Easter baskets, and bunnies and chicks and 
all the joys and traditions that go with a 
holiday which brings families together everywhere 
in the Christian world. 
The presence of the little children is God’s 
way of bringing renewal and new beginnings 
to our families. When we look out and see 
those bright and shining faces, eager to learn 
about the world around them and beyond, we 
can take comfort in knowing that this world 
will be in good hands when their generation 
takes over. We can find peace in knowing 
that when our own time comes to join our 
Lord, if we have done our job on earth, we 
will have our families to carry on and 
through them we will continue to live, for 
our very blood flows through their veins and 
their children’s veins in a cycle which forever 
will renew itself. 
My own life has been dedicated to service 
to the people and devotion to my family. Although 
my days of public service now have 
come to a close, the Samoan people and all 
the peoples of the Pacific Islands I have been 
privileged to know in my work and travels 
remain in my thoughts as a new generation 
of leaders and servants seeks to find a true 
path to renewal and new beginnings for our 
strong but fragile societies and cultures at 
the dawn of a new century and a new millennium. 
God has allowed me to see so much dramatic 
change through the course of this century. 
As amazing as it seems, the Samoa of 
my youth no doubt much more resembled 
the Samoa of most of the millennium which 
preceded it than it does the Samoa of today, 
which is poised to enter the 21st century. 
The pace of change in this century about to 
close has been dramatic. As a child in Samoa 
after World War I, I could not begin to comprehend 
or imagine the things we take for 
granted today, from modern medicine to 

Nor can I begin to imagine now what the 
next century will bring. 

Whether I will be here to witness the beginning 
of the next millennium and new beginnings 
it will prompt is in God’s hands. 
But wherever I may be and whatever advances 
science and industry may bring, I 
know that the futures will be bright if we remain 
true to our values. Those values are 
love of God, devotion to family, protection of 
culture, and courtesy and respect towards 
one another. 

For myself, it counts little what I may 
have achieved here on earth in 55 years of 
government service through war and peace. 
My failures were my own and my successes 
were the result of all the good colleagues and 
friends around me. But, for all of us, no matter 
what our calling in life, our truest legacies 
are the families which are asked to 
carry on when we are gone. 

So, while my days in public service may be 
finished, I have come home now to be with 
my family. They bring me joy and inspiration 
as I think about the future. They are all 
here now and I take great comfort in their 
presence. They have come to be with Nora 
and me from near and far: from the Mainland 
to Saipan to our beloved Samoa. And because 
they are so scattered, I have agreed to 
a consensus of my family’s wishes that I 
should lie in rest in Hawaii. But in so doing, 
they have assented to my wish that when the 
last of my children’s children shall have 
joined me in heaven, that my final resting 
place shall be in the soil of my birth. 

For now, when I think of spring and think 
of Easter, I thank God I have been given one 
more opportunity to reflect on life’s renewal 
and new beginnings, and the love of family 
which bursts forth like the flowers of Spring. 
As the Easter season now ends and we move 
about in our Spring tasks, may God bless 
you and your families, too. 

f 


125TH ANNIVERSARY OF SHORTER 
COLLEGE 

HON. BOB BARR 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BARR of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, in 
Rome Georgia stands a small liberal arts college 
that lives up to the true tradition of educational 
excellence: love of family, and love of 
God, combined with a commitment to community 
values and an educational experience that 
is everlasting. 

The school that I speak of is Shorter College, 
now celebrating its 125th Anniversary. 
Mr. Speaker this is a critical period in American 
history; time when the value of morals, 
faith in God, and a sound education can no 
longer be taken for granted but are more important 
than ever. 

Through this period of moral decline, Shorter 
has remained true to the values of its 
founder, Rome Baptist Church Pastor Luther 
Rice Gwaltney. 

I am not alone in recognizing the excellence 
of Shorter College. For the second year in a 
row, Shorter has been listed in the ‘‘Student 
Guide to America’s 100 Best College Buys.’’ 
Moreover, Shorter is a member of the National 
Association of Schools of Music. The devotion 
of Shorter to the teaching of music cannot be 
overstated. Today, many more children rush 
home from school to play on their computers 
than on their pianos. Yet, the language of 

nation around the world and bears a direct relationship 
to the progress of its culture. 

In honor of Pastor Gwaltney and Alfred and 
Martha Shorter for whom the college is 
named, I congratulate Shorter on its first 125 
years and wish it many many more. 

f 


ETHICS REFORM 

HON. LEE H. HAMILTON 

OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. HAMILTON. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
insert my Washington Report for Wednesday, 
April 1, 1998 into the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. 

HOUSE ETHICS REFORM 
Many Americans believe that Members of 
Congress have low ethics standards and that 
the overall level of ethics and honesty in politics 
has been falling over the years. Although 
most observers of Congress would say 
the opposite, the public remains unconvinced 
and broadly dissatisfied with ethics standards 
of Members. 
Congressional ethics is one area where I 
have seen a great amount of changes since I 
have been in Congress. I’ve seen periods of 
enormous progress, but also, in recent years, 
have seen the entire process bog down in intense 
partisanship. Clearly we need to give 
greater attention to improving House ethics. 

HISTORY OF HOUSE ETHICS 

The House has the responsibility under the 
Constitution to police its membership, as Article 
I authorizes each house of Congress to 
‘‘punish its Members for disorderly behavior 
and, with the concurrence of two-thirds, 
expel a Member’’. This is an important responsibility 
because our system of representative 
democracy depends upon the confidence 
of the people in the integrity of their 
elected representatives. 

The first disciplinary action against a 
Member was in 1798, when a vote to expel a 
Member for spitting on another narrowly 
failed. From then until the late 1960s, when 
the House became more active in ethics reform, 
the House took disciplinary action 
against Members only about thirty times, 
with the offenses ranging from dueling and 
treason to inserting obscene material into 
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. Typically the 
House acted only on the most obvious cases 
of official wrongdoing, leaving many other 
transgressions up to the voters to weigh at 
election time. 

When I came to Congress in 1965 there was 
no House ethics committee and no written 
code of conduct for Members. Members could 
accept any gift given by special interests, receive 
large sums of money at ‘‘testimonial 
dinners’’, and convert campaign funds to personal 
use. Members were rarely punished for 
personal corruption, and it was common for 
lobbyists to walk around Congress with envelopes 
of cash in their pockets to hand out 
to lawmakers. All that changed beginning in 
the late 1960s, when, prompted by a series of 
embarrassing scandals, the House created an 
ethics committee (the Standards of Official 
Conduct Committee), set up a tough Code of 
Conduct for Members, and began policing its 
membership in a more rigorous manner. The 
Code set up at that time is essentially the 
one we have today. I was pleased to have 
been involved in those efforts to improve 
House ethics. 

Yet in recent years the system has fallen 
on harder times. Starting in the late 1980s, 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E547 

we have seen intense politicization of the 
ethics process, with Members increasingly 
using ethics charges against other Members 
as a way of waging political warfare. House 
conservatives lodged ethics charges against 
then-Speaker Jim Wright and pursued them 
doggedly, leading to his resignation. Last 
Congress, in what many saw as ‘‘payback 
time’’, Speaker Gingrich faced extensive 
legal and ethical charges from House critics, 
resulting in a reprimand and large fine. 
Under the intense partisanship, the entire 
House ethics process almost broke down and 
a moratorium was placed on new ethics 
cases. 

WHAT’S NEEDED 
The House has shown in the past that it is 
able to mount serious efforts to improve its 
ethics system. I believe that such an effort is 
needed now. 
First, we need to depoliticize the process. 
Although this will be difficult to do, given 
the lingering hard feelings on both sides of 
the aisle, we need clear signals from the 
party leaders that bringing frivolous charges 
against another Member for political purposes 
will not be tolerated. In addition, the 
Standards Committee could issue a formal 
criticism of Members who make such 
charges. I also believe we need to involve 
outsiders more in the ethics process to 
depoliticize it and defuse tensions. For example, 
the Standards Committee could call 
upon a panel of private citizens to help investigate 
charges of misconduct against a 
Member. 
Second, we need to expand our ‘‘preventive 
ethics’’ efforts. One of the most important 
roles of the Standards Committee is to try to 
head off misconduct before it occurs, by providing 
guidance and advisory opinions for 
Members about which specific actions would 
violate House ethics rules. The Committee 
has recently undertaken some important 
steps along these lines, by sending ethics notices 
to every congressional office. Such efforts 
need to be continued and expanded. 
Third, we should simplify and clarify the 
House ethics rules. Recent changes, for example, 
have made the House gift rule more 
than ten pages long, which no one can understand. 
The Code of Conduct works best when 
it reflects broad, basic standards of good conduct, 
with the Committee providing more detailed 
guidance when specific questions 
arise. We should also make it clearer that 
core standards, such as the duty of Members 
to at all times reflect credit on the House, 
lie at the heart of the Code, and that our ethics 
standards are higher than simply whether 
or not some action was illegal. 
Fourth, we need to adopt some needed ethics 
reforms. The public is rightly concerned 
about practices allowed under the current 
House ethics rules which call into question 
the integrity of the legislative process, such 
as Members being allowed to accept expensive 
trips from groups with a direct interest 
in legislation before Congress. Changes are 
also needed in our campaign finance system, 
which the public widely perceives as corrupting. 
Fifth, we need to broaden the conception of 
ethical conduct for Members. Most of the 
rules in the Code of Conduct deal with financial 
matters, for example, Members not accepting 
gifts or converting campaign funds 
to personal use. But the public is more concerned 
about a broader range of ethical action—
whether Members level with their constituents, 
whether they keep their promises 
once in office, and whether they keep their 
constituents’ interests most at heart. Some 
years ago the House passed a resolution, 
since technically expired, called the Code of 
Ethics for Government Service, which did 
contain broader standards and emphasized 

that ‘‘public office is a public trust.’’ These 
standards should be added to the Code of 
Conduct, and the Committee should publicize 
adherence to these principles. 

Finally, we need to improve public understanding 
of House ethics. As Congress observers 
note, media coverage of Members is 
usually spotty unless there is a scandal or 
wrongdoing to be reported. The vast majority 
of Members are honest, conscientious, 
and genuinely trying to address the nation’s 
problems. But the public too often doesn’t 
hear that side. Those who care deeply about 
the institution of Congress need to not just 
speak out about its problems but also speak 
out about what’s good about Congress and its 
Members. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO ROBERT J. FOX 

HON. FRANK R. WOLF 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
bring to our colleagues’ attention one of northern 
Virginia’s outstanding citizens, Robert J. 
Fox. On April 11, Robert will reach a milestone 
in his public service career, marking 50 
years of federal service in the U.S. Army and 
the Postal Service. 

Robert J. Fox was born on January 16, 
1927, in Philadelphia, PA, where he grew up 
and attended Catholic schools. He entered the 
Army in March 1945 and served in the Infantry 
Airborne, reaching the rank of first sergeant by 
1949. He served in Germany in the 102d Division 
and when the 102d Division went home, 
he stayed on with the 1st Infantry Division. 

He continued to reenlist and went to the 
front lines in Korea with the 7th Infantry Division 
in 1952. He served 16 months in Korea. 
Robert was awarded the Bronze Star, the 
Army Commendation Medal with three oak 
leaf clusters, the Good Conduct Medal with 
five loops, the WWII American Campaign and 
Victory Medal, the European-African-Middle 
Eastern Theater Medal, the Occupation of 
Germany Medal, Korean Service Medal and 
the National Defense Medal. 

During his military career, he attended 16 
different Army schools, worked in Intelligence 
learning several different languages, and 
served several more tours in Europe. He was 
discharged from active duty at Arlington Hall 
after 20 years of service, but also served two 
more years in the Army Reserve. He served 
as assistant to the Master of the Grange in 
Washington, D.C., for two years. He met and 
married his wife Jacquelyn Ann in Sperryville, 
Virginia, where he still lives today. 

Robert joined the Post Office Department on 
April 13, 1968, as a letter carrier. He has 
served his entire postal career at the 
Warrenton Post Office in Fauquier County, 
where he developed a reputation as a dedicated, 
hardworking employee. He has always 
shown concern for his customers and the 
community, making several lifelong friendships. 


Robert has been active in the Postal Service’s 
Carrier Alert Program, in which carriers 
watch out for senior citizens on their route, 
alerting friends and relatives when something 
appears wrong. He personally saved the life of 
an elderly woman on his route when he discovered 
that she had fallen on the steps inside 
her home and no one else was around to 

help her. Without Robert’s intervention, she 
could have laid there for days. 

Most notably in his career, Robert has never 
had an accident as a postal employee. He is 
a member of the Million Mile Club, which recognizes 
postal employees who have driven 
1,000,000 miles or more without a vehicle accident. 
He has gone years at a time without 
using any sick leave and is still one of the 
most dependable employees in the Warrenton 
Post Office. 

A respected and active member of the community, 
Robert once spent four years providing 
free volunteer labor to rebuild the 
Sperryville Baptist Church. He has two sons, 
Rev. Joseph Robert Fox, who served as a 
fighter pilot in the U.S. Marine Corps and is 
now a minister in the Virginia Beach area, and 
James Patrick Fox, who resides in California. 

Mr. Speaker, Robert Fox is a remarkable 
man whose contributions to his community 
and his country as a leader and volunteer 
have made a difference in people’s lives. I 
know our colleagues join me in honoring his 
outstanding achievements through his half 
century of public service. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO LT. JOHN REGAN ON 
THE OCCASION OF HIS RETIREMENT 
FROM THE CHICAGO POLICE 
DEPARTMENT 

HON. WILLIAM O. LIPINSKI 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
pay tribute today to a dedicated police officer 
who has spent 36 years protecting the lives 
and property of his fellow citizens, Lieutenant 
John T. Regan of the Chicago Police Department. 


Since 1962, Lieutenant Regan has served 
the city of Chicago and his community, including 
many people from my district, as a member 
of the Chicago Police Department. Most 
recently, he has worked in the Violent Crimes 
Office of the Area One Detective Division. On 
March 5, 1998, however, Lieutenant Regan retired 
from the police force. His presence will 
certainly be missed, both by his fellow officers 
and by the members of the community who he 
has served diligently for many years. 

Mr. Speaker, I salute Lieutenant John T. 
Regan on his 36 years as a police officer. I 
would like to extend my very best wishes for 
continued success and happiness in retirement 
and in the years to come. 

f 


LOCAL PROFILES IN COURAGE 

HON. WILLIAM J. COYNE 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. COYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to three men from southwestern 
Pennsylvania who stood up for what was right. 

Over the last 40 years, we have overturned 
the laws that once upheld race-based segregation 
and discrimination. This accomplishment 
should not be underestimated. Unfortunately, 
the fact of the matter is that while discrimination 
has been curbed, it has not been 
eliminated. 


E548 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

I want to talk today about an example of 
discrimination that we witnessed in southwestern 
Pennsylvania last year, and I want to let 
the American people know about three local 
men who took a stand against it at that time. 
Their names are Bruce E. Dice, Esquire, Dr. 
Anthony Brusca, and Wayne E. Smith, Jr. 
These men risked the disapproval and ostracism 
of their peers to battle what they perceived 
to be a discriminatory act. 

Last summer, Mr. Dice, an attorney from 
Plum Borough, and Dr. Anthony Brusca, a 
dentist from the nearby town of Murrysville— 
both members of the Edgewood Country 
Club—sponsored Mr. Edwin L. Edwards’s application 
to become an associate member at 
that club. Mr. Edwards is a highly respected 
local businessman—the owner of a local television 
station—who has attended the Edgewood 
Country Club as a guest for many years. 
He also happens to be an African-American. 

The Edgewood Country Club, one of the 
oldest country clubs in western Pennsylvania, 
at that time had no black members. Even before 
Mr. Edwards’s application was officially 
submitted, Mr. Dice began receiving anonymous 
threatening phone calls opposed to the 
admission of African-American members. Subsequently, 
racist graffiti was written on Mr. 
Dice’s locker. Despite unanimous approval by 
the club’s membership committee and conversations 
with board members suggesting 
that their response to Mr. Edwards’s application 
would be favorable, the club’s board of directors 
rejected Mr. Edwards’s membership 
application. 

Mr. Edwards and his sponsors were surprised 
and upset by the vote. Cases in which 
the board had rejected an applicant recommended 
by the membership committee 
were rare, if not nonexistent. 

A number of people went to bat for Mr. Edwards, 
however. Mr. Smith, for example, resigned 
from his position as vice president of 
the country club’s board of directors in protest. 
Mr. Dice and Dr. Brusca stood behind their 
sponsorship of Mr. Edwards. The local chapter 
of the NAACP threatened to boycott the country 
club. 

As a result of these actions, the board voted 
to admit Mr. Edwards. Many members of the 
Edgewood Country Club have since welcomed 
Mr. Edwards warmly. 

Mr. Edwards’s attorney, Dwayne Woodruff, 
captured the essence of the issue in a statement 
about two of Mr. Edwards’s supporters 
that could apply to any of his supporters in 
this affair: ‘‘They stood up for what was right. 
A lot of times that’s tough because sometimes 
you’re standing by yourself.’’ 

All too often the fight against discrimination 
is a lonely, painful experience. It is often much 
easier to look away, to ignore such unpleasantness, 
or to back down in the face of open, 
virulent hostility than to press ahead and confront 
these attitudes and actions. That is what 
makes people who take that difficult stand so 
special—and so deserving of our attention and 
praise. 

Mr. Speaker, I commend Mr. Dice, Dr. 
Brusca, and Mr. Smith for their integrity, their 
perseverance, and their strong sense of justice. 
If all Americans would respond in a similar 
manner, we could move a long way towards 
realizing a truly just society. 

CAMPAIGN REFORM AND 

ELECTION INTEGRITY ACT OF 1998 

SPEECH OF 

HON. VINCE SNOWBARGER 

OF KANSAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Monday, March 30, 1998 

Mr. SNOWBARGER. Madam Speaker, I am 
pleased that Congress is focusing attention on 
reform of our campaign and election system. 
There are many problems worthy of our best 
efforts, and this bill contains a number of 
thoughtful remedies championed by reformers 
of all stripes. Among those reforms that I have 
advocated are efforts to curtail illegal foreign 
contributions and new restrictions that safeguard 
the paychecks of union members. 
These were a part of my own campaign finance 
reform proposal, H.R. 3315. That is 
why I am voting for the separate bills that accomplish 
these aims. 

Although these are very good ideas, I am 
concerned about some aspects of the bill we 
consider today. Because H.R. 3485 is a compromise, 
it is weak in addressing every Member’s 
‘‘first principles’’ for campaign finance reform. 
However, I want to use this opportunity 
to call attention to one issue I feel has been 
most egregiously ignored. 

Individual and candidate accountability is required. 
As I am sure all of my colleagues are 
aware, Republicans and Democrats frequently 
take to the floor of the House to decry the failure 
of one group or another to take responsibility 
for their actions. Whether it is Republicans 
demanding that fathers take responsibility 
for their children or Democrats who call on 
industry to account for the impact their activities 
have on the environment, this principle is 
regularly invoked on behalf of our constituents. 
I believe it is now time for Congress to do 
what it has long asked of others. We all must 
assume personal responsibility for our own 
campaigns. 

How should we accomplish this? I believe 
the first step is real punishment for candidates 
and their surrogates who intentionally break 
our campaign finance laws. Earlier this year I 
introduced the ‘‘Fair Elections and Political Accountability 
Act’’ (H.R. 3315) which has as its 
chief aim real personal accountability. Put simply, 
this bill sends the bad guys directly to jail. 
No more of the Faustian bargain: ‘‘Cheat to 
get elected and worry about the fines later.’’ 
Such an environment creates a disincentive to 
obey the law. My bill mandates prison terms 
for intentional violations and strengthens the 
enforcement powers of the Justice Department 
and the Federal Election Commission. Swift 
and certain criminal sanctions will make all the 
other reforms work better. I asked Chairman 
THOMAS to include these provisions in the 
campaign reform measure reported to the 
House. I am disappointed that they were omitted. 
As long as candidates think that they can 
break the law with impunity, it doesn’t matter 
how many new laws and regulations we pass. 
We must first address this question of accountability. 


CENTENARY OF THE BIRTH OF 
STEPHEN VINCENT BENET 

HON. PAUL McHALE 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. MCHALE. Mr. Speaker, it gives me great 
pleasure to speak today about a favorite son 
from my very own hometown. This year marks 
the centenary of the birth of the noted American 
writer, Stephen Vincent Benet. 

One of his friends said of him that he was 
‘‘more conscious of being American than any 
man I ever knew.’’ And he was certainly very 
American. He did not think America was perfect; 
He strove always to heal its imperfections. 
But, even with its imperfections, he believed 
it was worth serving, as a Grail Knight 
served his ideal. He thought America was the 
best hope for the oppressed and downtrodden 
in the history of the world. That was the ideal 
he served and it is an ideal to which we 
should all serve. 

Benet was born July 22, 1898 in Fountain 
Hill, Pennsylvania, just a few blocks from my 
own birthplace. He went on to embrace and 
be embraced by all of America. 

His father was a distinguished Army career 
officer, Colonel James Walker Benet; his 
grandfather was Brigadier General Stephen 
Vincent Benet. Both men made distinguished 
contributions to Army Ordnance, and General 
Benet was Army Chief of Ordnance for 17 
years. 

There is no doubt that the younger Stephen 
Vincent Benet would have followed his father 
and grandfather into the service if he could 
have; he always called himself an Army man. 
But poor eyesight and painful, progressive arthritis 
plagued him all of his life, making military 
service out of the question. 

Instead, he turned to writing. When his great 
Civil War epic ‘‘John Brown’s Body’’ was published 
in the late 1920’s he became a national 
hero and won the Pulitzer Prize. More than 
600,000 copies of the book were sold in short 
order. 

And they were read and cherished. During 
World War II a correspondent encountered an 
American officer who carried ‘‘John Brown’s 
Body’’ with him everywhere, even into battle. 

Benet’s reputation increased among Americans 
because of the short stories he published. 
You have all heard of ‘‘The Devil and 
Daniel Webster,’’ but there were many others. 
They were carried by many of the most popular 
magazines of the 1920s and 1930s, and 
were eagerly awaited by thousands of avid 
readers. 

During the 1930s he watched with dismay 
the steady advances of Nazism, Italian fascism 
and Japanese imperialism. Such stories 
as ‘‘Blood of the Martyrs’’ and ‘‘Into Egypt’’ revealed 
his ardent commitment to individual liberty 
and his deep sympathy with the oppressed. 


When the attack on Pearl Harbor plunged 
the United States into World War II, Benet 
made a momentous decision: Since he had no 
other way to serve, he would put his talent to 
work by writing for the American and Allied 
cause. Although he was criticized for his 
choice, then and later, he stuck to his principles. 


In the few years that remained to him, he 
turned out such powerful works as the radio 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E549 

dramas ‘‘Listen to the People’’ and ‘‘They 
Burned the Books’’ as well as the so-called 
propaganda history ‘‘America.’’ In this book, 
which was printed in many languages and distributed 
in thousands of copies around the 
world, he told his country’s story with all the 
honesty and truthfulness that was his nature. 

But Benet did not live to see the publication 
of ‘‘America.’’ He died March 13, 1948, the 
victim of a sudden heart attack at just 44 
years of age. Found among his papers at his 
death were the following four lines, which 
were perhaps the last he ever wrote: 

Now for my country, that it still may live, 
All that I am, all that I have I’ll give. 
It is not much beside the gift of the brave, 
But yet accept it, since ’tis all I have. 

I’d like to close by reading part of a prayer 
Stephen Vincent Benet wrote for President 
Franklin D. Roosevelt, known as the President’s 
Prayer. Surely its sentiments are those 
which every man and woman of good will can 
still share today. 

Our Earth is but a small star in a great 
universe. Yet of it we can make, if we 
choose, a planet unvexed by war, untroubled 
by hunger or fear, undivided by senseless distinctions 
of race, color, or theory. Grant us 
brotherhood, not only for this day but for all 
our years—a brotherhood not of words but of 
acts and deeds. We are all of us children of 
earth—grant us that simple knowledge. If 
our brothers are oppressed, then we are oppressed. 
If they hunger, we hunger. If their 
freedom is taken away, our freedom is not 
secure. Grant us a common faith that man 
shall know bread and peace—that he shall 
know justice and righteousness, freedom and 
security, an equal opportunity and an equal 
chance to do his best, not only in our own 
lands but throughout the world. And in that 
faith, let us march toward the clean world 
our hands can make. 

f 


PATIENTS’ BILL OF RIGHTS ACT 
OF 1998 

HON. JOHN D. DINGELL 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to 
introduce the Democratic Caucus’ proposal to 
protect consumers in managed care, the Patients’ 
Bill of Rights Act of 1998. 

Ten years ago, only one in seven of us 
would have been enrolled in managed care. 
Today, after huge and wrenching changes in 
our health care system, more than three in 
four Americans is now in managed care. 

No matter how prosperous or healthy our 
lives, all of us at some point become patients 
and find ourselves at the tender mercies of 
our health care system. 

When that happens, we are entitled to minimal 
rights and measures that will protect our 
health and dignity. 

That’s what the legislation we’re introducing 
today is all about. 

We have all heard the horror stories. Heart 
attack victims forced to drive miles to an approved 
emergency room. A woman vacationing 
in Hawaii forced to fly to her plan’s participating 
Emergency Room in Chicago to get 
care for an emergency situation. Cardiac center’s 
selected on the basis of price, not quality. 
Denials of treatment resulting in worse problems. 
A woman testified before our committee 

late last year about a boy who lost his leg to 
cancer because the managed care organization 
would not approve the necessary treatment 
in time to stop its progression. 

The legislation we propose is straightforward. 
It’s the product of exhaustive and exhausting 
discussions involving the full range of 
views and opinions within the Democratic 
Party—perhaps the most diverse and contentious 
political organization ever assembled 
under one umbrella. 

First, our legislation says that you should 
get the care you need when you are sick. If 
you need to see a specialist, you can see one. 
If you have an emergency, you can go to the 
nearest emergency room for treatment. You’ll 
be able to become part of a clinical trial if 
there is no other treatment available, and 
you’ll be able to get non-formulary drugs if 
there is cause for exceptions. 

Second, you’ll be able to get the information 
you need about your plan. You’ll know what is 
covered, what is not, how and where to get 
care, who to talk to in order to get a complaint 
or grievance resolved, what providers are in 
the plan and how the plan measures up in 
term of providing quality care to members. 

Third, if you’ve got a problem with your 
care, you’ll know where and how to straighten 
it out. If your plan denies a treatment and 
you’re harmed, you’ll be able to hold the plan 
responsible. 

Finally, our legislation requires plans to 
have a program to look at the quality of care 
they provide to the people they serve. 

Ours is real, enforceable legislation. It 
doesn’t give health care providers a right to 
bill. It gives patients a bill of rights. 

We’ve worked with a range of organizations 
on this legislation. I’m proud to welcome representatives 
of both the American Medical Association 
and the American Federation of 
Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations 
in support of our efforts. That these two 
institutions are represented in support of our 
bill should tell you that this is a well-thoughtout 
piece of legislation. 

We don’t believe that managed care is inherently 
evil. Managed care has controlled 
costs, and improved care for its patients in 
many instances. But the excesses that 
spawned managed care have in turn produced 
their own excesses. 

The Patients’ Bill of Rights Act is supported 
by the following groups and organizations. 
American Association of Retired Persons 
(AARP) [March 31, 1998 Letter]; American 
Cancer Society [March 13, 1998 Letter]; American 
College of Emergency Physicians [March 
31, 1998 News Release]; American Federation 
of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations 
[March 31, 1998 News Release]; American 
Medical Association [March 31, 1998 
Statement]; American Psychological Association 
[March 12, 1998 Letter]; Consumers 
Union [March 31, 1998 Letter]; Families USA 
Foundation [March 31, 1998 Letter]; HIP 
Health Plans [March 31, 1998 Letter]; Kaiser 
Permanente [March 31, 1998 Letter]; National 
Alliance for the Mentally Ill [March 31, 1998 
Statement]; National Association of Children’s 
Hospitals [March 31, 1998 News Release]; 
and National Mental Health Association 
[March 13, 1998 Letter]. 

As the baseball season begins across the 
country, I hope that my Republican colleagues—
many of whom have joined in cosponsoring 
similar legislation—will join in 

working with me and my fellow Democrats so 
that we can put a bill on the President’s desk 
by the time that the baseball season draws to 
a close this September. 

f 


AIR FORCE RESERVE BIRTHDAY 
TRIBUTE 

HON. JIM GIBBONS 

OF NEVADA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues 
in the House of Representatives to 
join me in recognizing the birthday of the 
United States Air Force Reserve. April 14, 
1998 will mark fifty years of service by the Air 
Force Reserve to the United States of America. 
The Air Force Reserve traces its heritage 
to the National Defense Act of 1916, which 
authorized a corps of reserve officer and enlisted 
aviators. From this modest beginning, 
Reservists made noteworthy contributions during 
both world wars. On April 14, 1948, the Air 
Force Reserve became a component of the 
United States Air Force. In 1998, the Air Force 
Reserve celebrates the 50th anniversary of 
this event. During those 50 years, Reservists 
have served proudly and with great distinction 
during times of conflict. 

They answered the call in Korea in the 
1950s, in Berlin, Cuba, Korea and Southeast 
Asia in the 1960s, and in the Persian Gulf in 
the 1990s. In peacetime, while maintaining a 
high degree of readiness to respond during a 
crisis, Reservists perform humanitarian, rescue, 
hurricane reconnaissance and aerial-
spray missions throughout the United States 
and around the world. They also support virtually 
every air force peacetime operational 
activity, from airlift missions and satellite operations, 
to patrolling the no-fly zones over Bosnia 
and Iraq. 

The Air Force Reserve has grown from an 
‘‘extremes force’’ to an integrated combat 
ready fighting force. As the Air Force Reserve 
moves into the 21st Century, they play an expanded 
role in meeting the fast changing 
needs of our country. They are developing 
more detailed long-range and annual planning 
documents to ensure the Reserve is a viable 
partner in the total force goal—to best use our 
capabilities, provide America an effective defense, 
and give the best value for our defense 
dollar. Originally intended for wartime augmentation, 
today these citizen airmen support 
national objectives on a daily basis. 

Their day-to-day involvement has increased 
markedly in recent years. The Air Force Reserve 
participated in 11 contingencies between 
1953 and 1990. In the last seven years, 
they have played a significant role in over 40 
major operations. This is part of life and they 
are proud to do it. In every instance since 
Desert Storm, they have met these obligations 
with all volunteers. 

The Air Force Reserve is a force of dedicated 
airmen who help support the world’s 
most respected Air Force. Today, they provide 
13 percent of total Air Force manning and 
roughly 20 percent of the Air Force’s total air 
and space capability. Their mission is readiness, 
but their job is to support the total Air 
Force. Air Force planners and leaders recognize 
the need for their support and rely on 
them to step in wherever needed. 


E550 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

Their readiness has never been higher, and 
they are part of nearly every mission area. 
One of the keys to their success is compensating 
leverage as a force multiplier inherent 
within a fully trained and accessible force 
waiting on call. In reality, today’s global situation 
dictates that they serve as a peacetime 
augmentation force as well as a ready, wartime 
force. 

Air Force Reserve units maintain readiness 
levels on par with active duty units. Over 92% 
of Air Reserve units are currently combat 
ready, closely paralleling our active force. 

The Air Force Reserve remains ready to 
support mission requirements at any time, 
under any conditions, anywhere in the world. 
They bring current, mission capable technology, 
at low cost, to meet the expectations 
of the active duty commanders they support. 
And they bring the creative ingenuity and dedication 
of a highly skilled and diverse workforce 
to meet their requirements and their responsibilities 
to the American people. 

Some of the most notable accomplishments 
for the Air Force Reserve over the past 50 
years have included: 

April 14, 1948—The U.S. Air Force Reserve 
was officially designated. 

1950–1952—All 25 Air Force Reserve 
wings, along with 118,000 individual reservists, 
came on active duty during the Korean 
conflict. 

July 9, 1952—The Armed Forces Reserve 
Act standardized pay and training categories 
and established Ready, Standby and Retired 
mobilization categories. 

Oct. 1, 1961—Five Air Force Reserve C– 
124 Globemaster groups and about 9,000 individual 
reservists, totaling more than 15,000 
were mobilized during the Berlin Crisis. 

Oct. 18, 1962—Eight Air Force Reserve 
troop carrier wings and six aerial port squadrons, 
total more than 14,000 reservists, were 
mobilized during the Cuban missile crisis. 

Jan. 26, 1968—Six Air Force Reserve units 
were mobilized in the wake of the Pueblo Incident. 


May 13, 1968—Seven Air Force Reserve 
units were mobilized to support the Air Force 
during the Vietnam conflict. 

Aug. 21, 1970—The Total Force Concept 
was announced by Secretary of Defense Melvin 
Laird, making reserve components the initial 
source of augmentation for the active force 
rather than the draft. 

Aug. 3, 1973—Secretary of Defense James 

R. Schlesinger elevated the Total Force Concept 
to the Total Force Policy, integrating the 
active, Guard and Reserve into a homogeneous 
whole. 
Oct. 1, 1977—In a mission shared with the 
Air National Guard, the Air Force Reserve 
began rotating C–130s, aircrews, and support 
personnel to Howard Air Force Base, Panama, 
in support of Phoenix Oak, the Air Force’s 
Latin American mission. 

Oct. 23, 1983—Air Force Reserve airlift associate 
units assisted in the evacuation of 
more than 700 American and foreign citizens 
from Grenada during the civil turbulence on 
that island. Reserve maintenance, aerial port 
and medical personnel also supported the active 
forces. 

Oct. 24, 1983—Air Force Reserve airlift associate 
aircrews helped evacuate wounded 

U.S. Marines from Lebanon. Reservists flew 
63 strategic airlift missions transporting supplies 
and casualties into and out of Beirut. 
December 1989—Reserve units took part in 
Operation Just Cause, airlifting passengers 
and cargo to Panama. Aeromedical, special 
operations and air refueling units also participated 
in the effort to ensure protection of 
Americans and U.S. resources. When the operation 
ended Jan. 31, 1990, Reserve airlift 
units had flown nearly 1,500 hours airflifting 
some 7,500 passengers and more than 4,000 
tons of cargo. Reserve air refueling crews 
offloaded more than a million pounds of fuel to 
18 receiving aircraft, and AC–130 gunships 
flew 157 hours and expended nearly 7,500 
rounds of ammunition. 

August 1990—Nearly 6,000 of more than 
9,000 Reserve volunteers were on duty within 
two weeks after Iraq invaded Kuwait Aug. 2. 

February 1991—There were more than 
17,500 reservists on active duty. About 3,800 
were officers and 13,700 were enlisted personnel. 
About one in four were women. Approximately 
1,800 were air reserve technicians, 
1,300 were individual mobilization 
augmentees and more than 500 were members 
of the Individual Ready Reserve. More 
than 7,000 of those reservists were in medical 
specialties. 

March 1991—The mobilization reached its 
peak with almost 23,500 Air Force reservists 
on duty. Of them, more than 20,000 were assigned 
to 215 Reserve units, 2,300 were individual 
mobilization augmentees and 960 were 
members of the Individual Ready Reserve or 
retirees. Most members of the latter group 
were medical personnel. The Department of 
Defense authorized the commanders of the 
gaining major commands to demobilize reservists, 
consistent with military requirements. 

May 8–10, 1992—The Command Band of 
the Air Force Reserve performed on Russian 
television May 7 and in the Kremlin May 8. On 
May 9, the band participated in the Peace Victory 
Parade, marking the first time a U.S. military 
unit has marched in the Russian capital. 

July 15, 1992—A Reserve C–130 and two 
aircrews from the 934th Airlift Group, Min-
neapolis-St. Paul International Airport Air Reserve 
Station, Minn., joined active-duty and Air 
National Guard aircraft and crews at Rhein 
Main Air Base, Germany, to airlift desperately 
needed supplies and food into war-torn Sarajevo 
and Zagreb during Operation Provide 
Promise. 

Dec. 8–14, 1992—Reservists flew 190 sorties, 
airlifted 1,076 passengers and 1,504 tons 
of cargo, and off-loaded nearly 1.8 million 
pounds of fuel in flight as part of Operation 
Restore Hope. The Air Force Reserve had 
381 volunteers who were placed on active 
duty for 31 days. Of that total, 396 airlifted 
troops and equipment, 37 flew air refueling 
missions, 17 performed medical duties and 14 
provided aerial port support. 

Jan. 1, 1993—The Air Force Reserve entered 
the space program with the activation of 
the 7th Space Operations Squadron at Falcon 
Air Force Base, Colo. 

Jan. 31, 1993—Air Force Reserve units reported 
airlifting 9,400 passengers and 11,728 
tons of cargo in support of Operation Restore 
Hope, the relief mission in Somalia. Associate 
aircrews, flying active-duty aircraft, airlifted 
most of the passengers and cargo flown by 
the Reserve. 

November 1993–January 1994—Air Force 
Reserve A–10 Thunderbolt II and F–16 Fighting 
Falcon pilots and aircraft participated with 
Air National Guard and coalition forces in Op


eration Deny Flight, enforcement of a military 
non-fly zone over Bosnia-Herzegovina in accordance 
with a United Nations Security 
Council resolution. 

June–September 1994—Reserve A–10 and 
KC–135 units deployed to Europe in support 
of the United Nations’ no-fly zone over Bosnia. 
A–10s, aircrews and support people went to 
Aviano Air Base, Italy, again to provide fighter 
coverage. KC–135s, aircrews and support personnel 
staged air refueling operations from 
Pisa, Italy, and Istres, France, for U.S. and 
NATO fighters. 

September 1994—Air Force Reserve airlift 
and air refueling aircraft flew missions in support 
of Operation Uphold Democracy, the 
peacekeeping mission in Haiti. By Sept. 20, 
more than 1,100 reservists volunteered to deploy 
or remain in place to assist the operation. 
Homestead Air Reserve Base, Fla., and Dobbins 
Air Reserve Base, Ga., were staging 
bases. Homestead served as a jumping off 
point into Haiti, and Dobbins accommodated 
C–130s loaded with Army civil engineers from 
Fort Bragg, N.C. 

December 1995—Reserve airlift, aerial refueling, 
and aeromedical units plus individual 
mobilization augmentees began supporting 
Operation Joint Endeavor, the NATO-sponsored 
peacekeeping mission to Bosnia-
Herzegovina. 

January–June 1996—Reserve fighter units, 
based at Aviano Air Base, Italy, continued to 
support the enforcement of the no-fly zone 
over the former Yugoslavia. The original UN-
sponsored mission, Deny Flight concluded 
Dec. 21, 1995, when NATO assumed responsibility 
for what was then called Decisive 
Edge. 

February 17, 1997—The Air Force Reserve 
was designated as an Air Force major command, 
from a field operating agency, and renamed 
the Air Force Reserve Command. 

Air Force Reservists, through their unselfish 
devotion to duty, are dedicated ‘‘Citizen Airmen’’ 
who have served America proudly and 
with distinction for 50 years. 

f 


THE HISTORY AND BACKGROUND 
OF THE HUNGARIAN CROWN 

HON. TOM LANTOS 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, on March 18 in 
Statuary Hall we held a ceremony celebrating 
the 20th anniversary of the return to the people 
of Hungary of the Holy Crown of Hungary, 
the Crown of St. Stephen. The United States 
government was custodian for a third of a century 
(from 1945 to 1978) of this most important 
symbol of the Hungarian nation. 

At the time the Crown was returned to Hungary, 
Dr. Robert king, who currently serves as 
my Chief of Staff, was a member of the staff 
of the National Security Council at the Carter 
White House. He was involved on behalf of 
the White House in the decisions surrounding 
the return of the Crown, and he was an official 
member or the delegation headed by Secretary 
of State Vance which returned the 
Crown to Hungary. It is significant, Mr. Speaker, 
that Bob’s association with Hungary and 
with the Crown predates our association in my 
office. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E551 

In connection with the ceremony in Statuary Crown to Hungary were put off following the My fellow colleagues, join me in saluting the 

communist coup in Hungary in 1947 and the 
intensification of the Cold War. The Hungar-

Hall of the United States Capitol, Bob pre-1998 Division I State Basketball Champions 

pared a written description of the background from Lakewood, Ohio, the St. Edward’s Boys

ian uprising of 1956, which was violently sup-

information on the political history and the art Basketball Team and its coach, Eric Flannery.

pressed by Soviet troops, also made it impos


history of the crown. Because of the signifi


f

sible to return the Crown. It was only two

cance and the interest in this important coro-decades later that gradual but significant do-

TRIBUTE TO STANLEY M. GRUBE

nation symbol and historic object, Mr. Speak-mestic changes in Hungary opened up the op


er, I ask that this description be placed in the 
RECORD. 

THE HUNGARIAN CROWN 
‘‘The Holy Crown of Hungary’’ (Magyar 
Szent Korona) or ‘‘the Crown of St. Stephen’’ 
is the medieval Crown that for centuries was 
the symbol of Hungarian kingship and today 
remains a powerful symbol of the Hungarian 
nation. The Crown is depicted atop the Hungarian 
national crest, which was adopted as 
the official symbol of the Republic of Hungary. 
For centuries the Hungarian Crown has 
been linked with St. Stephen, the first Christian 
king of Hungary. Medieval records report 
that Pope Sylvester II gave a Crown to 
Stephen for his coronation in 1001. Because 
of this tradition, the Crown has long symbolized 
Hungary’s cultural, political, and religious 
links with Western Europe, although 
the present Crown is not the actual object 
given by Sylvester II. 
The Crown is composed of two parts. The 
upper portion is composed of two cross-bands 
with enamel panels with Latin inscriptions. 
Earlier, it was believed that the Latin portion 
of the Crown was a remnant of the 
Crown given by Sylvester II. Contemporary 
scholars now believe that it is a reliquary or 
other object associated with Stephen. The 
lower portion is a Byzantine crown produced 
between 1067 and 1077 which was made for the 
wife of King Geza I, and it was a gift of the 
Byzantine emperor Michael Ducas. 
These two separate portions were combined 
to create a crown for the coronation of 
one of Hungary’s later kings. It was at this 
time that a cross was placed on top of the 
crossed Latin bands. Combining the two elements 
took place about the twelfth century. 
The first source calling this relic ‘‘the Holy 
Crown’’ dates from 1256, and by that date, it 
was in much the same form as it is today. 
The Crown was last used for coronations in 
1867, when Hapsburg Emperor Franz Joseph 
II was crowned King of Hungary, and in 1916, 
when his successor, Karl IV, was crowned. 
Karl was deposed in 1918 at the end of World 
War I, but the new independent State of 
Hungary remained a Kingdom without a 
king from 1918 until 1945. 
Throughout its history the Crown has generally 
remained in Hungary, but it was frequently 
moved from place to place and hidden 
for security reasons. It was buried for 
four years after the national uprising of 1848– 
1849. 
In November 1944, as the Soviet Army 
neared Budapest, the Crown guard moved the 
coronation regalia from the capital to western 
Hungary and Austria to protect them 
from damage in the fighting and to prevent 
their seizure by Soviet troops. On April 26, 
1945, the guard buried the Crown in an oil 
drum at Mattsee in western Austria, and on 
July 25, 1945, the Crown and coronation regalia 
were transferred to U.S. Army officers in 
Augsburg, Germany. The Crown remained in 
American custody until January 6, 1978. Initially 
it was kept in the American occupation 
zone of Germany at a special military 
facility in Wiesbaden, and in the early 1950s, 
it was transferred to the U.S. Gold Depository 
at Fort Knox, Kentucky. 
It was always the intention of the United 
States to return the Crown to Hungary, and 
it was designated ‘‘property of special status 
held in trust and safekeeping by United 
States authorities.’’ Plans to return the 

portunity for the Crown’s return. 

When Jimmy Carter became President in 
1977, the U.S. reassessed its policies toward 
the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, 
and determined that the U.S. should encourage 
relations between America and those Soviet 
client states which pursued international 
or domestic policies that differed 
from the Soviet Union. Since the late 1960s, 
Hungary’s domestic economic and social policy 
had moved considerably away from the 
Soviet model and fostered market-oriented 
changes, which laid the foundation for Hungary’s 
remarkable success in the post-communist 
period. 

President Carter, Secretary of State Cyrus 
Vance, and National Security Advisor 
Zbigniew Brzezinski agreed that the crown 
should be returned to Hungary. The Crown 
symbolized Hungary’s links with the West 
and Hungarian national identity, and U.S. 
officials wanted to strengthen both. As a 
condition for the return, it was required that 
the Crown be placed on public display and 
representatives who accepted the Crown be 
leaders of a wide variety of Hungarian religious 
social, cultural, and other groups. 

The ceremony for return of the crown was 
held on January 6, 1978, in the rotunda of the 
Hungarian Parliament. The U.S. delegation 
was headed by U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus 
Vance. Congressional members of that delegation 
included Congressman Lee Hamilton 
of Indiana and Fortney H. ‘‘Pete’’ Stark of 
California. Three weeks after the return of 
the Crown, it was put on display at the Hungarian 
National Museum in Budapest, and it 
has been on display there since that time. 

Return of the Crown led to a marked improvement 
in U.S. relations with Hungary, 
and that, in turn, contributed to greater 
Hungarian self-confidence and encouraged 
economic and political reform. The changes 
that took place in Hungary during this period 
were important in preparing Hungary 
for the successful transition to political democracy 
and free market economy in the period 
after 1989. 

f 


IN HONOR OF ST. EDWARD’S BOYS 
BASKETBALL TEAM 

HON. DENNIS J. KUCINICH 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the accomplishments of the St. Edward’s 
Boys Basketball Team and its coach, 
Eric Flannery. St. Ed’s in Lakewood, Ohio won 
the Division I State Boys Basketball Championship 
on Saturday, March 28, 1998. 

Although St. Ed’s was ranked number one 
in the finals, the Eagles still had to overcome 
their longtime rivals, the St. Ignatius Wildcats 
of Cleveland, in order to win the championship. 
This was the first time two Cleveland-
area schools met for a boys basketball championship, 
and thanks to the skill of Coach 
Flannery and the teamwork of the players, St. 
Ed’s won 70–61. The Eagles’ strong offense 
and solid defense kept the Wildcats at bay 
throughout the game. This year’s victory 
makes St. Ed’s only the 15th school to win 
consecutive boys basketball championships. 

HON. KEN CALVERT 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I take the floor 
today to honor an individual whose dedication 
to the community and to the overall well-being 
of the 43rd Congressional District is unparalleled. 
My district has been fortunate to have 
dynamic and dedicated community leaders 
who willingly and unselfishly given of their time 
and talents to promote the businesses, 
schools, and community organizations within 
their various cities and throughout the district 
as a whole. Mr. Stanley M. Grube is one of 
these individuals. 

Stan Grube has been extremely involved in 
several health care membership activities as 
well as various community education activities. 
He has served as Chairman of the Corona-
Norco Unified School District Year-Round 
Education Task Force, in addition to currently 
serving as a member of the Riverside Community 
College Foundation and La Sierra University’s 
Community Advisory Council for the 
California School Administrator Credentials 
Program. 

Stan Grube is Chairman and member of the 
County of Riverside Emergency Medical Care 
Committee and Externa, Advisory Board Member 
for the University of Miami Comprehensive 
Drug Research Center. His community involvement 
extends from past positions on the 
Corona Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors, 
President and member of the Board of 
Directors for the United Way, Corona Rotary 
Club and the Corona-Norco Family YMCA. In 
1997, he appointed by Governor Pete Wilson 
to the Economic Strategy Panel. 

Stan’s outstanding accomplishments make 
me proud to call him my friend, community 
member, and fellow American. I thank him or 
his contribution to the betterment of the community 
and I encourage him to keep up the 
good work. 

f 


50 STATES COMMEMORATIVE COIN 

PROGRAM AMENDMENT ACT OF 

1998 

HON. ROBERT A. UNDERWOOD 

OF GUAM 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, last year 
the 50 States Commemorative Coin Program 
was signed into law. Beginning next year, selected 
designs from each of the fifty states will 
be minted on the reverse side of U.S. quarters 
dollars for circulation. Five states per year will 
have quarters minted with corresponding designs 
issued in the order of the states’ ratification 
of the Constitution or admission into the 
Union. 

In addition to the possibility of raising revenue 
for the federal treasury, attention will be 
focused upon the states through the diversity 


E552 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

of designs that will commemorate their history. 
I believe this is a great program and everyone 
should be allowed to participate. However, this 
was not the case. As usual, the territories and 
the District of Columbia were overlooked. 

Although this nation supposedly is ‘‘dedicated 
to the proposition that all men are created 
equal,’’ you have to look no further than 
the territories and the District to realize that it 
is not. As a citizen lower station, one who is 
not allowed to vote at presidential elections— 
a delegate, not quite a full Member of Congress, 
who hails from an unincorporated territory 
with an unresolved political status, I have 
been designated to be the one from my home 
island to make sure that we get a fair shake 
anytime we can. Oftentimes the objective is 
impossible. We have to work twice as hard in 
order to get half as much. This is why I 
strongly support Delegate NORTON’s amendment 
to the 50 States Commemorative Coin 
Program. 

The territories and the District need and deserve 
all the recognition and attention we can 
get. Extending the 50 States Commemorative 
Coin Program for another year to accommodate 
the territories and the District is equitable, 
it is sensible, and it is fair. This year marks 
Guam’s centennial under the American flag. It 
would be a fitting tribute to include the territories 
in this commemorative coin initiative. I 
urge my colleagues to support this important 
legislation. 

f 


INTRODUCTION OF ‘‘TAX ON 
TALKING REPEAL ACT OF 1998’’ 

HON. JENNIFER DUNN 

OF WASHINGTON 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Ms. DUNN. Mr. Speaker, after serving on 
the House Committee on Ways and Means for 
the past three and one-half years, I continue 
to be amazed at the outrageous provisions 
that encompass our current tax code. In no 
small part many of these provisions are a 
function of a tax code that is spiraling out of 
control. The irony is that while our tax code 
has 7 million words it lacks two simple 
words—common sense. 

One of the most ridiculous tax code provisions 
I have discovered imposes a 3 per cent 
luxury tax on the telephone service of every 
single American. The legislation I am introducing 
today, with my colleague from Louisiana, 
Congressman BILLY TAUZIN, will repeal this 
federal luxury tax on talking. Common sense 
suggests a number of reasons for swift enactment 
of our legislation to repeal the luxury tax 
on telephone service. 

First, this was a ‘‘temporary’’ tax first adopted 
in 1898 to fund the Spanish-American War. 
One hundred years later this ‘‘temporary’’ tax 
still exists. For over fifty years the tax served 
as a means to meet revenue needs imposed 
by the Spanish-American War, World War I, 
the depression, World War II, the Korean War 
and Vietnam. In 1965, Wilbur Mills, Chairman 
of the House Ways and Means Committee declared, 
‘‘the emergency conditions which gave 
birth to these taxes have long since disappeared. 
The taxes have remained, to become 
a source of discrimination among taxpayers.’’ 


Secondly, everyone realizes that having a 
telephone in your home is no longer a luxury. 

Since the enactment of this tax 100 years ago, 
telephone service has evolved into a vital infrastructure 
for modern life. The use of telephone 
services by a select few in the 1930s 
has exploded to the point that over 90 percent 
of American homes and businesses, across all 
segments of society, are wired for telephone 
service. In 1990, the Congressional Research 
Service reported, ‘‘A consensus has emerged 
that the telephone today is no longer viewed 
as a luxury and can best be compared to an 
item of general consumption. The tax bears no 
direct relation to any government service received 
by the telephone consumer.’’ 

Third, like all luxury taxes, the federal telephone 
excise tax is regressive. Consumer expenditures 
on telephone service are a higher 
percentage of income for lower income families 
than for higher income families. In 1987, 
the Department of Treasury, Office of Tax 
Analysis, determined that ‘‘the communications 
excise tax causes economic distortion 
and inequities among households and that 
there is no policy rationale for retaining the 
tax.’’ 

The repeal of the federal telephone excise 
tax would instantly accomplish what Congress 
had hoped to do through the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996—lower customer bills. 
Telephone service in America today is a basic 
necessity, a part of our daily lives. Americans 
should not have to pay a tax to the Federal 
Government in order to call their families on 
holidays or Mom on Mother’s Day. Common 
sense tells us this is an unreasonable tax. 
Common sense tells us that repeal is necessary. 


In closing, I would like to commend my colleague, 
Representative BILLY TAUZIN, for his 
willingness to work with me in moving for swift 
enactment of the Tax of Talking Repeal Act. I 
urge all of my colleagues to join us in supporting 
this measure. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO DR. MARTIN LUTHER 
KING, JR., ON THE 30TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF HIS DEATH—A 
DEDICATION TO HIS LIFE AND 
WORDS 

HON. TOM LANTOS 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
commemorate the life and the contributions of 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and to mark the 
thirtieth anniversary of his tragic death on April 
4th, 1998. 

Dr. King’s life is a testament to our highest 
values of peace, equality, and justice that we 
honor in this nation. I shudder to think of our 
country without the words, the inspiration, and 
the activism of Dr. King. I shudder to think of 
this world without his eloquent voice to lead us 
in preserving civil rights and human rights for 
all people, no matter their differences. 

Mr. Speaker, it is in honor of Dr. King that 
we must rededicate ourselves to an unfinished 
task—the elimination of social, legal, and economic 
discrimination against all minorities, 
against all disadvantaged Americans. Let us 
remember his achievements so that his vision 
of a peaceful, prosperous humanity will not be 
silenced and will not go unheeded. 

During the civil rights movement of the 
1950’s and 1960’s, Dr. King was an advocate 

for nonviolent change. His beliefs were the 
basis for an effective and powerful movement 
by Americans everywhere to protest against 
blatant racism in the form of racial segregation. 
He organized ‘‘sit-ins’’ and boycotts 
against both public and private institutions participating 
in the segregation of black people. 
His immensely influential work with the civil 
rights campaign earned him the Nobel Peace 
Prize in 1964. Our nation was in shock and 
grief after his tragic and untimely assassination 
on April 4, 1968. 

Mr. Speaker, I know that my colleagues 
share with me the profound inspiration and 
hope that I experienced as I listened to Dr. 
King’s stirring ‘‘I Have a Dream’’ speech during 
the 1964 civil rights demonstration in our 
nation’s capital. I still remember the urgency of 
his words to the poor, the disenfranchised, 
and the oppressed. 

And when we allow freedom to ring, when 
we let it ring from every village, from every 
hamlet, from every state and every city, we 
will be able to speed up that day when all of 
God’s children, black men and white men, 
Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, 
will be able to join hands, and sing in 
the words of the Old Negro spiritual: ‘‘Free 
at Last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, 
we are free at last!’’ 

Mr. Speaker, we in this Congress know that 
Dr. King’s remarkable dream is still unfulfilled. 
We know that those who are weak, those who 
suffer from poverty, from hatred, from ignorance, 
are those for whom our country is still 
returning the check that Dr. King denounced— 
the check marked ‘‘insufficient funds.’’ The disease 
of discrimination still exists in our country 
in both its most blatant and more subtle forms. 
Equal political participation still eludes our fight 
for equal justice for all. Our liberty is incomplete 
without adequate provisions for the elderly 
and without quality care for our children. 

We cannot succeed in our quest for liberty 
and freedom without acknowledging, as Dr. 
King wisely taught us that ‘‘there is no peace 
without justice.’’ Therefore, we must continue 
to struggle for justice. We must support our 
President who engages this nation in a dialogue 
of race with his ‘‘Initiative on Race: One 
America in the 21st Century.’’ We must prosecute 
all hate crimes, those against race, ethnicity, 
gender, and sexuality, against anyone 
who is different. We must give everyone equal 
opportunities to education, especially higher 
education. We must pass just laws which protect 
those who remain unprotected by our system. 
We must create and pass a budget which 
takes into account the needs of all Americans. 

Genuine leadership will result in genuine reform. 
We cannot have genuine reform until we 
take into account the relative position of minorities, 
and the relative position of the economically 
disadvantaged. There will be no 
peace and true prosperity in this county until 
every homeless person has shelter and every 
hungry mouth is fed. 

Americans have common needs and common 
desires, and we must work with each 
other, not against each other, to achieve our 
goals. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. spoke to us 
of unity, not dissension. It is our responsibility 
to move toward social justice through nonviolent 
means, and it is our responsibility to 
prevent violence by examining our laws and 
their enforcement. 

We must learn to enact change, rather than 
merely react to change. We can start by recognizing 
the ways in which discrimination operates 
in subtle and insidious ways within our 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E553 

society despite our laws, ways which may not 
be as obvious as segregation, but are discrimination 
nonetheless. 

We must acknowledge that America cannot 
rest on laurels of prosperity, but must continue 
to seek a prosperous equality. We can be 
non-violent in ways that are filled with respect 
and dignity for all. 

Mr. Speaker, as this nation solemnly marks 
30 years since the tragic and violent and untimely 
death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., I 
urge my colleagues in the Congress to recommit 
ourselves to the struggle which Dr. King so 
personified and defined. I urge my colleagues 
in the Congress to share with me my appreciation 
of this great man and to work together 
to achieve his vision. The road to Dr. King’s 
vision of peace is long and difficult. Let us not 
be daunted. Let us march together for freedom. 


f 


RETURN OF THE DEADLINE 

HON. BOB SCHAFFER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Mr. BOB SCHAFFER of Colorado. Mr. 
Speaker, this month millions of Coloradans will 
begin the time-consuming and stressful task of 
preparing tax returns for the April 15th deadline. 
Considering the time, irritation, and inconvenience 
required to comply with our increasingly 
complicated federal tax code each year, 

it’s not surprising that some common synonyms 
for the word ‘‘tax’’ include: demand, oppress, 
accuse, exhaust, and burden. 

Americans spend a combined 51/2 billion 
hours each year working to comply with our 
current tax system. Meanwhile, the 114,000 
employees of the Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS) are toiling too. They must in order to 
churn out the 8 billion pages of forms and instructions 
mailed to lucky recipients like you 
and me each January. And don’t forget the 
trees. Over 300,000 trees are chopped down 
each year just to produce the paper for these 
riveting publications. Even the easiest form, 
the 1040EZ, has 33 pages of instructions—all 
in fine print. 

Meanwhile, what do we have to show for 
our personal contributions of time, stress and 
inconvenience? A federal budget that amounts 
to more than $1.7 trillion per year, and a federal 
debt surpassing $5.5 trillion and gaining. 
If all that cash was going only to the essential 
functions of government—defending our borders, 
and providing those services that cannot 
be effectively left to individuals, States, 
groups, charities, or markets—we’d be in good 
shape. But in reality, much of this spending 
goes toward programs our government has no 
business providing, or all too often, is just 
plain squandered. Remember the ‘‘essential’’ 
expenditure of $800,000 to study methane 
production in European cows, or the $13,000 
we spent to fly top Clinton officials an enduring 
55 miles for a round of golf? 

No, this is just plain wrong, and this is the 
very reason I came to Congress. Just weeks 

ago I presented the taxpayers with a check for 
more than $354,000 in unspent funds from my 
1997 office budget—nearly 40 percent of my 
allotment. This is but a small example of how 
our government, can be doing much more 
work, for much less cash. 

This is why I cosponsored and voted for 
three of the most important pieces of legislation 
in decades. The Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997, providing the first net tax cut in 16 
years; the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, 
bringing our federal books in balance for the 
first time since 1969; and the IRS Restructuring 
Act, getting us one step closer to reining 
in one of the most abusive agencies in America, 
and setting us up to scrap the entire tax 
code in favor of one that is fairer, flatter, and 
simpler. 

But we all have a role in making our government 
better and more responsive. Each and 
every one of us has the moral obligation to 
ensure our government is the leanest and 
most efficient service provider on Earth. 

All Americans should keep in close touch 
with their elected officials—call them, write 
them, and e-mail them. Remind your public 
servants that you are watching their every 
move, and that the measure of their achievement 
depends upon the betterment of your 
life, and that of your family. 

There is an old saying that government is a 
necessary evil. Let’s just ensure that when we 
write those checks on April 15th, we are not 
buying more evil than we can handle. 


E554 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks April 1, 1998 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate on February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules Committee—
of the time, place, and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled, and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 
As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 
Meetings scheduled for Thursday, 
April 2, 1998, may be found in the Daily 
Digest of today’s RECORD. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

APRIL 21 

10:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Foreign Operations Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for foreign 
assistance, focusing on crime programs. 


Room to be announced 

APRIL 22 

9:30 a.m. 
Indian Affairs 
To hold oversight hearings on Title V 
amendments to the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance 
Act of 1975. 

SR–485 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the Department 
of Defense, focusing on the 
Ballistic Missile Defense program. 

SD–192 

APRIL 23 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 


To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration. 


SD–138 
Appropriations 
Interior Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the For


est Service, Department of Agriculture. 
SD–124 

Labor and Human Resources 
Children and Families Subcommittee 

To resume hearings on proposed legislation 
authorizing funds through fiscal 
year 2002 for the Head Start program. 

SD–430 

10:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Foreign Operations Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for foreign 

assistance programs, focusing on infectious 
diseases. 
SD–192 

APRIL 28 

10:00 a.m. 
Labor and Human Resources 
To hold hearings to examine reading and 
literacy initiatives. 
SD–430 

10:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Foreign Operations Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for foreign assistance programs, 
focusing on Bosnia. 

Room to be announced 

APRIL 29 

9:30 a.m. 
Labor and Human Resources 
To hold hearings to examine proposed 
legislation relating to assistive technology. 


SD–430 
Indian Affairs 
To resume hearings to examine Indian 
gaming issues. 
Room to be announced 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the Department 
of Defense, focusing on Bosnian 
assistance. 

SD–192 

APRIL 30 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the 
Envrionmental Protection Agency, and 
the Council on Environmental Quality. 

SD–138 

10:00 a.m. 
Labor and Human Resources 
Public Health and Safety Subcommittee 
To resum hearings to examine the role of 
the Agency for Health Care Policy Research 
in health care quality. 

SD–430 

2:00 p.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
National Parks, Historic Preservation, and 
Recreation Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on title IV of S. 1693, to 
renew, reform, reinvigorate, and protect 
the National Park System, and S. 
624, to establish a competitive process 
for the awarding of concession contracts 
in units of the National Park 
System. 

SD–366 

MAY 5 

10:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Foreign Operations Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for foreign 
assistance programs. 

Room to be announced 

MAY 6 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the Department 
of Defense, focusing on the 

U.S. Pacific Command. 
SD–192 
MAY 7 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
VA, HUD, and Independent Agencies Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the National 
Science Foundation, and the Office 
of Science and Technology. 
SD–138 
Appropriations 
Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the Executive 
Office of the President. 

SD–192 

2:00 p.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
National Parks, Historic Preservation, and 
Recreation Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on titles VI, VII, VIII, 
and XI of S. 1693, to renew, reform, reinvigorate, 
and protect the National 
Park System. 

SD–366 

MAY 11 

2:00 p.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the Department 
of Defense. 

SD–192 

MAY 13 

10:00 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 1999 for the Department 
of Defense. 

SD–192 

MAY 14 

2:00 p.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
National Parks, Historic Preservation, and 
Recreation Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on titles IX and X of S. 
1693, to renew, reform, reinvigorate, 
and protect the National Park System, 
and S. 1614, to require a permit for the 
making of motion picture, television 
program, or other forms of commercial 
visual depiction in a unit of the National 
Park System or National Wildlife 
Refuge System. 

SD–366 

OCTOBER 6 

9:30 a.m. 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold joint hearings with the House 
Committee on Veterans Affairs on the 
legislative recommendations of the 
American Legion. 

345 Cannon Building 

CANCELLATIONS 

APRIL 2 

9:30 a.m. 
Small Business 
To resume hearings on the President’s 
proposed budget request for fiscal year 
1999 for the Small Business Administration. 


SR–428A 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E555 

10:00 a.m. POSTPONEMENTS 
Foreign Relations 
Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs Sub-

APRIL 2 
committee 

10:00 a.m.
To hold hearings to examine the eco-

Appropriations

nomic and political situation in India. 

Transportation Subcommittee

SD–419 

To hold hearings to examine airline 
ticketing practices. 
SD–13 


Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 

See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

The House passed H.R. 2400, Building Efficient Surface Transportation 

and Equity Act. 
The House passed H.R. 1151, Credit Union Membership Access Act. 
House Committees ordered reported 7 sundry measures. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S2879–S3022 

Measures Introduced: Eleven bills and one resolution 
were introduced, as follows: S. 1894–S. 1904, 
and S.J. Res. 44. Pages S2967–68 

Measures Passed: 

Congressional Adjournment: Senate agreed to 

H. Con. Res. 257, providing for an adjournment of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
Page S2949 

Land Conveyance: Senate passed H.R. 1116, to 
provide for the conveyance of the reversionary interest 
of the United States in certain lands to the Clint 
Independent School District and the Fabens Independent 
School District, clearing the measure for the 
President. Page S3021 

Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal 
Compact Consent Act: Senate passed H.R. 629, to 
grant the consent of the Congress to the Texas Low-
Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact, after 
taking action on amendment proposed thereto, as 
follows: Pages S3015–19 

Adopted: 

Domenici (for Snowe) Amendment No. 2276, in 
the nature of a substitute. Pages S3018–19 

Domenici (for Wellstone) Amendment No. 2277 
(to Amendment No. 2276), to add certain conditions 
to the grant of consent to the compact. 

Pages S3018–19 

Domenici (for Wellstone) Amendment No. 2278 
(to Amendment No. 2276), to add certain conditions 
to the grant of consent to the compact. 

Pages S3018–19 

Congressional Budget: Senate resumed consideration 
of S. Con. Res. 86, setting forth the congressional 
budget for the United States Government for 
fiscal years 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 and 
revising the concurrent resolution on the budget for 
fiscal year 1998, taking action on amendments proposed 
thereto, as follows: Pages S2879–S2964 

Adopted: 

Kerrey Amendment No. 2214, to express the 
sense of the Senate on the need for long-term entitlement 
reforms. Pages S2890–92 

Burns Amendment No. 2178, to express the sense 
of the Senate regarding the use of agricultural trade 
programs to promote the export of United States agricultural 
commodities and products. Page S2892 

By 51 yeas to 47 nays (Vote No. 53), Kyl 
Amendment No. 2169, to express the sense of the 
Congress regarding freedom of health care choice for 
medicare seniors. Pages S2893–95 

Lautenberg (for Johnson) Modified Amendment 
No. 2210, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
repair and construction of Indian schools. 

Pages S2909–14 

By 51 yeas to 49 nays (Vote No. 56), Domenici 
(for Roth) Amendment No. 2209, to express the 
sense of the Senate that the Committee on Finance 
shall consider and report a legislative proposal this 
year that would dedicate the Federal budget surplus 
to the establishment of a program of personal retirement 
accounts for working Americans. 

Pages S2917–29 

By a unanimous vote of 99 yeas (Vote No. 59), 
Domenici (for Faircloth) Amendment No. 2251, to 
express the sense of the Senate that the Congress 
should begin to phase out the marriage penalty this 
year. Pages S2944–45, S2950 

D343 


D344 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

Lautenberg (for Durbin/Chafee) Modified Amendment 
No. 2205, to express the sense of Congress regarding 
the right to affordable, high-quality health 
care for seniors. Pages S2961–62 

Domenici (for Burns/Baucus) Amendment No. 
2275, to express the sense of the Congress regarding 
a permanent extension of income averaging for farmers. 
Page S2962 

Rejected: 

Conrad (for Moseley-Braun) Amendment No. 
2175, to express the sense of the Senate regarding elementary 
and secondary school modernization and 
construction. (By 54 yeas to 46 nays (Vote No. 57), 
Senate tabled the amendment.) 

Pages S2898–S2905, S2914–17, S2948–49 

Withdrawn: 

Lautenberg (for Wyden) Amendment No. 2203, 
to direct the Congressional Budget Office to calculate 
inflation swings or shortfalls in each function 
of the Government. Pages S2933, S2962–63 

Pending: 

Allard Amendment No. 2170, to require the reduction 
of the deficit, a balanced Federal budget, 
and the repayment of the national debt. 

Pages S2955–58 

Conrad (for Boxer) Modified Amendment No. 
2176, to increase Function 500 discretionary budget 
authority and outlays to accommodate an initiative 
promoting after-school education and safety. 

Page S2879 

Brownback Amendment No. 2177, to express the 
sense of the Senate regarding economic growth, social 
security, and Government efficiency. Page S2879 

Smith (Oregon) Amendment No. 2179, to express 
the sense of the Senate on Social Security taxes. 

Page S2879 

Smith (Oregon) Amendment No. 2180, to express 
the sense of the Senate with respect to the use of 
marijuana for medicinal purposes. Page S2879 

Smith (Oregon) Amendment No. 2181, to express 
the sense of the Senate concerning increases in the 
prices of tobacco products. Page S2882 

Kennedy Amendment No. 2183, to express the 
sense of the Senate concerning the enactment of a 
patient’s bill of rights. Page S2879 

Kennedy Amendment No. 2184, to increase Function 
500 discretionary budget authority and outlays 
to support innovative education reform efforts in 
urban and rural school districts. Page S2879 

Kennedy Amendment No. 2185, to express the 
sense of the Congress regarding additional budget 
authority for the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission. Page S2879 

Wellstone Modified Amendment No. 2186, to 
provide a reserve fund to pay for increased Pell 

Grants by reducing or eliminating corporate welfare 
tax expenditures. Page S2879 

Wellstone/Moynihan Amendment No. 2187, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding a report of 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services evaluating 
the outcomes of welfare reform. Page S2879 

Wellstone Modified Amendment No. 2188, to 
provide additional funds for medical care for veterans. 
Page S2879 

Thurmond Amendment No. 2191, to clarify outlay 
levels for major functional categories. Page S2879 

Thurmond Amendment No. 2192, to clarify outlay 
levels for national defense. Page S2879 

Lautenberg Amendment No. 2194, to express the 
sense of the Senate to ensure that the tobacco reserve 
fund in the resolution may be used to protect the 
public health. Page S2880 

Lautenberg Amendment No. 2195, to establish a 
deficit-neutral reserve fund for environmental and 
natural resources. Pages S2958–61 

Lautenberg (for Kohl/Reid) Modified Amendment 
No. 2204, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
the establishment of a national background 
check system for long-term care workers. Page S2929 

Reid/Bryan Amendment No. 2206, to express the 
sense of the Senate that the landowner incentive program 
included in the Endangered Species Recovery 
Act should be financed from a dedicated source of 
funding and that public lands should not be sold to 
fund the landowner incentive program of the Endangered 
Species Recovery Act. Page S2880 

Domenici (for Hutchison) Amendment No. 2208, 
to express the sense of the Senate that any budget 
surplus should be dedicated to debt reduction or direct 
tax relief for hard-working American families. 

Page S2934 

Lautenberg (for Torricelli/Jeffords) Amendment 
No. 2212, to express the sense of the Senate on battlefield 
preservation. Page S2933 

Bond/Mikulski Modified Amendment No. 2213, 
to express the sense of the Senate that the Elderly 
Housing program shall be funded at not less than 
the fiscal year 1998 funding level. 

Pages S2887–90, S2961 

Kerrey Amendment No. 2215, to express the 
sense of the Senate regarding passage of the IRS Restructuring 
and Reform Act of 1997. Page S2892 

Murray Amendment No. 2216, to increase Function 
500 discretionary budget authority and outlays 
to accommodate both Administration investments in 
education and the $2.5 billion increase assumed by 
the resolution for IDEA. Pages S2894–95 

Murray Amendment No. 2217, to express the 
sense of the Senate regarding the expansion of Medicare 
benefits. Pages S2894–95 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D345 

Dorgan Modified Amendment No. 2218, to strike 
section 301 of the concurrent resolution, which expresses 
the sense of Congress regarding the sunset of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and replace it 
with a section expressing the sense of Congress that 
important tax incentives such as those for encouraging 
home ownership and charitable giving should be 
retained. Pages S2896–97, S2951–55 

Dorgan Amendment No. 2219, to establish a reserve 
fund for health research at the National Institutes 
of Health, funded by receipts from tobacco legislation. 
Pages S2896–97 

Biden Amendment No. 2220, to permit the use 
of Federal tobacco funds to reimburse the Veterans 
Administration for the costs of treating smoking-related 
illnesses. Page S2897 

Kyl Amendment No. 2221, to express the sense 
of the Senate supporting a supermajority requirement 
for raising taxes. Page S2897 

Domenici (for Grams) Amendment No. 2222, to 
use any budget surplus to reduce payroll tax and establish 
personal retirement accounts for hard-working 
Americans. Page S2934 

Bingaman/Lieberman Amendment No. 2223, to 
establish a deficit-neutral reserve fund for civilian research 
and development. Pages S2900–01 

Feingold Amendment No. 2224, to establish a 
disability reserve fund. Page S2909 

Domenici (for DeWine) Amendment No. 2225, to 
state the sense of the Senate regarding the quality of 
teachers. Page S2909 

Lautenberg (for Rockefeller) Amendment No. 
2226, to revise outlays and new budget authority for 
transportation (400) programs and allowances (920), 
and to strike those provisions with regard to outlays 
and new budget authority for programs of function 
700, Veterans Benefits and Services. 

Pages S2929–30, S2963–64 

Lautenberg (for Conrad) Amendment No. 2227, 
to ensure that the tobacco reserve fund in the resolution 
may be used to strengthen social security. 

Pages S2929–30 

Lautenberg (for Bumpers) Amendment No. 2228, 
to provide for funding to help the states comply 
with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
by eliminating an unjustified tax loophole. 

Pages S2929–30 

Lautenberg (for Feinstein) Amendment No. 2229, 
to express the sense of the Senate on education goals. 

Pages S2929–30 

Lautenberg (for Kerry) Amendment No. 2230, to 
ensure that tobacco reserve fund in the resolution 
protects public health. Pages S2929–30 

Lautenberg (for Wellstone) Amendment No. 
2231, to express the sense of the Senate supporting 

additional funding for fiscal year 1999 for medical 
care for veterans. Pages S2929–30 

Lautenberg (for Robb) Amendment No. 2232, to 
ensure that the tobacco reserve fund in the resolution 
protects tobacco farmers. Pages S2929–31 

Lautenberg (for Biden) Amendment No. 2233, to 
provide for the Senate’s support for Federal, State 
and local law enforcement. Pages S2929, S2931 

Lautenberg (for Boxer) Amendment No. 2234, to 
expand the uses of the tobacco reserve fund to include 
funding for health research, including the National 
Institutes of Health. Pages S2929, S2931 

Lautenberg (for Bingaman/Lieberman) Amendment 
No. 2235, to express the sense of the Senate 
regarding the analysis of civilian science and technology 
expenditures in the budget. 

Pages S2929, S2931 

Lautenberg (for Bingaman) Amendment No. 
2236, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
long-term civilian science and technology budget 
trends. Pages S2929, S2931 

Lautenberg (for Kerrey) Amendment No. 2237, to 
express the sense of the Senate on long-term Federal 
budgeting and the repayment of the public debt. 

Pages S2929, S2931–32 

Lautenberg (for Moseley-Braun) Amendment No. 
2238, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
tax legislation that increases the complexity of any 
tax return. Pages S2929, S2932 

Lautenberg (for Moseley-Braun) Amendment No. 
2239, to express the sense of the Senate that the 
President should submit a generational study with 
the budget request. Pages S2929, S2932 

Lautenberg (for Moseley-Braun) Amendment No. 
2240, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
the value of the social security system for future retirees. 
Pages S2929, S2932 

Lautenberg (for Durbin) Amendment No. 2241, 
to express the sense of Congress regarding the right 
to affordable, high-quality health care for seniors. 

Pages S2929, S2932 

Lautenberg (for Dorgan) Amendment No. 2242, 
to express the sense of the Senate on ensuring social 
security solvency. Pages S2929, S2932–33 

Lautenberg Amendment No. 2243, to express the 
sense of the Senate that the Congress and the Administration 
should fulfill the intent of the Amtrak 
Reform and Accountability Act of 1997 and appropriate 
sufficient funds in each of the next five years 
to enable Amtrak to implement its Strategic Business 
Plan, while preserving the integrity of the $2.2 
billion provided under the Taxpayer Relief Act for 
the statutory purpose of capital investment. 

Pages S2929, S2933 

Lautenberg (for Daschle) Amendment No. 2244, 
in the nature of a substitute. Pages S2929, S2933 


D346 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

Lautenberg (for Torricelli) Amendment No. 2245, 
to express the sense of the Senate on battlefield preservation. 
Pages S2929, S2933 

Lautenberg (for Torricelli) Amendment No. 2246, 
to express the sense of the Senate on the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund. Pages S2929, S2933 

Lautenberg (for Moynihan) Amendment No. 
2247, to express the sense of the Senate that the 
Committee on Finance should consider legislation to 
preserve social security and ensure its long-run solvency; 
and that no policy options, affecting either 
outlays, revenues, or the manner of investment of 
funds, should be excluded from consideration. 

Pages S2929, S2933 

Domenici (for Bond) Amendment No. 2248, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding Immigration 
and Naturalization Service circuit rides in the 
former Soviet Union. Page S2934 

Domenici (for Abraham) Amendment No. 2249, 
to express the sense of Congress that the Budget Act 
should be amended to facilitate the use of future 
unified budget surpluses to strengthen and reform 
social security, reform the tax code, and reduce the 
tax burden on middle-class families. Page S2934 

Domenici (for Thurmond) Amendment No. 2250, 
to express the sense of the Senate regarding longterm 
care needs. Pages S2934–35 

Domenici (for Sessions) Amendment No. 2252, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding the display 
of the Ten Commandments by a judge on the circuit 
court of the State of Alabama. Page S2935 

Domenici (for Stevens) Amendment No. 2253, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding outlay estimates 
of the Department of Defense budget. 

Page S2935 

Domenici (for Specter) Amendment No. 2254, to 
modify the use of the tobacco reserve fund. 

Page S2935 

Domenici (for Specter) Amendment No. 2255, to 
modify the tobacco reserve fund to allow up to 
$10.5 billion to be spent on post-service smoking related 
Veterans compensation benefits. Page S2935 

Domenici (for Specter) Amendment No. 2256, relating 
to the distribution of certain receipts from tobacco 
legislation. Page S2935 

Domenici (for Nickles) Amendment No. 2257, to 
establish a prohibition on precatory language on 
budget resolutions. Pages S2935–36 

Domenici (for Frist) Amendment No. 2258, to express 
the sense of the Senate regarding funding for 
the Airport Improvement Program. Page S2936 

Domenici (for McConnell) Amendment No. 2259, 
to express the sense of the Congress that the award 
of attorneys’ fees, costs, and sanctions of those 
amounts ordered by U.S. District Judge Royce C. 

Lamberth on December 18, 1997, should not be 
paid with taxpayer funds. Page S2936 

Domenici (for Sessions) Amendment No. 2260, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding limitations 
on attorneys’ fees under any global tobacco settlement. 
Page S2936 

Domenici (for Craig) Amendment No. 2261, to 
express the sense of the Senate on the eligibility of 
individuals suffering from post-service smoking-related 
illnesses for VA compensation. Page S2936 

Domenici (for Coverdell) Amendment No. 2262, 
to express the sense of the Senate on the procurement 
of Blackhawk utility helicopters for Colombia 
to reduce illicit drug trafficking. Pages S2936–37 

Domenici (for Santorum) Amendment No. 2263, 
to express the sense of the Senate regarding reauthorization 
of the Farmland Protection Program. 

Page S2937 

Domenici (for Santorum) Amendment No. 2264, 
to express the sense of the Senate concerning health 
care quality for participants in the Federal Employees 
Health Benefits Program. Page S2937 

Domenici (for Kempthorne) Amendment No. 
2265, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
the Market Access Program. Pages S2937–38 

Domenici (for Gramm) Amendment No. 2266, to 
extend the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund. 

Pages S2934, S2938 

Domenici (for Coverdell) Amendment No. 2267, 
to express the sense of the Senate regarding the Department 
of Justice’s’s pursuit of Medicare fraud and 
abuse. Page S2938 

Domenici (for Coverdell) Amendment No. 2268, 
to express the sense of the Senate regarding national 
response to the threat of illegal drugs. Page S2938 

Domenici (for Coverdell) Amendment No. 2269, 
to express the sense of the Senate regarding wasteful 
spending in Defense Department acquisition practices. 
Page S2938 

Domenici (for Coverdell/Kyl) Amendment No. 
2270, to express the sense of the Senate regarding 
the United States’ response to the changing nature 
of terrorism. Pages S2938–39 

Domenici (for Coverdell/Dodd) Amendment No. 
2271, to express the sense of the Senate regarding a 
multinational alliance against drug trafficking. 

Page S2939 

Domenici (for Mack) Amendment No. 2272, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding funding of 
the National Institutes of Health. Page S2939 

Domenici (for Hatch) Amendment No. 2273, to 
assume that the use of the tobacco reserve fund is 
consistent with tobacco legislation approved by the 
Senate. Pages S2939–40 

Domenici (for Sessions) Amendment No. 2274, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding limitations 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D347 

on attorneys’ fees under any global tobacco settlement. 
Page S2940 

During consideration of this measure today, Senate 
also took the following action: 

Three-fifths of those Senators duly chosen and 
sworn not having voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected 
motions to waive certain provisions of the 
Congressional Budget Act with respect to consideration 
of the following amendments: 

By 46 yeas to 54 nays (Vote No. 54), Conrad/Lautenberg/
Bingaman/Reed Amendment No. 2174, to 
ensure that the tobacco reserve fund in the resolution 
protects public health. Pages S2905–09 

By 38 yeas to 62 nays (Vote No. 55), Coverdell 
Amendment No. 2199, to provide middle class tax 
relief. Pages S2880–87, S2906–08 

By 42 yeas to 58 nays (Vote No. 58), Lautenberg 
(for Hollings) Amendment No. 2193, to provide a 
supermajority point of order against any change in 
the off-budget status of Social Security. 

Pages S2933, S2940–44, S2949–50 

By 54 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. 60), Craig 
Amendment No. 2211, to modify the pay-as-you-go 
requirement of the budget process to require that direct 
spending increases be offset only with direct 
spending decreases. Pages S2946–48, S2950–51 

Subsequently, a point of order that the amendments 
were violations of the Congressional Budget 
Act was sustained, and the amendments thus fell. 

Pages S2908, S2950–51 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
for further consideration of the bill on Thursday, 
April 2, 1998. Page S3021 

Visa Waiver Pilot Program Reauthorization Act: 

Senate concurred in the amendments of the House to 

S. 1178, to amend the Immigration and Nationality 
Act to extend the visa waiver pilot program, clearing 
the measure for the President. Page S3019 
Wireless Telephone Protection Act: Senate concurred 
in the amendments of the House to S. 493, 
to amend section 1029 of title 18, United States 
Code, with respect to cellular telephone cloning paraphernalia, 
clearing the measure for the President. 

Pages S3019–21 

Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-consent 
agreement was reached providing for the consideration 
of the nominations of G. Patrick Murphy, to 
be United States District Judge for the Southern 
District of Illinois, and Michael P. McCuskey, to be 
United States District Judge for the Central District 
of Illinois, on Thursday, April 2, 1998, with votes 
to occur thereon. Page S3015 

Removal of Injunction of Secrecy: The injunction 
of secrecy was removed for the following treaty: 

Inter-American Convention Against Corruption. 
(Treaty Doc. 105–39) 

The treaty was transmitted to the Senate today, 
considered as having been read for the first time, and 
referred, with accompanying papers, to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations and was ordered to be 
printed. Pages S3014–15 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Timothy B. Dyk, of the District of Columbia, to 
be United States Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit. 


1 Army nomination in the rank of Chief, Army 
Reserve, United States Army. 

Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Navy. 

Page S3022 
Messages From the House: Page S2967 
Measures Placed on Calendar: Page S2967 
Communications: Page S2967 
Petitions: Page S2967 
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S2967 
Statements on Introduced Bills: Pages S2968–87 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2987–89 

Amendments Submitted: Pages S2989–S3007 

Notices of Hearings: Page S3007 

Authority for Committees: Pages S3007–08 

Additional Statements: Pages S3008–14 
Record Votes: Eight record votes were taken today. 
(Total—60) Pages S2895, S2908, S2929, S2948–49, S2951 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m., and adjourned 
at 10:33 p.m., until 8:30 a.m., on Thursday, 
April 2, 1998. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record, on pages S3021–22.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

APPROPRIATIONS—INTERIOR 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Interior 
held hearings on proposed budget estimates for fiscal 
year 1999 for the Department of the Interior, receiving 
testimony from Bruce Babbitt, Secretary of the 
Interior. 

Subcommittee will meet again on Thursday, April 
23. 

APPROPRIATIONS—DEFENSE 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense 
held hearings on proposed budget estimates for fiscal 


D348 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

year 1999 for Department of Defense medical programs, 
receiving testimony from Lt. Gen. Ronald R. 
Blanck, Surgeon General of the Army; Vice Adm. 
Harold M. Koenig, Surgeon General of the Navy; Lt. 
Gen. Charles H. Roadman, II, Surgeon General of 
the Air Force; Brig. Gen. Bettye H. Simmons, Chief, 
Army Nurse Corps; Capt. Mary Ann Gardner, Deputy 
Director, Navy Nurse Corps; and Brig. Gen. 
Linda J. Stierle, Director, Medical Readiness Doctrine 
and Planning and Nursing Services, Department 
of Defense. 

Subcommittee will meet again on Wednesday, 
April 22. 

APPROPRIATIONS—NIH 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education held 
hearings on proposed budget estimates for fiscal year 
1999 for the National Institutes of Health, receiving 
testimony from Harold E. Varmus, Director, National 
Institutes of Health, Department of Health 
and Human Services, who was accompanied by several 
of his associates. 

Subcommittee recessed subject to call. 

IDENTITY THEFT 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: 

Subcommittee on Financial Services and Technology 
concluded hearings to examine the impact and extent 
of the illegal use of personal identifiers (social 
security numbers, credit cards, or personal identifications) 
and other related data often available through 
the electronic media, and the need for legislation to 
identify a single federal agency with jurisdiction to 
investigate and prosecute criminals involved in 
crimes of identity theft, after receiving testimony 
from James Bauer, Deputy Assistant Director, Office 
of Investigations, United States Secret Service, Department 
of the Treasury; Wayne C. Matus, New 
York, New York; Darylle Goodfield, Los Angeles, 
California; and Sue Carter, Southern California. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: 

Committee ordered favorably reported S. 1415, to 
reform and restructure the processes by which tobacco 
products are manufactured, marketed, and distributed, 
to prevent the use of tobacco products by 
minors, and to redress the adverse health effects of 
tobacco use, with an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. 

NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee 
on National Parks, Historic Preservation, 
and Recreation held hearings on certain provisions of 

S. 1693, to renew, reform, reinvigorate, and protect 
the National Park System, focusing on Title I, to reform 
management operations of the National Park 
Service, Title II, to provide for the establishment of 
criteria for creating new units of the National Park 
Systems, Title III, to extend the current recreational 
fee demonstration program through September 30, 
2005 and expand it to all units of the National Park 
System, and Title V, to create a passport specifically 
for use for admission to units of the National Park 
System, receiving testimony from Robert G. Stanton, 
Director, National Park Service, Department of the 
Interior; Edward M. Norton, National Trust for Historic 
Preservation, Albert C. Eisenberg, National 
Parks and Conservation Association, David J. Humphreys, 
American Recreation Coalition, and William 

P. Horn, Birch, Horton, Bittner, and Cherot, all of 
Washington, D.C.; and Rick Gale, Boise, Idaho, on 
behalf of the Association of National Park Rangers. 
Subcommittee will meet again on Thursday, April 
30. 

INDOOR AIR QUALITY 

Committee on Environment and Public Works: Committee 
concluded hearings to examine issues relating to 
indoor air quality, focusing on the health effects of 
second-hand smoke in the workplace and in homes, 
and related provisions of the proposed tobacco settlement 
between State Attorneys General and the tobacco 
industry, after receiving testimony from Carol 

M. Browner, Administrator, Environmental Protection 
Agency; Michael P. Eriksen, Director, Office on 
Smoking and Health, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of 
Health and Human Services; Kansas Attorney General 
Carla J. Stovall, Topeka; Gregory N. Connolly, 
Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Boston; 
Alfred Munzer, Washington Adventist Hospital, Takoma 
Park, Maryland, on behalf of the American 
Lung Association; Robert K. Lemons, Building 
Owners and Managers Association of Boston, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts; and Michael Sternberg, Sam 
& Harry’s Restaurants, Washington, D.C., on behalf 
of the National Restaurant Association. 
BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Governmental Affairs: Committee ordered 
favorably reported the following business items: 

H.R. 1836, to amend chapter 89 of title 5, 
United States Code, to improve administration of 
sanctions against unfit health care providers under 
the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, 
with an amendment; 

April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D349 

S. 1642, to improve the effectiveness and performance 
of Federal financial assistance programs, simplify 
Federal financial assistance application and reporting 
requirements, and improve the delivery of 
services to the public; 
H.R. 2766, to designate the United States Post 
Office located at 215 East Jackson Street in Painesville, 
Ohio, as the ‘‘Karl Bernal Post Office Building’’; 
H.R. 2773, to designate the facility of the United 
States Postal Service located at 3750 North Kedzie 
Avenue in Chicago, Illinois, as the ‘‘Daniel J. Doffyn 
Post Office Building’’; 
S. 1886, to designate the facility of the United 
States Postal Service located at 3750 North Kedzie 
Avenue in Chicago, Illinois, as the ‘‘Daniel J. Doffyn 
Post Office Building’’; 
H.R. 2836, to designate the building of the 
United States Postal Service located at 180 East Kellogg 
Boulevard in Saint Paul, Minnesota, as the ‘‘Eugene 
J. McCarthy Post Office Building’’; 
H.R. 3120, A bill to designate the United States 
Post Office located at 95 West 100 South Street in 
Provo, Utah, as the ‘‘Howard C. Nielson Post Office 
Building’’; and 
The nominations of Elaine D. Kaplan, of the District 
of Columbia, to be Special Counsel, Office of 
Special Counsel, Ruth Y. Goldway, of California, to 
be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission, 
and Melvin R. Wright, to be an Associate Judge of 
the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. 

Prior to this action, committee concluded hearings 
on the nomination of Mr. Wright (listed above), 
after the nominee testified and answered questions in 
his own behalf. 

YEAR 2000 CONVERSION 

Committee on Governmental Affairs: Committee concluded 
hearings to examine Federal agencies’ efforts 
to successfully convert computer systems for the 
Year 2000, focusing on the progress of strategies 
being implemented to avoid major computer disruptions, 
after receiving testimony from John A. 
Koskinen, Chair, President’s Council on the Year 
2000 Conversion; Kevin L. Thurm, Deputy Secretary 
of Health and Human Services; and Mortimer L. 
Downey, Deputy Secretary of Transportation. 

AIRLINE HUB PRACTICES 

Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Antitrust, 
Business Rights, and Competition concluded 
hearings to examine the state of competition in the 
domestic aviation industry, focusing on whether airline 
hubs produce competitive benefits or impose 
monopoly prices on the public, after receiving testimony 
from Richard B. Hirst, Northwest Airlines, 
Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota; Steven A. Morrison, 

Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Cyril D. Murphy, United Airlines, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; 
Robert J. Spane, Vanguard Airlines, Mission, 
Missouri; and Kevin C. Stamper, Pro Air, Inc., Detroit, 
Michigan. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Labor and Human Resources: Committee 
ordered favorably reported the following business 
items: 

S. 1882, authorizing funds for fiscal year 1999 for 
programs of the Higher Education Act, with amendments; 
S. 1754, to consolidate and authorize funds for 
health professions and minority and disadvantaged 
health professions and disadvantaged health education 
programs, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute; and 
The nominations of Rebecca T. Bingham, of Kentucky, 
and Martha B. Gould, of Nevada, each to be 
a Member of the National Commission on Libraries 
and Information Science, Scott Snyder Fleming, of 
Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Education for 
Legislation and Congressional Affairs; and Cherryl T. 
Thomas, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Railroad 
Retirement Board. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee ordered favorably 
reported the following business items: 

S. 1279, to provide for the transfer of services and 
personnel from the Bureau of Indian Affairs to the 
Office of Self-Governance of the Department of the 
Interior, and to emphasize the need for job creation 
on Indian reservations, with an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute; 
S. 1797, to reduce tobacco use by Native Americans 
and to make the proposed tobacco settlement 
applicable to tobacco-related activities on Indian 
lands, with amendments; and 
The nomination of Katherine L. Archuleta, of Colorado, 
to be a Member of the Institute of American 
Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development. 


INDIAN GAMING REGULATORY 
IMPROVEMENT ACT 

Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee held hearings 
on S. 1870, to provide the National Indian Gaming 
Commission with resources to monitor and regulate 
certain Indian gaming operations, receiving testimony 
from Kevin Gover, Assistant Secretary of the 
Interior for Indian Affairs; Mayor Art Madrid, La 
Mesa, California; Tadd M. Johnson, National Indian 
Gaming Commission, Raymond C. Scheppach, National 
Governors’ Association, and W. Ron Allen, 


D350 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

National Congress of American Indians, all of Wash-California Nations Indian Gaming Association, Sacington, 
D.C.; Deborah Doxtator, Oneida Tribe of In-ramento. 
dians of Wisconsin, Oneida; and Daniel Tucker, Hearings were recessed subject to call. 

h 


House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Bills Introduced: 76 public bills, H.R. 3615–3690; 
and 5 resolutions, H. Con. Res. 257–260, and H. 
Res. 406 were introduced. Pages H2051–55 

Reports Filed: Reports were filed as follows: 

H.R. 2691, to reauthorize and improve the operations 
of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
amended (H. Rept. 105–477); 
H.R. 1252, to modify the procedures of the Federal 
courts in certain matters, amended (H. Rept. 
105–478); 
H.R. 2729, a private bill, for the relief of Ruth 
Hairston by waiver of a filing deadline for appeal 
from a ruling relating to her application for a survivor 
annuity (H. Rept. 105–479); and 
H.R. 2431, to establish an Office of Religious 
Persecution Monitoring, to provide for the imposition 
of sanctions against countries engaged in a pattern 
of religious persecution (H. Rept. 105–480). 
Page H2051 

Speaker Pro Tempore: Read a letter from the 
Speaker wherein he designated Representative Hefley 
to act as Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H1855 

Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the 
guest Chaplain, the Reverend Douglas Tanner of 
Washington, D.C. Page H1855 

Suspension—Credit Union Membership Access 
Act: The House agreed to suspend the rules and pass 

H.R. 1151, to amend the Federal Credit Union Act 
to clarify existing law and ratify the longstanding 
policy of the National Credit Union Administration 
Board with regard to field of membership of Federal 
credit unions, by a yea and nay vote of 411 yeas to 
8 nays, Roll No. 92. Pages H1868–85 
Rules Committee Resolutions: Agreed by unanimous 
consent that H. Res. 309 and H. Res. 403 be 
laid on the table. Page H1885 

Building Efficient Surface Transportation and 
Equity Act: The House passed H.R. 2400, to authorize 
funds for Federal-aid highways, highway safety 
programs, and transit programs by a recorded vote 
of 337 ayes to 80 noes with 2 voting ‘‘present’’, Roll 
No. 98. Pages H1885–H2030 

Agreed To: 

The Shuster manager’s amendment, as modified, 
that makes various technical changes including provisions 
relating to partnerships with nongovernmental 
entities; the Indian reservation roads program; 
the Federal share for certain safety projects; a 
substitute project for the District of Columbia in 
lieu of Barney Circle freeway; use of HOV lanes by 
electric vehicles; a highway safety education and information 
study and report to Congress; studies on 
clean fuel vehicles, electronic data, and future strategic 
highway research; an integrated surface transportation 
strategic planning process; and a surface transportation-
environment cooperative research program; 

Pages H1989–97 

The Davis of Illinois amendment that allocates an 
additional $108 million for the access to jobs challenge 
grant pilot program designed to transport welfare 
recipients to and from jobs and activities related 
to their employment (agreed to by a recorded vote 
of 242 ayes to 175 noes, Roll No. 94); 

Pages H1997–H2000, H2012 

Rejected: 

The Roukema amendment that sought to strike 
the Disadvantaged Business Enterprises section and 
insert language encouraging affirmative action and 
prohibiting discrimination or preferential treatment 
(rejected by a recorded vote of 194 ayes to 225 noes 
with 1 voting ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 93); 

Pages H2000–12 

The Graham amendment that sought to reduce 
highway project authorization funding and transit 
project authorization funding by approximately $18 
billion during fiscal years 1998 through 2003 (rejected 
by a recorded vote of 79 ayes to 337 noes 
with 2 voting ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 95); 

Pages H2012–15, H2027–28 

The Spratt amendment in the nature of a substitute 
that sought to extend funding for an additional 
two months for each of the programs for 
which an extension was provided under the Surface 
Transportation Extension Act of 1997 (rejected by a 
recorded vote of 106 ayes to 312 noes with 1 voting 
‘‘present’’, Roll No. 96); and Pages H2016–19, H2028–29 

The Kasich amendment in the nature of a substitute 
that sought to establish the Transportation 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D351 

Empowerment Act that provides a four year transition 
period to return to the States maximum discretionary 
authority and fiscal responsibility for all elements 
of the national transportation systems not 
within the direct purview of the Federal government 
and lowers the federal gas tax by 11 cents per gallon 
and eliminates most highway trust fund programs 
(rejected by a recorded vote of 98 ayes to 318 noes 
with 2 voting ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 97). 

Pages H2019–27, H2029 

The Clerk was authorized to make technical corrections 
in the engrossment of the bill to reflect the 
actions of the House. Page H2030 

H. Res. 405, the rule that provided for consideration 
of the bill was agreed to earlier by a yea and 
nay vote of 357 yeas to 61 nays, Roll No. 91. Pursuant 
to the rule, the amendment expressing the sense 
of Congress that any offsets should not include provisions 
that change programs or benefits administered 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs was considered 
as adopted. Pages H1858–67 
Senate Action—BESTEA: Agreed by unanimous 
consent that if and when the Clerk receives a message 
from the Senate indicating that it has passed 

H.R. 2400, with an amendment, insisted upon its 
amendment, and requested a conference, then the 
House be deemed to have disagreed to the amendment 
of the Senate and agreed to the conference requested 
by the Senate, and that the Speaker be 
deemed to have appointed conferees without intervening 
motion. Further, it was made in order that 
at any time during the week of Tuesday, April 21, 
1998, notwithstanding the Speaker’s appointment of 
conferees pursuant to this request, for a Member to 
offer a motion to instruct the managers on the part 
of the House on H.R. 2400, as if offered prior to 
the appointment of the conferees. The managers may 
not file their report prior to Wednesday, April 22, 
1998. Page H2031 
Appointment of Conferees—BESTEA: Pursuant 
to the earlier order of the House of today, the Chair 
appointed the following conferees on H.R. 2400, effective 
upon receipt of the proper message from the 
Senate: For consideration of the House bill, except 
title XI , and the Senate amendment, except title 
VI, and modifications committed to conference: 
Chairman Shuster, Representatives Young of Alaska, 
Petri, Boehlert, Kim, Horn, Fowler, Baker, Ney, 
Metcalf, Oberstar, Rahall, Borski, Lipinski, Wise, 
Clyburn, Filner, and McGovern. The Chair will announce 
additional conferees at a subsequent time. 

Page H2034 

Thirtieth Anniversary of the Death of Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr.: The House agreed to H. Con. 
Res. 247, recognizing the contributions of the Rev


erend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to the civil society 
of the United States and the world and to the 
cause of nonviolent social and political change to advance 
social justice and equality for all races and 
calling on the people of the United States to study, 
reflect on, and celebrate the life of Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., on the thirtieth anniversary of his 
death. Pages H2031–32 

Enrollment Correction: The House agreed to S. 
Con. Res. 87, to correct the enrollment of S. 419. 

Pages H2032–33 

Late Report: The committee on Education and the 
Workforce received permission to have until 5:00 

p.m. on Monday, April 20 to file a report on H.R. 
6, the Higher Education Amendments of 1998. 
Page H2033 

Passover-Easter District Work Period: The House 
agreed to H. Con. Res. 257 providing for the adjournment 
of both Houses of Congress by a yea and 
nay vote of 223 yeas to 187 nays with 1 voting 
‘‘present’’, Roll No. 91. Pages H1867–68 

Speaker Pro Tempore: Read a letter from the 
Speaker wherein he designated Representative 
Morella or, if not available, Representative Davis of 
Virginia to act as Speaker pro tempore to sign enrolled 
bills and joint resolutions through Tuesday, 
April 21, 1998. Page H2032 

Extension of Remarks: Agreed that for today, all 
members be permitted to extend their remarks and 
to include extraneous material in that section of the 
record entitled ‘‘Extension of Remarks.’’ Page H2033 

Resignations—Appointments: Agreed that notwithstanding 
any adjournment of the House until 
Tuesday, April 21, 1998, the Speaker, Majority 
Leader, and Minority Leader be authorized to accept 
resignations and to make appointments authorized 
by law or by the House. Page H2033 

Calendar Wednesday: Agreed that business in 
order under the calendar Wednesday rule be dispensed 
with on Wednesday, April 22, 1998. 

Page H2033 

Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate 
appear on pages H1855 and H2034. 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea and nay votes and 
six recorded votes developed during the proceedings 
of the House today and appear on pages H1867, 
H1868, H1884–85, H2011–12, H2012, H2028, 
H2028–29, H2029, and H2030. There were no 
quorum calls. 

Adjournment: Met at 10:00 a.m. and pursuant to 
the provisions of H. Con. Res. 257, the House adjourned 
at 11:59 p.m. until 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, 
April 21, for morning hour debates. 


D352 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

Committee Meetings 

WTO—MULTILATERAL TRADE 
NEGOTIATIONS 

Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Risk Management 
and Specialty Crops held a hearing to review 
the 1999 World Trade Organization Multilateral 
Trade Negotiations. Testimony was heard from 
public witnesses. 

COMMERCE, JUSTICE, STATE, AND 
JUDICIARY APPROPRIATIONS 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Commerce, 
Justice, State, and Judiciary held a hearing on 
the EEOC. Testimony was heard from Paul Igasaki, 
Acting Chairman, EEOC. 

The Subcommittee also continued appropriations 
hearings. Testimony was heard from public witnesses. 


FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT 
FINANCING AND RELATED PROGRAMS 
APPROPRIATIONS 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs 
held a hearing on Human Rights. Testimony was 
heard from John Shattuck, Assistant Secretary, Democracy, 
Human Rights and Labor, Department of 
State; and public witnesses. 

INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Interior 
continued appropriation hearings. Testimony was 
heard from Members of Congress. 

LABOR-HHS-EDUCATION 
APPROPRIATIONS 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education held a 
hearing on Postsecondary Education, the Office for 
Civil Rights and the Institute of Museum and Library 
Services. Testimony was heard from the following 
officials of the Department of Education: David 

A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary, Office of Postsecondary 
Education; and Norma V. Cantu, Assistant 
Secretary, Civil Rights; and Diane Frankel, Director, 
Institute of Museum and Library Services, National 
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities. 
VA-HUD AND INDEPENDENT AGENCIES 
APPROPRIATIONS 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on VAHUD 
and Independent Agencies held a hearing on 
NSF. Testimony was heard from Neal F. Lane, Director, 
NSF. 

FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT 
NETWORK OPERATIONS 

Committee on Banking and Financial Services: Subcommittee 
on General Oversight and Investigations 
held a hearing on the Operations of the Department 
of the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
(‘‘FinCEN’’). Testimony was heard from Richard 
M. Stana, Associate Director, GAO; and the following 
officials of the Department of the Treasury: 
James Johnson, Assistant Secretary, Enforcement; 
and William Baity, Acting Director, Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network. 

FHA—SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY 
DISPOSITION 

Committee on Banking and Financial Services: Subcommittee 
on Housing and Community Opportunity 
held a hearing on FHA-Single Family Property Disposition. 
Testimony was heard from the following 
officials of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development: Emelda Johnson, Deputy Assistant 
Secretary, Single Family Housing; Paul Leonard, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary, Policy Development and 
Research; and Susan Gaffney, Inspector General; and 
Judy England-Joseph, Director, Housing and Community 
Development Issues, GAO; and public witnesses. 


BUDGET PROJECTIONS AND BASELINES 

Committee on the Budget: Task Force on Budget Process 
held a hearing on Budget Projections and Baselines. 
Testimony was heard from Paul Van de Water, 
Assistant Director, CBO; and public witnesses. 

FDA MANAGEMENT CONCERNS 

Committee on Commerce: Subcommittee on Oversight 
and Investigations held a hearing on Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) Management Concerns. Testimony 
was heard from Robert Gramling, Director, 
Corporate Audits and Standards, Accounting and Information 
Management Division, GAO; the following 
officials of the FDA, Department of Health and 
Human Services: Michael A. Friedman, M.D., Lead 
Deputy Commissioner; Robert Byrd, Deputy Commissioner, 
Management and Systems; and Kathryn 

C. Zoon, Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation 
and Research; and a public witness. 
VIDEO COMPETITION: MULTICHANNEL 
PROGRAMMING 

Committee on Commerce: Subcommittee on Telecommunications, 
Trade, and Consumer Protection 
held a hearing on Video Competition: Multichannel 
Programming, focusing on the following bills; H.R. 
2921, Multichannel Video Competition and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1997; and H.R. 3210, 
Copyright Compulsory License Improvement Act. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D353 

Testimony was heard from: John Logan, Acting Bureau 
Chief, Cable Services Bureau, FCC; Dave Carson, 
General Counsel, Register of Copyrights, Library 
of Congress; and public witnesses. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES; OVERSIGHT 
INVESTIGATION—TEAMSTERS ELECTION; 
COMMITTEE BUSINESS 

Committee on Education and the Workforce: Ordered reported 
amended the following bills: H.R. 2888, 
Sales Incentive Compensation Act; and H.R. 2327, 
Drive for Teen Employment Act. 

The Committee approved contract agreements regarding 
the oversight investigation of the International 
Brotherhood of Teamsters election. 

The Committee also approved pending Committee 
business. 

FEDERALLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 

Committee on Government Reform and Oversight: Subcommittee 
on Government Management, Information, 
and Technology held a hearing on Federal Consolidated 
Financial Statements: Can the Federal Government 
Balance Its Books. Testimony was heard 
from Gene Dodaro, Assistant Comptroller General, 
GAO; G. Edward DeSeve, Acting Controller and 
Acting Deputy Director, Management, OMB; and 
the following officials of the Department of the 
Treasury: Gerald Murphy, Senior Advisor to the 
Under Secretary, Domestic Finance; and John D. 
Hawke, Under Secretary, Domestic Finance. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES 

Committee on International Relations: Favorably considered 
and adopted a motion urging the Chairman to 
request that the following measures be considered on 
the Suspension Calendar: H. Res. 350, congratulating 
the people of Sri Lanka on the occasion of the 
fiftieth anniversary of their nation’s independence; 

H. Con. Res. 218, amended, concerning the urgent 
need to establish a cease fire in Afghanistan and 
begin the transition toward a broad-based multiethnic 
government that observes international norms of 
behavior; H. Res. 374, amended, expressing the 
sense of the House of Representatives regarding the 
ongoing violence in Algeria; H. Con. Res. 222, expressing 
the sense of Congress, congratulating the 
former International Support and Verification Commission 
of the Organization of American States 
(OAS-CIAV) for successfully aiding in the transition 
of Nicaragua from a war-ridden state into a newly 
formed democracy and providing continued support 
through the recently created Technical Cooperation 
Mission (OAS-TCM) which is responsible for helping 
to stabilize Nicaraguan democracy by supplementing 
institution building; H. Con. Res. 215, amended, 
congratulating the people of the Co-operative Republic 
of Guyana for holding multiparty elections; S. 
Con. Res. 37, expressing the sense of the Congress 
that Little League Baseball Incorporated was established 
to support and develop Little League baseball 
worldwide and that its international character and 
activities should be recognized; and H.J. Res. 102, 
expressing the sense of the Congress on the occasion 
of the 50th anniversary of the founding of the modern 
State of Israel and reaffirming the bonds of 
friendship and cooperation between the United 
States and Israel. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES; PRIVATE 
BILLS 

Committee on the Judiciary, Ordered reported the following 
bills: H.R. 872, amended, Biomaterials Access 
Assurance Act of 1997; H.R. 2925, Deadbeat 
Parents Punishment Act of 1997; H.R. 3565, Care 
for Police Survivors Act of 1998; and H.R. 2281, 
amended, WIPO Copyright Treaties Implementation 
Act. 

The Committee also met and approved private 
bills. 

LONG RANGE AIRPOWER PANEL RESULTS 

Committee on National Security: Subcommittee on Military 
Procurement held a hearing on the results of the 
Long Range Airpower Panel. Testimony was heard 
from Gen. Larry D. Welch, USAF, (Ret.), President, 
Institute for Defense Analysis. 

MATH AND SCIENCE EDUCATION 

Committee on Science: Continued oversight hearings on 
Math and Science Education II, Attracting and 
Graduating Scientists and Engineers Prepared to 
Succeed in Academia and Industry. Testimony was 
heard from public witnesses. 

GSA BUDGET 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Subcommittee 
on Public Buildings and Economic Development 
held a hearing on GSA FY 1999 Budget 
and related Issues. Testimony was heard from Representatives 
Myrick, Granger and Frost; and Paul 
Chistolini, Deputy Commissioner, Public Buildings 
Service, GSA. 

FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION 
REAUTHORIZATION 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Subcommittee 
on Railroads held a hearing on Federal 
Railroad Administration Reauthorization: Safety 
Hardware Issues. Testimony was heard from Jolene 
Molitoris, Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration, 
Department of Transportation; Robert 


D354 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

Lauby, Director, Office of Railroad Safety, National 
Transportation Safety Board; and public witnesses. 

DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS— 
CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Ordered reported H.R. 
3603, to authorize major medical facility projects 
and major medical facility leases for the Department 
of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 1999. 

SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM 

Committee on Ways and Means: Held a hearing on the 
use of an Expert Panel to Design Long- Range Social 
Security Reform. Testimony was heard from Speaker 
Gingrich; Representatives Kolbe, Nadler and Pomeroy; 
former Senator Robert Dole of Kansas; and 
public witnesses. 

DCI WRAP-UP 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Met in executive 
session to hold a hearing on Director of Central 
Intelligence Wrap-up. Testimony was heard from departmental 
witnesses. 

f 


COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY, 
APRIL 2, 1998 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, to hold 
hearings on S. 1323, to regulate concentrated animal 

feeding operations for the protection of the environment 
and public health, 9 a.m., SR–332. 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, to resume 
hearings to examine implications of the recent Supreme 
Court decision concerning credit union membership, 
9:30 a.m., SD–538. 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, to hold hearings 
to examine the status of Puerto Rico, 9:30 a.m., 
SH–216. 

Committee on the Judiciary, business meeting, to consider 
pending calendar business, 10 a.m., SD–226. 

Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight and the 
Courts, business meeting, to mark up S. 1301, to provide 
for consumer bankruptcy protection, and S. 1352, to 
amend Rule 30 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 
to restore the stenographic preference for depositions, 2 
p.m., SD–226. 

Committee on Labor and Human Resources, to hold hearings 
to examine the extent of chlorofluorocarbon in the 
atmosphere, 10 a.m., SD–430. 

NOTICE 

For a listing of Senate Committee meetings scheduled 
ahead, see pages E554–55 in today’s Record. 

House 

No committee meetings are scheduled. 


April 1, 1998 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—DAILY DIGEST D355 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FIFTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 27 through February 28, 1998 

Days in session .................................... 
Time in session ................................... 
Congressional Record: 

Pages of proceedings ................... 

Extensions of Remarks ................ 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 
Private bills enacted into law .............. 
Bills in conference ............................... 
Measures passed, total ......................... 

Senate bills .................................. 

House bills .................................. 

Senate joint resolutions ............... 

House joint resolutions ............... 

Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 

House concurrent resolutions ...... 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Measures reported, total ...................... 

Senate bills .................................. 

House bills .................................. 

Senate joint resolutions ............... 

House joint resolutions ............... 

Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 

House concurrent resolutions ...... 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Special reports ..................................... 
Conference reports ............................... 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 
Measures introduced, total .................. 

Bills ............................................. 

Joint resolutions .......................... 

Concurrent resolutions ................ 

Simple resolutions ....................... 
Quorum calls ....................................... 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 
Recorded votes .................................... 
Bills vetoed ......................................... 
Vetoes overridden ................................ 

Senate House Total 
39 29 . . 
286 hrs., 47¢ 202 hrs., 18¢ . . 
2,878 1,854 . . 
. . 536 . . 
6 5 11 
. . . . . . 
1 3 . . 
38 107 145 
4 12 . . 
4 45 . . 
. . . . . . 
. . 1 . . 
4 . . . . 
3 6 . . 
23 43 . . 
26 67 93 
12 . . . . 
4 39 . . 
. . . . . . 
. . . . . . 
3 . . . . 
. . 2 . . 
7 26 . . 
3 1 . . 
. . 1 . . 
132 41 . . 
389 662 1,051 
326 526 . . 
4 9 . . 
17 56 . . 
42 71 . . 
1 4 . . 
52 46 . . 
. . 39 . . 
. . . . . . 
1 1 . . 

DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 27 through March 31, 1998 
Civilian nominations, totaling 204 (including 124 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
35 
159 
10 

Civilian nominations (FS, PHS, CG, NOAA), totaling 482 (including 

86 nominations carried over from the First Session), disposed of 

as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 180 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 302 

Air Force nominations, totaling 1,421 (including 21 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,376 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 45 

Army nominations, totaling 1,231 (including 2 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 723 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 508 

Navy nominations, totaling 74 (including 4 nominations carried over 
from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 62 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 12 

Marine Corps nominations, totaling 876, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 873 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 3 

Summary 

Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 237 
Total nominations received this session ................................................. 4,051 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 3,371 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 907 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 10 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 14 reports have been filed in the Senate, a total 
of 69 reports have been filed in the House. 

D356 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST April 1, 1998 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

8:30 a.m., Thursday, April 2 
Senate Chamber 

Program for Thursday: Senate will resume consideration 
of S. Con. Res. 86, Congressional Budget. 

At 9 a.m., Senate will vote on the nominations of G. 
Patrick Murphy, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern 
District of Illinois, and Michael P. McCuskey, to be 

U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, 
following which Senate will resume consideration of S. 
Con. Res. 86, Congressional Budget, with votes to occur 
on certain of the pending amendments. 
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

12:30 p.m. Tuesday, April 21 
House Chamber 
Program for Tuesday April 21: To be announced. 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE Fazio, Vic, Calif., E545 Rush, Bobby L., Ill., E537 
Gibbons, Jim, Nev., E549 Sanchez, Loretta, Calif., E540 
Barr, Bob, Ga., E546 Gordon, Bart, Tenn., E540 Schaffer, Bob, Colo., E538, E539, E543, E553 
Bentsen, Ken, Tex., E537, E539, E540 Hamilton, Lee H., Ind., E546 Serrano, Jose´ E., N.Y., E541 
Bilirakis, Michael, Fla., E542 Kind, Ron, Wisc., E543 Snowbarger, Vince, Kans., E538, E544, E548 
Calvert, Ken, Calif., E551 Kucinich, Dennis J., Ohio, E551 Solomon, Gerald B.H., N.Y., E540, E542 
Coyne, William J., Pa., E547 Lantos, Tom, Calif., E550, E552 Underwood, Robert A., Guam, E551 
Dingell, John D., Mich., E549 Lipinski, William O., Ill., E547 Vento, Bruce F., Minn., E541, E544 
Dunn, Jennifer, Wash., E545, E552 McHale, Paul, Pa., E548 Wolf, Frank R., Va., E547 
Evans, Lane, Ill., E538, E542 Miller, George, Calif., E537, E539, E544 
Faleomavaega, Eni F.H., American Samoa, E543 Rangel, Charles B., N.Y., E542 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The public proceedings of each House of Congress, as reported by 
the Official Reporters thereof, are printed pursuant to directions 
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate 
provisions of Title 44, United States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very 
infrequent instances when two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed at one time. ¶ Public access to 
the Congressional Record is available online through GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. 
The online database is updated each day the Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the 
beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 1994) forward. It is available on the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) through the 
Internet and via asynchronous dial-in. Internet users can access the database by using the World Wide Web; the Superintendent of 
Documents home page address is http://www.access.gpo.gov/suldocs, by using local WAIS client software or by telnet to 
swais.access.gpo.gov, then login as guest (no password required). Dial-in users should use communications software and modem to call (202) 
512–1661; type swais, then login as guest (no password required). For general information about GPO Access, contact the GPO Access User 
Support Team by sending Internet e-mail to gpoaccess@gpo.gov, or a fax to (202) 512–1262; or by calling Toll Free 1–888–293–6498 or (202) 
512–1530 between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday, except for Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 
24x microfiche will be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $150.00 for six months, $295.00 
per year, or purchased for $2.50 per issue, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $141.00 per year, or purchased for $1.50 per issue payable in 
advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per issue prices. Remit check or money order, made 
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, directly to the Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. ¶ Following each session 
of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in 
individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the 
Congressional Record. 


